12 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||New population policy keeps all sections in mind: Adityanath||Every section of society must join in the awareness programme for population control, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday as he launched the State’s population policy for 2021-2030. Mr. Adityanath said rising population was the root of major problems and prevailing inequality in society. “Increasing population can be an obstacle to development,” he said here, stating that the new policy was drafted keeping in mind all sections of society. If there is no gap between the birth of two children, it will naturally affect their nutrition, he said, explaining the need for spacing and control in population. ‘Hurdle to development’ “Across the world, concerns have been raised from time to time about increasing population being a hurdle in development. Discussions on it have been going on for four decades... The countries and States which have made efforts in this direction have seen positive results. However, more efforts are needed.” The new policy aims at decreasing the Total Fertility Rate from 2.7 to 2.1 by 2026 and 1.7 by 2030, increase Modern Contraceptive Prevalence Rate from 31.7% to 45% by 2026 and 52% by 2030, increase male methods of contraception use from 10.8% to 15.1% by 2026 and 16.4% by 2030, decrease Maternal Mortality Rate from 197 to 150 to 98, and Infant Mortality Rate from 43 to 32 to 22, and Under 5 Infant Mortality Rate from 47 to 35 to 25. Targeting stabilisation, the draft of the policy also said the State would attempt to maintain a balance of population among the various communities. “Awareness and extensive programmes would be held among those communities, cadres and geographical areas that have a higher fertility rate,” the policy read. Need for awareness Addressing a function at his official residence here, the Chief Minister said efforts to control population were linked to comprehensive awareness in society. “We should not forget that the increase in population contributes to poverty in society. Hence, until all sections of society are made comprehensively aware, there will be a delay in fulfilling various goals. Every section of society has to be associated with the awareness campaign,” Mr. Adityanath said. The health of a mother and her child have to be linked with this, the CM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-population-policy-keeps-all-sections-in-mind-adityanath/article35272409.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Enthusiasm as South India’s first Vistadome coach services begin||Enthusiasm was seen all around, among passengers, Railway staff, security personnel and even media personnel, when the first service of Vistadome coaches aimed at promoting Rail Tourism, was flagged off at Mangaluru Junction Railway Station on Sunday. For Sanvi, a Class 3 student of a Brahmavar school near Udupi, it was not the first journey to Bengaluru on a day train. But she wanted to be one of the first to travel on the maiden service of Vistadome coaches on Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur weekly special express (06540) and her father, Gopinath, fulfilled her wish. So, she was on the coach with her mother and younger brother, while Mr. Gopinath came to see them off. “I was waiting for advance bookings to open from July 7 itself when it was originally scheduled to be introduced. Finally, I got the tickets when bookings opened for July 11 and we came all the way from Brahmavar to be part of the maiden run of Vistadome coaches,” Mr. Gopinath told The Hindu . Having seen the beauty of the Western Ghats between Subrahmanya Road and Sakleshpur railway stations travelling in the regular coaches of day trains, the Gopinaths wanted to savour the beauty through Vistadome coaches that have wider window panes, reclining and rotating seats and wide rear windows. Similar was the case with Nithin Shenoy, insolvency professional settled in Bengaluru. Having heard about the introduction of Vistadome coaches and their maiden journey from Mangaluru on Sunday, he clubbed his professional work with the launch and was on the train during the first journey. “I had travelled in the night services; but am now travelling for the first time on the day service, that too on a Vistadome coach. I am excited to watch the beauty of the Western Ghats, particularly, during this rainy season,” he said. Passengers were seen clicking selfies, taking pictures of the interiors of the coaches and also fellow passengers even as several visitors to the station were busy in capturing the glimpses of coaches. The South Western Railway has attached two Vistadome coaches and both coaches, packed to their full capacity of 44 seats each, left Mangaluru Junction at the scheduled departure time of 9.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/enthusiasm-as-south-indias-first-vistadome-coach-services-begin/article35272788.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Teachers forced to seek greener pastures||A little over a week into the new academic year, private schools, especially those following the State syllabus, are grappling with yet another problem — the lack of experienced teachers to conduct online classes. With pay cuts and longer working hours because of online classes, many senior teachers have resigned to take up more lucrative jobs in related fields. Senior teachers whom The Hindu spoke to said they were forced to switch career paths after spending decades in this profession as they were finding it difficult to sustain their families because of the steep pay cuts introduced in the previous academic year. When they started looking for other opportunities, they were pleasantly surprised to find some demand for their skills. Teachers have found better paying job opportunities on content writing platforms and corporate houses looking for good communicators. Even those with fewer years of experience have found more lucrative jobs in call centres and in the garment industry. Teachers in rural areas have decided to work in their fields. While top Central board schools did not slash salaries of staff for the 2021-22 academic year, they decided not to award increments this year. Teachers from low-budget schools affiliated to the State syllabus, however, were the most badly affected. Many of these schools, which have fixed salaries based on the teacher’s experience and the subjects they teach, decided to cut salaries by 50%. For instance, a senior high school language teacher who was getting paid a monthly salary of Rs. 35,000, now earns Rs. 17,500. Narendra Kumar, a science teacher at Vidyanjali Primary and High School in Bengaluru, said that he quit teaching in November last year and relocated to his hometown in Chickballapur district where he has taken up farming. “I have a lot of interest in teaching but it is difficult to sustain a family on my salary. Hopefully things will improve after the pandemic and I will be happy to be back in the classroom again.” Kannada and Hindi teacher Pratap H.G., who has eight years of experience, has been trying out starting different types of businesses, hoping that one of his ideas will click. “The school management said our salaries are dependent on fees paid by parents. We were informed that if a significant number of parents pay the fees in the coming academic year, we would get paid half the salary. So I decided to quit as my parents are senior citizens dependent on me.” D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said it was unfortunate that their highly experienced and educated teachers were quitting the profession. “As a result of this, we are not able to sustain the quality of teaching,” he said. To address the shortage, some schools have decided to rope in teachers on an hourly basis. “They get paid by the hour and can take up work outside the school when they have no online classes,” said a school principal. She admitted that it was not an ideal solution, but a stopgap measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teachers-forced-to-seek-greener-pastures/article35272599.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru’s COVID-19 positivity rate drops below 1%||After weeks of soaring cases and families burying their loved ones when COVID-19 had a grip on the city, there is finally some good news. The positivity rate in Bengaluru dropped below 1% for the week ending July 10. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) war room bulletin, the week ending July 9 (from July 3) saw a positivity rate of 0.83% for the first time in eight weeks. Compare this with the preceding weeks of the second wave of COVID-19 infections that caused unprecedented levels of devastation. During the week between May 15 and 21, the positivity rate was 22.11%. Subsequently, it saw a steady fall week on week, from 11.97% the following week to 1.05% for the period between June 26 to July 2. Sunday’s bulletin showed that the positivity rate from July 4 to 10 was 0.86% against 4.32 lakh tests. Significantly, these figures coincided with the phase of unlocking in the State. From July 5, there was a further easing of lockdown restrictions, wherein the State government permitted the opening of all shops, restaurants, malls, private offices and religious places till 9 p.m. All public transport has also been allowed to operate up to the seating capacity. Giridhar R. Babu, professor and head of Life Course Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, said the positivity rate was a reflection of the number of tests done and the circulation of the virus. “The test numbers are high, so this is good news. But it is not going to be the status forever, as we are seeing in Kerala and Maharashtra. So continued testing is important. We still need to enhance surveillance,” he said. The main exit strategy, he said, is vaccination. “Currently, 50% or more have received one dose. This has to increase to the level of at least 75%. The number of people who have received two doses also should definitely increase. If at least 60% to 70% have received two doses, the number of cases during the next wave will be much lower,” he said, offering the example of the United Kingdom, where hospitalisation and deathswere lower. Agencies remain alert With more sectors, especially educational institutions, set to reopen, Prof. Babu warned that though children were less susceptible to severe infections, they could still be carriers. “Graded reopening of schools can be done only by vaccination of teachers, drivers, etc. If there is no safe bubble, children will be at risk,” he said. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep said testing numbers were kept consistently high, with the civic body’s numbers peaking at 90,000 also, and the numbers hovering between 55,000 and 60,000 after the unlock and during the lockdown, respectively. With Bengaluru currently ‘unlocked’, Mr. Randeep said COVID-appropriate behaviour was much better this time, especially mask compliance, compared to the unlock after the first wave. He added that the BBMP has not observed any large-scale mask violations. “We are not letting our guard down and surveillance is up. Our epidemiologists in each zone are observing new cases and conducting analysis to give us feedback in terms of where we need to focus. The second analysis is which wards triggered off wave two, so that we can focus on them closely. The third wave will be there, but we don’t know the quantum. We are trying to remain one step ahead,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengalurus-covid-19-positivity-rate-drops-below-1/article35272597.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chinese protest against Dalai Lama’s birthday celebrations||Chinese nationals displayed banners in protest from across Indus river, close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC), when Indian villagers were celebrating the birthday of the Dalai Lama in Demchok in eastern Ladakh. According to Urgain Tsewang, village head of Koyul (Kakjung), one of the last settlements in the Demchok sector, the Chinese, comprising Army personnel and civilians, came in five vehicles down unpaved roads and raised the banners 200 m from a community centre where the Dalai Lama’s birthday was being celebrated. The incident occurred around 11 a.m. on July 6 at Dola Tamgo in Koyul village along Indus river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-protest-against-dalai-lamas-birthday-celebrations/article35272407.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||High command will decide on CM change: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said he was asked to take oath as the Chief Minister by the Congress high command, and it was for them to decide whether or not there should be a change of guard. He added that “such arrangements take place while running coalition governments”. Mr. Baghel’s comments are significant in the wake of reports that Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo wants the high command to “honour” the rotation formula of changing the CM after two and half years that was supposed to have been agreed to in December 2018. Mr. Baghel was speaking after meeting Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at 10 Janpath, the official residence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, where the leaders are said to have discussed next year’s Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. “The high command instructed me to take the oath [as Chief Minister], so I took the oath. When they say someone else will be the Chief Minister, then it will be so,” he said, adding, “Such agreements happen in a coalition government but Congress has three-fourths majority in Chhattisgarh”. Mr Baghel, who played a key role in overseeing the Congress’ campaign in the recent Assam Assembly, is likely to be given major responsibility for the U.P. elections as well. Congress treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal and senior leader from U.P., Rajeev Shukla, were also part of the hour long meeting at 10 Janpath on Sunday. In April, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister’s parliamentary advisor, Rajesh Tiwari, who played a key role in Congress’ Assam campaign, was appointed an All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary for U.P. During the recent panchayat polls in the State, party workers from Chhattisgarh had gone for booth management, organising workers’s meetings among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-command-will-decide-on-cm-change/article35272411.ece
12 July 2021||Guwahati,||Mobile theatre groups in Assam face a bleak future||The majority of the 30 mobile theatre groups in Assam may find it difficult to stage a comeback after almost two years of closure due to the two phases of the COVID-19 lockdown preceded by the unrest associated with the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. The Krishna Kanta Handique State Open University on July 9 organised a virtual meeting of Bhramyoman (travelling theatre) producers, directors and cultural economy experts, to find a way forward for the mobile theatre groups crippled by months of inactivity. The meeting coincided with the birthday of Achyut Lahkar, who started the mobile theatre revolution by forming the Nataraj Theatre group in 1963. “The Bhramyoman season from July to April suffered a bit towards the end of 2019-2020, before COVID-19 struck, to keep those associated with the industry virtually unemployed. The situation does not look like it is improving soon, and because the investment is huge for a theatre group, 99% may not survive this phase,” Prastuti Parashar, an actor and head of the Awahan theatre group, said. “Given the popularity of mobile theatres across Assam’s rural landscape and the demand, we have to think of ways to stage plays while coexisting with COVID-19. Maybe we can cut down the audience size of 1,500-2,000 during normal times to 700-800, and increase the number of shows per day,” said playwright-director Abhijit Bhattacharya, who has been associated with the Bhramyoman for 25 years. Suresh Ranjan Goduka, a mass communication design researcher at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati, said the annual turnover of the mobile theatre groups was Rs. 25 crore. “Mobile theatre owners said materials such as bamboo, iron poles and fittings, timber and tarpaulin have been damaged or are unusable because of almost two years of inactivity. They will need to pump in Rs. 40 lakh-Rs. 45 lakh more to be back on the road,” he said. No workers The toughest challenge for the mobile theatre groups is to find technicians who handle a range of activities from setting up the stage and theatre halls to cooking for the unit and transporting them from place to place. “Each theatre group involves 120-150 people who get paid on the condition of no-work-no-pay. The challenge for the theatre groups is that many workers have either moved out in search of jobs or are selling perishables for a living,” Jayanta Kumar Sarma, professor of the university’s Mass Communication Department, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mobile-theatre-groups-in-assam-face-a-bleak-future/article35272703.ece
12 July 2021||SURYAPET/VIJAYAWADA,||Tension as TS police deny AP MLA’s entry||Tension prevailed at the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border near Bugga Madhavaram in the district on Sunday as Suryapet police denied entry to ruling YSRCP’s Jaggayyapeta legislator and Govt. Whip Samineni Udaya Bhanu. The legislator, along with media persons and followers, was on way to the K.L. Rao Sagar Pulichintala Project, joint multi-purpose project between the Telugu States, “to visit, examine the project and ascertain some facts.” Suryapet police stopped Mr. Udaya Bhanu’s vehicles near Bugga Madhavaram crossroad around noon and suggested that the contingent enter the project’s side through the territory of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Udaya Bhanu could not cross the barricades erected by the Telangana police, who were deployed in large numbers there ever since tension escalated following the drawal of water by Telangana for power generation allegedly without necessary clearances, including from the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). Both the Andhra leader and the Suryapet police were firm, but eventually, he was made to turn back in the direction. Mr. Udaya Bhanu spoke to mediapersons at the same site and condemned Telangana’s approach with regard to Krishna water sharing as per established rules by the Bachawat Tribunal. He also called the State police “undemocratic” for obstructing free movement. The YSRCP MLA objected to the “high-handed behaviour of the Telangana police,” saying that he was going to the project only to see the factual position. “Telangana government should legally take up power production at Pulichintala only when agricultural works are in progress in the 13 lakh acre Krishna delta under the project. But by producing power from June 29 till July 9, the water was just drained into the sea,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-as-ts-police-deny-ap-mlas-entry/article35272815.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dhami holds off on Kanwar yatra decision||Any decision on allowing the Kanwar Yatra this year will be taken after discussions with neighbouring States, Uttarakhand’s new Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said, after weekend consultations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. A senior official in the CM’s office confirmed that he has also held consultations with Yogi Adityanath, his counterpart in Uttar Pradesh. Among medical officers on the ground in Uttarakhand, however, there is a recognition that allowing the Kanwar Yatra could lead to an increased spread of COVID-19 cases and heightened challenges in managing the pandemic. Uttarakhand is reviewing its earlier decision to cancel the yatra. This follows the U.P. government’s announcement that the pilgrimage will begin from July 25, despite concerns that it could become another COVID super spreader event like the Kumbh Mela earlier this year. Given the religious sentiments and health concerns involved, the decision on whether to cancel the yatra again has political ramifications, especially given that both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are headed to the polls next year. Mr. Dhami tweeted a link to his interview with the Aaj Tak news channel in which he said, “It is a matter of the faith of millions. However, people’s lives should not be threatened. Saving lives is our first priority. God would not like it if people lost their lives to COVID due to the yatra.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhami-holds-off-on-kanwar-yatra-decision/article35272699.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dhami holds off on Kanwar yatra decision||Any decision on allowing the Kanwar Yatra this year will be taken after discussions with neighbouring States, Uttarakhand’s new Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said, after weekend consultations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. A senior official in the CM’s office confirmed that he has also held consultations with Yogi Adityanath, his counterpart in Uttar Pradesh. Among medical officers on the ground in Uttarakhand, however, there is a recognition that allowing the Kanwar Yatra could lead to an increased spread of COVID cases and heightened challenges in managing the pandemic. Uttarakhand is reviewing its earlier decision to cancel the yatra. This follows the U.P. government’s announcement that the pilgrimage will begin from July 25, despite concerns that it could become another COVID super spreader event like the Kumbh Mela earlier this year. Given the religious sentiments and health concerns involved, the decision on whether to cancel the yatra again has political ramifications, especially given that both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are headed to the polls next year. Mr. Dhami tweeted a link to his interview with theAaj Taknews channel in which he said, “It is a matter of the faith of millions. However, people’s lives should not be threatened. Saving lives is our first priority. God would not like it if people lost their lives to COVID due to the yatra.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhami-holds-off-on-kanwar-yatra-decision/article35272979.ece
12 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh Yadav lashes out at BJP over violence during local body elections||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being the party with the mostgoondagardi(hooliganism), as he lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government headed by Yogi Adityanath for the violence and clashes that broke out during the local body polls. “The amount ofgoondagardithat has happened in U.P. ... perhaps, I may not have used the wordgoondain my political career so far. Since we have witnessed the panchayat polls on TV and heard from people, there cannot be a biggergoondagardi wali party(party with hooliganism) than the BJP,” Mr. Yadav said here in a press conference. The ruling BJP had on Saturday claimed victory in 635 out of 825 block pramukh posts in the State even as the Samajwadi Party accused the government of misusing its administrative machinery to “forcibly capture” the posts. Police officer slapped The voting and the nomination for the block pramukh polls were marred by brawls, clashes and firing in 17 districts, including Etawah, where an officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police, City, was allegedly slapped while trying to prevent a crowd of BJP supporters from breaching the barricade near a polling booth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-yadav-lashes-out-at-bjp-over-violence-during-local-body-elections/article35272698.ece
12 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh Yadav lashes out at BJP over violence during local body elections||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being the party with the mostgoondagardi(hooliganism), as he lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government headed by Yogi Adityanath for the violence and clashes that broke out during the local body polls. “The amount ofgoondagardithat has happened in U.P. ... perhaps, I may not have used the wordgoondain my political career so far. Since we have witnessed the panchayat polls on TV and heard from people, there cannot be a biggergoondagardi wali party(party with hooliganism) than the BJP,” Mr. Yadav said here in a press conference. The ruling BJP had on Saturday claimed victory in 635 out of 825 block pramukh posts in the State even as the Samajwadi Party accused the government of misusing its administrative machinery to “forcibly capture” the posts. Police officer slapped The voting and the nomination for the block pramukh polls were marred by brawls, clashes and firing in 17 districts, including Etawah, where an officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police, City, was allegedly slapped while trying to prevent a crowd of BJP supporters from breaching the barricade near a polling booth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-yadav-lashes-out-at-bjp-over-violence-during-local-body-elections/article35272978.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. doctors from Dakshina Kannada widely consulted on app||While government doctors from Dakshina Kannada are among those who are widely consulted on the eSanjeevaniOPD application of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the number of persons from the district availing themselves of this service continues to be fewer when compared to that of neighbouring Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Udupi districts. As many as 24 doctors from Mangaluru’s Government Wenlock Hospital and 14 doctors from other government health facilities in the district are among the 3,102 doctors of the State offering on-line teleconsultation services. On an average, there are 3,000 consultations daily in the State. This facility has been widely used in the State since September last year. “In the last three months, we have been consulted by 14,000 people from different parts of the State,” said urologist Sadananda Poojary from the Government Wenlock Hospital. District Nodal Officer of the teleconsultation project Ratnakar said that dermatologist Naveen from the district tops the list of achieving the most number of consultations. As many as 13,791 people from the district have so far made use of the service. “The number of beneficiaries from the district is gradually increasing,” he said and added that health workers are making people aware of the facility. State Telemedicine Coordinator (e-health) M. Nates said that Chikkamagaluru district tops the list with 93,211 consultations so far. As many as 72,835 consultations are from Hassan district, while Udupi has recorded 16,462 consultations. Mr. Natesh told The Hindu that the State is ranked third with a total of 12.45 lakh consultations, while Andhra Pradesh tops the list with 16.77 lakh, followed by Tamil Nadu in the second with 12.8 lakh consultations. Deputy Director (e-health) of Health and Family Welfare Department Arun Kumar D.P. said that there is scope for further improving usage of this facility in the State, more so in the coastal districts and Malnad region where people need to traverse long distances to reach health facilities for routine consultations. Also, doctors and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives working on the ground can make use of another facility of this application by which they can directly contact experts for treating ailments that they notice during their visit to houses of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-doctors-from-dakshina-kannada-widely-consulted-on-app/article35272931.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,||Bison dies of injury||A Gaur that had strayed into Gudihal village died of an injury, on Sunday. The Indian Bison was suffering from loss of sight and other ailments. Forest officers tried to give it some medicine, but it did not survive. Residents of Gudihal spotted the Gaur and called forest officers on Saturday. By the time the officers arrived, everyone was sure that the wild animal could not see properly. The Gaur kept hitting obstacles on its way and could not see vehicles crossing the road. After a few minutes of loitering around the village, it went to sleep on a grass land. It died in its sleep. It did not cause any damage to anyone or to any property, forest officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bison-dies-of-injury/article35272784.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,||Body found in stream||A farmer was drowned in a stream in Kuratahalli near Sindagi in Vijayapura. Basavantraya Ambagol (55) went missing on Thursday. It was suspected that he had drowned in the stream. A team of police and SDRF personnel found the body on Sunday. He must have died on Thursday, the police said. Tahsildar Sanjiv Kumar Madar supervised the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/body-found-in-stream/article35272785.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,||Search on for man who cuts off his wife’s nose||Dharwad Police have launched a search for a man who fled after cutting off his wife’s nose and assaulting his mother-in-law. Umesh Gandgudari of Amminbavi village came to his in-law’s house drunk and assualted his wife Geeta. He cut off a part of her nose with a knife on Sunday. He attacked his mother-in-law, Neelavva, who tried to protect her daughter. After a marital discord, Geeta had moved to her mother’s place. Her husband did not like it. He came to her maternal house and began quarrelling. When the police came to know of the offence, they shifted the two victims to a hospital in Dharwad. The Rural Police have registered a case. A team has been formed to trace the absconding accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/search-on-for-man-who-cuts-off-his-wifes-nose/article35272786.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,||How to use it||Teleconsultation facility can be accessed by visiting the website, esanjeevaniopd.in. A related app can be downloaded from the Google Play Store. After verification of one’s mobile number, the speciality service related to an ailment can be selected followed by a selection of one’s home State. A token is issued after details of patient and related health records are uploaded. A doctor will then given video consultation and also send a prescription. People are making use of this service that is available on all days between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m., except on holidays when the service is available only between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/how-to-use-it/article35272929.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dhami holds off on Kanwar yatra decision||Any decision on allowing the Kanwar Yatra this year will be taken after discussions with neighbouring States, Uttarakhand’s new Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said, after weekend consultations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. A senior official in the CM’s office confirmed that he has also held consultations with Yogi Adityanath, his counterpart in Uttar Pradesh. Among medical officers on the ground in Uttarakhand, however, there is a recognition that allowing the Kanwar Yatra could lead to an increased spread of COVID-19 cases and heightened challenges in managing the pandemic. Uttarakhand is reviewing its earlier decision to cancel the yatra. This follows the U.P. government’s announcement that the pilgrimage will begin from July 25, despite concerns that it could become another COVID super spreader event like the Kumbh Mela earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhami-holds-off-on-kanwar-yatra-decision/article35272412.ece
12 July 2021||Vijayawada,||TS police stop MLA from visiting Pulichintala||Amid the raging controversy over the sharing of Krishna river waters, Andhra Pradesh MLA Samineni Udaya Bhanu was stopped by the Telangana police at Muktyala village from visiting the K.L. Rao Sagar Pulichintala Project on Sunday.  Following this, tension prevailed on the border. The YSRCP MLA and Government Whip in the A.P. Assembly, objected to the “high-handed behaviour of the Telangana police,” saying he was going to the multi-purpose project only to see the factual position. Mr. Udaya Bhanu could not cross the barricades erected by the Telangana police, who were deployed in large numbers there ever since tension escalated following the drawal of water by Telangana for power generation allegedly without necessary clearances, including from the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). Mr. Udaya Bhanu told the media later that Telangana was drawing water to generate 120 MW “in blatant violation of the established protocol,” as per which the irrigation requirements in both States were to be met first before utilising the water for power generation. ‘Water wasted’ The Jaggaiahpet MLA pointed out that massive quantities of surplus river water (about 75 tmcft) was wasted as Telangana kept drawing by ignoring Andhra Pradesh’s “legitimate right to utilise its allocations”. Mr. Udaya Bhanu maintained that both States were bound by the awards of the Bachawat Tribunal. It was Telangana that benefited the most out of the Krishna river water as former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had built more projects in that region, the MLA said, and demanded that Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao help in reaching an amicable settlement and refrain from making provocative comments on the sensitive issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-police-stop-ap-legislator/article35272375.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||First report on compliance from Twitter||Twitter has appointed Vinay Prakash as its resident grievance officer for India, according to its website. The micro-blogging site also published its first compliance report, which is mandatory under the new digital rules. “In compliance with Rule 4(1)(d) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, we have published our inaugural report on July 11, 2021, for the reporting period from May 26, 2021, through to June 25, 2021,” Twitter said on its website. As per the new digital media rules, significant social media intermediaries are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These persons have to be residents in India. Twitter has already appointed an interim chief compliance officer and is expected to appoint a nodal officer soon. In its compliance report, titled “India Transparency Report”, Twitter has provided data on the different categories of complaints from users and action taken on them as well as provided information on its proactive monitoring efforts. Between May 26, 2021 and June 25, 2021, Twitter received a total of 38 complaints, which resulted in action against 133 URLs. Of these, the largest number of complaints pertained to defamation(20), followed by abuse or harassment (6) and sensitive adult content (4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-report-on-compliance-from-twitter/article35272572.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal promises free power in Uttarakhand||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised up to 300 units of free electricity per month to every family in Uttarakhand and free electricity to the farmers of the State. He added that if AAP is voted to power in the 2022 Assembly poll in Uttarakhand, the party would also waive old electricity bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-promises-free-power-in-uttarakhand/article35272700.ece
12 July 2021||new delhi,||DDMA allows school assembly halls to open||The Delhi Disaster Manage- ment Authority (DDMA) on Sunday permitted the use of auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions for meeting and training purposes. The DDMA said the move was taken owing to considerable decline in COVID-19 cases and overall improvement in the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ddma-allows-school-assembly-halls-to-open/article35272702.ece
12 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam launches financial aid scheme for widows||The Assam government on Sunday launched a scheme entailing a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 2.5 lakh to women who lost their husbands to COVID-19 since March-April 2020. The Chief Minister’s COVID-19 Widows Support Scheme is for women from low-income families with an annual income of up to Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-launches-financial-aid-scheme-for-widows/article35272907.ece
12 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Amid curfew, Puri decks up for annual Rath Yatra||For the second successive year, the annual Rath Yatra in Puri, will be conducted on Monday without devotees in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. Police has blocked every lane and bylane leading to the venue and curfew imposed from Sunday to Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-curfew-puri-decks-up-for-annual-rath-yatra/article35272908.ece
12 July 2021||Patna,||Bihar’s Kesaria Buddha stupa waterlogged||The world-famous Kesaria Buddha stupa in east Champaran district of Bihar is waterlogged following floods in some parts of the district after heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of river Gandak in neighbouring Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihars-kesaria-buddha-stupa-waterlogged/article35272909.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal promises free power in Uttarakhand||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised up to 300 units of free electricity per month to every family in Uttarakhand and free electricity to the farmers of the State. He added that If AAP is voted to power in the 2022 Assembly poll in Uttarakhand, the party would also waive old electricity bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-promises-free-power-in-uttarakhand/article35272980.ece
12 July 2021||new delhi,||DDMA allows school assembly halls to open||The Delhi Disaster Manage- ment Authority (DDMA) on Sunday permitted the use of auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions for meeting and training purposes. The DDMA said the move was taken owing to considerable decline in COVID-19 cases and overall improvement in the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ddma-allows-school-assembly-halls-to-open/article35272981.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||Centre can’t meddle in coop sector: Pawar||In wake of the formation of a separate Cooperation Ministry under Home Minister Amit Shah by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the Central government could not meddle in the functioning of Maharashtra’s cooperative sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-cant-meddle-in-coop-sector-pawar/article35272946.ece
12 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Amit Shah launches projects in Gandhinagar||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on a two-day visit to Gujarat and his parliamentary constituency Gandhinagar, launched several development works on Sunday and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “creating systems” for uninterrupted development in the State and the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amit-shah-launches-projects-in-gandhinagar/article35272947.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||Next Speaker will be from Congress: Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi had decided that the next Speaker of the Assembly would be from the Congress. The post fell vacant after Congress MLA Nana Patole resigned in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/next-speaker-will-be-from-congress-pawar/article35272948.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 8,535 cases, 6,013 recoveries||Just 6,013 patients were discharged in Maharashtra on Sunday against a surge of 8,535 new COVID-19 cases as the State’s active case tally rose again to 1,16,165. A total of 350 deaths were added to the progressive death toll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-adds-8535-cases-6013-recoveries/article35272949.ece
12 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Spare us the hassle of getting clearances’||Expressing their opposition to the rule of mandatory clearances, especially the fire safety certification for renewal of recognition, the management boards of private, aided and unaided educational institutions have urged the State government to intervene in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spare-us-the-hassle-of-getting-clearances/article35272789.ece
12 July 2021||BELAGAVI,||Multi-pronged research planned on COVID-19||Belagavi-based ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM) will take up multi-dimensional research on COVID-19 in association with two government medical colleges of North Karnataka. Recently, ICMR officers signed memoranda of understanding with Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences. NITM Director Debprasad Chattopadhyaya said that the MoUs were signed to undertake collaborative activities such as training programmes for scientists and clinicians for skill development and competence building to benefit public health at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/multi-pronged-research-planned-on-covid-19/article35272791.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||New IT rules are empowering and will protect users: Minister||Information Technology and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday said the new information technology rules were empowering and protecting users. The new IT rules will ensure a safer and more responsible social media ecosystem in India, the Minister said. “Reviewed the implementation and compliance of Information Technology Rules, 2021 along with my colleague Shri Rajeev Chandrasekhar ji. These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India,” Mr. Vaishnaw said in a post on the Koo platform, Twitter’s Indian competitor. The new rules, which came into effect from May 25, mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redress mechanism for resolving complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies with a user base of over 50 lakh shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be residents of India. However, Facebook-owned Whatsapp has challenged the new IT rules for social media intermediaries requiring the messaging app to trace chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information, saying they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. WhatsApp further alleged the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits “at risk”. Some of the media houses have also challenged the new IT rules and the matter is sub judice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-it-rules-are-empowering-will-protect-users-minister/article35272329.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kandahar evacuation is temporary, says MEA||India has evacuated personnel from the Consulate-General in Kandahar as a temporary measure in view of the fighting between the Taliban and Afghan security forces, said the Ministry of External Affairs on Sunday. Official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the mission is “not closed” and the visa-related work has been shifted to the Indian Embassy in Kabul. “The Consulate-General of India in Kandahar has not been closed. However, due to the intense fighting near Kandahar city, India-based personnel have been brought back for the time being,” said Mr. Bagchi, emphasising that the evacuation “is a purely temporary measure”. The reiteration of the “temporary” nature of the closure came a day after The Hindu reported that India has closed diplomatic operations at Kandahar temporarily. The Indian personnel were seen on Saturday leaving the premises of the mission in a cavalcade of official vehicles. “The Consulate continues to operate through our local staff members. Arrangements are being made to ensure continued delivery of visa and consular services through our Embassy in Kabul,” said Mr. Bagchi. The diplomatic mission in Kandahar serves as an important coordinating centre for the large number of medical tourists who seek treatment in India and obstructions and delays in visa acquisition can create challenges for Afghan citizens intending to visit Indian hospitals. The security situation in Kandahar continues to remain grim with fierce fighting going on in the suburbs and in nearby areas that have been taken over by the Taliban fighters. Taliban fighters on Friday attacked the jail in Kandahar that holds a large number of veterans of the Taliban movement. Indian missions in Afghanistan were targeted by terrorists in the past and Saturday’s evacuation is, therefore, being interpreted as a measure to ensure the safety and security of the people employed at the Indian Consulate-General.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kandahar-evacuation-is-temporary-says-mea/article35272354.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Current weather could add to virus symptoms’||The lingering second COVID-19 wave and the current weather — a combination of high heat and humidity prevailing across some parts of India — have prompted doctors to caution the general public to strictly follow COVID-appropriate behaviour to ensure that places with common air conditioning and poor ventilation do not prove to be superspreader zones. The effect of worsened weather on an ongoing illness contributed in terms of aggravated symptoms, said Anurag Aggarwal, associate consultant, internal medicine, QRG Health City, Faridabad, who added that there was no proven research on how the virus responded to weather conditions. Bhagwan Mantri, consultant, pulmonology, Moolchand Hospital, noted that lower relative humidity aided airborne transmission of water droplets and aerosols. “When we cough, sneeze, talk or sing, water droplets and smaller water particles [aerosols] containing living viruses disperse into the air. Droplets and aerosols tend to stay afloat longer and travel farther in the air with lower relative humidity. Virus-containing aerosols, in particular, can penetrate more deeply into the lungs to increase the possibility of transmission,” he said. “When moisture levels are insufficient, viral particles have a greater ‘docking’ potential at airway receptor sites, which can lead to an increased risk of infection. Low relative humidity has a drying effect on the cells and mucous linings of our airways. These cells act as a defence against viral particles and other invading foreign substances. Drying out airway linings impairs their ability to function properly,” Mr. Mantri added. However, he said adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour was the only way to reduce the transmission risk in any atmospheric condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/current-weather-could-add-to-virus-symptoms/article35272369.ece
12 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Puri decked up for annual Rath Yatra||A day before the annual Rath Yatra, decorated chariots of Lord Balabhadra, Lord Jagannath and Devi Subhadra were positioned in Bada Danda (Grand Road) in front of the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple at Puri, Odisha, on Sunday. Colourful chariots — Taladhwaja of Lord Balabhadra, Nandighosa of Lord Jagannath and Debadalana of Devi Subhadra — were pulled by the sevayats (traditional priests of the temple). This was the second successive year that the world-famous Rath Yatra was being conducted without devotees in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. Lanes blocked To prevent any devotees from entering Grand Road, the police blocked every lane and bylane leading to the venue. Curfew has also been imposed in Puri from Sunday to Tuesday. People have been advised to stock up on essential goods as all shops will remain closed till Tuesday. Though no devotee is allowed to participate in the grand event, as many as 65 platoons led by 10 Additional Superintendents of Police, 31 Deputy Superintendents of Police and 64 inspectors will be deployed to keep people away from the town. Tourists have also been asked to vacate guest houses and hotels in the town to ensure that no outsiders reached the Rath Yatra venue. The three chariots were constructed by traditional carpenters at a place called Ratha Khala where no outsiders were allowed. As a precautionary step, all of the carpenters were vaccinated and tested. The servitors testing negative for COVID-19 will be allowed to pull chariots. Similarly, the sevayats , who perform complex rituals inside the Jagannath Temple and carry massive wooden idols to the chariots, had already undergone RT-PCR tests. Except Puri, nowhere else has the Rath Yatra been allowed. Though priests and other devotees had moved the Supreme Court to allow the celebration of the Rath Yatra in other areas, the court refused to entertain it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/puri-decked-up-for-annual-rath-yatra/article35272367.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||HAL set to deliver first batch of 3 LCH||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is gearing up to deliver the first batch of three Light Combat Helicopters (LCH) to the Indian Air Force (IAF) once acceptance tests are completed. These are part of the 15 Limited Series Production (LSP) helicopters approved for the Army and the IAF. “HAL has received Letter of Intent for five Air Force and five Army LCH for delivery pending contract finalisation of 15 Limited Series Production (LSP) LCH. HAL has produced and signalled out three LSP LCH for the IAF. Same will be subjected to customer acceptance and training shortly,” a HAL source said. On the remaining helicopters of the LSP series, the source added, “In the current year we are producing four LCH for Army and two for the Air Force. Remaining six LCH will be produced next year.” The deal for the 15 LCH was expected to have been signed in the first quarter of 2021 but has been delayed due to the second wave of the pandemic. The IAF has put forward a requirement for 65 LCH and the Army for 114 helicopters. Of the 15 LSP helicopters, 10 are for the IAF and five for the Army. The LCH, the lightest attack helicopter in the world weighing 5.5 tonnes, has been designed and developed by the HAL to meet the specific and unique requirements of the Indian armed forces and can operate at heights of 12,000 feet. The Army Aviation operates smaller utility helicopters but does not have attack helicopters in its fleet and has for sometime pitched for attack helicopters of its own to operate with its strike Corps. The attack helicopter fleet is operated by the Air Force which provides close air support to the Army. The IAF operates the older Mi-25 and Mi-35 Russian attack helicopters which are in the process of being phased out and has inducted 22 AH-64E Apache attack helicopters from the U.S. The Army will also start receiving the Apache attack helicopters from early 2023 onwards, six of which have been contracted under an estimated $800-mn deal from the U.S. in February 2020. Presently, the Army has 90 Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH) and 75 Rudra, weaponised ALH, helicopters in service which are indigenously designed and developed by the HAL in addition to around 160 older Cheetah and Chetak utility helicopters which are in need of urgent replacement. Last August, amid the ongoing standoff with China in Eastern Ladakh, two LCH were deployed for operations at high altitude in Leh at short notice to support IAF missions, validating their capability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hal-set-to-deliver-first-batch-of-3-lch/article35272335.ece
12 July 2021||Jammu/New Delhi,||‘Pressure fuse points to Pakistani hand’||The “pressure fuse” used in the bombs dropped on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu through drones in a first-of-its-kind attack in India indicates that some elements of the Pakistan Army or the ISI helped terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba in fabricating the IEDs, according to security sources. The improvised explosive device (IED) that pierced the rooftop of one of the IAF buildings at the Jammu airport carried less than 1 kg of RDX and a cocktail of other chemicals, whereas the one that was dropped on the ground contained a little over 1 kg of the deadly explosives along with some ball bearings, they said. The sources said the IED used in the June 27 attack “definitely” contained the technical expertise of the Pakistani military. The ‘pressure fuse’ used is similar to the ones used by the Pakistani Army. A ‘pressure fuse’ is generally used in minefields, anti-tank mines and those dropped by the air force in the fuselage between the explosive and main detonator of a shell or an IED. The explosive devices are activated by the pressure of either falling on the ground with force or some individual or vehicle passing over it. However, in these sophisticated IEDs, the ‘pressure fuse’ had been deployed at the nose of the bombs so that they trigger with a force after falling on the ground, the sources said. Most of the artillery shells and mortar bombs have this type of fuse, and that is why they do not explode in the air but on impact, they explained. Director-General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh had said earlier that Pakistan-based terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba were suspected to be behind the bombing of the IAF station.  Two IAF personnel were injured in the explosions that took place within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building in the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari on the outskirts of Jammu. The second one was on the ground. Notably, of late, Pakistan has been procuring armed drones from China and Turkey. The sources said drones could fly up to three hours and could be monitored and manoeuvred remotely through the Global Positioning System (GPS) technology. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the International Border is 14 km. In September last year, five Lok Sabha members from the YSR Congress had asked whether the government had issued any guidelines in light of the possibility of drones being used as weapons of attack on high-security installations. The then Minister of State for Home, G.K. Reddy, had stated, “In order to counter the threat of drones in the country, necessary guidelines have been issued, which include measures to be taken by the Central and the State governments in consultation with the security agencies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pressure-fuse-points-to-pakistani-hand/article35272345.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Railways focus on paediatric facilities||The Ministry of Railways has called for full preparedness to ensure testing, tracking and treating of patients amid the gradual lifting of lockdown in many States and a strong apprehension on the future course of COVID-19. Chief Medical Directors of the Zonal Railways have been told to ensure availability of adequate infrastructure, especially for paediatric patients, and act immediately upon any change in the demographic profile of the patients or increase in the number of new infections. The Railways, which transports millions of passengers every day, will enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour and also vaccinate all employees/beneficiaries in its premises. In an advisory, the Railway Board said, “There is a strong apprehension of future course of the pandemic, which may be in the current form of virus or in a mutated version. The problem of Delta Plus variant is already causing concern. The situation calls for immediate action.” Vulnerable group The most vulnerable group could be unvaccinated individuals, particularly those below the age of 18. While most of the Railway hospitals have been provided with sufficient facilities for oxygen supply by way of enhanced number of cylinders, concentrators and Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants, the advisory asked senior medical officers to review the availability of adequate stock of medicines/consumables, besides sensitising doctors/paramedical staff on the future course of the pandemic. General Managers of the Zonal Railways/production units were told to arrange vaccination for all beneficiaries, including porters, contractors and others, by the end of July. Additional centres could be opened to meet the target and also give priority to those due for the second dose of the vaccine. One of the serious impediments in achieving the target of vaccination was the willingness of the beneficiaries to come forward to take the shot. Besides deploying staff of the Personnel Department to persuade workers to volunteer for vaccination, the best practices of divisions/workshops should be showcased to motivate others lagging in achieving targets/reducing wastage of vaccines. “It has also been decided to suitably reward divisions/zones who follow the best practice of achieving laid down targets of vaccination/reducing waste of vaccines. Similar reward schemes may also be initiated so that the staff remains motivated to face the challenges,” the Railway Board said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-focus-on-paediatric-facilities/article35272361.ece
12 July 2021||Patna,||Bihar’s Kesaria Buddha stupa waterlogged||The world-famous Kesaria Buddha stupa in east Champaran district of Bihar is waterlogged following floods in some parts of the district after heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of river Gandak in neighbouring Nepal. East and West Champaran districts share their borders with Nepal at many places. ‘Issue of concern’ “Since it is waterlogged from all sides, it is feared that it may suffer damage. But, even last year too the stupa was waterlogged,” said an Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) official in Patna over phone. “It is indeed an issue of serious concern,” he added preferring anonymity. The stupa, located about 110 km from the State capital Patna, has a circumference of almost 400 feet and stands at a height of about 104 feet. The first construction of the nationally protected stupa is dated to the 3rd century BCE. It is regarded as the largest Buddhist stupa in the world and has been drawing tourists from across several Buddhist countries. The sputa’s exploration had started in the early 19th century after its discovery led by Colonel Mackenzie in 1814. Later, it was excavated by General Cunningham in 1861-62 and in 1998 an ASI team led by archaeologist K.K. Muhammad had excavated the site properly. The original Kesaria stupa is said to date back to the time of emperor Ashoka (circa 250 BCE) as the remains of an Ashokan pillar was discovered there. The local call the stupa “devalaya” meaning “house of gods”. The ASI has declared it a protected monument of national importance. However, a larger part of the stupa is yet to be developed as it remains under thick vegetation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihars-kesaria-buddha-stupa-waterlogged/article35272339.ece
12 July 2021||Srinagar,||NIA raids seven locations in Kashmir, seizes digital devices||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday raided multiple locations in the Kashmir valley, questioned locals and seized digital devices in a case regarding online radicalisation by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) in India. “The NIA conducted simultaneous searches in Srinagar and Anantnag at seven locations. During the searches, a large number of incriminating documents and digital devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, hard disks and T-Shirts having ISIS logo were recovered and seized,” said an NIA spokesman. A case was registered by the NIA on June 29, 2021, under the Indian Penal Code and the UAPA in connection with the alleged conspiracy of the ISIS to radicalise and recruit impressionable youth in India and wage violent jihad against India. ‘Online propaganda’ The NIA spokesman said an India-centric online propaganda magazine, The Voice of Hind (VOH), is published on a monthly basis with an aim to incite and radicalise impressionable youth by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India and arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred. “An investigation in the case continues,” the spokesman said. According to the NIA, in order to execute the plan, a campaign has been launched over cyberspace, which is supplemented by on-ground terror financing activities. “ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones along with ISIS cadres in India, by assuming pseudo- online identities, have created a network wherein ISIS-related propaganda material is disseminated for radicalising and recruiting members to the fold of ISIS,” the NIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-raids-seven-locations-in-kashmir-seizes-digital-devices/article35272347.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS assigns Arun Kumar to coordinate with the BJP||In an ongoing meeting of the full-time pracharaks of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at Chitrakoot in Madhya Pradesh, a significant organisational change was introduced by replacing joint general secretary Krishna Gopal with Arun Kumar, another joint general secretary, as its coordinator on political issues and with the BJP. The position is considered sensitive as it involves coordinating with the BJP-led government and the party on political issues, and assumes more importance by the fact that Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttarakhand are to go to Assembly elections next year. One joint general secretary (organisation) is also likely to be seconded to the BJP, said sources. RSS prachar pramukh Sunil Ambekar confirmed the change that Mr. Kumar, recently made joint general secretary in the RSS, was to hold the coordinator’s position, but maintained that this was a routine organisational shuffle. Mr. Kumar’s taking charge of the post was considered imminent after he was elevated to the joint general secretary post. Earlier in the year, Dattatreya Hosabale was made second-in-command of the RSS or the general secretary. The last time such a change had taken place, that is when Mr. Krishna Gopal was appointed coordinator, was around 2014-15, when the Modi government had just taken over. RSS sources said more changes in kshetra pracharaks, or areas in-charge, were also being firmed up at the three-day meet, including moving around personnel from West Bengal, where the BJP lost the Assembly polls, and in Rajasthan as well, say sources. In an annual report released earlier in the day, the RSS said that 39,454 of its shakhas were operating across the country and that it will undertake a nationwide training of its workers to do aid work for the possible third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the aim was to reach 2.5 lakh spots with this aid work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-assigns-arun-kumar-to-coordinate-with-the-bjp/article35272566.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||Nadda chairs meet with BJP secretaries||BJP president J.P. Nadda chaired a meeting with the party’s national secretaries on Sunday, where he reviewed the organisational activities and the preparations for the upcoming Assembly elections in five States. They later called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his official residence here and briefed him. This was Mr. Nadda’s first physical meeting with these BJP office-bearers following their appointment last year. A party leader noted that the BJP general secretaries also called on Mr. Modi after their first physical meeting with Mr. Nadda. At the secretaries’ meeting with Mr. Nadda, the ongoing organisational activities, including those related to promoting the COVID-19 vaccination drive, were discussed. The Assembly elections in five States, due early next year, and several bypolls were also discussed, sources said. The meeting lasted for more than an hour. Mr. Modi held similar meetings at his residence last month with the BJP general secretaries and the heads of the saffron party’s different wings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-chairs-meet-with-bjp-secretaries/article35272568.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Psychoanalysis test done on blast accused||Results of the psychoanalysis test of four students arrested from Ladakh in connection with a blast near the Israel Embassy in New Delhi in January found that two of them were telling “partial truth”, a senior police officer said on Sunday. The police said that Nazir Hussain, 26, Zulfikar Ali Wazir, 25, Aiaz Hussain, 28 and Muzammil Hussain, 25, all from Thang village in Kargil district of Ladakh, were arrested from Kargil and brought to Delhi on transit remand on June 24. After detailed investigation, they were taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for a psychoanalysis test by a panel of expert doctors. “The test result shared by doctors mentioned that two of them were telling ‘partial truth’ regarding their role in the blast outside the Israel Embassy,” the officer said. “We are going through the test report to find out what’s the ‘partial truth’ the accused are hiding from the police. If required, we will take the help of experts and question them again,” the officer added. The police said all four accused had been in Delhi on the day of the blast and their phones were found to have been switched off. Five mobile phones had been recovered from them. A minor IED (improvised explosive device) blast took place outside the embassy on January 29. There were no casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/psychoanalysis-test-done-on-blast-accused/article35272332.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||Bulky Cabinet of no use if public spending is not higher: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Sunday hit out at the Central government over reports of a steep fall in infrastructure expenditure and a dip in vaccination rates, saying that a “bulky Cabinet” is of no use if public investments are not higher. In a series of tweets, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the Narendra Modi government must spend more to build infrastructure-generating jobs and demand. “Change of faces and a bulky cabinet is of no use: stop the ‘thank you’ ad-gimmicks and spend allocated money on vaccines. This is disastrous. When higher public investments are needed to revive the economy and secure livelihoods, government expenditures fall sharply by 41.6 per cent,” he said, asking the government where the money was being spent. “Where is the money from ongoing loot of national assets and monstrous petrol hike excise? To feed Modi government PR propaganda and spin? Or build PM’s new house and buy luxury planes?...”  Attaching a report showing that India is among the countries with the lowest share of people who have received at least one dose of vaccine, Mr. Yechury said a new Cabinet is of no use if vaccines are not provided. “This is where India stands thanks to the complete mismanagement and hubris of this government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bulky-cabinet-of-no-use-if-public-spending-is-not-higher-cpim/article35272350.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||‘Centre can’t meddle in State cooperative sector’||In the wake of the formation of a separate Cooperation Ministry under Home Minister Amit Shah by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the Central government could not meddle in the functioning of Maharashtra’s cooperative sector. “All the cooperative societies in the State are governed by the Maharashtra State Cooperative Act. The laws are passed in the State Legislative Assembly and Council. Under this Act, only the State, and not the Central government, has the right to frame policies and enforce them in the sector,” said Mr. Pawar. His much-anticipated remarks come in the wake of speculation that the motive behind the BJP-ruled Centre’s decision to form a new cooperatives’ Ministry was to break the NCP’s stranglehold over Maharashtra’s cooperative sector, thereby attenuating the party’s political hold. Clear demarcation “The rules of the Central and State governments are well-demarcated. They cannot interfere in each other’s jurisdiction. The Centre’s role is restricted only to multi-State cooperative banks. I have been seeing reports speculating that the creation of a separate cooperation Ministry was solely to undermine or regulate State cooperatives. But such assumptions are baseless,” Mr. Pawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-cant-meddle-in-state-cooperative-sector/article35272348.ece
12 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Shah launches projects in Gandhinagar||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on a two-day visit to Gujarat and his parliamentary constituency Gandhinagar, launched several development works on Sunday and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “creating systems” for uninterrupted development in the State and the country. He laid the foundation stone of projects worth Rs. 244 crore in Ahmedabad and surrounding areas, which are part of his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency. The Minister is scheduled to attend the Gujarat Forensic Science University convocation, visit the Lord Jagannath temple during Rath Yatra on July 12 apart from touring his constituency. “After so much of experience in politics, I have seen many type of leaders. There are some who just allow things to happen at their pace and go to cut the ribbon. There are such leaders also who work hard to ensure best development takes place during their tenure,” Mr. Shah said. “But there are some others, probably Narendra bhai is the first such leader, who builds such mechanism that development continues even after they have left,” Mr. Shah said addressing a gathering in Bopal area of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-launches-projects-in-gandhinagar/article35272327.ece
12 July 2021||Bhopal,||Water cannon used on Cong. workers||The Madhya Pradesh government’s decision to allot land in an industrial estate to an RSS affiliate associated with small industries prompted the Opposition, the Congress, to stage a protest led by senior leader Digvijaya Singh here on Sunday wherein the police used water cannons. The incident occurred when Mr. Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP, and other Congress workers were trying to climb a barricade during the protest held at Govindpura industrial area, police officers said. The police has filed a case against Mr. Singh and eight other Congress leaders along with 200 workers for organising a protest without prior permission and violating COVID-19 rules. “The police used water cannons but we will continue to fight against the land allotment. The water got into my ears,” Mr. Singh told reporters. He alleged Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had given this land worth crores to the Laghu and Madhyam Udyog Bharti at the rate of Rs. 1 despite opposition from the Industrial Association. “This is the only park where workers take their lunch and rest,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/water-cannon-used-on-cong-workers/article35272983.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘High command will decide on CM change’||Mr. Baghel was speaking after meeting Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at 10 Janpath, where the leaders are said to have discussed next year’s Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. “The high command instructed me to take the oath [as Chief Minister], so I took the oath,” he said, adding, “Such agreements happen in a coalition government but Congress has three-fourths majority in Chhattisgarh.” Mr. Baghel, who played a key role in overseeing the Congress’ campaign in the recent Assam Assembly, is likely to be given major responsibility for the U.P. elections as well. Congress treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal and senior leader from U.P., Rajeev Shukla, were also part of the hour-long meeting. In April, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister’s parliamentary advisor, Rajesh Tiwari, who played a key role in Congress’ Assam campaign, was appointed an AICC secretary for U.P. The CM later also met AICC’s Chhattisgarh in-charge P.L. Punia, who told a news agency that there is no ‘rotational plan’ to change Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-command-will-decide-on-cm-change/article35272330.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhami holds off on Kanwar yatra decision||Among medical officers on the ground in Uttarakhand, however, there is a recognition that allowing the Kanwar Yatra could lead to an increased spread of COVID-19 cases and heightened challenges in managing the pandemic. Uttarakhand is reviewing its earlier decision to cancel the yatra. This follows the U.P. government’s announcement that the pilgrimage will begin from July 25, despite concerns that it could become another COVID super spreader event like the Kumbh Mela earlier this year. Given the religious sentiments and health concerns involved, the decision on whether to cancel the yatra again has political ramifications, especially given that both U.P. and Uttarakhand are headed to the polls next year. Mr. Dhami tweeted a link to his interview with the Aaj Tak news channel in which he said, “It is a matter of the faith of millions. However, people’s lives should not be threatened. Saving lives is our first priority. God would not like it if people lost their lives to COVID due to the yatra.”  This is also the concern of the medical officers tasked with controlling the pandemic on the ground. “There was complete panic among the people during the second wave, with a shortage of oxygen, ventilators and ICU beds. We are taking steps to ensure all these facilities are there in the event of a third wave. But people must also follow the COVID protocols,” said Ajay Kumar Nagarkar, additional chief medical officer for Haridwar, who initially handled oxygen management in the district’s COVID control room before he himself tested positive near the end of April, along with his entire family. Any decision regarding the Kanwar Yatra will be taken at the policy and administration level, he insisted. He added that the COVID care centres and hospitals will have to set up booths to cater to the three crore plus pilgrims expected, apart from the local population. “Staffing such booths is a challenge with our manpower. Increased testing will be needed, but our testing capacity is limited,” he said, noting that about 3,000 people are currently tested on a random sampling basis at the district’s border points. Uttarakhand is also facing a shortage of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhami-holds-off-on-kanwar-yatra-decision/article35272331.ece
12 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Naqvi slams critics of U.P.’s population policy||Hitting out at those critical of the Yogi Adityanath government’s steps aimed at stabilising the population in Uttar Pradesh, Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday said the people doing politics or giving communal colour to such efforts were “enemies” of the State and the country. While addressing the newly elected representatives of panchayats on his two-day visit to Rampur, the BJP leader said population control is the need of the hour and it is heartening that the campaign for population control is being started from Uttar Pradesh, which is India’s most populous State. The policy comes at a time when the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission has prepared the proposed draft Bill under which a two-child norm would be implemented and promoted. A person who will have more than two children after the law comes into force would be debarred from several benefits such as government sponsored welfare schemes and from contesting elections to local authority or any body of the local self-government, the draft says. Ration card units would be limited to four members of a family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naqvi-slams-critics-of-ups-population-policy/article35272565.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||First report on compliance from Twitter||This is, Twitter said, “In compliance with Rule 4(1)(d) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. As per the new digital media rules, significant social media intermediaries, which include those with over 50 lakh users, are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These persons have to be residents in India. Twitter has already appointed an interim chief compliance officer and is expected to appoint a nodal officer soon. In its compliance report, titled “India Transparency Report”, Twitter has provided data on the different categories of complaints from users and action taken on them as well as provided information on its proactive monitoring efforts. Between May 26, 2021 and June 25, 2021, Twitter received a total of 38 complaints, which resulted in action against 133 URLs. Of these, the largest number of complaints pertained to defamation(20), followed by abuse or harassment (6) and sensitive adult content (4). Twitter also processed 56 grievances appealing for suspension of user accounts, of which seven were overturned and remaining suspended. It has also said that proactive monitoring of user content led to suspension of 18,385 accounts for child sexual exploitation and 4,179 accounts for terrorism related activities globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-report-on-compliance-from-twitter/article35272340.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese protest against Indian celebration||“We don’t understand Mandarin. They had scribbled something on the banner. They stood there for about half an hour,” Mr. Tsewang told The Hindu . “The land where they stood and protested on the Dalai Lama’s birthday is our land. It belongs to India,” he stated. Videos shared by Mr. Tsewang showed a group of men holding a long banner in red with words on it. They are also seen carrying the Chinese flag. When contacted, Army authorities chose not to comment on the Chinese action. Mr. Tsewang stated that 10 days ago, the Chinese also protested when the locals were setting up a solar pump. Last Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the Dalai Lama in a phone call on the occasion on his 86th birthday. This is the first time Mr. Modi has publicly confirmed speaking with the Dalai Lama since he took over as PM in 2014. The developments come against the backdrop of a continuing deadlock in the talks at various levels to resolve the ongoing military stand-off in eastern Ladakh. While the first phase of disengagement at Pangong Tso was completed in February, efforts to work out an agreement for the second phase of disengagement at Gogra and Hot Springs have been held up. Other frictions areas at Demchok and Depsang still remain. 2019 incident A similar incident had occurred in the area in 2019 as well. In July 2019, as villagers held a local festival to celebrate the Dalai Lama’s birthday, at least 11 Chinese men in civilian clothing came close to the LAC and raised banners from across the river bank which read, “Ban all activity to split Tibet”. The LAC in the area runs along the Indus river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-protest-indian-celebration/article35272341.ece
12 July 2021||Guwahati,||Mobile theatre groups in Assam face a bleak future||The majority of the 30 mobile theatre groups in Assam may find it difficult to stage a comeback after almost two years of closure due to the two phases of the COVID-19 lockdown preceded by the unrest associated with the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. The Krishna Kanta Handique State Open University on July 9 organised a virtual meeting of Bhramyoman (travelling theatre) producers, directors and cultural economy experts, to find a way forward for the mobile theatre groups crippled by months of inactivity. The meeting coincided with the birthday of Achyut Lahkar, who started the mobile theatre revolution by forming the Nataraj Theatre group in 1963. “The Bhramyoman season from July to April suffered a bit towards the end of 2019-2020, before COVID-19 struck, to keep those associated with the industry virtually unemployed. The situation does not look like it is improving soon, and because the investment is huge for a theatre group, 99% may not survive this phase,” Prastuti Parashar, an actor and head of the Awahan theatre group, said. “Given the popularity of mobile theatres across Assam’s rural landscape and the demand, we have to think of ways to stage plays while coexisting with COVID-19. Maybe we can cut down the audience size of 1,500-2,000 during normal times to 700-800, and increase the number of shows per day,” said playwright-director Abhijit Bhattacharya, who has been associated with the Bhramyoman for 25 years. Suresh Ranjan Goduka, a mass communication design researcher at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati, said the annual turnover of the mobile theatre groups was Rs. 25 crore. “Mobile theatre owners said materials such as bamboo, iron poles and fittings, timber and tarpaulin have been damaged or are unusable because of almost two years of inactivity. They will need to pump in Rs. 40 lakh-Rs. 45 lakh more to be back on the road,” he said.  The toughest challenge for the theatres is to find technicians who can set up the stage, cook for the unit and transport them from place to place. “Many workers have either moved out in search of jobs or are selling perishables for a living,” said Jayanta Kumar Sarma, professor of the university’s Mass Communication Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mobile-theatres-face-a-bleak-future-in-assam/article35272358.ece
12 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Police on ‘encounter spree’, says complaint||A Delhi-based advocate from Assam has lodged a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against the Assam Police, which he said was “on an encounter spree” since the Himanta Biswa Sarma-led government took charge two months ago. This followed a notice served by the Assam Human Rights Commission to (AHRC) the Principal Secretary of the State’s Home and Political Department to probe the circumstances leading to the death and injuries of suspected militants and alleged criminals. The AHRC has sought an action-taken report within a month from July 7. In his complaint on July 10, Arif Jwadder said alleged small-time criminals were being shot and the reason cited for such “fake encounters” was that they tried to “flee from police custody snatching pistols”. More than 20 such encounters had taken place, he added. “Assam Chief Minister stated in a police conference that police should shoot at alleged criminals at legs which are permitted by law... Police are staging fake encounters with impunity,” Mr. Jwadder said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-police-on-encounter-spree-says-complaint/article35272370.ece
12 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Prisoners wait for SC’s bail order to arrive by post||It has been three days since the Supreme Court granted immediate interim bail to 13 convicts lodged in the Agra Central Jail but the inmates are yet to walk free as jail authorities are waiting to receive the order by post. The convicts have spent between 14 and 20 years in prison despite being juveniles at the time of committing the crime. V.K. Singh, Senior Superintendent of Agra Central Jail, said they were waiting for the certified copy of the SC’s order. “We will follow the due process. After the top court’s order, they will surely be released but only after receiving the physical copy of the order,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu. “It has been dispatched and it should reach us any time.” A source in the prison said the order was expected to reach them on Monday. “The SC took only a week to pass the order in favour of the petitioners but it seems it will take another week to get them released from a Central Jail in Uttar Pradesh,” said lawyer Rishi Malhotra, who represented the convicts. He asked why the orders were being sent by post when the courts had moved online in the pandemic. “Why can’t the jail authorities check the orders online and take necessary action? In the digital age, the cumbersome process of waiting for physical copies could be done away with,” Mr. Malhotra said. He said the convicts had spent a good part of their lives behind bars because of ignorance and a lack of good legal aid at the trial stage. “The 13 prisoners had not taken the defence of juvenility during the trial stage,” he said. In 2012, the Allahabad High Court directed the Juvenile Justice Board to determine the ages of prisoners, following which 13 were found to be juvenile offenders. “All of them were convicted for murder and were given life terms,” said Mr. Malhotra. According to the Juvenile Justice Act 2000, the maximum sentence for juvenile offenders is three years in a juvenile correction home. “On one hand, jail authorities complain that the jails are overpopulated and on the other, they perpetuate red-tapism,” Mr. Malhotra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prisoners-wait-for-scs-bail-order-to-arrive-by-post/article35272326.ece
12 July 2021||Kozhikode,||Missing youth rescued from Kerala forest||A Rapid Response Team of the Forest Department on Sunday rescued two youths who had lost their way inside the dense Amarad forest near Thamarassery here in Kerala on Saturday evening. Mohammed and his brother Abdulla were saved after locals alerted the forest staff on seeing their motorbike near the forest border. The youths told the police that they couldn’t return due to the thickintense fog inside the forest. The two were tracked nearly 15 km from the forest border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/missing-youth-rescued-from-kerala-forest/article35272950.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||‘Both UPA, NDA misused probe agencies||Both the erstwhile United Progressive Alliance and the current National Democratic Alliance government have misused the Central probe agencies to settle political scores, said Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday, commenting on the recent spate of Enforcement Directorate actions against the leadership of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “The ED is not some tool in the hands of the Central government that it can use to topple whosoever it did not like … This is extremely wrong. Earlier, the same [misusing probe agencies] was practised when the Congress was in power and now the BJP is doing likewise. In fact, the real culprits who have committed misdemeanours are roaming scot-free,” he said, speaking during the inauguration of the MNS party office in Pune. The MNS president was responding to questions on the ED’s questioning of Nationalist Congress Party leader Eknath Khadse and the agency’s arrest of his son-in-law Girish Choudhary in a money laundering case related to a dubious land deal in Pune’s Bhosari area. “Mr. Khadse had earlier said that if the ED was put behind him, he would release a tell-all CD. Therefore, I am now waiting to see when Mr. Khadse will do this,” said Mr. Thackeray. After spiritedly campaigning — and failing miserably — against the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the MNS was seen to be gravitating towards the saffron party subsequently. Rebuking both the State and the Centre for failing to grant the Maratha community a quota, the MNS chief said the community was being tossed around by political parties while being fobbed off with hollow promises. “If both the parties in the State and the Centre are agreed that reservation must be given to the Maratha community, then where is the problem? The same is true of OBC reservation… if that is also acceptable to all parties, as they like to claim, then wherein lies the obstacle?” I think both communities ought to bring all these political leaders [of both Centre and State] on a common forum and confront them with these questions,” Mr. Thackeray said. He chastised the MVA government for failing to defend the Maratha quota in the Supreme court. “At the time of the erstwhile Congress-NCP government in the State, the Maratha communities had staged a big protest in Mumbai. At that time, leaders of the Congress, the Shiv Sena, the BJP and the NCP had gone and met the protesters to assure them of their demands. Then I had said that if everyone agrees to reservation, then where is the problem? Or do these parties just want to keep playing about with the interests of the Maratha community and provoke their youth?” questioned the MNS chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/both-upa-nda-misused-probe-agencies/article35272333.ece
12 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Two held for plotting attacks in U.P.||The police on Sunday arrested two persons on suspicion that they were allegedly planning to carry out terror attacks in parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Lucknow ahead of Independence Day. The Anti-Terror Squad, which made the arrests from two locations here, claimed to have recovered explosives from the two suspects. The police claimed the men were working for a local module of terror outfit Al-Qaeda. The two were identified as Minhaz Ahmad and Maseeruddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-plotting-attacks-in-up/article35272564.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35272337.ece
12 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh slams BJP over poll violence||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being the party with the most goondagardi (hooliganism), as he lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government headed by Yogi Adityanath for the violence and clashes that broke out during the local body polls. “The amount of goondagardi that has happened in U.P ... perhaps, I may not have used the word goonda in my political career so far. Since we have witnessed the panchayat polls on TV and heard from people, there cannot be a bigger goondagardi wali party (party with hooliganism) than the BJP,” Mr. Yadav said here in a press conference. The ruling BJP had on Saturday claimed victory in 635 out of 825 block pramukh posts in the State even as the Samajwadi Party accused the government of misusing its administrative machinery to “forcibly capture” the posts. The voting and the nomination for the block pramukh polls were marred by brawls, clashes and firing in 17 districts, including Etawah, where an officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police, City, was allegedly slapped while trying to prevent a crowd of BJP supporters from breaching the barricade near a polling booth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-lashes-out-at-bjp-over-violence-during-local-body-polls/article35272343.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||‘Stan Swamy’s death cannot be justified’||Launching a broadside at the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over the death of Father Stan Swamy, Shiv Sena MP and party spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the “murder” of the octogenarian tribal rights activist in prison could not be justified, while comparing the Modi regime with that of the Fascist governments of Benito Mussolini and Adolph Hitler. In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana , Mr. Raut questioned whether the country’s foundations had become so weak that the Modi government feared its overthrow by an 84-year-old Jesuit priest and activist. Remarking that to oppose the government and to oppose the country are two different things, Mr. Raut said: “A government which is afraid of a crippled and weak 84-year-old person, is surely ‘dictatorial’ by attitude and ‘weak’ at heart, similar to that of Hitler and Mussolini.” Father Swamy, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad case in October 2020, died in judicial custody earlier this month while undergoing treatment at Mumbai’s Holy Family Hospital. Mr. Raut said that the death of the “disabled and helpless Father Swamy” in prison could not be justified even if Maoists and Naxals were more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists. He compared the BJP-ruled Centre’s charges against Fr. Swamy and other jailed activists and academics to the ones levelled by the Indira Gandhi-led government against stalwart trade unionist George Fernandes. “Indira Gandhi was afraid of George Fernandes. But the latter was a young leader at the time and not an elderly man like Father Stan Swamy. Today’s government [Modi regime] is scared of octogenarians like Father Swamy and poet Varavara Rao.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stan-swamys-death-cannot-be-justified/article35272349.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Back with a vengeance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/back-with-a-vengeance/article35272352.ece
12 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Four minors rescued in Bhubaneswar||Four children, all below the age of 10, sitting helplessly and seeking food under a tree on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar in Odisha after being abandoned by their parents, were rescued on Saturday. Childline, an NGO working with disadvantaged children, said their mother had left them to fend for themselves eight months ago. The father, a laterite stonecutter, used to get food for the three girls and a boy. However, three days ago, the father disappeared. The rescued children were put up in childcare institutions after the Child Welfare Committee saw them through videoconferencing. “With sources of income for people in the low-income groups drying up due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the vulnerability of children has been further exacerbated. Children are exposed to hunger and are becoming malnourished,” said Benudhar Senapati, Director of the Childline facility, on Sunday. In 2020-21, Childline intervened for 758 children in Bhubaneswar alone. In past three months since April, Childline has intervened for 196 children, and 51 children had to be rescued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-minors-rescued-in-bhubaneswar/article35272355.ece
12 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Scheme for widows in Assam||The Assam government on Sunday launched a scheme entailing a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 2.5 lakh to women who lost their husbands to COVID-19 since March-April 2020. The Chief Minister’s COVID-19 Widows Support Scheme is for women from low-income families with a total annual income of up to Rs. 5 lakh. “Our government, in its bid to provide a little support at this testing time, has decided to assuage the sufferings of the family members of the deceased with financial support,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. He added that the scheme had been launched to help the beneficiaries lead a life of dignity. Launching the scheme, he handed over a cheque of Rs. 2.5 lakh each to 176 beneficiaries belonging to eight districts. Officials said 883 women were eligible for the scheme so far. The cheques of the remaining beneficiaries would be handed over by the guardian Ministers, each in charge of a few districts. “We have already launched the Sishu Seva Scheme to secure the academic future of the children who have lost both their parents to COVID-19,” Dr. Sarma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scheme-for-widows-in-assam/article35272359.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||PM appeals for Padma award nominations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the public to nominate individuals who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots for the Padma awards. Mr. Modi said India had many talented individuals doing exceptional work at the grassroots, but they were often not known. “India has many talented people who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots. Often, we don’t see or hear much of them. Do you know such inspiring people? You can nominate them for the #PeoplesPadma. Nominations are open till 15th September. http://padmaawards.gov.in,” the Prime Minister tweeted, sharing a link of the website. The Padma awards — Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri — are amongst the highest civilian awards in the country. These awards are announced on the occasion of Republic Day every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-appeals-for-padma-award-nominations/article35272362.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation identifies residents with hypertension and diabetes||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch services pertaining to medical assistance and COVID-19 vaccination for 3.36 lakh residents, who have hypertension and diabetes, in the 15 zones of the city. Teams of Corporation employees have also been directed to give priority to such residents in vaccination in order to avert deaths in the event of a third wave. Most residents who died of the virus had hypertension and diabetes. More than 50% of the 3.36 lakh residents, who have been identified with hypertension and diabetes in the city, have not been vaccinated. Volunteers to monitor “Volunteers have been directed to monitor the condition of the 3.36 lakh residents at home. They will be given treatment at the Corporation’s primary health centres. The number of residents with hypertension and diabetes is likely to be higher,” an official said. The 3.36 lakh residents will get free treatment at Corporation facilities. While 1.55 lakh residents, who are on the Corporation’s list, have received the first dose, around 87,000 have received the second dose of the vaccines. In addition to vaccination, the Corporation has also started increasing testing in the city to detect a possible third wave. All primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients have been tested. Over 22,000 tests are being conducted every day. On Sunday, Corporation officials continued raids on large retail outlets in commercial areas. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi visited T. Nagar and advised traders to support the civic body’s initiatives to manage the COVID-19 situation. The Corporation will penalise commercial outlets that violate COVID-19 norms, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-identifies-residents-with-hypertension-and-diabetes/article35272651.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Even food is scarce for the Irulas of Kancheepuram||Over the past two lockdowns, residents of two Irula settlements — Nariyamputhur and Vandivakkam — in Kancheepuram district have been barely surviving with rice from fair price shops. They have been able to stretch the rice for the whole month as they have only two meals a day. “It is always ‘puli’ or ‘kaara kozhambu’ since we cannot afford to buy vegetables as we do not get much work. Only some of us have the 100-day job scheme cards and get work for a few days a year. Earlier, we used to work on agricultural fields but now all that has stopped, which is why our men have turned to cutting trees and stones. If they get, they work as labourers in construction sites,” said Chandra of Nariyamputhur, who walks slowly with her grand-daughter holding her hand and guiding her through the rough terrain. Asked how long the 15-odd families have been living in the settlement, which is not near any other human inhabitation, she said, “My father-in-law came here before us and before him came his in-laws. Now, I live here with my children and their children.” They live on poromboke land with houses made of palm leaves with no power supply; hence, they have no televisions, no mixers or grinders. They also do not have gas stoves since they cannot afford LPG and depend on firewood picked from around their villages. Windy season “This is the windy season and we are afraid the palm leaves will fly off and the mud walls will break and fall on us. Many nights are spent sleepless. If it is too windy and the rain is heavy, we all sit in the hut that is the strongest,” explained Panchali, who got two packets of tea in the 14-item pack, part of the State government’s COVID-19 relief from her fair price shop. “We are illiterate and since we do not know how to count, we did not know how many items we got. When each of us found different items in the bag we went back to the shop, and the man told us that we were yet to get five more items,” explained their neighbour Seetha. Samuel Pradeep Raja, secretary of Care Trust, and his wife Priscilla have been helping them get family cards and voter ID cards. “We were helping another Irula colony in Padur and when these people heard about that, they came to us. We did a baseline survey and applied for family cards. Some have the cards, others are yet to get them. When it rains, their homes get flooded. If the district administration gives them homes on a higher elevation or pattas, it will be helpful,” he said. Tiruvannamalai model Ms. Priscilla, who has done her Ph.D. in social work, pointed to the example of Tiruvannamalai district where IAS officer K.S. Kandasamy, as Collector, worked a miracle to rehabilitate Irula people by arranging homes, along with other facilities. “He, along with the DRDA, also managed to give them a livelihood by giving them cattle. If the Kancheepuram district administration sets its heart, these people too can see a sea change in their lives,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/even-food-is-scarce-for-the-irulas-of-kancheepuram/article35272667.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As migration continues, AIADMK says its organisation is intact||In the months immediately after the death of Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in December 2016, many AIADMK leaders took pride in saying that even a split in the party did not make any of their colleagues, however disgruntled they were, to join the DMK. But they are in no position to make that assertion now. On Sunday, AIADMK veteran and former Namakkal MP P.R. Sundaram and former Minister Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam joined the ruling party. A few days ago, another former MP Vijila Sathyanand joined the DMK. Their erstwhile colleagues, including P. Palaniappan and Jayanthi Padmanabhan who were with the AMMK until recently, chose the DMK to continue their political career. Expressing concern, long-standing members of the AIADMK point out that there were indications of the trend even in the months before the election. Dissatisfied members of the party were fielded by the DMK in the election. One example was R. Lakshmanan, who defeated former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam in Villupuram. He was a prominent face of the camp of O. Panneerselvam in the northern district during the latter’s ‘dharmayudham’ campaign against former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala. But he had to take the back seat after the merger of the camps led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam in August 2017. Asked whether the fact that the DMK is in power had attracted him to the party, after he opposed it for nearly 50 years, Mr. Sundaram gave an emphatic “no” in response. He said he was “impressed” with how Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had been conducting himself, especially after coming to power. “He has got the portrait of Amma [Jayalalithaa] restored at ‘Amma Unavagams’. He is following inclusive politics,” he pointed out. A senior functionary of the AMMK did not attach any importance to some of his colleagues joining the DMK, saying they had left for “greener pastures”. D. Jayakumar, an organisation secretary and former Fisheries Minister, said it was nothing new for the AIADMK to see “a few individuals” leave the party after the loss of power. This happened when M.G. Ramachandran’s government was dismissed in February 1980, and when Jayalalithaa lost power in 1996. The AIADMK is an “organisation of workers” whose roots “will ever remain intact”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-migration-continues-aiadmk-says-its-organisation-is-intact/article35272635.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s former MP, ex-Minister join the DMK||Former AIADMK MP P.R. Sundaram and former Minister Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam joined the DMK here on Sunday in the presence of Chief Minister and party president M.K. Stalin. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sundaram said the AIADMK had become a casteist party. He said AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami had become a dictator and leaders like former Ministers P. Thangamani and Velumani were calling the shots. He said AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam had become a mere “rubber stamp”, and was content with just getting a post. Mr. Sundaram won the Lok Sabha election from Namakkal in 2014, and was not re-nominated for the seat in the 2019 election. In the election held in 1996, when the AIADMK under Jayalalithaa faced a rout, he was among the four MLAs elected to the Assembly from the party. ‘A DMK bastion’ Mr. Venkatachalam vowed to make Erode a DMK bastion. “Though the DMK won comfortably and came back to power, I know of Mr. Stalin’s concerns about not being able to secure more seats in Erode. We will play a role in addressing it,” he said at the Anna Arivalayam. He said over 900 workers of various parties and organisations had joined the DMK with him, and he would rope in 25,000 more if Mr. Stalin directed him to do so. He hailed Mr. Stalin’s governance and said it was ensuring social justice and serving as a role model for the country. Mr. Venkatachalam was elected to the Assembly from Perundurai in 2011 and 2016, and served as the Minister for Environment and Revenue in the Jayalalithaa government. Since he was denied nomination in the 2021 election, he contested as an Independent and was expelled from the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-former-mp-ex-minister-join-the-dmk/article35272637.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital sets up oxygen plant to increase supply, becomes self-reliant||Kauvery Hospital has become self-reliant in meeting its oxygen needs with a total installed capacity of more than 700 l per minute of medical grade oxygen. A release said that while the hospital had one oxygen generation unit in April 2021, which was able to meet 60% of its requirements, another had been recently installed, which made its oxygen supply completely self-sufficient. Tamil Nadu Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian, who inspected the installed facility at the hospital on Sunday, said the State was able to overcome oxygen shortage during the second wave of the pandemic with support from other States and countries. ‘Commendable move’ “This move by Kauvery Hospital, making it self-reliant with in-house oxygen generation, is commendable as it is the need of the hour, considering the possibility of a third wave,” he said. Aravindan Selvaraj, executive director, Kauvery Hospital, said that the COVID-19 crisis made it an important goal for the hospital to streamline operational processes, build preparedness for adverse circumstances and develop self-reliance in ensuring undisturbed oxygen supply. Iyappan Ponnuswamy, medical director, Kauvery Hospital, said the pandemic showed that oxygen had increasingly become a precious commodity. “We felt the urgent need for an in-house solution to address the oxygen scarcity,” he said. The hospital also had more than 200 oxygen cylinders as well as liquid oxygen cryo-tanks as back-up, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-hospital-sets-up-oxygen-plant-to-increase-supply-becomes-self-reliant/article35272653.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ajith fans finally get their wish; first look of Valimai released||Ministers, politicians, cricketers, film journalists and celebrities can finally breathe easy about being ambushed by Ajith fans asking for Valimai updates. Finally, the makers of Valimai , starring Ajith Kumar, directed by H. Vinoth and produced by Boney Kapoor, released the much-awaited first look of the film on Sunday. The film is likely to be released before the end of 2021. While most movies of Mr. Ajith, who is one of the three biggest stars of Tamil cinema along with actors Rajinikanth and Vijay, release with great hype and fanfare, Valimai has curiously caught the fans’ attention much more than his previous films, possibly because of his collaboration with Mr. Vinoth, whose Sathuranga Vettai and Theeran Adhigaram Ondru , were critically acclaimed hits. The filming began sometime in the second half of 2019, and was unexpectedly delayed due to the pandemic. The impatient fans of the actor, who were routinely asking for the first look of the film, took it so far that they began holding placards seeking ‘ Valimai updates’ from Prime Minister Narendra Modi when his convoy passed by during his visit to Tamil Nadu during the election season. Former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who was campaigning for the State Assembly election, and England cricketer Moeen Ali, who was in Chennai to play a test match, were also not spared by Ajith fans. At a certain point, the Tamil social-media-verse began having a good laugh at the whole phenomenon. After such incidents became widely noticed, Mr. Ajith released a statement asking his fans to maintain dignity and discipline in public. In February 2021, he said in a statement: “Updates on Valimai will be decided by me in consultation with the film’s producer. Until then, please be patient. Films are entertainment for you. It is my profession. The decisions I take are related to my profession and society.” The second wave of COVID-19 further delayed the first look, which was scheduled to released on May 1, the actor’s birthday. Mr. Ajith and Mr. Vinoth had earlier collaborated on Nerkonda Paarvai , a remake of the Hindi film Pink .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ajith-fans-finally-get-their-wish-first-look-of-valimai-released/article35272662.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. cannot be bifurcated, say DMK front leaders||Leaders of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance on Sunday said no one could bifurcate Tamil Nadu, even as second-line office-bearers of the BJP remained divided on speculative reports that the Centre planned to convert the western districts into a ‘Kongu Nadu Union Territory’. “No one can divide Tamil Nadu or even dream of such a thing. Don’t worry,” DMK leader Kanimozhi told journalists, responding to a report in a Tamil daily, claiming that the Centre had such a plan. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said such reports were the BJP’s tactic to divert the people’s attention from its failures on the economic and social fronts and its mismanagement of COVID-19. Mr. Alagiri told The Hindu that the BJP had crafted a “planned, but wrong marketing gimmick” that would fizzle out after a few days of debate in the public sphere. Adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was facing dissent from within the BJP and the RSS, he said the development had a role in raking up “such separatist sentiments”. “Unlike Telangana, no one has asked for any separation within Tamil Nadu. The Telangana region was under-developed. The Kongu Nadu region is a well- developed one. Why would anyone split a well-developed region?” he asked. Within the BJP, however, there is division on the issue. BJP State general secretary K. Nagarajan said the proposal was in the initial stages and the people of the Kongu region wanted its creation. “There are parties like the Kongu Nadu Desiya Makkal Katchi. Even [PMK leader] S. Ramadoss has spoken about the creation of regions such as Kongu Nadu,” he said, adding that the government must listen to the people’s wishes and fulfil them. However, in Tiruppur, party State treasurer S.R. Sekhar said the BJP did not have any such proposals “for now”. He told journalists that the party’s State high-level committee would convene to decide on the issue, which at present was “only a newspaper report”. Members of the MDMK and the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam staged demonstrations in Coimbatore, condemning the reported proposal, and demanded a clarification from the Union government. ‘Mischievous voices’ Amma Makka Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran called upon the Union and State governments to nip in the bud the “mischievous voices” in support of the bifurcation of Tamil Nadu. In a series of tweets, he said the idea of dividing the State on caste lines would never be allowed, when there was no such demand from any section of the people. Any move based on caste would be “greatly detrimental” to the Tamils, as the State had suffered heavily from the re-organisation of States on linguistic lines. It would be “intelligent” to pursue the path of development, he said.  (With inputs   from R. Akileish)   No one can divide Tamil Nadu or even dream of such a thing KanimozhiDMK leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-cannot-be-bifurcated-say-dmk-front-leaders/article35272640.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s higher order birth has dipped, says Ma. Subramanian||Tamil Nadu’s higher order birth — a woman having three or more live children — has been brought down to 7.2% in 2019 from 10.6% in 2010, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Sunday. At an event organised by the Directorate of Family Welfare to observe World Population Day, he said the State was a pioneer in implementing family welfare schemes in the country. The State’s current population was 8.4 crore. As per 2018, the State’s total fertility rate was 1.6%, while the national TFR stood at 2.2%, he said. The Minister said maternal mortality ratio for 2016-2018 was 60 per one lakh live births, while the infant mortality rate was 15 per 1,000 live births in 2018. He said every year 2.55 lakh women underwent sterilisation. Newer contraceptives, such as Antara (injectable contraceptive) and Chhaya (an oral contraceptive pill), were being used. He said family welfare services were available at 13,866 medical facilities, including government health sub-centres, primary health centres, government hospitals, government medical college hospitals and authorised private hospitals. He said the construction of 11 new government medical colleges had been expedited. He said they were planning to meet the new Union Health Minister in New Delhi in two or three days. Sholinganallur MLA S. Aravind Ramesh, Director of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy S. Ganesh, Director of Family Welfare V.P. Harisundari and Joint Director of Family Welfare S. Amudha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-higher-order-birth-has-dipped-says-ma-subramanian/article35272642.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After months, Chennai records no COVID-19 death||After several months, Chennai on Sunday reported no deaths due to COVID-19. The city was among 20 districts that reported no deaths due to the infection. Across the State, 2,775 people tested positive and 47 succumbed to the infection. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 25,18,786 and toll to 33,418. As many as 3,188 people were discharged. The bulletin released by the Health Department listed the deaths that had taken place over three to five days. According to Sunday’s bulletin, there were zero deaths in 20 districts, including Chennai, Chengalpattu, Madurai and Tiruchi. So far, 8,256 people have succumbed to the infection in Chennai, followed by 2,373 in Chengalpattu and 2,107 in Coimbatore. Among the 47 fatalities, Salem recorded nine, followed by Coimbatore with seven. There were five deaths in Cuddalore and four in Vellore. There were 298 cases in Coimbatore and 198 in Erode. However, Thanjavur recorded a rise in fresh infections as 210 more tested positive. There were 175 cases in Salem, 171 in Chennai and 163 in Tiruppur. While Chengalpattu recorded 144 cases, Tiruchi reported 108. Thirty of the 38 districts logged fewer than 100 cases each. Ramanathapuram continued to account for fewer than 10 cases — five people tested positive. A total of 32,307 people are under treatment. Coimbatore has the highest number of active cases at 4,006, followed by Erode with 2,847 and Salem with 2,086. In Chennai, 1,661 people are under treatment. In the last 24 hours, 1,48,182 samples were tested. This took the total to 3,45,46,292. On Sunday, 1,02,904 people were vaccinated, taking the total coverage to 1,62,61,985. Among those vaccinated were 52,877 people in the 18-44 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-months-chennai-records-no-covid-19-death/article35272645.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM switches tactics by organising protests||Three years after its inception in 2018, actor Kamal Haasan’s party, the Makkal Needhi Maiam, on Sunday organised its first State-wide protest against the Centre’s decision to hike fuel prices. Thus far, the party has stayed away from protests, preferring instead to take legal recourse on issues like the State government’s decision to keep Tasmac shops open during the COVID-19 lockdown last year. Many in the MNM felt the protests provided a chance to reinvigorate the party, which was on shaky ground after the drubbing in the Assembly election, which led to a number of office-bearers leaving the party. MNM vice-president A.G. Mourya said the party had found a “new way” forward as it organised protests in over 45 places, including all district headquarters. “This will be the new way for the party. Previously, it was not led in this direction by those who left the party. They weren’t oriented towards protests. So, there was a policy decision not to protest. Now, we don’t have those inhibitions. We will fight for the people’s rights, and we will be on the streets,” said the former IPS officer. He claimed Mr. Haasan was willing to participate in the agitation, but chose not to as it would be difficult to follow COVID-19 protocols. MNM leaders felt the protests showed that the party cadre were still with the organisation. An office-bearer who took part in the protests in Chennai and Chengalpattu said, “We could see how many cadre were still with us. Though the party leadership used to feel that protests weren’t meaningful except for the purposes of publicity for the party, it now seems to have realised that this is one way to keep the party and the cadre active in the run-up to the local body elections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-changes-strategy-organises-statewide-protests/article35272649.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. penalises 64 commercial establishments on Sunday||The Greater Chennai Corporation collected fines from 64 commercial establishments for violation of COVID-19 norms on Sunday. According to a press release, teams were sent to zones, such as Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Royapuram and Anna Nagar, to monitor violations of COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures. Huge crowds were reported in T. Nagar, Purasawalkam, Padi and Royapuram on Sunday, with 64 commercial establishments violating physical distancing norms. The Corporation constituted nine teams for enforcement of the rules pertaining to COVID-19 management. Two of them visited Teynampet, three went to Kodambakkam, two inspected places around Anna Nagar and two checked Royapuram on Sunday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi visited commercial areas, such as T. Nagar, to inspect the shops on Sunday. A fine amount of Rs. 2.09 lakh was collected from commercial establishments and individuals on Sunday, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-penalises-64-commercial-establishments-on-sunday/article35272657.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MCC to offer course in music from this year||The Madras Christian College has launched a course in music from this academic year. The Online Music Creators and Mentorship Programme will feature music theory and music production by eminent musicians from the industry. College principal P. Wilson said the idea of introducing such a course was envisaged to address the requirement of students who entered a degree programme without consciously planning a career. Industry access “Many of the students join English literature courses and bunk classes to play music. They are manipulated by parental and peer pressure, in addition to assessing the scope for placement while seeking admissions. Instead, if we offer a course and music education with scholarship and if they are mentored, then industry access is established,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mcc-to-offer-course-in-music-from-this-year/article35272652.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman riding pillion run over by truck in Ashok Nagar||A 45-year-old woman was run over by a speeding truck and her son was injured after the vehicle which was following them knocked down their bike in Ashok Nagar. The police said the accident occurred at 12.15 p.m. on Sunday. They identified the victim as Rajini, 45, a resident of Ambal Nagar, who was riding pillion with her son Manohar on his bike. A truck, driven by Pandian, 32, of Villupuram, hit their bike and knocked them down near Ashok Pillar. In the impact, the riders fell and the truck ran over Rajini while her son was injured. Immediately, the public nabbed the truck driver and handed him over to the police. The Traffic Investigation police, Guindy, arrested the driver on charges of rash driving and other offences under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-riding-pillion-run-over-by-truck-in-ashok-nagar/article35272654.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for murdering painter in Tondiarpet||Personnel from the R.K. Nagar police station on Sunday arrested three persons for allegedly murdering a painter in Tondiarpet. The police said five persons, including a woman, came to the house of Thangaraj alias Thangam, 28, a painter, on Saturday, and attacked him before fleeing. He was taken to the Government Stanley Hospital, where he was declared dead. The police arrested Balaji, of Korukkupettai, and Prem Kumar alias Chinna Appunu, 23, and Sham Prakash, 23, of Tondiarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-murdering-painter-in-tondiarpet/article35272665.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC strikes down Tangedco’s Rs. 2.73 crore demand notice||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has set aside a demand notice for Rs. 2.73 crore, issued by Tangedco to Arkay Energy (Rameswaram) Limited, during the lockdown last year. The impugned demand letter dated May 6, 2020, levying Rs. 1.34 crore as dues payable towards open access charges for April 2020, was quashed. There was a force majeure condition, as notified by the Central and State governments, during the period, and there was no utilisation of Tangedco’s transmission and distribution infrastructure, it said. TNERC also set aside Tangedco’s demand letter dated April 4, levying Rs. 1.39 crore as charges for March 2020. Recently, the State power regulator quashed demand notices totalling Rs. 6.7 crore, issued by Tangedco to captive power companies towards open access charges during the lockdown between March and May 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-strikes-down-tangedcos-rs-273-crore-demand-notice/article35272672.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More smart poles to aid traffic management in Chennai: CoP||The Chennai city police are planning to improve traffic management by installing more smart poles, which are integrated to a command centre, and are eliciting the opinions of traffic police personnel on the field, according to Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal. Smart poles have been installed in about 50 locations by the Greater Chennai Corporation. “We plan to expand the scope of traffic management through smart poles. These cloud-based poles will be able to monitor the status of traffic in an area and relay the same to nearby police officers as well as the control room. The proposed new Command and Control Centre will have a state-of-the-art data centre and analytical capability, apart from manual interface through wall screens,” Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu . The Smart City project is being implemented by the Greater Chennai Corporation and other line departments at a cost of Rs. 900 crore. The project has a component for traffic information and management, which include smart poles. The poles will have advanced cameras, and will give inputs on a real-time basis to the proposed Command and Control Centre. Meanwhile, an Intelligent Traffic Management System, introduced recently on a pilot basis at five junctions in Anna Nagar and Thirumangalam for automatic challaning of red light violations, stop line violations, over-speeding and driving in the wrong direction, has been successful. The pilot project has been generating around 20,000 challans a day. In the next phase, a similar system has been proposed at 50 more places in the city. In addition, 24 check-points exclusively managed by traffic police personnel have been set up, with a focus on creating deterrence against driving without helmets and driving under the influence of liquor. Acknowledging that the improvement in traffic management had been a “top-bottom approach”, Mr. Jiwal said, “It is being reversed, and suggestions have been sought from traffic police personnel on the streets on how to improve at least one stretch in the jurisdiction of a traffic inspector per month.” “The city police expect to reap good dividends from these exercises. The comfort of men while on duty is an important factor for them to perform satisfactorily. This is being taken care of by providing them sufficient rest and nutritional supplements once every shift.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-smart-poles-will-be-put-up-to-aid-traffic-management-in-chennai-says-commissioner/article35272630.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin calls on DMDK founder Vijayakant||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited DMDK founder Vijayakant at his residence in Saligramam on Sunday. He was accompanied by Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan and DMK Member of Parliament A. Raja. During the meeting, Mr. Vijayakant handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for COVID-19 relief, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-calls-on-dmdk-founder-vijayakant/article35272647.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Juvenile held for extorting from minor||The All-Women Police, Sriperumpudur, on Sunday arrested a 17-year-old for allegedly extorting money from a Class IX girl from his school by threatening to upload a morphed picture of her on social media. Police sources said both were students of a private international school in Kancheepuram, and were acquainted with each other. The boy was a Class XI student, and they interacted and shared pictures on social media for nearly two years. Recently, the boy started demanding money from her, and she sent him some cash through a digital wallet. Last week, he demanded she hand over her gold chain. When she declined, he threatened to morph her pictures and share them on social media. He also sent her some samples. The girl told her parents, who then lodged a complaint with the police. After a thorough investigation, the police detained the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/juvenile-held-for-extorting-from-minor/article35272658.ece
12 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airman found dead at Avadi IAF station||An airman of the IAF was found dead on the premises of the Air Force Station in Avadi on Sunday. Police said Akash Viswakarma, 23, was a native of Uttar Pradesh. He was serving as an air craftsman for the last three years at the Avadi station, which houses a training school for airmen and residences for the staff. He was on guard duty from 3.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. At the time of duty change, he was found lying dead with an injury in his head. Police suspect that he ended his life. The Muthapudupet police have registered a case and are trying to ascertain the reason. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and also Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airman-found-dead-at-avadi-iaf-station/article35272670.ece
12 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Delay in flyover work irks motorists on Mettupalayam Road||For motorists, who are not familiar with the traffic diversions because of the flyover work on Mettupalayam road, crossing a small stretch of the road can turn out to be confusing and time consuming. The Koundampalayam flyover work is proceeding at a slow pace and the service roads are blocked in some places. “The diversion routes can be confusing for those who are not familiar with the area, especially if they are proceeding from the city towards Mettupalayam,” said M. Devendran, secretary of Coimbatore District Road Protection Association. There are no boards or diversion warnings. Further, the roads on the diversion route are in a poor condition. For instance, in Edayarpalayam area, the road was dug up for underground drainage work but has not been re-laid properly, he alleged. Similarly, on the Thudiyalur- Saravanampatti stretch, near Vellakinar, the road repair work is going on. But, on Friday it was dug up again for laying pipeline. The existing roads on the diversion routes are dug up for different purposes and the repair works are not taken up immediately or done properly, he claimed. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, also emphasised on the need to strengthen the roads that are used because of diversion on the main road because of the flyover work. An official of the State Highways (National Highways section) Department said the construction work slowed down because of the pandemic and several workers had returned home. The aim is to complete the project by the end of this year. Since vehicle movement is heavy on the road and there is less space on the service road, there are traffic diversions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-flyover-work-irks-motorists-on-mettupalayam-road/article35272696.ece
12 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Placing food tray in garbage collection vehicle was a deliberate act to malign Corporation, finds inquiry||Placing the food tray meant for distribution to frontline workers in East Zone in a garbage collection vehicle, the photo of which went viral on social media, was a deliberate attempt to malign the Coimbatore Corporation, an inquiry has shown. Based on the photo and media reports, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara had asked Assistant Commissioner, Personnel, N. Annadurai and City Health Officer S. Raja to find out the truth. The inquiry had revealed that the tray was deliberately placed in the vehicle by a Corporation worker by name Sreedhar. The man had made a similar attempt 10 days prior to the incident and was warned by the driver of the vehicle. On July 3, the driver who had warned Sreedhar was away on an assignment and a substitute was on duty. Using the opportunity, Sreedhar placed the food tray in the garbage vehicle for a while until a few members of a conservancy workers’ association clicked pictures. Sreedhar then took out the tray, placed it on a two-wheeler for distribution to frontline workers, the sources said. The sequence of events clearly showed that it was a deliberate attempt to malign the Corporation and the sanitary inspector of Wards 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64, M. Dhanapalan. Sreedhar and the association members did so to put the sanitary inspector in a spot of bother because the latter had reassigned the task given to a few domestic breeding checkers – he had removed them from door-to-door survey and tasked them with sweeping roads as they were found inefficient. This came to light when Sreedhar reportedly confessed to placing the food tray in the garbage collection vehicle, the sources said and added that the Corporation had suspended Sreedhar. The sanitary inspector has requested the Commissioner to act against the association members for clicking the pictures, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/placing-food-tray-in-garbage-collection-vehicle-was-a-deliberate-act-to-malign-corporation-finds-inquiry/article35272688.ece
12 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for murder||The Sulur police on Sunday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of man near Sulur. The arrested were M. Krishnakumar (21) from Theni district, S. Muniyandi (19) from Sivagangai district and K. Surya (21) from Madurai district. Sulur inspector S. Murugesan said the accused murdered Ravi Prasath (42) of Uppilipalayam during a brawl at Kadampadi near Sulur on July 5. The police also seized 2.5 kg ganja from Krishnakumar and 1.5 kg ganja from Muniyandi and Surya. He said the accused were involved in the sale of ganja in Coimbatore and Tiruppur. The police have also arrested their friends M. Veeramani (25) and M. Gopinath (24), both natives of Madurai, in connection with the sales of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-murder/article35272689.ece
12 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. to resume efforts to radio-collar Baahubali this week||The Forest Department will resume efforts to radio-collar the wild elephant nicknamed Baahubali near Mettupalayam this week. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said the operation will resume this week, after a gap of about two weeks. The Department halted efforts to tranquillise and radio-collar the elephant on June 28 after it distanced itself from the special teams while changing its base within the limits of Sirumugai and Mettupalayam forest ranges. Members of the special teams engaged in the operation were also of the opinion that the elephant had to be left free for some days as it was under the stress of being monitored and tracked very closely. An official from the team said the elephant was camping in a forest area namely Nellithurai in the last three days. “The operation was halted as there was no urgency to tranquillise the tusker as in the case of a sick elephant. The unanimous decision of the special teams was to tranquillise the animal when it is back to the normal routine. The darting will be done only if the veterinarians get to spot the elephant at a very suitable and plain terrain,” the official said. Three kumkis which were brought for the operation in June are being sheltered at the timber depot of the Forest Department on Kotagiri Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-to-resume-efforts-this-week-to-radio-collar-baahubali/article35272676.ece
12 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister accused of blaming AIADMK-BJP alliance for own defeat||Bharatiya Janata Party State treasurer S.R. Sekhar on Sunday accused former Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam of blaming the AIADMK-BJP alliance for his own defeat in the recent Assembly election. Speaking to mediapersons in Tiruppur, he responded to a question on the recent remarks made by the AIADMK leader in Villupuram regarding the alliance between the two parties. “Had Mr. Shanmugam worked well in his constituency, the people would have given him a chance,” Mr. Sekar said, adding that the AIADMK leadership has condemned these remarks. Regarding the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Mr. Sekhar said the State government must allow the conduct of the entrance examination as per the Supreme Court verdict. He urged the State government to increase the horizontal reservation for government school students who have cleared NEET from 7.5% to 15% in medical college admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-minister-accused-of-blaming-aiadmk-bjp-alliance-for-own-defeat/article35272687.ece
12 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||A 21-year-old man from Vellakovil in Tiruppur was arrested for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl after marrying her. According to the police, the accused, an ambulance driver, and the girl were in a relationship. The man took the girl to Tiruppur on July 9 and married her in a temple. The Race Course police registered a case based on a complaint lodged by the father of the girl as she went missing. The police traced the man and the girl to Vellakovil and brought them to Coimbatore on Saturday. He was arrested for sexual assault, abducting the girl for marrying her and for child marriage. He was produced before a judge and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article35272692.ece
12 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||87 test positive in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district on Sunday reported five more COVID-19 deaths and 87 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 58,939. Four women aged 32 to 67 years and a 68-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 793. The district saw 57,192 recoveries and 856 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 50 persons tested positive, taking the total to 43,119. Kallakurichi district reported 68 positive cases, taking the tally to 28,038.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/87-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article35273030.ece
12 July 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||40-year-old woman from Kerala alleges gang-rape in Palani||A 40-year-old woman from Kannur district has lodged a complaint with Kerala’s Director-General of Police that she was gang-raped by some persons at a lodge in Palani in Dindigul district last month. But the Tamil Nadu police said no such complaint had been received in Palani. The Tamil Nadu police said preliminary inquiries revealed that a man and a woman, identifying themselves as a married couple, had booked a room at a lodge in Palani on June 19. After three days, the woman returned to Kannur and lodged a complaint with the local police that she was gang-raped by unidentified persons at the lodge. When no action was taken by the Kannur police, she submitted a petition to the Director-General of Police. The authorities there directed her to get admitted to a government hospital for examination, and the police registered a case. Checked in on June 19 When contacted by The Hindu , police officers in Palani said CCTV footage showed that the couple had checked into the lodge on June 19. The police said the man, in an inebriated condition, had complained to the police about his missing wallet and mobile phone on June 22.  On June 25, he went to Kerala and complained that the woman was raped. An officer said that only when the case is shifted here from Kannur would the police be able to summon the complainants and conduct investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-year-old-woman-from-kerala-alleges-gang-rape-in-palani/article35272633.ece
12 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Driver suffers heart attack, averts accident||A driver of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) averted a major accident near Koundampadi by halting the bus, even as he suffered a heart attack and died later. Selvaraj, 52, worked as a driver in the Koundampadi branch of the TNSTC and on Sunday, he was driving a bus to Perundurai with 28 passengers. He felt uneasy while driving through the busy roads near Vellakovil and immediately parked the vehicle on the roadside. Thereafter, he became unconscious. The conductor and other passengers immediately rushed him to a government hospital nearby. He was pronounced dead by the doctors. Passengers said that if Selvaraj had not halted the vehicle at the right moment, the bus may have crashed into houses. Selvaraj is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driver-suffers-heart-attack-averts-accident/article35272643.ece
12 July 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Kallakurichi police use drones to spot arrack dens||The Kallakurichi district police have started using drones to track bootleggers and illicit arrack dens located deep in the Kalvarayan hills. A few villages in the hills have become a hotbed of arrack-brewing, say the police, who have spread their presence across remote hamlets and the forest fringes. But the brewing has been thriving as arrack is a cheap substitute for Indian Made Foreign Liquor for many residents, who have few job opportunities. Easy availability of water from rivulets in the forests, firewood and other raw materials has made distillation a flourishing business. Bootleggers purchase jaggery, a key ingredient, from shops at the foothills and in neighbouring taluks, the police said. The arrack is sold in plastic pouches, each costing Rs. 50. Most of the contraband is smuggled to the neighbouring districts, the police said. “Though we have been cracking the whip on illicit distillation, the locals themselves protect the bootleggers,” Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque told The Hindu.  The hills comprise about 40 villages and 93 hamlets. Mr. Haque said the illegal breweries have been functioning deep inside the hills. “We find it tough to access these locations because of the unfamiliar terrain and the lack of motorable roads. Now, we have decided to use drones to locate the arrack dens. The Police Department has prepared a proposal to buy two drones for the Kariyalur station located in the hills.” The use of drones has already paid off: on Friday, over 3,400 litres of fermented wash and 410 litres of arrack were seized during a raid in the hills. As many as 769 cases have been booked for brewing and smuggling of arrack; 18,103 litres of arrack, 3,30,563 litres of fermented wash and 1,865 litres of rectified spirit have been seized so far. Shop owners warned “We convened a meeting of shop-owners and warned them against selling jaggery and plastic drums for brewing the contraband. Three checkpoints, manned by the Forest Department, are functioning on the hills, and all vehicles will be checked for materials meant for brewing the contraband,” Mr. Ziaul Haque said. The police have also drawn up a rehabilitation plan for about 100 former and repeat offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kallakurichi-police-use-drones-to-spot-arrack-dens-in-kalvarayan-hills/article35272669.ece
12 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdowns, litigation stall flyover work on Ring Road||Construction of a flyover on the intersection of Chennai-Thoothukudi highway, Sivaganga Road and Pandikoil junction on Ring Road is eight months behind schedule. The work, being executed by National Highways (Projects), is said to have been slowed down by the COVID-19 pandemic and litigation over acquisition of a small piece of land, according to official sources. “Most of the workers are from north Indian States and they have been going back home and returning for work after a long gap due to the pandemic and lockdown,” the official said. Whenever they go home, they return after a long break and the work to construct the one-km-long twin-flyover on the four-lane highway suffers. The flyover is aimed at skipping two important junctions on the Chennai-Thoothukudi highway - Pandikoil Junction and Sivaganga Road junction. Safe passage Once thrown open, the flyover will a provide a safe passage for vehicles bound for the southern districts through the Pandikoil junction connecting Inner Ring Road with Uthangudi near Meenakshi Mission Hospital on the Madurai-Melur highway and those vehicles bound for Sivaganga Road from Mattuthavani bus stand. Similarly, vehicles plying on Sivaganga Road (those coming from Sivaganga towards Gomathipuram and vice versa) can also have a safer passage without cutting through the traffic on Thoothukudi-Chennai four-lane highway. A roundabout has also been planned under the flyover to bolster safety at this junction. Two-year project The work that started in October 2018, on an outlay of Rs. 47 crore, should have been completed within 24 months. “Till now, 90% of the work has been completed. Out of the 28 spans to be erected, work on only six spans is yet to be completed,” the official said. Land acquisition on the southern end of the flyover ran into legal tussle over a small piece of land that was required for construction of a drainage channel. The officials are hopeful of completing the work in another four months. Completion of the work before reopening of schools and colleges will make the Sivaganga Road junction safer as hundreds of vehicles transporting students of various educational institutions pass through this junction every day.  Fast and safe It flies over two busy intersections on Ring Road 90% of the work is over on the one-km-long flyover Relief soon at Pandikoil and Sivaganga Road junctions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdowns-litigation-stall-flyover-work-on-ring-road/article35272767.ece
12 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Measures on to rehabilitate children rescued from home||Members of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) are taking measures to rehabilitate the 11 children who were rescued from the home run by Idhayam Trust. The Director of Idhayam Trust, G. R. Sivakumar, was recently arrested in cases of illegal adoption of two children who were inmates of a home run by the Trust. CWC Chairperson V. M. Vijayasaravanan and members L. Shanmugam and B. Pandiaraja met the children rescued from the home. Mr. Shanmugam said that two children - one girl and a boy - out of the 11 children were sent for illegal adoption by Sivakumar. The police rescued the two children and handed them over to their mothers. One of the rescued child’s mother has two other children, who were also inmates of the home. The mother of the girl child was from Karnataka. “The CWC members contacted their counterparts from Karnataka to trace the whereabouts of the mother. A mediator, who knows Kannada, was present during the enquiry conducted by the police and members of the CWC,” said Mr. Shanmugam. Mr. Vijayasaravanan said that only after the end of the enquiry it will be confirmed if the girl child's mother is from Karnataka. “If that woman is not the mother of the girl child, then the child will be sent for adoption,” he added. The CWC members traced the three children and handed them over to their parents. Two other children were sent for adoption. One child was admitted to Annai Sathya Government Orphanage to continue the child’s education. Three children are at St. Patrick’s home which is registered under the Social Welfare Department. “The Social Welfare Ddepartment will take steps to rehabilitate the mothers,” said Mr. Shanmugam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-on-to-rehabilitate-children-rescued-from-home/article35272925.ece
12 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Good old used articles find new homes||Based on the concept that drives thrift stores such as Salvation Army and Goodwill Abroad, the TVS group in Madurai has launched one of its own called the Kalpataru. During lockdown 1.0, when the pandemic made people realise the need to be frugal, a team of innovators at TVS group of schools and TVS Sri Chakra came up with the idea of rebranding an old initiative. A drive to collect unwanted goods from the city’s residents was launched. “People willingly donated and there was no shortage of second-hand goods, said M Thilaka, the project director. After weeks of home isolation induced spring-cleaning in many homes, people brought their used clothes, utensils, furniture, electrical and electronic gadgets and an array of other dysfunctional goods. It is human tendency to keep buying stuff and use them only for a brief period. “We give such items a new life,” said project coordinator Selvi Santosham. Trial run good The first trial run during last Deepavali proved there is no dearth of buyers looking for utilitarian, fancy or antique items at an affordable price. Priced at Rs. 30 to Rs. 20,000, items such as small containers, kitchen utility items, books, diaries and stationery to sparingly used branded dresses, accessories and classy furniture, found takers. Encouraged by the Rs. 2 lakh-plus business, the second round was ramped up again this March. “At every display, we combine 60% used and refurbished items, 20% recycled and recreated, and the balance new items,” said Ms. Thilaka. While pick-up vans are sent to collect old items on request, the event has generated interest among people who are now leaving their stuff at the NMR building which houses the Kalpataru store. “When you donate, you receive a thank you card and every item is coded to indicate if it requires cleaning, repairing or a creative overhaul,” said Ms.Santhosham. Makeover people Carpenters, electricians, tailors, art and crafts people and volunteers give the donated items a makeover - silk shawls are turned into cushion covers, discarded cardboard boxes and bottles are jazzed up with decoupage, old trophies and shields are converted into decoration and gift items. The ones that cannot be salvaged are sold at junk shops and the money is put back into the refurbishing programme for buying required materials. The proceeds from the sales go to orphanages and homes across the city. The third display in the series was hosted on Sunday. It saw a good response from a mixed crowd as many antique items, brass utensils and heirloom crockery were also sold. Initially the team was sceptical about the sale of second hand goods. “But 50% per cent of our exhibits are taken. The leftovers are kept for the next round with other new items. The store is filled with so much inventory now that we plan to hold monthly events, when the pandemic subsides,” added Ms. Thilaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-old-used-articles-find-new-homes/article35272922.ece
12 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Forum against 10.5% special reservation within MBC quota||Members of Joint Forum for Social Justice urged the government to repeal the 10.5% special reservation to Vanniyakula Kshatriyas within the quota for Most Backward Classes (MBC). A press meet was organised here on Sunday where the representatives of 115 MBC and denotified communities participated. The members said that the AIADMK passed the special reservation in violation of all legal and democratic values for political gains. The AIADMK discriminated the 68 denotified tribes and 47 most backward classes. Although the DMK government is in power, a few people were pressurising it to enforce the reservation, the members said. They resolved to oppose the reservation “as it is impractical to provide caste-based quota to all castes.” They also urged the government not to make any changes in the 20% MBC quota. Further, it was unanimously decided to meet the Chief Minister to explain that 10.5% sub quota was unfair and discriminative against the 115 MBC and DNT communities. The members pointed out that no commission had made any recommendations regarding the population or internal reservation to MBC in Tamil Nadu. A majority of 14 of the 21 members of the Ambasankar Commission had suggested that the government should not accept the population figures based on the results of a survey because the Chairman of the said Commission inflated the population figures of the Vanniyar caste. This Act had been passed in a rushed manner and unlawfully, and fully aware that the State government did not have the power under articles of the constitution.  Call for consultation Several petitions were pending before the High Court and the Supreme Court against the unfair law. Therefore, the government must not make any changes in the 20% MBC reservation without consulting the 115 communities, the members urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-against-105-special-reservation-within-mbc-quota/article35272926.ece
12 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||35 new cases in Madurai||Madurai recorded 35 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 72,993.  Virudhunagar district reported 32 new positive cases on Sunday with 26 patients getting discharged.   Thoothukudi, Theni and Sivagangai districts recorded a marginal increase in the number of active cases today. In Kanyakumari Dindigul, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli, the number of active COVID-19 cases declined marginally from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-new-positive-cases-in-virudhunagar-district/article35272759.ece
12 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rail link to Rameswaram will remain suspended||Rail link to Rameswaram island will remain suspended for two months till mid-September as railway authorities will take up engineering works on Pamban sea bridge. Eight pairs of trains will be suspended from July 14/15 to September 14/15. Some of the weekly trains will remain suspended till September 20/21. They are Train No. 02205/02206 and Train No.06851/06852 Chennai Egmore-Rameswaram-Chennai Egmore; Train No. 06849/06850 Tiruchi- Rameswaram-Tiruchi. Train No.06618/06617 Coimbatore-Rameswaram-Coimbatore (weekly); Train No. 06780/06779 Rameswaram-Tirupati-Rameswaram (tri-weekly); Train No. Manduadih-Rameswaram-Manduadih (weekly), Train No. 06733/06734 Rameswaram-Okha-Rameswaram (weekly) and Train No. Bhubaneswar-Rameswaram-Bhubaneswar (weekly) trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-link-to-rameswaram-will-remain-suspended/article35272762.ece
12 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal aims to reduce higher order births in Kolli Hills||The Namakkal district administration has launched a special drive to reduce higher order births in Kolli Hills and two other blocks here through sterilisation and other contraception measures. The administration is aiming to reduce higher order births (families with more than two children) in three blocks here, Kolli Hills, Erumapatti and Namagiripettai where the rate is higher than that of State figure. According to officials, Kolli Hills block is one of the places where the rate is higher than State average. District Collector Shreya P. Singh said, “Kolli Hills block stands second in the State in terms of higher order birth and we are aiming to reduce it. We have launched a drive where the rate is higher. Special teams have been formed to meet the target population, to offer counselling to them and conduct sterilisation.” Ms. Singh said that they are planning to cover families with fourth and fifth births in two weeks. The district administration is aiming to improve Namakkal’s rankings in various health indices. S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services here said, “the higher order birth at Kolli Hills stands at 22% while the State average is about 7.2%. The figure at Namagiripettai and Erumapatti is around 10% and 8% respectively. Both permanent and temporary measures are being taken to reduce higher order births here.” R. Pushparaj, Block Medical Officer at Kolli Hills, said that 16 teams have been formed with two village health nurses and four ASHA workers. One doctor and a lab technician have been deployed for four teams, he said. Dr. Pushparaj said that the teams would visit the women at their homes and counsel them. He added that necessary samples would be collected once the willingness from the women are received and once the patient is found fit, sterilisation surgery will be done. He said that if the health team fails to convince them, workers from social welfare and other related departments, and representatives of local bodies will be roped in to convince the families. He added that about 520 women have to be covered under the programme in Kolli Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-aims-to-reduce-higher-order-births-in-kolli-hills/article35272780.ece
12 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Panel to initiate steps to increase enrolment in SC scholarships||The National Commission for the Scheduled Castes (NCSC) will initiate steps to increase the enrolment of SC students in the scholarship portal for various schemes, which was abysmally low among beneficiary population in Puducherry. NCSC Vice-Chairman Arun Halder told reporters after reviewing various schemes, including the scholarship enrolment status, with top officials, that instructions had been given to the departments concerned to take measures to increase the enrolment levels, which were only around 10% at the National Scholarships Portal. “The low enrolment was partly due to the pandemic. The departments should be aiming for 100% enrolment of SC students in the scholarship schemes," he said. All beneficiary students should get scholarships within two months. The Commission welcomed the new scheme implemented by the Department of Adi-Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare to grant full fees to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students, irrespective of their family income, to pursue school education and higher, technical, professional courses in Puducherry. The scheme, targeted at students from these sections from LKG to PG, is being rolled out from this year, Sunil Kumar Babu, NCSC Director, Chennai, said. Under the scheme, the entire cost of education would be borne by the Government of Puducherry, he said. Compensation from State Steps would also be taken to disseminate the provisions of the new Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, through which victims of 47 categories of offences would get compensation ranging from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 47 lakh from State governments. Mr. Babu, while pointing out that overall, the crime rate against the SC/ST communities in Puducherry was very low, said that as per the amendment, kin of murder victims would get compensation of Rs. 8.25 lakh, a job and other benefits.  The Commission welcomed the new scheme to grant full fees to SC & ST students, irrespective of their family incom,e to pursue school education and higher, technical and professional courses in Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-initiate-steps-to-increase-enrolment-in-sc-scholarships/article35273036.ece
12 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Zero deaths in U.T. in over 100 days of the second wave||The Union Territory registered zero deaths for the first time in over 100 days of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic even as 145 new cases were added to the tally on Sunday. The cumulative toll remained at 1,769. Puducherry accounted for 118 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,821 tests, followed by Karaikal (16), Yanam (four) and Mahe (seven). With 213 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active number of cases stood at 1,505. Of this, 251 patients were in hospitals, and 1,254 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 2.49%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.25%. The Union Territory recorded an aggregate of 1,18,976 cases against 1,15,702 recovered patients. Of an estimated 13.85 lakh tests conducted so far, over 11.83 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 16 healthcare workers, seven frontline personnel and 6,242 members of the public took their COVID-19 vaccine shots in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory stood at 5,85,042.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zero-deaths-in-ut-in-over-100-days-of-the-second-wave/article35273034.ece
12 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry CM to handle 12 subjects||Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy will be in charge of 12 subjects, including the Confidential and Cabinet Department, Revenue and Excise, Local Administration and Health, while 30 others have been allocated among the five Ministers in the first NDA Cabinet of the Union Territory. Besides the Home portfolio that was assigned to the BJP during the negotiations with the AINRC, the national party’s floor leader, A. Namassivayam, has been allotted Electricity, Industries and Commerce, Education (including Collegiate Education), Sports and Youth Affairs and Sainik Welfare. AINRC Minister K. Lakshminarayanan got Public Works, Tourism and Civil Aviation, Law, Fisheries and Information Technology, while C. Djeacoumar has been allocated Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Forests, Social Welfare, Backward Classes Welfare and Women and Child Development. The debutant Chandira Priyanga of the AINRC, the first woman in the Cabinet in four decades, has been allotted Transport, Housing, Labour and Employment, Adi Dravidar Welfare, Art and Culture and Economics and Statistics. A.K. Sai Saravanan Kumar of the BJP, another debutant, gets Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Minority Affairs, DRDA, Urban Basic Services, Fire Services and Community Development. The Chief Minister’s portfolios include Port, Wakf Board, Hindu Religious Institutions, Town and Country Planning, General Administration, Information and Publicity and other subjects not allocated to his Council of Ministers. In the morning, Mr. Rangasamy called on Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Nivas and handed over the list of subjects. Following the Lt. Governor’s approval, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar issued a gazette notification ratifying the allocation of subjects. The Cabinet formation and the allocation of portfolios were plagued by serious differences over power-sharing between and within the principal allies, AINRC and BJP, the choice of Ministers, and later the nitty-gritty of portfolio allocation. In between, the hospitalisation of Mr. Rangasamy for COVID-19 treatment in the second week of May threw another wrench into the efforts. The Council of Ministers was sworn in on June 27, over 50 days after the NDA was voted to power in the April 6 Assembly election. Since then, the persisting differences had further delayed the formation of a functioning government. On Saturday, the Lt. Governor, while emphasising that she wished to stay away from politics, appealed to the Chief Minister to create an environment for the Cabinet to function in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-cm-rangasamy-to-handle-12-portfolios/article35272680.ece
12 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Schools, colleges in U.T. to reopen on Friday||Schools and colleges will reopen in the Union Territory on July 16 after being shut during the second wave of the pandemic, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said on Sunday. Mr. Rangasamy told reporters after visiting Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Nivas to hand over the list of portfolios of the Council of Ministers that classes would resume for students of Classes 9 to 12. Colleges would resume regular classes from July 16, Mr. Rangasamy said. The decision to reopen regular classes comes after a consistent decline in coronavirus cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-colleges-in-ut-to-reopen-on-friday/article35272632.ece
12 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Passengers undergo COVID-19 test for violating protocol||Passengers of three government buses underwent testing for COVID-19 disease after they were found travelling violating safety protocol. The Salem Corporation has set up a swab collection centre in front of the Salem Collectorate and swab samples are being collected which is being tested at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. On Sunday, officials during vehicle check found a TNSTC bus going towards Old bus stand with passengers seated for entire capacity of the bus violating the State government’s guidelines issued to control spread of disease. Corporation officials warned the bus operators against violating the protocols and the passengers were made to undergo COVID-19 tests. Passengers of two other government buses, which were found violating COVID-19 protocols also had to undergo the tests. According to officials, over 150 samples were collected as part of the measure. Officials advised the public to not crowd in buses and follow the government’s protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-undergo-covid-19-test-for-violating-protocol/article35272782.ece
12 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Various events mark population day||World Population Day was observed here on Sunday. As part of the event, District Collector S. Karmegham flagged off an awareness vehicle at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and later administered the population day pledge. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of the hospital, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Mallarvizhi Vallal, Joint Director of Health Services, and other senior officials took part in the event. Mr. Karmegham said in a release that from July 11 to 24, arrangements have made at all government hospitals and primary health centres to conduct permanent and temporary sterilisation procedures to willing persons. Sterilisation procedures were conducted for 924 mothers, including 13 who were COVID-19 positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-events-mark-population-day/article35272783.ece
12 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||116 patients undergoing treatment for black fungus disease in Salem||A total of 116 patients are undergoing treatment for black fungus disease at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here as on Saturday. According to hospital authorities, a separate ward has been set up on the hospital premises for treating mucormycosis. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of the hospital said that as on Saturday, 116 patients are undergoing treatment for mucormycosis and 90 patients have been diagnosed with the disease. Dr. Sathyamoorthy said that 103 patients underwent various surgeries by ENT department as part of their treatment. A total of 189 patients who came with symptoms of mucormycosis underwent diagnostic nasal endoscopy and 137 patients underwent tissue examination as part of the treatment, she said. She added that patients are recovering well following the treatment here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/116-patients-undergoing-treatment-for-black-fungus-disease-in-salem/article35272775.ece
12 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||PESO begins safety training programme||With Deepavali around the corner, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) has started safety training programme for foremen of fireworks units. Its Joint Chief Controller of Explosives, K. Sundaresan, has planned weekly training sessions for a batch of 40-50 foremen at his office. “Creating awareness on safety aspects has been a continuous process and we have been doing it before Deepavali for workers of all categories since 2017,” Mr. Sundaresan said. Since the fireworks units have resumed work after the lockdown, the programme that began last week has been planned for small batches following COVID-19 precautions. National Green Tribunal has also stressed on continuous awareness programmes. “These are refresher session for around 90 minutes, in which the basic safety rules are reminded to foremen,” he added. The basic rule is to make use of sheds meant for specific purpose and not to violate it. The foremen were told to employ skilled/experienced workers in critical activities. Similarly, different types of chemicals should be stored separately. The foremen were told not to exceed manpower limit and quantum of explosives. “We are underlining the importance of working within the sheds and not under trees. Similarly, pellets should be dried in approved drying yards and not under direct sunlight to expedite the work,” he added. The foremen have been cautioned against leaving residual chemical mixture for next day’s work. They have been asked to destroy them to avoid auto decomposing leading to accidents. The foremen were also given booklets containing safety slogans. “We have printed them in Tamil so that it helps other workers too,” Mr. Sundaresan said. Virudhunagar district administration has already formed five special teams comprising of officials from different departments to contain violation of safety norms in fireworks units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peso-begins-safety-training-programme/article35272765.ece
12 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi likely to get a mini TIDEL Park||The State government will explore the possibilities for setting up a mini TIDEL Park in Thoothukudi district, said Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu here on Sunday. Speaking at a review meeting organised at the Collectorate, he said that like Chennai and Coimbatore, Thoothukudi had tremendous potential in IT sector. The district had the unique advantage of huge power generation from multiple sources, including thermal, wind, solar and nuclear, from the neighbouring Tirunelveli’s KKNPP. For establishing any industry, electricity was the first and foremost thing looked into by an entrepreneur. SIPCOT estate When Collector K. Senthil Raj said that in the SIPCOT 1 estate, 98 industrial sheds were established and though 30 entrepreneurs had come forward and started their units, they had closed the units due to various reasons. About seven entrepreneurs never started their units. In SIPCOT Estate II, he said that 1,042 acres have been acquired and another 233 acres are in the acquisition process. The Minister intervened and said that the officials should examine the reasons for closure of the units in SIPCOT Estate I. “If the units remained idle, the officials should cancel such allotments,” he said and assured that the State government would help the industrialists with all possible support for revival and opening of new units. The government, Mr. Thennarasu said, had proposed to set up a textile park at Vilathikulam in the district. He urged the officials to come up with innovative ideas which would attract neo-entrepreneurs in the district. In her address, Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi said that Thoothukudi was the only district to have four modes of transport - road, sea, air and rail. Hence, the industry had multiple advantages. She suggested the State government to examine the modalities for setting up a mini IT Park on the lines of Tidel Park in Chennai. The MP also said that with the presence of the VOC Port, there was tremendous potential for export opportunities in the Thoothukudi region. She was of the opinion that industries, which are environment-friendly, would be welcome here. The district had a good number of skilled employees. The government under the leadership of M K Stalin, would deliver good governance, and development would not only reduce friction among communities, but also prevent crime and enable maintenance of law and order.  The district has the unique advantage of huge power generation from multiple sources, including thermal, wind, solar and nuclear power from KKNPP Thangam Thennarasu Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-likely-to-get-a-mini-tidel-park/article35272761.ece
12 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Plans afoot to establish archaeological museum||Steps will be taken by the Tamil Nadu government to establish a world class archaeological museum in Thoothukudi, said Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture and Archaeology Minister Thangam Thennarasu here on Sunday. He was inspecting the ongoing excavation at Sivakalai, accompanied by MP Kanimozhi, Ministers Geetha Jeevan and Anitha Radhakrishnan, Field Directors Prabhakar and Thangadurai and Collector K. Senthil Raj. Speaking to reporters, he said that the excavation at Sivakalai, when completed, would start a key chapter in Indian history. The government, Mr Thennarasu said, would take measures to preserve the artefacts and showcase them in a museum. In-depth study and scientific examination of some of the skeletal remains unearthed from here would be conducted by experts in Madurai Kamaraj University, which would throw more light on the accurate age of Sivakalai, he said and added that places such asSekkalai, Avarankadu, Parakramapandi Thiradu and Vellai Thiradu would be declared as preserved zones. Chamber delegation The Thoothukudi Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry secretary D. R. Kodeeswaran, in a memorandum submitted to the Minister, urged for establishing a museum near Palayakayal and showcase the artefacts that were excavated from Korkai, Agaram, Sivakalai, Adichanallur and Vasavapuram. The artefacts collected from Korkai in 1968 were stored at a museum in Korkai village and subsequently shifted to Madurai and Chennai in late 1990s. These rare collections should be brought back here, the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plans-afoot-to-establish-an-archaeological-museum-in-thoothukudi-says-minister/article35272675.ece
12 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pasumai Poonga’ found suitable for new market||Tiruchi Corporation, which has planned to build a new wholesale market to accommodate traders of Gandhi Market at Panchapur, close to the proposed integrated bus stand, is understood to have shortlisted Pasumai Poonga for the purpose. Confirming the plan, a senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu that the civic body owned over 550 acres of land at Panchapur. Hence, there were no issues in allocation of land for the integrated bus stand and the wholesale vegetable, fruit and flower market. While the process of identifying the site for the bus stand was on, Pasumai Poonga was shortlisted for the vegetable market. The park had about 22 acres of land, sufficient to build a spacious market. Located along Tiruchi-Madurai Highway, it had excellent road connectivity. It was located at just a 10-minute drive from Tiruchi junction. Since the bus stand had been proposed at a nearby location, the official said, there were avenues for connecting all major roads at Panchappur. It would, in turn, facilitate transport of vegetables, fruits and flowers from different parts of the State by farmers and traders to the market. A proposal had been mooted for building the vegetable market and steps taken to appoint a consultant for the project. Besides studying the feasibility aspect, the consultant would be tasked with the preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR). The Pasumai Poonga was developed about 10 years ago when V.P. Thandapani was Corporation Commissioner. It was aimed at creating a leisure facility for the entertainment-starved residents of the city. More than 1,500 saplings of various varieties, including vembu , coconut, palm and neer maruthu , were raised. According to official records, more than 350 residents contributed Rs. 3,000 each for raising tree saplings. A play area was also provided for children in the park as an attraction. A cycle track was later added to the facilities. The Corporation initially had plans to install replicas of world monuments such as the Eiffel Tower, Taj Mahal, London Bridge and Opera House. But, the project could not be executed completely and it subsequently lost its sheen due to poor maintenance and sparse visitors. It has once again been brought into focus with the proposal for a new market for wholesale traders of Gandhi Market, who refused to move to the Integrated Market for Vegetable, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on Tiruchi-Madurai Highway citing distance from the city. The new proposal has been mooted along with the integrated bus stand soon after the visit of K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, to Panchapur recently. The official is of the view that since Panchapur is close to the city, traders will not hesitate to move to the proposed market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pasumai-poonga-found-suitable-for-new-market/article35272752.ece
12 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Thuraiyur govt. school ‘guarantees’ quality education for students||Teachers of the Panchayat Union Primary School at Govindapuram in Thuraiyur have distributed ‘Guarantee cards’, assuring parents that their wards would succeed in their academic endeavours. The card says the school would hone the children’s listening, speaking, reading and writing skills, besides imparting values. The initiative was the brainchild of K. Martin, Block Education Officer, and Rosaline Suguna, headmistress, to find a way to promise parents that their children would learn more from the school. The teachers went on a door-to-door visit to assess if students watched Kalvi TV that telecasts video lessons for the students of government schools. “We realised that since the students are unable to attend school, parents are worried if they are learning anything at all by watching TV programmes. To reassure them, we decided to hand out these cards,” Mr. Martin said. Ms. Rosaline, the headmistress of the school since 2012, has seen through a rise in enrolment to the present level of 161. Mr. Martin and Ms. Rosaline also went on door-to-door visits, met parents and gave them the cards, telling them that their child would acquire listening, speaking, reading and writing skills. “To students who are enrolled in our school, we handed the card at their homes, and for those who got admission this year, we handed it over to them in school once the procedure was completed,” Ms. Rosaline said. She added the initiative would help build confidence in parents. “Our students do not just come from Govindapuram. There are some from Thuraiyur town too. They need motivation to attend school, and this is our way of doing it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thuraiyur-govt-school-guarantees-quality-education/article35272673.ece
12 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister announces month-long job mela||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru plans to conduct a month-long online job mela for the educated youth of Tiruchi. He said the job mela was aimed at providing employment opportunities to those who lost their jobs due to the lockdown and those seeking employment. Since it was difficult to organise job mela due to lockdown restrictions, the it will be conducted online. The camp would begin on July 15 and continue up to August 14. At least 100 companies had come forward to participate in the camp to hire people for various jobs. Mr. Nehru said interested candidates could send their data towww.aramhr.comor 8566992244. It was expected that thr camp would offer employment opportunities to at least 2,000 people from Tiruchi. The camp would be repeated once in four months. Hence, the candidates, who could not win over the confidence of recruiters, could again apply in the next camp. In the next phase, he would take steps to create avenues for the youth to apply for the Central and State governments jobs too, he added. The Minister said industrial units and business houses of Tiruchi could make use of the opportunity to join in the job mela to recruit people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-announces-month-long-job-mela/article35272743.ece
12 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor quality of road flayed||Complaining about poor quality of road construction in their village, the public welfare committee of Navalpattu has appealed to the district administration for proper action. The km-long road was constructed recently by Tiruverumbur Block authorities with Rs. 22 lakh funding sanctioned during 2019-2020 has suffered substantial damage. Though the tender process was carried out much earlier, the road was laid only recently, and its poor quality showed up after the recent rainfall. According to a committe member, the response from local officials was not convincing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-quality-of-road-flayed/article35272745.ece
12 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 534 fresh cases||The central region reported 534 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. It recorded a significant decline in the number of deaths due to the viral infection, with six persons succumbing to complications, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Health Department. In Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, two patients each succumbed to COVID-19. The neighbouring districts of Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts reported one death each, while no COVID-19 deaths were reported in four districts of Ariyalur, Tiruchi, Perambalur and Pudukottai. Thanjavur continued to report the highest number of cases among the central districts. The district also reported a slight spike compared to the previous day. A total of 210 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Tiruchi reported a further dip with 108. The seven other districts in the region reported less than 50 fresh cases. In Nagapattinam district, 47 patients tested positive, while Tiruvarur reported 40. Pudukottai district reported 39 fresh COVID-19 cases, and Ariyalur 29. Karur reported 24 fresh cases of COVID-19 while Mayiladuthurai reported 22. Meanwhile, Perambalur reported the lowest number of fresh cases among the central districts with 15 patients reporting COVID-19 positive on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-534-fresh-cases/article35272754.ece
12 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||After 16 years, all entrances to Nellaiappar Temple are now open for devotees||Three more entrances at the famous Sri Nellaiappar Temple, which were closed since December 2004 for security reasons, were thrown open for devotees here on Sunday. During a recent visit of HR & CE Minister P K Sekar Babu to Tirunelveli, the public had made a representation to consider reopening the three entrances, which were closed about 16 years ago. After assuring to actively consider the plea, the Minister held discussions with the Collector, Police and other authorities about the possibilities. After ascertaining, the officials proposed to the Minister that the plea could be considered by the government. Hence, after consulting the Chief Minister and getting his approval, the HR & CE officials threw open the gates on Sunday. The archakas performed special pujas before reopening the entrances at the north, south and western sides. The east entrance alone was in use, wherein the devotees were allowed to enter the temple after screening by the police. With all the four entrances opened again, the devotees thanked the government for instantly responding to their appeal. A senior temple official said that they did use the three entrances every year only during special occasions after 2004, when the police advised to keep them (three entrances) closed for security reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-entrances-open-at-temple/article35272746.ece
12 July 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Health department staff walk four km to treat tribal woman||Staff from the Health Department in the Nilgiris walked four km to treat a 19-year-woman and her prematurely-born child near Kotagiri recently. After the efforts of the team of government health workers were shared online, a non-governmental organisation working on preventing infant mortality deaths, donated an ambulance to the health department for use to reach remote tribal hamlets in the district. Speaking to The Hindu , P. Maharajan, an assistant surgeon attached to the Primary Health Center (PHC) in Nedugula, said that his colleague, Chandrika, from the PHC in Sholur Mattam, as well as nurses, and other staff from the health department rushed to the village after hearing that the woman had given birth to a premature baby and required immediate medical attention on July 3. The woman lived in a remote tribal hamlet near Thalamukku, a few km from Sholur Mattam in Kil Kotagiri. “The village is not accessible to vehicles, and so the health department team had to walk to the village and the patient had to be carried to the nearest point that can be accessed by an ambulance on a makeshift stretcher, fashioned from a wooden pole and cloth. The patient was then quickly taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Udhagamandalam, where the condition of both the mother and child were stabilised,” said Dr. Maharajan. After posts about the work of health workers in the Nilgiris was shared on social media, an NGO, “Pretty Lil Hearts,” which is working on preventing infant mortality across the country reached out to the health department and donated an ambulance that will help serve the adivasi population of 25,000 people in the Nilgiris. The ambulance was handed over to the Deputy Director of health services, Nilgiris district. Both the mother and child are said to be doing well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-department-staff-walk-4-km-to-treat-tribal-woman-her-premature-baby/article35272678.ece
12 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Reopened fort complex, a huge draw||Forty-three-year-old Basheer Ahmed, who owns a shoe outlet on Anna Salai in Fort Town, would never visit his shop during the day on Sundays. He would task his employee with opening the outlet, and would join him only late in the evening to check the day's sales. This is because he wanted to maintain his morning routine, which involved taking his family, including two children, to the sprawling fort complex, especially its wide lawn. The COVID-19 lockdown in May abruptly ended his routine. On Sunday, Mr. Basheer was elated as he was able to take his family to the fort’s lawn once again, following the reopening of museums and heritage places. Residents thronged the fort complex in large numbers. It has been the most frequented tourist spot in the town for many years. Before the lockdown, the fort had around 1,500 visitors on an average every day. The footfall doubled during the weekends. “Unlike other tourist spots like the Amirthi mini zoo, the fort is located at the centre of the town, making it easily accessible. It also has many tourist spots on its premises for all age groups," said S. Venkatesan, a resident. Spread across 135 acres covering a three-km radius, the fort was built by Chinna Bommi Reddy and Thimma Reddy Nayak in 1566. It comprises 58 buildings, including a temple, a church and a mosque. Separate museums The fort also has separate museums run by the State Archaeology Department and the ASI (Chennai Circle), depicting the history of the town from the Pallava period to pre-independent India. Except the parapet wall of the fort, the temple and the mosque (protected monuments), the other buildings, including mahals and the British-era church, are heritage structures dating to the 18th century.  First Sunday “Since this was the first Sunday after it was reopened on July 5, the fort witnessed huge crowds of mainly local families, as it is their big, free recreational facility in the town. Steps have been taken to maintain social distancing and ensure mask wearing, including by children," said M. Varadaraj Suresh, Archaeological Officer, ASI (Vellore). Many visitors, including senior citizens and children, prefer to spend most of their time on the lawn in the fort. The parapet wall is another most-visited spot, especially by youngsters, as its 20-metre width allows them to take selfies with their friends and family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopened-fort-complex-a-huge-draw/article35273058.ece
12 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Painting expo held to mark Sepoy Mutiny||The day-long painting exhibition related to Sepoy Mutiny was jointly organised by the Tamil Nadu Science Forum and Auxilium College for Women at the District Rural Development office in Vellore on Saturday to mark the 215th year of the revolt. The exhibition displayed a total of 26 oil paintings of various events related to the mutiny. Battle scenes between the Indian sepoys and their English officers, ransack of British quarters inside the fort complex by the revolutionaries, storming of the fort by the regimental forces from Arcot, capture of rebels and their execution were kept for public view, especially for children, to nurture the history and rich heritage of India's first freedom struggle against the colonial powers. The oil paintings were done by the local artist Nirmal. “Visitors including children were also given the slice of our history, especially about the Fort Town through photographs, pamphlets and booklets,” said S.N. Janarthanan, vice-president, Tamil Nadu Science Forum (Vellore division).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-expo-held-to-mark-sepoy-mutiny/article35273035.ece
12 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Minister commissions oxygen plant||Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi on Sunday commissioned a 619 litre pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant at the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital. The oxygen plant has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.04 crore. Americare Foundation India donated the plant, which would be able to supply oxygen for up to 200 beds. Minister for Minorities Welfare and Non-resident Tamils K.S. Masthan, Collector D. Mohan, MLAs R. Lakshmanan and N. Pugazhenthi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-commissions-oxygen-plant/article35273032.ece
12 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Constable consumes sanitiser||A police constable, R. Mukesh Kumar (22), consumed sanitiser after his parents scolded him for having lost over Rs. 40,000 in online trading. The constable attached to Tamil Nadu Special Police, 11th Battalion, on Sunday vomited blood. He was rushed by his colleagues to Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-consumes-sanitiser/article35272763.ece
12 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Boy found dead||D. Leone, 11, of Kamarajapuram under Vachakarapatti police station limits was found dead in a well, on Sunday.His parents were searching for the boy, who went missing from home in Ammapatti, on Saturday. The police suspect that the boy could have slipped into the well in his attempt to catch pigeon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-found-dead/article35272770.ece
12 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Constable consumes sanitiser||A police constable, R. Mukesh Kumar, 22, consumed sanitiser after his parents scolded him for having lost over Rs. 40,000 in online trading. The constable attached to Tamil Nadu Special Police, 11th Battalion, on Sunday vomited blood and was rushed by his colleagues to Virudhunagar Government Medical College hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-consumes-sanitiser/article35272928.ece
12 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Constable consumes sanitiser||A police constable, R. Mukesh Kumarm, 22, reportedly consumed sanitiser after his parents scolded him for having lost over Rs. 40,000 in online trading. The constable attached to Tamil Nadu Special Police, 11th Battalion, on Sunday vomited blood and was rushed by his colleagues to Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital. He told his colleagues that he consumed sanitiser on Friday after his parents reprimanded him for loss of money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-consumes-sanitiser/article35272748.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Zika virus: Health dept. issues alert to hospitals||With the frontline workers of local bodies and the Health Department continuing COVID-19 containment works, reports of Zika virus infection in Kerala have posed a difficult situation for Coimbatore. Health Department officials said that Coimbatore district stepped up vigil though the two bordering districts Palakkad and Thrissur did not have cases of Zika virus. However, there was no panic situation in the district, said S. Senthil Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services. Workers of local bodies were playing the major role in mosquito source reduction activities. “Health and local body workers are largely engaged with COVID-19 activities. They have been instructed to carry out source reduction activities alongside,” he said. The public also have a role in preventing mosquito breeding by not allowing clogging of fresh water on the premises of houses, offices, institutions, shops and other establishments, he said. The Health Department has given alerts to all the private and government hospitals to identify people who come with symptoms of Zika virus infection that include mild fever, joint pain mainly in the hands or feet, red eyes, rashes, muscle pain, headache and fatigue. “Hospitals have been asked to take special evaluation of fever in pregnant women as Zika infection can cause microcephaly to the baby,” said Dr. Senthil Kumar. The district was seeing sporadic cases of dengue. Two cases of dengue were reported from Somanur and Sulur 20 days ago. Both patients were detected at early stage of infection and they recovered. District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Sunday visited the Walayar checkpost, one of the 14 entry points to the district from Kerala. The Collector had formed special teams for round-the-clock monitoring of all the entry points – Mulli, Melpaviyur, Velanthavalam, Veerappagoundanur, Gopalapuram, Meenakshipuram, Vazhukkuparai, Anaikatti and Walayar – to check people entering the district, according to a press release. Only those who had e-pass, which was compulsory irrespective of the reason for visit, would be permitted to enter. On Saturday, the Collector held a meeting with senior officials to discuss ways to prevent Zika virus spread in Coimbatore. In the virtual meeting it was decided to conduct random fever checks on people entering the district from Kerala, said sources. The administration would hold special medical camps at the 14 entry points at the State border with Kerala. Likewise, the administration had asked the Department of Public Health to collect details of pregnant women reporting fever symptoms. As for the local bodies, the Collector asked them to intensify mosquito control measures. They should carry out the same steps that they followed to control dengue spread, as the source of Zika virus and dengue was the same – Aedes aegypti mosquito.  Workers of local bodies were playing the major role in mosquito source reduction activities S. Senthil Kumar Deputy Director of Health Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zika-virus-health-dept-issues-alert-to-hospitals/article35272694.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||198 new cases in Erode||In Erode, 198 indigenous cases were reported on Sunday. Three more deaths were reported in the district. The daily load of COVID-19 positive cases reduced to 175 in Salem. As per bulletin, nine deaths were reported in the district, including four women patients. According to health officials, 119 cases were indigenous and 35 cases were reported in the corporation limits. Fifty-six patients have returned from other districts like Namakkal, Erode, Dharmapuri and other places. In Namakkal, 85 indigenous cases and two deaths were reported. A total of 54 indigenous cases were reported in Krishnagiri. In Dharmapuri, 59 positive cases and two deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/198-new-cases-in-erode/article35272777.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 298 cases, seven deaths||A total of 298 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Coimbatore district on Sunday when 9,804 swab samples collected by the Health Department and Coimbatore Corporation were subjected to tests. The district had 4,006 active cases, while 394 persons recovered. The Department said that seven more persons died of the disease in the district in the last few days, taking the death toll to 2,107. Tiruppur district reported 163 new cases and two deaths. The district had 1,552 active cases and the death toll rose to 800.As many as 278 persons recovered from the disease in the district on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 88 people tested positive on Sunday. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 29,402. The number of deaths increased from 170 to 171 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-298-cases-seven-deaths/article35272691.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘More smart poles will aid in managing traffic’||These were for automatic challaning of red light violations, stop line violations, over-speeding and driving in the wrong direction. The pilot project has been generating around 20,000 challans a day. In the next phase, a similar system has been proposed at 50 more places in the city. In addition, 24 check-points exclusively managed by traffic police personnel have been set up, with a focus on creating deterrence against driving without helmets and driving under the influence of liquor. Acknowledging that the improvement in traffic management had been a “top-bottom approach”, Mr. Jiwal said, “It is being reversed, and suggestions have been sought from traffic police personnel on the streets on how to improve at least one stretch per month.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-smart-poles-will-aid-in-managing-traffic/article35272663.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report ‘215th anniversary of the Vellore Sepoy Mutiny celebrated’ published on July 11, a photo of the event held last year was carried inadvertently. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article35273037.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy to handle 12 subjects||Following the Lt. Governor’s approval, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar issued a gazette notification ratifying the allocation of subjects. Serious differences The Cabinet formation and the allocation of portfolios were plagued by serious differences over power-sharing between and within the principal allies, AINRC and BJP, the choice of Ministers, and later the nitty-gritty of portfolio allocation. In between, the hospitalisation of Mr. Rangasamy for COVID-19 treatment in the second week of May threw another wrench into the efforts. The Council of Ministers was sworn in on June 27, more than 50 days after the NDA was voted to power in the April 6 Assembly election. Since then, the persisting differences further delayed the formation of a functioning government, evoking criticism from within and outside the NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-to-handle-12-subjects/article35272747.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The children’s park at New L.I.G. Colony in Anna Nagar, Madurai is in a deplorable condition with play equipment of many kinds lying among puddles of stagnant rainwater and rubble. Garbage and household waste are regularly dumped along the southern fence of the park. This not only makes the place stink, it also attracts stray cattle and dogs. The civic administration should make the park clean and hygienic and fit for use for children. K. Natarajan, Madurai   Though the government has been taking a lot of initiatives to drive home COVID-19 awareness measures such as wearing of masks, physical distancing and frequent hand washing in its war against COVID-19 pandemic, mentally challenged persons on the streets are left out of these measures. Even though successive lockdowns are clamped to break the transmission chain of the virus, the mentally challenged are not aware of lockdowns and freely roam around and are vulnerable to infection. They are constantly in search of food leftovers dumped by restaurateurs. The authorities should make efforts to conduct a special camp to vaccinate these people roaming across the length and breadth of the district. M. Sainithii, Sholavandan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article35272924.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NITM to take up multi-dimensional research activities on COVID-19||Belagavi-based ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM) will take up multi-dimensional research on COVID-19 in association with two government medical colleges of North Karnataka. Recently, ICMR officers signed memoranda of understanding with Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences. NITM Director Debprasad Chattopadhyaya said that the MoUs were signed to undertake collaborative activities such as training programmes for scientists and clinicians for skill development and competence building to benefit public health at large, allowing ICMR researchers to work in BIMS and KIMS for clinical research and those from BIMS and KIMS to work at ICMR-NITM for laboratory research. They will take up joint research activities in the areas of common interest, host students for dissertations, postgraduate courses in collaboration, organise conference, symposia and seminars, develop joint research proposals, patents and publications in collaboration and soliciting joint proposals for funding, exchange scientific information, data and documentation, apart from providing treatment to ICMR-NITM staff and their family members, if needed. “We are working on developing herbal solutions for COVID-19, based on Traditional Medicine leads. In the process, phytochemicals (1952 compounds) from eight potential traditional medicinal plants have been evaluated in-silico that are published in Frontiers in Medicine, a prestigious journal. The leads obtained are being subjected to subsequent experimental validation,’’ Dr. Chattopadhyaya told The Hindu . “The bioinformatic and in-vitro studies have been carried out. In the next stage, animal studies and use of non-infectious virus studies will be taken up. Three plant formulations called NITM 41, 42 and 43 have been created to see if they cause interaction between viral proteins and hosts. NITM scientists have been working on the COVID-19 genetic character. The whole genome of two SARS-CoV 2 isolates was sequenced to identify potential pathogenic mutations (D614G). This paper was published in Microbial Resource Announcements, a prestigious journal published by the American Society of Microbiology,’’ Dr. Chattopadhyaya said. “One of the youngest laboratories of the ICMR family, NITM is working with documentation and validation, standardisation of Traditional Medicine. It is finding herbal cures for various diseases and conditions. It is conducting detailed studies about Siddhi and other tribal communities,’’ the director said. Mr. Biswas said that NITM was working closely with the Health and Family Welfare Department and Belagavi district administration in COVID-19 management. It set up a COVID-19 laboratory to conduct RT-PCR tests last year. Till now, it has processed over two lakh swab samples. He said that efforts are being made to set up a bio safety level – 3 laboratory in BIMS to help such collaborative research. BIMS Director Umesh Kulkarni, KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antartani, Harsha Hegde and other scientists were present during the signing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nitm-to-take-up-multi-dimensional-research-activities-on-covid-19/article35272792.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone for bridge-cum-barrage||Minister for Heavy and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar laid the foundation stone for a bridge-cum-barrage on the Sulla Nala in Unkal village of Dharwad district on Sunday. The barrage planned at a cost of Rs. 94 lakh will aid irrigate around 74 acres of land and also help farmers cross the stream easily, he said. Villagers of Gopankoppa urged him to repair the road to Sulla village. Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, Mallikarjun Sawkar, Santosh Chauhan and others were present. The Minister also launched development works worth Rs. 1.17 crore in Nrupatunga Nagar and Forest Colony. The works include laying of a 850-metre-long sewer and a 300-metre-long road.  The barrage planned at a cost of Rs. 94 lakh will aid irrigate around 74 acres of land and also help farmers cross the stream easily||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-for-bridge-cum-barrage/article35272806.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Create facilities to house children likely to be affected together with their mothers’||The State government has decided not to separate COVID-19 positive children from their mothers during the third wave, if any, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said in Belagavi recently. “There are reports, including some scientific studies, that say there will be a third wave of the epidemic, that could affect children. We should be prepared to face it, if it comes. We have already given instructions to Deputy Commissioners and Health Department officials to take steps to protect children. We have asked them to create facilities to house children along with their mothers, whether they are to be treated in COVID Care Centres or in their houses,” he said. He was speaking at a Karnataka Development Programme quarterly progress review meeting in the Suvarna Soudha here. He said that officers are setting up a child COVID ward of 420 beds in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. Jal Jeevan Mission Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sanctioned Rs. 5,000 crore for Karnataka under Jal Jeevan Mission, a rural drinking water scheme. This aims at providing water on the doorstep of all people in rural areas. Electricity supply companies should lay express feeder lines to help Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department take up the drinking water supply works. Electricity supply companies should also take up repairs of power lines, poles and other infrastructure facilities that were damaged during floods in the recent years. Transmission and distribution units will be set up in villages on government land. If there is no government land, the State government will buy private land and set up such units, he said. Sub-stations To a demand from MLAs to upgrade 33 kV sub-stations to 110 kV sub-stations, he said that the electricity supply companies will set up the facilities if the legislators helped the government find suitable sites. He asked officers to reduce transmission loss that is measured at 18% now. “Officers tell me that we have stock of 85,000 tonnes of fertilizer in Belagavi district. To ensure hassle- free distribution, the State government has decided to allow village-level primary agriculture cooperatives sell fertilizer,” he said. All PACs should be given licence to sell farm inputs, he said. He asked officials to ensure that farmers did not suffer discrimination during the release of crop insurance. Mr. Karjol asked Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath to hold public grievance meetings in villages, regarding payment of social security benefits. He said that officers are inquiring into 33 complaints against fake caste certificates. The MLAs complained about various issues, including inadequate COVID-19 vaccination, fake caste certificates, delay in release of flood relief compensation, improper distribution of social welfare benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/create-facilities-to-house-children-likely-to-be-affected-together-with-their-mothers/article35272794.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ashwath Narayan visiting Hubballi-Dharwad||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan will visit Hubballi and Dharwad on Monday. He will arrive at the Hubballi Airport from Bengaluru at 8.30 a.m. and will head directly to the Siddharoodha Mutt. He will later visit Karnatak University and hold discussions with eminent academics on the National Education Policy-2020 at the Senate Hall. He will then visit the University Scientific Instrumentation Centre on the university campus and inspect the vaccination drive for degree students. He will travel to Deshpande Foundation in Hubballi and visit the IT Park in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashwath-narayan-visiting-hubballi-dharwad/article35272800.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Winners||Some post-graduate students of the Department of Public Health Dentistry in KLE Vishwanath Katti Institute of Dental Sciences won prizes in national level competitions on World Oral Health Day recently. Atrey Pai Khot bagged the first prize in predicting the future of innovation and Abhra Roy Choudhury the third prize in essay competition, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winners/article35272801.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest planned||The State government is trying to shield the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who is accused of sexually harassing a woman, Aam Aadmi Party Karnataka in-charge Lakshmikanth Rao said on Sunday. He said that the party will organise a State-wide agitation against such moves by the State government. By shielding powerful persons who are accused of such offences, the government will send a message that women are not safe in the State, he told journalists. AAP will field candidates in all the elections from gram panchayat to Parliament in the State and in North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-planned/article35272796.ece
12 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Alumni meet||Jain College of Engineering Belagavi organised an online alumni meet on Saturday. Students of consecutive batches who graduated from the institute participated in the online event along with students and faculties. Principal and Director K.G. Vishwanath spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alumni-meet/article35272797.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More than half of city’s pubs yet to renew their licences||With microbreweries and pubs specialising in craft beer, Bengaluru used to wear it’s unofficial tag ‘pub city of India’ with pride. But more than a year into the pandemic, and the situation remains bleak. The once thriving pubs are struggling with high rents, increasing cost of operations, and lack of business for four months during the lockdown in 2020 and three months this year. A majority of the pubs in the city are yet to renew their excise licences. Karunakar Hegde, vice-president of the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Associations of Karnataka and secretary of Bengaluru Madya Vyaparigala Sangha, estimated that of the 500-odd pubs in the city, more than 300 were yet to renew their licences. “Though there are around 50 microbrewry licence holders, only around 30 are functioning,” he said. The one concession made by the Excise Department was to extend the facility for proprietors to pay licence renewal fees in two instalments. “It was extended in 2020–21 and in the current fiscal (2021–22) as well. However, with months of no business, many licence holders were not even able to pay the first instalment, the deadline for which was June 30. The deadline for the second instalment is December-end,” said Mr. Hedge. CL Line licence holders, including wine shops, bars, star hotels, hotels, with board/lodging facilities. The licence fee for CL-7 (board and lodging) is Rs. 10.8 lakh a year and for CL-9 (bars) it is Rs. 8.62 lakh. For bars and pubs to serve loose beer, they require an RVB licence, which is an additional Rs. 17,250 a year. It’s the RVB licence holders such as pubs and microbreweries that are facing an uncertain future. Though the State government allowed bars and restaurants to operate at 50% capacity under Unlock 3.0 on July 5, it did not ease restrictions for RVB licence holders, which continue to remain closed. Last year, too, pubs were one of the first to be shut down ahead of the first wave of COVID-19. Waiver sought Given the difficulties faced by the industry, the federation had approached the State government seeking a waiver of at least 25% in the licence fees. However, there was no positive outcome to their demand. Senior excise officials, on condition of anonymity, told The Hindu that as per the rules, there was no possibility for a partial waiver or discount on the licence fee. “All licence holders sign the terms and conditions that clearly state that there can be no waiver on the licence fee,” said an official, adding that the same had been submitted before the High Court of Karnataka when a few licence holders had approached the court in this regard. Chethan Hegde, founder of the chain of pubs, 1522, said the lack of business had dealt a nasty blow to the food and beverage industry. “Most of the outlets are in prime properties. Despite not opening, we have to pay rents and salaries to the staff. Even after relaxations, many outlets are yet to open, as staff who had gone back to their respective home towns during the lockdown are yet to return,” he said. On the other hand, local wine shops have witnessed good business this lockdown as takeaway services had been allowed, for a limited number of hours. Sources in the Excise Department said that during April to June 2020–21, the revenue collected was Rs. 3,831.17 crore, while it was Rs. 5,954.07 crore during the same period this fiscal (April to June 2021–22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-than-half-of-citys-pubs-yet-to-renew-their-licences/article35272614.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seeks nod for Phase III of white-topping project||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has sought approval for Phase III of white-topping project, for which tenders were finalised in 2019. Despite opposition from certain quarters within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the State government is said to be keen on clearing the project, sources said. As per the tenders now finalised, under Phase III, 89 roads with a total length of 121.72 km will be white-topped at a cost of Rs. 9.72 crore/km. This works out to approximately Rs. 1,183.11 crore. The roads identified for white-topping are in 18 Assembly constituencies. “We have submitted a proposal seeking approval and release of funds for Phase III of the project. We are awaiting approval and directions from the State government,” said Lokesh, Chief Engineer, Projects, BBMP. While in the Opposition, the BJP had opposed the project alleging widespread corruption and instituted an inquiry once it came to power in 2019. While, the four-member team led by retired Public Works Department engineer Capt. R.R. Doddihal, which probed the project, did not support these claims but suggested ways to reduce the cost of the project. Cost The cost of white-topping a kilometre of road was Rs. 10.07 crore in Phase I and Rs. 14.99 crore in Phase II, which also depends upon the width of the road. A total of 69 roads at a cost of Rs. 1,729 crore have been taken up for white-topping in the previous two phases. However, there has been a correction in cost in Phase III — it costs Rs. 9.72 crore/km, Rs. 35 lakh less than what it cost in Phase I. N.R. Ramesh, spokesperson, BJP, Bengaluru, who has been at the forefront of opposition to the project, said he would continue to oppose the project on party forums. “As an experiment, I am getting two stretches of roads, both half a kilometre in length, each white-topped at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore in Yediyur ward, to prove it can be done at a lower cost. White-topped roads are not eco-friendly as they do not allow water seepage into the ground,” he said. Sources in the government said they were positively disposed towards the project. “We have seen the project pan out over the last four years. There are some issues such as elevation of the carriageway and the high cost. But it is true that there have been no potholes and the roads are in good motorable condition,” said a senior party functionary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-seeks-nod-for-phase-iii-of-white-topping-project/article35272608.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Union Minister Athawale says there is need to increase reservation cap beyond 50%||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramadas Athawale on Sunday said that there is a need to increase reservation cap beyond 50% to accommodate backward and poorer sections from all communities and a nation-wide caste census will help reach social, economic, and educational benefits to the needy. “The Supreme Court has put a cap of 50% for the reservation matrix. However, to extend social justice to the downtrodden sections, reservation has to be increased. The issue has been discussed with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he told reporters here. Stating that a constitutional amendment is required to increase reservation, he said that the 102nd Amendment to the Constitution envisages power to provide reservation to the state government. “All these are under consideration.” Mr. Athawale said that the poorer and backward sections of all communities should be eligible to seek benefits under reservation. “However, it is increasingly being noticed that the benefits are being cornered by those ineligible for the benefits. Economically stronger sections among the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have cornered the benefits. This has to be prevented.” Pitching for a national caste census, the Minister said that it would enable to provide social and educational benefits to the needy and that he would urge the Prime Minister to conduct a nationwide caste census. He also listed out the benefits extended to Karnataka by the Centre under several schemes between 2014 and 2021. While 1.52 crore Jan Dhan accounts have been opened in Karnataka, 2.96 crore people have got Rs. 1.47 lakh crore. As many as 2.46 lakh houses have been built under Pradhan Matri Awas Yojana in urban area at a cost of Rs. 11,205 crore and 1.89 lakh houses have been built in rural areas at a cost of Rs. 1,369 crore. Under the Ujjawala Yojana, 38.54 lakh LPG connections have been given in Karnataka. The Centre has paid Rs. 1,736 crore for treatment of 92.82 lakh people under Ayush Bharat yojana, he added. Incidentally, Karnataka has conducted a socio-economic survey of castes, the first in India since 1931 at a cost of Rs. 162 crore. Though the report was ready in 2017, it is yet to be accepted by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-minister-athawale-says-there-is-need-to-increase-reservation-cap-beyond-50/article35272618.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tele-counselling provided to over 10 lakh people||The Health and Family Welfare Department of the State has provided tele-counselling services to over 10 lakh people on mental health issues during the COVID-19 pandemic. The service emerged as one of the ‘best governance practices’ in the State. “The overall numbers treated with medication support along with supportive psychotherapy are 10,79,736. The total number of persons that have been started on medications is 18,940,” said the recently released handbook on ‘Best Governing Practices of Karnataka’ brought out by the Department of Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics. Social and economic causes such as the loss of jobs, loss of income, death of family members, COVID-19 isolation, and fear have triggered mental health conditions among people. Many were addicted to increased levels of alcohol and drug use, insomnia, and anxiety. “The tele-counselling project has made a significant impact to prevent a mental health pandemic in turbulent times,” the handbook said. With mental health services falling under Goal 3 of the Sustainable Development Goals, the government has focused on them during the pandemic. Counsellors manning the free 104 helplines were trained and sensitised to handle and cater to the needs of the distressed during the pandemic, official sources said. The team has extended services to 87,602 migrants, 7,243 doctors, and 16,469 health workers during this time. Lack of awareness Owing to the lack of awareness on COVID-19, district mental health professionals reported that patients face extreme anxiety and fear. “Vulnerable communities such as migrant workers especially were worried about jobs, wages, availability of food, shelter, and other basic needs,” the handbook said. The Health Department sensitised District Mental Health Programme teams composed of psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, and nurses across the State. Medical officers of 30 districts were trained in three rounds on how to provide first-line treatment to patients with mental health issues, the handbook stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tele-counselling-provided-to-over-10-lakh-people/article35272601.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS defends slapping party worker||A day after being criticised for slapping a party worker in Mandya, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D.K. Shivakumar defended his action and said that he was reprimanding the party worker. “He is a boy belonging to our house and is also a distant relative of mine. I objected because what would others think after seeing him put his hand on my shoulders. Yes it is true that I hit him,” he told reporters here on Sunday. He said: “It is natural that we scold when guys do such acts. That is the bonding between us. You (media) have been highlighting that and wanting to make a leader out of him. Do it.” In connection to leaders from backward classes meeting him, the KPCC president said that crores of rupees has been spent on the socio-economic (caste) census, and that it should not go to waste. “I do not know what is in the report. I cannot speak like other leaders on the matter. I will discuss the issue with the Leader of Opposition (Siddaramaiah) and will also understand what is the stand of BJP on this. The BJP leaders have said that they are unaware of the report’s submission.” Meanwhile, the question over the next chief ministerial candidate from the Congress refuses to die down with film director Rajendra Singh Babu on Sunday stating that Mr. Shivakumar should become the Chief Minister soon. The party central leaders had to intervene to prevent projection of chief ministerial candidates after a few party leaders stated that Mr. Siddaramaiah would be the next CM. “Several people from the film industry such as N.T. Rama Rao, M.G. Ramachandran, M. Karunanidhi, and J. Jayalalithaa have become Chief Ministers. Ronald Reagan became president of the U.S. Similarly, I am very sure that Mr. Shivakumar, who is connected with the film industry, will also become CM. If you (Mr. Shivakumar) become CM soon, the film industry will be happy,” Mr. Babu said at an event to release a trailer of the S. Narayan-directed film 5D . Speaking at the event, the KPCC president, who is jostling with Mr. Siddaramaiah to become the chief ministerial candidate behind the screen, said that the film industry has been severely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and requirea help. “Everyone in the industry have been affected. Several producers and artists are in dire straits. Theatre owners are unable to pay power bills. The government is not helping the industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-defends-slapping-party-worker/article35272619.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gun-running racket with links to U.P. unearthed||The police have stepped up investigations to track down two gun dealers from Uttar Pradesh after their brother was arrested for allegedly selling country-made pistols in the city on July 6. The gun racket was unearthed by the Central Crime Branch police, who acting on a tip-off, arrested Ayazulla, 30, from U.P. at a tea stall on TCM Royan Road, just half a kilometre away from the police station. The police recovered a country-made pistol wrapped in a khaki bag from him. ‘Just a courier’ “When questioned, the accused claimed that the gun racket was run by his brothers, Nayazlla and Fayazulla, and he was just a courier. He claimed that he had been instructed to hand over the weapon to some customers, who would call him, and collect Rs. 40,000 from them. He was set to return to his home town the same day,” said a police officer. Other items The CCB officials recovered a mobile phone from him along with cash Rs. 2,600 and handed him over to the Cottonpet police for further investigations. “This is not the first time Ayazulla has come to the city to deliver the weapon,” said a CCB official. Manhunt launched Three days after the arrest, the West division police launched a massive manhunt for the people who were supposed to buy the weapon. The CCB is also probing the U.P. link to the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gun-running-racket-with-links-to-up-unearthed/article35272605.ece
12 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||50 laptops distributed||The Seshadripuram Educational Trust, as part of its institutional social responsibility, distributed 50 high-end laptops to the Government School at Mathikere on July 8. The initiative was partnered with Dr. C.N. Ashwath Narayan Foundation and Sikshana Foundation, Bengaluru. The objective is to inculcate digital literacy and prepare the learners for the 21st century. The event was held in the presence of C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister and Minister of Higher Education; Wooday P. Krishna, general secretary, Seshadripuram Educational Trust; Seshanarayana S., joint secretary, Seshadripuram Educational Trust; Prasanna V.R., CEO/trustee, Sikshana Foundation, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-laptops-distributed/article35272600.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases dip below 2,000 in State||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka has dropped to under 2,000. On Sunday, 1,978 new cases were reported, while the number of recoveries was 2,326. The death toll for the day stood at 56, taking the total number of fatalities to 35,835. In Bengaluru Urban too, the number of cases was below 500 — at 433, and the only other districts that reported over 100 new cases were Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Mysuru, Shivamogga, and Tumakuru. The number of active cases now stands at 36737, while the total number of positive cases so far is 28,71,298. To date, 27,98,703 people have been discharged. The positivity rate for the day was 1.24, while the case fatality rate was 2.83. The number of tests conducted was 1,58,898. As many as 89,037 vaccination doses were administered until 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-dip-below-2000-in-state/article35272611.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six head of cattle rescued||A group of activists with the help of police rescued six head of cattle from D.J. Halli on Sunday. Based on the complaint filed by one of the volunteers, the D.J. Halli police registered a case against unknown persons and are investigating. A member of the organisation, Gau Gyan Foundation, carried out a survey on cattle in front of houses in the area and later filed a complaint with the police on Sunday. The police along with the volunteers on Sunday visited the localities and rescued the six head of cattle which were taken to a shelter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-head-of-cattle-rescued/article35272612.ece
12 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Spare us the hassle of getting safety clearances, say schools||Expressing their opposition to the rule of mandatory clearances, especially the fire safety certification for renewal of recognition, the management boards of private, aided and unaided educational institutions have urged the State government to intervene in the matter. Participating in a meeting of a High Level Committee on State private, aided, and unaided primary, high school and PU colleges building and fire safety, held in Dharwad recently, the representatives of the management boards urged MLC S.V. Sankanur, who is the chairman of the committee, to get the State government file a review petition in the Supreme Court in the matter. They said that while institutions located within the municipal corporation limits can afford to get permissions, it has been difficult for institutions located outside the corporation limits to approach various departments for getting such clearances. They said that most of the private schools in the region are run by mutts and other social organisations and they charge annual fees in the range of Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 10,000. Most of these schools are located in spacious areas and many are single-floor buildings. Adequate safety measures have been taken by the respective managements. However, because of a few irresponsible managements in the metropolitan cities, accidents had occurred, which, consequently, had caused problems for other institutions, they said. The end result has been that institutions are now being made to mandatorily adopt National Building Code of India, in addition to the No Objection Certificate from the Department of Fire Safety and Emergency Services to get recognition of institutions renewed every five years. This rule has caused problems for schools run by mutts and social organisations, they said. Single window system They also said that if the government went ahead with making the rule mandatory, then a single window system should be set up to help them get various clearances under one roof. Some members also took exception to the fee of Rs. 30,000 fixed for getting certification from the Fire and Emergency Services. After hearing their grievances and plea, Prof. Sankanur clarified that as per the Supreme Court order, it is mandatory for schools to obtain certificates from National Building Code and Fire and Emergency Services. However, the committee will consult legal experts on the issue and submit a consolidated report to the government incorporating the suggestions made by private schools. He also assured them of taking a considerate view on the issue. Vice-Chairman of the committee and MLC S.L. Bhoje Gowda spoke on the mandatory requirement and issues concerned with the development. Representatives of various management boards put forward their suggestions during the meeting.  Management boards of private, aided and unaided educational institutions have urged the State government to intervene in the matter Most of the private schools in the region are run by mutts and other social organisations and adequate safety measures have been taken by the respective managements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spare-us-the-hassle-of-getting-safety-clearances-say-schools/article35272795.ece
12 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Airport signs MoU with training academy||Asia Pacific Flight Training Academy, Hyderabad, and Redbird Aviation Academy, Delhi, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Kalaburagi Airport on Sunday. Airport Director Gyaneshwar Rao said that the training academy will work toward providing training to budding pilots, ensuring the highest standards of safety and quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-signs-mou-with-training-academy/article35272803.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Vistadome coaches combine nature-religious tourism’||Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Sunday said that with the introduction of Vistadome coaches on Mangaluru-Bengaluru-Mangaluru day trains, the Railways has made an attempt to promote nature tourism along with religious tourism. Flagging off the maiden journey of Vistadome coaches on Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur Weekly Special Express (Train No 06540) here, Mr. Kateel said that the Mangaluru-Bengaluru trains also touch Kukke Subrahmanya, the famous pilgrimage centre of the country, besides traversing the Western Ghats. Thus, passengers can enjoy both the facilities, he said. Thanking the Railway Ministry for introducing Vistadome coaches on the trains, Mr. Kateel said that the gesture will go a long way in promoting tourism in the region that has rich natural resources. There are demands for the early departure of the Bengaluru day train from Mangaluru and a delayed start for the Mangaluru day trains from Yeshwantpur, he said and added that he will soon hold talks with officials concerned on the issue. Mr. Kateel further said that the Railways has taken a big leap after the Narendra Modi-led NDA government came to power in 2014 as adequate funds are being released to undertake various infrastructure projects as well as introducing new trains. Cleanliness is being given the utmost priority on Railway premises by the Modi government as a result of which trains as well as Railway stations are looking sparklingly clean, the MP said. Mangaluru Mayor Premananda Shetty, MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, Southern Railway’s Palakkad Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vistadome-coaches-an-attempt-to-combine-nature-religious-tourism-says-kateel/article35272621.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Krishnapur Mutt performs Kattige Muhurta||The Udupi Krishnapur Mutt on Sunday performed Kashta (firewood) Muhurta ahead of taking over the reigns of Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt for the next two years from January 2022 under the Paryaya system. Kashta or Kattige Muhurta is an age-old ritual being followed by the Ashta Mutts of Udupi ahead of each mutt taking over the next Paryaya. Storing of firewood in the form and style of a chariot commences with this ritual to undertake mass feeding activities during the two years of Paryaya of the respective Mutt. Krishnapur Mutt performed the Bale (plantain) Muhurta in December last planting plantain saplings to get banana fruits for puja and plantain leaf for mass feeding and then Akki (rice) Muhurta, the process of storing rice for mass feeding, in February this year. The firewood chariot is erected on the north-eastern side of the Madhwa Sarovara. Main archak of the mutt Srinivas Upadhyaya earlier performed special pujas to the presiding deities of Krishnapur Mutt Kaliyamardana Krishna and also to Sri Narasimha and conducted Navagraha puja. Thereafter, people carrying firewood on their head had darshan of Sri Chandramouleeshwara and Sri Anantheshwara before arriving at the Kashta Muhurta site. Offering puja to the piled firewood, Krishnapur Mutt felicitated scholars of the Ashta Mutts on the occasion. Srinivas Upadhyaya performed the puja with the assistance of Naveen Mesthri. At a formal function following the puja, Krishnapur Mutt Seer Sri Vidyasagara Tirtha said that precedents laid down by Sri Vadiraja Tirtha are being followed by the Ashta Mutts for a long time now. The unique system involves pujas to the Almighty not only at the sanctum sanctorum of the temple but also at every Adhishtana. Tracing the history of Kashta Muhurta, the seer said that people had no jobs during the rainy season in the olden times. The process of storing firewood used to start a few months before the Paryaya during the rainy season to provide employment to people and one Seru (a unit) of rice was given as remuneration for one bunch of firewood. Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple archaks Anantapadmanabha Asranna, Harinarayana Asranna and Kamaladeviprasada Asranna, the former president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat Dharmadarshi Harikrishna Punarur and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishnapur-mutt-performs-kattige-muhurta/article35272937.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Afforestation will be taken up in a big way across State: Limbavali||The Forest Department has launched an aggressive afforestation drive across the State to increase green cover, said Minister for Forest, Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali in Udupi district on Sunday. Talking after taking part in a tree planting exercise in Brahmavar and in paddy cultivation work in Nalkuru village, Mr. Limbavali said that fruit-bearing and other tree saplings are being planted in barren land stretches in the forests. “Increasing green cover by planting fruit-bearing trees is among the ways to prevent elephant and other animals from entering human habitation,” he said. Increase in the green cover will be beneficial for people in the surroundings as abundant amount of natural oxygen will be available. The Minister said that the tree planting exercise taken up in Brahmavar is an extension of the ongoing afforestation exercise and it is being done on a 7-km road stretch of Brahmavar-Hebri Road. “Good to see greening in the areas where trees have been cut for road widening and for building houses,” he said. As many as 3,000 saplings will be planted by the roadside, while 7,000 saplings will be planted in other places in Brahmavar, he said. The Minister took part in transplanting paddy shoots in the barren land in Nalkuru village of Udupi district. The transplanting exercise was organised by the Kedarotsava Trust. Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat and Karkala MLA V. Sunil Kumar participated in the exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/afforestation-will-be-taken-up-in-a-big-way-across-state-limbavali/article35272942.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power supply to be affected in several areas tomorrow||Power supply will be affected in some parts of Mangaluru and many parts of Udupi district on Tuesday. There will be no power supply between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas served by 11 kV Gurupura, Sadur and Muchchur feeders, including Badaga Yedapadavu, Thenka Yedapadavu, Baidarabettu, Mijar, Shastavu, Poopadikallu, Gurupura Town, Matadagudde, Mullagudde, Addur and surrounding areas. In Udupi district, power supply will be disrupted between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV KMF and Manai feeders, including Ishwaranagar, Saralebettu, Arbi, Manai, Panchanabettu, Sanekallu, Harikhandige and surrounding areas. Areas fed by 11 kV Brahmavar and Mabukala feeders, including Mudduru, Kotambailu, Ninjurabettu, Marali, Handari, Belurajeddu, Brahmavar Town, Chantharu, Varamballi, Sasthan, Mabukala, Pandeshwar, Airodi, Gundmi, Chempi, Hangarakatte, Balkudru, Uppinakote and surrounding areas will go without power supply between 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. Power supply will be affected between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Chara, Shivapura and Mudradi feeders, including Shivapura, Kurpadi, Kanyana, Chara, Mandadijeddu, Mudradi, Kabbinale and surrounding areas. Areas fed by 11 kV Miyyaru, Sanuru, Kanthavara, Belman, Bandimutt, TMC, Mundli, Jarkala and Ajekaru feeders, including Jodukatte, Miyyaru, Renjala, Kervashe, Sanuru, Durga, Ajekaru, Ennehole, Bailuru, HIrgana, Ninjuru, Nakre, Tellaru, Jarkala, Kallotte, TMC Water Supply, Jodu Rasthe, HUDCO Colony and surrounding areas will go without power supply between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Power supply will be affected between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Anegudde, Manuru and Sasthan feeders, including Vaddarse, Bannadi, Kotathattu, Kota, Padukare, Manuru, Giliyaru, Gundmi, Saligrama, Karkada, Parampalli, Beluru and surrounding areas. Areas fed by 11 kV Perdur feeder, including Puttige, Pakkalu, Perdur town and surrounding areas will go without power supply between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-supply-to-be-affected-in-several-areas-tomorrow/article35272940.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Krishna Temple thrown open for darshan||As the Paryaya Admar Mutt threw open the doors of the Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt to facilitate darshan of Lord Krishna to devotees, hundreds thronged the temple to get a glimpse of the Lord on Sunday. According to mutt authorities, over 1,600 devotees, including about 150 local people, visited the temple between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m., the given window, to have darshan of Lord Krishna. Paryaya seer Sri Ishapriya Tirtha Swamiji of Admar Mutt on Saturday announced the opening of the temple for devotees following more than two-month’s lockdown. Only darshan of the Lord is allowed now, while devotees are being requested not even to prostrate in front of Sri Krishna but strictly follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-temple-thrown-open-for-darshan/article35272939.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tourist feared drowned in sea||A 20-year-old man from Shivamogga district is feared drowned in the sea after he was caught in a rip current in Murdeshwar in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday. The Murdeshwar Police gave the name of the man as Manju, a resident of Shikaripur in Shivamogga district. The police said that Manju and two of his friends had come on a trip to Murdeshwar in the morning. After going to the temple, all the three went to swim in the evening in a portion of the beach where the water is deep and is used by fishermen. The police said that all the three were caught in the rip current. While two of them managed to swim back to shore, Manju was caught in the waters. Local fishermen, Coastal Security Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel launched a search for Manju, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourist-feared-drowned-in-sea/article35272943.ece
12 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two-year-old kidnapped, search on for accused||A two-year-old boy, hailing from Bagalkot, is said to have been kidnapped by a 50-year-old man, who took away the child on the pretext of getting tea and biscuits at a hotel in Udupi Town on Sunday. The Udupi Town Police said that Arun and Bharati, the parents of the boy, have filed a complaint accusing Parsu, who stayed in the locality, of kidnapping their 28-month-old son Shivaraj. The police have launched a search for Parsu. CCTV images showing Parsu carrying Shivaraj and getting into a bus at Karavali Bypass Road were widely circulated in the social media. The police said that Arun and Bharati have twins, Shivaraj and Dhiraj. While leaving Dhiraj in their native place in Mudhol taluk of Bagalkot district, Arun and Bharati came to Udupi along with Shivaraj two months ago. They stayed along with other workers in the sheds near Karavali Bypass Road. Parsu, who is known to the couple, took away Shivaraj in the morning and failed to return, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-year-old-kidnapped-search-on-for-accused/article35272944.ece
12 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KRS susceptible to damage caused by blasts: Ex-official||Amidst the cacophony over the safety of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam due to stone mining in close proximity, a retired engineer from the State government has also expressed concern and raised technical points germane to the issue. B.S. Balakrishna, a former Superintendent Engineer of the PWD, who has worked on numerous projects of State importance, said that there are ample studies published on the impact of blasts and explosives on the stability of dams. The process He said blasting is required to remove in-situ blocky hard-rock material and this causes seismic wave propagation. The energy propagated through the earth body then produces vibrations in the rock mass and the intensity or level of the vibration varies depending on a blasting design and geological setting, said Mr. Balakrishna. With reference to the KRS, he pointed out that the dam has been constructed of masonry and earthen embankment and not of RCC and hence it was more susceptible to shock waves. Mr. Balakrishna said the possible impact of a blast on any infrastructure can be assessed by simulating the seismic load and pointed out that a technical study conducted in the United States of America on the effect of mining operations indicated clear danger to many of the existing structures.  He said the application of blasting methods should take into consideration the rock condition and the terrain. In case of blasting relatively close to the dam, the vibration could cause damage to the dam due to the seismic effect as a fallout of the blast. Notwithstanding the claims of political leaders that the dam was safe, Mr. Balakrishna said it is extremely tough, even for top experts in the world, to vouch for the safety and life of old bridges and dams. Citing an example, he said that a team of experts from the Union government inspected the old Mondavi bridge for three days and gave a certificate in writing that the bridge was safe. Allaying fears Meanwhile, Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. has vouched for the safety of the dam to allay public fears. Engineers attached to the State government have also said that the KRS was undergoing a major rehabilitation exercise and 136 of the sluice gates are being replaced with World Bank funding. An exercise of such a magnitude entails a detailed study of the present condition of the dam, said the officials. Innumerable technical committees and engineering experts visited the dam to assess the safety of the structure before giving the go ahead for gate replacement, they added. Besides, certain interventions to strengthen the dam and enhance its lifespan was also suggested and were implemented, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krs-susceptible-to-damage-caused-by-blasts-ex-official/article35272956.ece
12 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||G.T. Deve Gowda brings hope to residents of Bharath Nagar||Even though Mysuru vies for the top slot among the cleanest cities of the country, residents of Bharath Nagar, the housing project taken up by Karnataka Slum Development Board about two decades ago just outside the Outer Ring Road near Sathgalli bus depot in the city, have been crying themselves hoarse over the absence of not only a garbage clearance mechanism, but also other basic amenities. The residents of Bharath Nagar have been putting up with choked underground drainage pipelines, no streetlights, properly asphalted roads and other lack of amenities for several years. The sub-human living conditions of families, mostly belonging to poor daily-wagers, who had taken shelter in the thatched huts built alongside, is even worse. The locality, is just a stone’s throw away from the swanky building in the Sathgalli bus depot built under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). An official of Karnataka Slum Development Board, which had constructed the dwellings at Bharath Nagar, said the board entrusts the responsibility of providing basic amenities to the jurisdictional local bodies. But, local bodies shun the responsibility on the grounds that they find it difficult to recover taxes from them, the official said. Bharath Nagar falls in the limits of Hanchya Gram Panchayat, which has now been proposed to become part of the newly-formed Ramanahalli Town Panchayat. “The residents are taken for a ride whenever elections to the local bodies approach. They are promised the amenities, but are ignored after the elections,” the official lamented. An official of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) said the areas falling outside the Outer Ring Road are not part of the civic body’s jurisdiction. MLA’s visit The hopes of the residents of Bharath Nagar, which is part of Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency, however, soared on Saturday when former Minister and area MLA G.T. Deve Gowda visited the area. Among other things promised by Mr. Gowda was the immediate installation of ten waste collection containers. Ilyas Ahmed Babu, Mysuru City minority wing leader of JD(S), who represented the problems of the Bharath Nagar residents to Mr. Gowda, said there was no waste collection mechanism in the area. Heaps of garbage are found dumped in the area and on the adjoining Mahadevapura Main Road. Waste from different parts of the city is also brought and dumped here, he alleged. Mr. Gowda said residents of the Bharath Nagar can now dump their garbage in the waste collection containers. Arrangements will be made for its clearance from time to time, he assured. He also promised to take necessary steps for the installation of 40 street lights, one high mast lamp, asphalting of two roads and setting up of a RO drinking water plant in the area. With regard to choked and overflowing underground drainage pipeline, Mr. Gowda has promised to have the pipeline replaced with large diameter pipes. He also promised the residents of thatched huts that he will take necessary steps to include their names in the government housing schemes. However, it remains to be seen if his promises bring relief to the residents of Bharath Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gt-deve-gowda-brings-hope-to-residents-of-bharath-nagar/article35272954.ece
12 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KRRS supports ban on mining around KRS||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) has extended its support to Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh who has raised concerns over illegal mining in the district and the safety of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir. Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Badagalpura Nagendra of KRRS said that farmers and concerned activists have been raising their voice against mining and stone quarrying within a 20 km radius of the dam for over at least two decades. There are also concerns over the dangers such activities posed to the reservoir, said Mr. Nagendra. He said the KRRS, with other activist groups including Dalit Sangharsh Samiti, will launch a people’s movement to save the KRS and seek an end to quarrying. “We are not concerned over whether the quarrying activity is legal or illegal. The fact remains that any stone mining or extraction entails use of explosives and poses danger to the dam which is the lifeline to millions of people in the downstream,” said Mr. Nagendra. He said the issue was also raised by the KRRS leader late K.S. Puttanaiah when he was an MLA but nothing had changed at the ground. Expressing concern over the statements of the Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani that the dam was safe, the KRRS leader suspected an internal understanding or a compromise between politicians. “Murugesh Nirani is keen to take over Mysugar Factory in Mandya and hence he may have struck a deal with the local MLAs supportive of mining. It is likely that the MLAs will not oppose his take over of the Mysugar Factory so long as he does not stop mining,” said Mr. Nagendra. The KRRS will also convene a meeting in Mandya next week to chalk out the course of action on the mining issue and seek a ban on quarrying and mining within a 20 km radius of the KRS dam, Mr. Nagendra added. Ponting out that a ban on quarrying was introduced to protect the Gomateshwara statue at Gommatagiri on the KRS backwaters on the grounds that the statue had developed cracks, he said a similar ban on mining and quarrying around KRS was a must.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krrs-supports-ban-on-mining-around-krs/article35272958.ece
12 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bikers in Mysuru remember a yesteryear classic||The signature sound of bikes of a bygone era resounded along the Outer Ring Road of Mysuru on Sunday. Nearly 25 bikers hit the roads to zoom past traffic along the ORR to mark the ‘International Jawa Day’. “This is to generate nostalgia for a bike that ruled the road for decades before the present generation of vehicles with premium on mileage hit the market,” said Sameer, one of the participants of the informal ride. He is part of the Jawa Friends Club whose members meet every year to reminisce the ‘good old days’ and cherish a brand whose manufacturing centre was Mysuru. The Ideal Jawa factory came into existence in 1960 and had a cult following before it ceased operations in the mid-1990s. The Jawa is now back in the country again but the Mysuru unit long ceased to exist and instead there is a cluster of apartment units on the old factory site. “Our club members own the old Jawa,” said Mr. Sameer. He said there are scores of owners who take pride in their vehicle and maintain it. However, only about 25 of them took part in the informal ride along the ORR due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bikers-in-mysuru-remember-a-yesteryear-classic/article35272960.ece
12 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Quarry unit shut down in Srirangapatna||Within days after Sumalatha, MP, was prevented from reaching a quarry unit in Srirangapatna taluk, officials on Saturday conducted a raid and ordered its closure. Last week, Ms. Sumalatha conducted a spot visit to a few quarry units on the grounds that illegal mining and quarrying of stones was rampant in Mandya. When she was on her way to visit Channanakere in Srirangapatna taluk, there were attempts tothwart the movement of her convoy that comprised senior officials of the district administration, including the Mandya Deputy Commissioner and police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarry-unit-shut-down-in-srirangapatna/article35272811.ece
12 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Speculation over Darshan’s visit to ACP’s office||Actor Darshan’s visit to the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Narasimharaja Sub Division, Mysuru, on Sunday sparked off speculations in a cheating and extortion case. Speaking to reporters, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Pradeep Gunti clarified that the police had not called the film actor for investigation in the case. He said the police had taken up the investigation of the complaint lodged by Harsha in Hebbal police station in Mysuru City on July 3. The complainant had alleged that attempts had been made to obtain a loan fraudulently. Mr. Gunti also clarified that no arrests have been made in connection with the case. “We have not come to any conclusion so far,” he said. Though Mr. Darshan dodged most queries by reporters after contending that the matter was still under investigation, he said he came to check if his “documents had been forged”. Producer Umapathi, accompanying the actor, said he had also lodged a complaint of cheating in the case in Jayanagar police station in Bengaluru, which is also under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speculation-over-darshans-visit-to-acps-office/article35272624.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,KARNATAKA||Cong. seeks BSY’s sacking over ‘revelations’||The Congress on Sunday demanded the removal of Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa after a former chairman of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), M. Sudheendra Rao, claimed that he had paid a bribe of Rs. 9.5 crore of the Rs. 16 crore demanded by a relative of Mr. Yediyurappa. The party also demanded a judicial probe by the Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka and urged Central agencies, including the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), and the Income Tax (IT) Department, to carry out “an exhaustive investigation and uncover the truth”. Addressing a press conference at AICC headquarters, jointly with spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, senior Karnataka Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao said that Dr. Rao, on a local TV channel, also gave details of how Mr. Yediyurappa’s family members, including son B.Y. Vijayendra, grandson Shashidhar Maradi, and a close cousin Sanjayshree, put pressure on him to give environmental clearances to companies that violated norms. “They are using their position to loot the State and this money is being re-channelised to fund their political ambitions, to fund the BJP, and also probably to fund the national leadership. Otherwise, why would the national leadership of the BJP keep quiet despite these blatant acts of corruption,”asked Mr. Dinesh Gundu Rao. Though the former KSPCB chairman was appointed in December 2019, a post with a three-year tenure, he was forced to resign by May, 2020, the Congress leaders alleged. The Congress leaders also played video excerpts of the claims by Dr. Rao to the channel, in which he claimed to have sold off his properties as well as gold and silver jewellery, belonging to his wife and daughters, to raise the amount for the alleged bribe. “As per Dr. Rao, when things come to a flashpoint, the Chief Minister’s family begins the operation for his removal by putting psychological pressure and even issuing oral threats. When he refuses to oblige, they manage to obtain his signature on a green sheet of paper ostensibly for submitting an affidavit before the court in an official matter. Later when he is on a pilgrimage trip to Mantralayam in Andhra Pradesh along with his family, some ‘miscreants’ type out the resignation letter on the signed green sheet of paper obtained from Dr. Rao and submit it to Mr. Yediyurappa’s office who in turn accepts the ‘resignation’ with immediate effect,” the Congress leaders alleged in a statement. Asking the CBI, the ED and the IT Department to act, Mr. Dinesh Gundu Rao said, “They should not be just lap dogs of the BJP, they should act independently. These things have been noticed by the BJP’s national leadership but they are not acting upon it. They are not doing anything, the biggest question is why?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-seeks-bsys-sacking-over-revelations/article35272623.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Teachers forced to seek greener pastures||D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said it was unfortunate that their highly experienced and educated teachers were quitting the profession. “As a result of this, we are not able to sustain the quality of teaching,” he said. To address the shortage, some schools have decided to rope in teachers on an hourly basis. “They get paid by the hour and can take up work outside the school when they have no online classes,” said a school principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-forced-to-seek-greener-pastures/article35272602.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positivity rate in city drops below 1%||“Graded reopening of schools can be done only by vaccination of teachers, drivers, etc. If there is no safe bubble, children will be at risk,” he said. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep said testing numbers were kept consistently high, with the civic body’s numbers peaking at 90,000 also, and the numbers hovering between 55,000 and 60,000 after the unlock and during the lockdown, respectively. With Bengaluru currently ‘unlocked’, Mr. Randeep said COVID-appropriate behaviour was much better this time, especially mask compliance, compared to the unlock after the first wave. He added that the BBMP has not observed any large-scale mask violations.“We are not letting our guard down and surveillance is up. Our epidemiologists in each zone are observing new cases and conducting analysis to give us feedback in terms of where we need to focus. The second analysis is which wards triggered off wave two, so that we can focus on them closely,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-city-drops-below-1/article35272604.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Packed with shoppers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/packed-with-shoppers/article35272616.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Health hazard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-hazard/article35272963.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hands on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hands-on/article35272799.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||When Sumalatha, MP from Mandya, raised the issue of illegal mining in the district last week, it generated enough sound and fury from her political adversaries. Janata Dal (S) leaders tried intimidatory tactics and threatened to release a “video bomb” and an “audio bomb” to thwart her much-publicised visit to mining hotspots in Mandya. Not to be cowed, Ms. Sumalatha dared them to bring it on and said that she had faced the combined might of eight MLAs to defeat the son of a former Chief Minister in the Lok Sabha elections. Again, a local JD(S) leader remarked that they had an “asthra” (missile) which would be used against Ms. Sumalatha, who wondered whether they were MLAs or terrorists. When she embarked on a visit to the site, the road was blocked and the scenario was described as akin to “India-Pakistan border”. Taking things a notch higher, MLA for Srirangapatna Ravindra Srikantaiah questioned the need for publicly airing concerns over the safety of Krishna Raja Sagar and wanted Ms. Sumalatha to be “tried for treason”. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is sitting on the fence with regard to its relationship with Ms. Sumalatha, was drawn into the crossfire and a prominent leader of the party equated the “tense situation” in Mandya to that in Palestine. While the original issue of illegal mining and dam safety got clouded in the mutual recrimination, the language used underlined the debasement of political discourse in public.   The coming month will see a lot of awareness campaigns and sapling plantation drives across the city on account of the one-month-long biodiversity campaign. Briefing reporters recently, Anant Hegde Ashisar, chairperson of Karnataka Biodiversity Board, said he had directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to take up various activities on priority. In response, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta spoke about the various measures that would be taken this regard, but stopped for a brief moment to ask Mr. Ashisar, “Of course, we can expect some funds for these activities from the board, right?” Pat came the reply from Mr. Ashisar: “Actually, we will expect some funds from the BBMP!” This, of course, left the civic commissioner speechless.   Even though All India Congress Committee general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala has cautioned party leaders against issuing statements on the Chief Ministerial candidate for the next Assembly elections in the State, there seems to be no end in sight for such talk. Clearly not bound by the diktat, the media continues to freely shoot questions on their “next Chief Minister”. At the receiving end of a barrage of such questions was Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president R. Dhruva- narayan (in picture), former MP. Even though he sought to excuse himself by citing instructions from the party leadership, he found himself drawn into the debate. After he had replied to a seemingly innocuous question on M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Mr. Dhruvanarayan was asked a supplementary question on whether he felt the MP should become Chief Minister. He said there was nothing wrong if he was made Chief Minister, but urged the media not to “create confusion” on the issue. Next, they asked if he felt a Dalit should be made CM, considering the support the party enjoys from the community. The former MP could not help but admit that Dalits yearned to have a representative from their community as CM. Again, he had to quickly add that an opportunity would surely be given when the time came. The debate on the next CM candidate in the Congress may be too tempting for the media to ignore, so how hard is it for leaders to duckit? R. Krishna Kumar Chitra V. Ramani Laiqh A. Khan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article35272809.ece
12 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A doctor by profession and a farmer by passion||Arunkumar R., a medical practitioner, is a strong advocate of organic farming and safe food. And, he practices what he preaches. Although he took an oath to treat the ill, nowadays he also dons the hat of a farmer. The proud owner of a thriving high-tech farm at Puthanangadi in Muhamma gramapanchayat, Dr. Arunkumar, 40, raises cattle, rabbit, poultry, aquaculture, and cultivates a wide variety of fruits and vegetables all in 1.5 acres. “Agriculture is my passion,” says Dr. Arunkumar who practices medicine at Government Ayurveda Panchakarma Hospital, Alappuzha. He ventured into the world of farming five years ago with the idea of setting up an integrated farm “producing safe to eat food”. “The realisation that what we consume contains harmful pesticides and chemicals led me to agriculture. It has helped my children become acquainted with agriculture. The State government’s Subhiksha Keralam project further strengthened my resolve,” says the doctor. Arunkumar started with five Vechur cows and a few rabbits. His farm is now home to 2,000 quails, 850 chickens, 100 rabbits, organic vegetables, 650 plantains, and a pond full of fish. Besides, he along with his brother-in-law carries out paddy farming on 40 acres of leased land in Thanneermukkom. He sells on average 1,600 quail eggs, 500 chicken eggs, and 15 kgms of veggies per day. While vegetables are sold locally, the eggs are being procured by a big retail chain. He manages to run the farm single-handedly by putting technology to good use and attends patients between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-doctor-by-profession-and-a-farmer-by-passion/article35272914.ece
12 July 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Will raise illegal mining issue again in House: MP||Continuing her tirade against illegal mining in the vicinity of Krishna Raja Sagar in Mandya district, the Independent MP from Mandya Sumalatha on Sunday said she would raise the illegal mining issue in Parliament again and seek stringent action against those involved. “I have already raised the issue in Parliament twice in the past. Even in the next Parliament session, I will do so,” she told reporters here. “My fight is not personal and not against any individual. This is not a fight against (former Chief Minister) H.D. Kumaraswamy also. My fight is against the inconvenience due to mining in my district,” she said. The actor-turned-MP and Mr. Kumaraswamy have been engaged in a verbal duel over illegal mining in Mandya for a week. “I will appeal to fans of [the late] Ambareesh to not tread the same path taken by Mr. Kumaraswamy or his associates. My appeal to them is to tread the peaceful path in our fight,” she said, adding that if necessary she would meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa again. On Sunday, she also took to Twitter and sent out a series of messages using the hashtags #SaveKRSDam and #StopIllegalMining. “When you stand up for truth, several enemies will be born. Some are intolerant of womenin power. Those who are corrupt can harass officials with integrity with threats of transfer and pressure. Sad that they cannot transfer an MP!” she tweeted. DKS chimes in Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar, who was earlier Minister for Water Resources and Mandya district in-charge under the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, claimed, “No one discussed illegal mining in Mandya during my tenure. No damage will happen if gravel stones are produced 10 to 15 km away.” He also said that the Mining Ministry would take up the responsibility and the Geology Department was monitoring things too. Mr. Shivakumar added, “There are hundreds of engineers on site. They will manage it. We should not create unnecessary anxiety among people. I will not engage in such publicity-seeking cheap stunts or tolerate them. Moreover, this is a sensitive issue. KRS is the property of the country. We shouldn’t create panic over it.”  When you stand up for truth, several enemies will be born. Some are intolerant of women in power. Those who are corrupt can harass officials with threats of transfer and pressure. Sad that they cannot transfer an MP! SUMALATHA,MP from Mandya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-raise-illegal-mining-issue-again-in-house-mp/article35272379.ece
12 July 2021||Chennai,KERALA||T.N.’s higher order birth has dipped: Minister||Tamil Nadu’s higher order birth — a woman having three or more live children — has been brought down to 7.2% in 2019 from 10.6% in 2010, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Sunday at an event to obse- rve World Population Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-higher-order-birth-has-dipped-minister/article35272882.ece
12 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Locals attack Vandiperiyar case accused||Local people tried to attack the man accused of sexual abuse and murder of a six-year-old girl when he was brought for collecting evidences at Choorakkulam estate near Vandiperiyar for the second time on Sunday. A large number of estate workers including women assembled in front of the workers’ quarters where Arjun, 22, allegedly sexually abused the child and hung her inside the room on June 30. One of the persons assembled there slapped him on the face and another tried to attack him with a machete breaking police security. However, the police brought the situation under control. Dummy used A dummy was used to reproduce the murder. The accused showed the police how he escaped through the window of the room after committing the crime. Arjun explained to the police how he killed the child and hung the body inside the room using a rope. The Vandiperiyar police arrested him after the doctor at the Idukki Medical College alerted them that the girl was sexually abused as per the autopsy report. Arjun was living close to the estate room where the family of the girl was also living. He was close to the family and the child was sexually abused for over a year when her parents were out for work at the tea estate. According to the police, the incident took place on June 30 and initial report was that the girl had accidentally hung on a rope, which was inside the room. However, the autopsy report said she was subjected to severe sexual abuse for long. The police said the parents of the child used to go for work in the morning and Arjun frequented the house. He allegedly abused the child for a long time. As he was close to the family, it was not initially suspected that he was involved in the crime. The child fell unconscious and the accused thought that she was dead and then hung her body on the rope inside the room. Peerumade circle inspector T.D. Sunilkumar said that Arjun’s custody would end on Monday and more evidence would have to be collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/locals-attack-vandiperiyar-case-accused/article35272915.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Maradu demolition impacted Vembanad water quality’||The demolition of apartments in Maradu has significantly impacted the water quality and aquatic life of the Vembanad lake, though for a short period, as huge quantities of debris were dumped into the waterbody, according to a scientific analysis. According to the recently published research paper, ‘Citizen science tools reveal changes in estuarine water quality following demolition of buildings’, the water had turned alkaline after “debris from the first Alfa Serene Tower, weighing around 76,000 tonnes, was made to fall into the backwaters during the second phase of the blast to protect the nearby buildings from physical and structural damage and other associated causalities.” High pH value was recorded in the water samples collected from the area, which indicated stress on living organisms. The pH value, which remained high for around five weeks after the demolition, came down significantly, thus saving the lake ecosystem, said Nandini Menon, the lead author of the paper and a senior scientist of Nansen Environmental Research Centre India, Kochi. Turbidity was also found to be high during the study, which was conducted as part of a citizen science project by involving educational and research institutions and the public. Environmental data collected in and around the demolition sites from seven stations were compared with the corresponding data collected during the second to fourth week of January 2019 and the first week of February 2019, one year prior to the demolition. Data from the period was chosen as a baseline, as there was no sampling directly prior to the demolition, according to the paper. Comparison with pre-demolition conditions in the previous year (2019) showed that the relative changes in dissolved oxygen, water clarity, and pH were very high in 2020, clearly depicting the impact of demolition waste on the water quality of the lake. Significant decrease in dissolved oxygen and increase in turbidity was also recorded during the study period. The impact of demolition waste on the Vembanad lake water quality was found to be relatively short-lived, with water clarity, colour, and dissolved oxygen returning to levels typical of that period of year within four to five weeks, noted the researchers. Ecological balance The dust and dirt from demolition and eroded soils had disturbed the delicate balance of the aquatic ecosystem by reducing water clarity, decreasing the penetration of sunlight into the water, and reducing dissolved oxygen. The visibility in water was very low during the first few weeks, and it took five weeks for it to become clear. Water appeared brown during the two weeks after demolition due to a high load of suspended particles in the water column, the paper noted. Though tides, freshwater influx, and circulation can help flush out pollutants from lake waters, heavier particles that sank to the bottom can cause leachates into the water column for a longer duration, altering pH, dissolved oxygen, and even salinity of the water, the paper warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maradu-demolition-impacted-vembanad-water-quality/article35272876.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||16.5 kg of ganja seized in Ernakulam||Personnel of the Excise Enforcement and Anti Narcotic Special Squad seized 16.5 kg of ganja and arrested a youth from a rented house at Vazhakkala. While Nithin Antony was arrested on charge of selling the drug, his associate Antony Rijoy, who allegedly procured the contraband for sale among peddlers, managed to escape from the house. Illegal IMFL sale A senior citizen was arrested from Vaduthala on charge of illegal retail sale of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). Orson Aruja, 64, was nabbed on charge of illegally storing two litres of IMFL and 375 ml of arrack for sale. A sum of Rs. 4,500 was found in his possession. Raid held Personnel of Thrikkakara and Fort Kochi police arrested three persons with 1.50 kg of ganja from a hotel at Athani. The raid was conducted on the basis of information that Mohammed Shiyad of Kannur, wanted by the police in a drugs case, was camping there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/165-kg-of-ganja-seized-in-ernakulam/article35272871.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two more water tanks to be set up in Thrikkakara||With the Thrikkakara municipality abandoning a project to bring in drinking water from the Kadambrayar river, the authorities have decided to set up two more water tanks in the municipal area to meet the growing demand. The Manakkakadavu project for drinking water supply had run into trouble after the municipal authorities found that the quality of water in the Kadambrayar was too bad to be treated, said P.T. Thomas, MLA. He said it was not within the financial capacity of the municipality to set up a treatment plant for water drawn from the Kadambrayar. The authorities have now decided to set up two water tanks with capacity of 20 lakh litres each. It would take the total supply capacity to 5.8 million litres per day, he said and added that the drinking water supply frequency could be substantially increased with the establishment of the tanks. One tank could be set up at Mavelipuram on a plot of land identified as government land. The new tank would allow water to be supplied once in two days from the present frequency of once in four days, added Mr. Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-water-tanks-to-be-set-up-in-thrikkakara/article35272874.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Medical college teachers demand trauma centre||The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association, Ernakulam unit, has demanded that a novel trauma centre be set up at the Government Medical College here, considering that there are no other full-fledged trauma centres under the government in the district. The association said that facilities such as the Ernakulam General Hospital, Aluva District Hospital, and taluk hospitals should be strengthened to admit COVID-19 patients, so that only critical patients need to be referred to the medical college hospital. Neurosurgery and cardiothoracic departments should be restarted at the hospital at the earliest. Trauma patients are being referred to other hospitals in the absence of these departments, it said. The association also demanded that work on the super-specialty block be completed on a war footing. Besides, the government should give immediate administrative sanction for the proposed state-of-the-art casualty wing with an operation theatre and ICCU at the medical college hospital. The vacant posts of faculty members should be filled, failing which the institution will lose NMC approval. Necessary action should be taken to create more posts of residents doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-teachers-demand-trauma-centre/article35272873.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cop found dead at home||The body of a civil police officer of Chottanikkara station was found hanging at his rented house in Chottanikkara on Sunday morning. Another policeman, attached to the Armed Reserve police camp in Kalamassery, was found dead at his quarters on Thursday. Both are suspected to be cases of suicide. The Chottanikkara police said Chandradev, 47, who hailed from Pambakuda, did not leave any note. A case of unnatural death has been registered. People in distress and having suicidal tendencies may call 0484-2540530 or the toll-free number 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cop-found-dead-at-home/article35272870.ece
12 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PWD meeting||Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) had been directed to redress grievances raised by MLAs from Ernakulam and submit reports on them, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas said at an online meeting on Sunday. District-level review meetings to assess the progress of works will be held every three months, in which MLAs and officials will participate, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-meeting/article35272872.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Killer whales spotted||A pod of three killer whales was spotted near the eastern side of Kadmat Island in Lakshadweep, according to marine researchers. The marine mammals research team working under the Project Conservation of Marine Mammals in Lakshadweep Water spotted them on November 29 last year. The research team led by Ahmed Amirsha, senior project officer, has M. Salih, Vaseem Shameen, Jowhar, Shafi, and Ansar as its members. Observation Killer whales are not commonly sighted in the Lakshadweep waters. The authorities plan to set up observation in the hotspot areas of Lakshadweep waters, a communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/killer-whales-spotted/article35272877.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New facilities at MCH||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate new facilities at the Kalamassery Medical College Hospital on Tuesday at an online function. The new projects are worth Rs. 9 crore, said a communication here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-facilities-at-mch/article35272878.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,128 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||A total of 1,128 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. According to a communication from the district health authorities, there are two patients who arrived from outside the State and 1,118 cases of local transmission. There are seven cases in which the source of infection is not known. The highest number of cases has been reported from Puthenvelikkara and Maradu, where there are 41 positive cases each. Elamkunnappuzha and Thrikkakra have reported 27 fresh cases each. As many as 1,524 people recovered on Sunday and 10,712 people are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1128-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article35272879.ece
12 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Digital tech to the aid of farm sector||Digital technology is now coming to the rescue of Kerala’s beleaguered farming sector as well. According to K. Vasuki, Director of Agriculture, plans are afoot to roll out a digital platform for the farming sector, connecting all stakeholders and managing supply chains. The project is part of an e-governance initiative to establish an agriculture information management system and take the services of the department online. “The concept of this platform, envisaged as a one-stop solution for farmers and customers, stems from the indefinite number of social media groups for local markets. Discussions are under way with the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC), which is integrating all stakeholders in the agri-value chain,” said Ms. Vasuki. The future modules may also include an e-commerce platform for farm products.  P.V. Unnikrishnan, member secretary, K-DISC, said the digital network named Kerala Food Platform would ensure safe-to-eat and quality produce via supply chain traceability. The platform, piloted at the Palliakkal Co-operative Bank in Ernakulam, is being adapted to the requirements of the Agriculture Department to enable procurement and connect with the wholesale buyer network. “It will allow for the aggregation of local produce, besides its sorting, grading and quality checking. Using blockchain technology, it will align the diverse players in the agriculture eco-system,” he said. Routing the produce S.S. Nagesh, chief of the agriculture division, Kerala State Planning Board, said the system would help absorb the excess in homestead farming. “A digitised supply chain opens up a new avenue for homestead farmers, especially those cultivating perishables. The assured return at a right point of time will serve as an incentive for farmers to join the network,” he said. The produce of farmers who register on the network will the routed to the area where it will fetch the maximum price. The transportation and marketing will be through co-operative societies. That it incorporates the provision to trace supply chain enables better farming management practices, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-tech-to-the-aid-of-farm-sector/article35272886.ece
12 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,012 people test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,012 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,637 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,010 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI and one health worker. 609 in Kottayam As many as 609 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 599 contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district was 9.74%. With 79 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikkad panchayat with 66 cases. 587 in Alappuzha The district reported 587 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 8.55%. Of the fresh cases, 568 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 19 others remains unknown. Among the 587 cases, 54 each were logged from Alappuzha and Muthukulam, 36 from Cherthala, 29 from Cherthala South, and 20 each from Kayamkulam and Chunakara. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 299 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 290 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8%. With 22 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kozhencherry panchayat with 16 cases. The disease claimed four more lives. With 359 recoveries, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,289 cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1012-people-test-positive-in-kollam/article35272918.ece
12 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Community Rescue Volunteers set to tackle natural calamities||Gearing up to fight natural calamities, Community Rescue Volunteers (CRV) in various environmentally sensitive areas of Kozhikode district have successfully completed their first round of training under the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Rescue volunteers from hillside areas, which witnessed recurring landslips and flash floods, were the majority who benefited from the field-level training offered by seasoned professionals. Heads of various local bodies said they got the support of a 12-member NDRF team to train the volunteer force as the first respondents to meet emergency situations. Though all of them were inducted into the force after a preliminary training, the help of NDRF was like a refresher programme to fine-tune their skills, they said. NDRF officials said they would visit more vulnerable locations in the coming days and offer disaster management tips to local volunteers. According to them, many local rescue teams had already been trained in the area since their arrival here in May. There would be also more demonstrations again to explain rescue operations suitable to the area on different circumstances, they said. Officials from Kizhakkoth grama panchayat said a team of 12 NDRF men had visited the vulnerable areas within their panchayat limits recently as part of assessing the situation and suggested mitigation activities. Based on the local body’s suggestion, a team would shortly offer a training programme to the volunteer group, they said. Apart from the training of NDRF, the grama panchayat authorities had invested their own funds for purchasing emergency rescue accessories to be used during the monsoon season. The support of various voluntary organisations had also been sought to sponsor accessories for local rescue teams. Learning lessons from the previous years’ incidents, a comprehensive disaster management plan incorporating local requirements had also been prepared by all village offices in the district in advance to mitigate monsoon-related disasters. One of the major initiatives was the creation of local social media groups for instant messaging in times of natural calamities. Officials with the District-level Disaster Management Authority said they had a list of local facilities to be used as emergency relief camps. “Helplines are all operational 24x7 which will ensure better communication between various rescue agencies in critical times,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-rescue-volunteers-set-to-tackle-natural-calamities/article35272868.ece
12 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Malayalis bask in Messi’s golden moment in Copa America||The day had not dawned when television sets were switched on across Kerala on Sunday. No football fan wanted to miss even a moment of the Copa America final between Brazil and Argentina. It was after all a final as dreamy as one could have wished for. If you were an Argentina fan, the result was a dream-come-true. Not just because Argentina won its first major tournament since 1993, but because Lionel Messi finally got an important trophy for his country. Though the lone goal in the final was netted by Angel Di Maria, Messi was the tournament’s top-scorer as well as the best player. The greatest footballer of his generation could finally heave a sigh of relief. Like T. Asif Saheer did, after watching the final thousands of miles away from the Maracana Stadium, Rio de Janeiro. The former Santosh Trophy winner for Kerala is a die-hard Messi fan. Happy for Messi “I was so happy that Argentina won because Messi deserved at least one major international trophy,” says Asif, who had watched the final in the company of former Indian captain I.M. Vijayan in Kochi. Asif belongs to Malappuram. “In Malappuram I would say there are probably equal number of fans for Brazil and Argentina, but even the Brazilian supporters would not grudge Messi’s victory,” he says. It was not just footballers like Asif who followed Copa America closely. Ministers take sides General Education Minister V. Sivankutty posted on social media a picture of himself sporting Brazil’s yellow jersey. Former Electricity Minister M.M. Mani could be seen wearing Argentina’s blue-and-white T-shirt. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on this Facebook page wrote about Messi’s golden moment and hailed the spirit of football. For a State still locked down by COVID-19, quality football on television for over the past one month has been a relief. Besides Copa America, Euro 2020 was also being held these past five weeks. “Watching football after a tough day’s work has been a welcome diversion,” says Schiller Jos, a Kozhikode-based orthopaedic surgeon and sports medicine specialist. “Copa America’s timing was inconvenient, but I was determined to watch the entire final. The Euro matches suited our time zone better.” The Euro final between England and Italy kicked off half-an-hour after midnight. But sleep could wait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayalis-bask-in-messis-golden-moment-in-copa-america/article35272884.ece
12 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Missing youth rescued from Kerala forest||A Rapid Response Team of the Forest Department on Sunday rescued two youths who lost their way inside the dense Amarad forest near Thamarassery on Saturday evening. Mohammed and his brother Abdulla were saved following a tip-off given by local residents after seeing their motorbike near the forest border. The youths told the police that they couldn’t return due to the fog inside the forest. The two were tracked nearly 15 kilometres away from the forest border. Though the rescue squads had started search for the missing youths on Saturday night, they were also finding it difficult to move along the dense forest. The siblings told the police that they went inside the forest for sightseeing. They ventured for trekking after visiting the house of one of their relatives near Thamarassery. No other visitors were at the spot when the two were trapped inside the forest. Though the two had mobile phones, the rescue team couldn’t track their location in time due to interrupted signals. When the squad reached their spot several hours later, the two were found standing near a cave to protect themselves from wild animals. Forest Department officials said the rescue operation was a risky task as there was heavy rain. After long hours of search, they were spotted in an area which was closer to the habitat of wild elephants. As the entry was made without securing the permission of the Forest Department, they were booked under the Indian Forest Act. The police also checked whether the two had any other intention behind the trip, violating lockdown regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-youth-rescued-from-kerala-forest/article35272389.ece
12 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily TPR rises to 14.73%||Daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 rose to 14.73% in Kozhikode on Sunday when 1,428 fresh cases were reported from the district. As many as 9,910 samples were tested. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, there were 1,402 locally acquired infections while the source of 22 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 201 cases of local transmission of the infection, Koyilandy 62, Chorod 54, Thalakkulathur 53, Vadakara 50 and Thiruvallur 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-rises-to-1473/article35272863.ece
12 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Case against varsity teacher||The Tenhipalam police in Malappuram has registered a case against Haris Kodampuzha, Assistant Professor with the Department of English at Calicut University, under sections 354 and 354 D of the IPC for misbehaving with a girl student. It is learnt that more students have now approached the university with similar complaints. The university had suspended Mr. Kodampuzha on Saturday. The action was based on a report of the Internal Complaint Cell which inquired into the complaint she had lodged with the department head and the Vice Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-varsity-teacher/article35273028.ece
12 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||SHRC directive to BSNL, corpn.||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the BSNL General Manager (Kozhikode Area) and the Corporation Secretary to take immediate action on complaints of residents over the company’s land at Malaparamba, which is covered in shrubbery and is a hub of miscreants. It sought a report in three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-directive-to-bsnl-corpn/article35272862.ece
12 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||P.M. Varier to be AVS managing trustee||P. Madhavankutty Varier, chief physician and trustee board member of Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala (AVS), has been elected managing trustee of the 119-year-old institution. He succeeds Aryavaidyan P.K. Warrier, who passed away on Saturday after heading Arya Vaidya Sala for 67 years. A meeting of the board held on Sunday chose Dr. Varier, who is widely known in Ayurveda circles as P.M. Varier, as new managing trustee. He became chief physician of Arya Vaidya Sala in 2019. Dr. Varier, who will turn 74 in December, began his career as assistant physician in Arya Vaidya Sala in 1969 after obtaining a postgraduate degree from Government Ayurveda College, Thiruvananthapuram. He became Arya Vaidya Sala’s factory manager in 1985. In 1993, he headed Arya Vaidya Sala’s Chennai branch. He was elevated to additional chief physician’s rank in 1995, and to superintendent’s rank in 1999. Since 2007, Dr. Varier has been a trustee board member. Married to Shailaja Madhavankutty, who is Arya Vaidya Sala’s senior manager (materials), Dr. Varier has been a governing body member of the Kerala Ayurvedic Studies and Research Society; president of the Travancore-Cochin Medical Council (Indigenous Medicine); president of the Ayurvedic Drug Manufacturers Association; president of the Kerala Ayurveda Mandalam; and member of the Union Government’s Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia Committee. Dr. Varier is also member of the State Ayurveda Advisory Committee, and that of Union Government’s Ayurveda Siddha Unani Drug Technical Advisory Board. Laurels Recipient of the State government’s Dhanwantari Award in 2014, Dr. Varier is a fellow of the Rashtreeya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth since 2009. Dr. Varier said that he would carry the great legacy left by his uncle and strive to take Arya Vaidya Sala to further heights. He said Dr. Warrier’s passing was a great blow to the Arya Vaidya Sala family, especially at a time when COVID-19 was posing an array of challenges. The board meeting expressed grief over Dr. Warrier’s death. Apart from Dr. Varier, board members P. Raghava Varier, K. Muraleedharan, C.E. Unnikrishnan, K.R. Ajay, and Sujit S. Warrier; advisor K.M. Chandrasekharan; and chief executive officer G.C. Gopala Pillai attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-varier-to-be-avs-managing-trustee/article35272888.ece
12 July 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Two injured as celebrations spill over to roads||The celebrations of Argentina’s victory over Brazil in the Copa America final took a horrible turn in the district on Sunday morning when two youngsters suffered severe burns from crackers. The accident took place at Tanalur Chungam near Tirur when the crackers misfired and set blaze to Ijaz Kannarayil and Siraj Puchengal. Members of the Tanalur Socio Economic Cultural Organisation (TESCO), the youngsters were bursting crackers while sitting on their scooter. While Ijaz suffered burns on his back, Siraj was wounded on his thighs. The scooter’s seat was also burned. Both Ijaz and Siraj were admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Celebrations spilled on to the roads early in the morning across the district on Sunday after Argentina defeated Brazil 1-0. Youngsters and children were seen cheering loudly as they rode their bikes in jubilation. Wearing Argentina’s blue-and-white jersey, they rejoiced in groups large and small, unmindful of the COVID-19 restrictions. Lockdown or no lockdown, the youngsters took the early morning advantage as policemen were still at home. Many were busy executing their bets on Sunday morning. The videos of some youngsters breaking their phones and some others tonsuring their heads after losing their bets became viral on social media. Several of them provided the weekend’s comic relief for social media users. The video clip of two elderly men quarrelling and coming to near-blows over Brazil’s loss to Argentina also became viral within a couple of hours. The photo of a man in Brazil jersey who was forced to shave off half his moustache also was doing the rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-injured-as-celebrations-spill-over-to-roads/article35272865.ece
12 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Messi fans offer ‘pushpanjali’ at Malappuram temple||For the football-crazy youngsters Manoj and Aneesh, Argentine superstar Lionel Messi is next to God. Yet these fans wanted God’s push for Messi and Argentina when they took on Brazil in the Copa America final on Sunday morning. The youngsters were all agog when they made a special offering at the Sree Thripuranthaka temple here for the victory of Argentina and the good performance of Messi. Although the ‘pushpanjali’ (floral offering) cost them only Rs. 10, the youngsters were on cloud nine when Argentina lifted the championship by beating Brazil 1-0. The temple officials said the youngsters were ‘serious’ when they made the offering||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/messi-fans-offer-pushpanjali-at-malappuram-temple/article35272864.ece
12 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Minor’s rape: special team to investigate||A special police team will investigate the case involving the drugging and raping of a minor girl by members of a drug racket at Karukaputhur near Pattambi. Shoranur Dy.SP V. Suresh will head the eight-member team. Inspectors K.C. Vinu and Vijayakumar will help him. The other team members are from Pattambi, Koppam, Thrithala, and Chalissery police stations. The special team was formed as initial investigation revealed that the drug and sex mafia links extended to a wide area. Three accused were arrested following a complaint sent by the victim’s mother to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minors-rape-special-team-to-investigate/article35273022.ece
12 July 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Elephant carcass retrieved from Achenkovil river||The Forest Department on Sunday retrieved the carcass of a wild elephant that was floating in the Achankovil river. The carcass of the elephant, which was traced to a location within the South Kummannoor forest station in Konni, was first spotted by the locals the other day. On an alert, forest officials carried out an extensive search along the riverbanks and found it trapped in a maze of riverside plants. The partially decomposed body was taken out of the water with the help of a crane and buried at the location after a postmortem examination. The female elephant, aged around 40, had a natural death some five days ago and the dead body was carried by the strong currents in the river. Meanwhile, efforts are on to trace the carcasses of the two elephant calves that were reportedly afloat in the water body along with the female elephant. “We are yet to confirm the reports on elephant calves as the searches in this direction have drawn a blank. The mission to trace them, however, will continue for one more day,” said Joji James, range forest officer, Konni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-carcass-retrieved-from-achenkovil-river/article35272916.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bribe: probe on to identify all involved||The Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation will conduct an inquiry to identify other officials possibly involved in a case of demanding bribe from an entrepreneur. The Local Self-government Department had on Saturday decided to suspend pending inquiry a Revenue Inspector who had allegedly demanded bribe from an entrepreneur who was planning to open a bakery manufacturing unit. “An inquiry has to be conducted and the complainant has to make a statement as to the identity of the other officials who have claimed to have demanded money. Their names are not specified in the video. It also needs to be enquired on what basis the health inspectors had carried out checks later,” said a Corporation official. Meanwhile, the police inquiry into another case of corruption, involving embezzlement of funds meant for beneficiaries for educational and other purposes under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the city Corporation office, is progressing. Senior Clerk U.R.Rahul, who was arrested on Thursday, was brought to the Corporation main office on Friday as part of evidence collection. Checks were carried out the next day at his residence in Kudappanakkunnu as well as his ancestral house. The fraudulent activity came to light by chance in April this year when the parent of a possible beneficiary, who was marked as ineligible by the said official, found out later that the money was collected using the child’s records, but diverted into the field promoter’s account. Lakhs of rupees, diverted from deserving beneficiaries, is estimated to have been diverted into multiple benami accounts. The Scheduled Caste Development is also carrying out an audit on the funds under various scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bribe-probe-on-to-identify-all-involved/article35273048.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘MIMI Fish’ to hit the market soon||Here’s some good news for fish lovers who worry about the quality of the fish they get from the market. MIMI Fish, a retail venture of the Fisheries Department, is set to open sales outlets and launch online home delivery services in the State for the supply of fresh fish and value-added products. Traceability of the product is billed the USP of this initiative. The buyer will be able to track all relevant information about the fish; where it was caught or harvested, details of the fishers involved in the capture or production and their locations. Partner fishing boats of MIMI are given individual RFID-tagged ice boxes, so that the date, time and place of capture of the fish are accessible to the consumer. The initiative is being implemented by the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation (KSCADC) under its socio-economic initiative ‘Parivarthanam,’ with support from the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR-CIFT). Products on offer Products immediately on offer include fresh fish, dry fish, fish curry and fish pickles. More value-added products will be added soon. The website of MIMI Fish will be launched by Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian at a function in Kollam shortly. Initially, MIMI Fish will be introduced in Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts. It will be extended to other districts in phases, Roy Nagendran, Chief of Operations, Parivarthanam, said. Why the name The name ‘MIMI’ has its origins in ‘Meemi,’ the way small children pronounce ‘Meen,’ Malayalam for fish. Fish sold under the MIMI brand will be free from adulterating materials and follow the hygiene standards set by advanced countries in processing, preservation and storage, they said. Last year, the Food Safety Department had seized and destroyed thousands of kilos of stale and contaminated fish in Statewide raids. Besides consumers and fishers, a important beneficiary of this project will be engineering and degree dropouts, who will get part-time jobs of home delivery of MIMI products, and later, they would be given coaching to help them become graduates.  Under the retail venture of the Fisheries dept., the buyer will be able to track all relevant information about the fish||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mimi-fish-to-hit-the-market-soon/article35273029.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to help with global placements||Nearly 80 youth in the State are into an eight-month online German language training course before flying out to pursue their vocational graduation in Germany. The opportunity is being provided by Kudumbashree Mission, which is the nodal agency for implementing the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDUGKY) skill training and placement programme for rural youth in the State, through the project implementation agency Edujobs Academy Pvt. Ltd. Monthly stipend  The three-year programmes in hospitality, health care, and construction in Germany is open to candidates who have completed class 12. They will also earn a monthly stipend of up to Rs. 1 lakh during these three years. Nearly 70% of the 40-hour week programme will be spent working and the rest studying in a vocational college. At the end of three years, the candidates will get a certificate that is valid across the European Union. Job guaranteed As job offers are guaranteed, they will be able to earn a salary right away. After three years of employment, a candidate will be eligible for a permit of residence, and in 18 months can apply for German citizenship. S. Britto, associate vice president, Edujobs, says there is growing need for skilled workers in health care and hospitality sectors in Germany. However, the candidates should have completed B1 level of German language to get a visa. S. Harikishore, executive director, Kudumbashree, says Kerala has been able to make maximum foreign placements under the DDUGKY from among all States. The number of foreign placements, including to West Asian countries, Malaysia, and Spain, stands at 438, the maximum being 166 in 2020-21. Language training to candidates is among the latest steps being taken by the Kudumbashree to drive up the foreign placements. It has also recommended that foreign placement cells be set up at various levels. National-level interactions and awards are among the other suggestions. The Kudumbashree, he points out, has bagged the national award for DDUGKY implementation three consecutive times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-help-with-global-placements/article35272881.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Zika: Central team arrives to discuss control measures||A six-member team from the Centre, including epidemiologists, microbiologists and public health experts, arrived in the State on Sunday to discuss the rising cases of Zika virus (ZIKV). The team held discussions with State Health officials on the control measures to be adopted and the surveillance studies, both serological and entomological, to be initiated as part of the action plan to check the spread of ZIKV. They are expected to visit the private hospital in the city which had reported the first ZIKV infection as well as field sites from where the disease was reported. Diagnostic strengthened Meanwhile, Health Minister Veena George said the microbiology laboratories in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode Government Medical Colleges and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) unit in Alappuzha are being equipped for ZIKV diagnosis. The State is distributing the PCR diagnostic kits it received from NIV Pune to these labs. Diagnosis of ZIKV is a challenge in areas where there is simultaneous transmission of dengue and chikungunya viruses. Hence, to facilitate diagnosis of ZIKV and to differentiate it from dengue and chikungunya viruses, 500 trioplex real time PCR assay kits are being supplied to the lab at Thiruvananthapuram MCH, apart from 500 singleplex PCR assays, which can diagnose ZIKV alone. The other three labs are being supplied singleplex PCR kits.  State is distributing PCR diagnostic kits from National Institute of Virology, Pune, to microbiology labs in MCHs and NIV unit in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zika-central-team-arrives-to-discuss-control-measures/article35272890.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 12,220 cases, TPR at 10.48%||Kerala reported 12,220 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,16,563 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) remained unchanged at 10.48%. The State’s active case pool had 1,14,844 patients on the day with 12,502 patients recovering. The State on Sunday added 97 recent deaths to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities. The number of patients newly hospitalised increased to 2,279 and the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals increased to 24,854. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients dipped to 1,943 and the number of patients requiring ventilator support to 707 from 744. The cumulative case burden is 30,65,336 cases. District-wise Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,861, Kozhikode 1,428, Thrissur 1,307, Ernakulam 1,128, Kollam 1,012, Thiruvananthapuram 1,009, Palakkad 909, Kannur 792, Kasaragod 640, Kottayam 609, Alappuzha 587, Wayanad 397, Pathanamthitta 299, and Idukki 242 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-12220-cases-tpr-at-1048/article35272896.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe sought into ‘bid’ to implicate Oppn. leaders||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have separately sought a probe into the allegation that prison authorities had put pressure on UAE gold smuggling case accused P. Sarith to implicate Opposition leaders in the case. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said in a Facebook post that the State’s correctional administration officials had coerced Sarith to name Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala as a beneficiary of the gold smuggling racket. Mr. Sudhakaran said Mr. Chennithala, who repeatedly exposed corruption in the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, was a thorn in the side of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Now, jail authorities beholden to Mr. Vijayan had tried to use Sarith to get back at Mr. Chennithala. The accused youth had moved the National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Kochi seeking protection from official harassment at the Central Prison. The court granted him an in-camera hearing. Mr. Sudhakaran demanded that Sarith be moved out of the Central Prison and lodged in another facility under the direct supervision of the court. BJP demand BJP State president K. Surendran and Mr. Chennithala raised similar demands. Mr. Surendran said the prison authorities who tried to influence Sarith to implicate BJP leaders in the case were members of CPI(M) service organisations. They had forced Sarith to depose against Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan. The CPI(M) hoped to use Sarith’s statement to misdirect public attention from the culpability of its leaders and score a propaganda victory against the Central government. Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan was wreaking political vengeance for raking up the gold case during the previous LDF regime. Mr. Chennithala alleged the Central agencies had revealed that the accused had often called on Mr. Vijayan at his official residence without the knowledge of the State protocol officer. He said the Customs and Enforcement Directorate had named Mr. Vijayan’s trusted former Principal Secretary as an accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-sought-into-bid-to-implicate-oppn-leaders/article35272897.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,009 new cases in capital, 896 recoveries||The capital district recorded 1,009 more COVID-19 cases and 896 recoveries as the number of active cases rose marginally to 9,751 on Sunday. Bringing relief, the test positivity rate dropped to 6.8%. While 933 of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 73 cases. Three health workers were also among those who tested positive. The administration has currently placed under 34,137 people in quarantine as part of its COVID-19 management efforts. The City police registered 431 cases for violation of the COVID-19 norms until 4 p.m. of the second day of the weekend lockdown on Sunday. A cumulative fine of Rs. 94,500 was also collected from 173 people who failed to wear masks and 16 who violated social distancing norms. As many as 164 motorists including 118 motorcyclists and six autoricksaw drivers were also booked for unnecessary travel. Another 782 people were reprimanded for failing to adopt precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1009-new-cases-in-capital-896-recoveries/article35273044.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Central team to visit Zika hotspots in district||The Central team that was rushed to the State capital to take stock of the Zika infection outbreak held preliminary talks with health officials on Sunday. The visit assumed importance with the number of infected people going up to 18 amid concerted vector control efforts made by the district authorities including eradication of mosquito breeding sites. The team is expected to visit various places in the district that have reported Zika cases during the next few days. The six-member team led by Ruchi Jain, public health specialist at the Regional Office for Health and Family Welfare here, urged the State health authorities to intensify prevention and control measures for the disease. While proposing strategies for containing the spread of the infection, the team also called for stepping up testing across the State. They also recommended special precautions for pregnant women. Director of Health Services Raju V.R., district medical officers and other senior health officials participated in the discussion that was held online. Presentations on the outbreak mitigation efforts were also made during the interaction. Health officials elaborated on the various measures that have been undertaken in association with local bodies to rein in the outbreak. Efforts being made to observe dry days to minimise cases of dengue and Zika infections were also highlighted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-team-to-visit-zika-hotspots-in-district/article35273045.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kattayikonam attack: one person arrested||The Pothencode police have arrested one of the three persons who were allegedly involved in manhandling a person near Kattayikonam and vandalising his car few days ago. Vineesh, 32, of Kizhakkumbhagam in Kazhakuttom, was apprehended in connection with the incident in Sasthavattam on July 6 around 8.30 p.m. Vineesh along with two others are suspected to have barged into the rented house of one Vipin. After assaulting him, the gang vandalised his car and also assaulted some passersby before fleeing from the area. An official efforts were on to apprehend the two others involved in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattayikonam-attack-one-person-arrested/article35273047.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for assault||The Vizhinjam police on Sunday arrested one person for allegedly barging into a house and attacking two people. The police identified the accused as Shyju, 32, of Pullanimukku in Venganoor. Shyju along with another accused Renju, a habitual offender who is on the run, barged into the rented house of a woman in Nellivila, near Venganoor, around 3 p.m. on Saturday. Renju allegedly manhandled her and attempted to sexually abuse her. A relative who attempted to protect her was also purportedly hacked by Shyju using a machete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-assault/article35273046.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP leader’s charge||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation councillor V.V.Rajesh has accused Left leaders and youth organisation members of being part of the corruption case, involving embezzlement of funds meant for beneficiaries for educational and other purposes under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the city Corporation office. In a Facebook post, he alleged that some of temporary staff who were appointed in the section were CPI (M) appointees. He said that a total amount of Rs. 39 lakh has been siphoned off through 40 accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-leaders-charge/article35273049.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC resumes services to Bengaluru||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has restarted its Thiruvananthapuram- Bengaluru services, which were stopped from April 9 onwards following the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19 outbreak. The first service was from Thiruvananthapuram at 5 p.m on Sunday. Reservation was full for the service to Bengaluru through Kollam, Alappuzha, Vytilla, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Sulthan Bathery, Mysore and Mandya. The services are being organised by following all COVID-19 protocols. The Tamil Nadu Government has not yet given permission for inter-State services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-resumes-services-to-bengaluru/article35272920.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert in 3 districts||Indications are that the current wet spell in the southwest monsoon season is likely to persist through much of the week in the State. The west coast and peninsular India can expect enhanced rainfall over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated. The IMD has put Idukki, Kannur, and Kasaragod on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Monday. Other districts, except Palakkad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kollam, are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-in-3-districts/article35272894.ece
12 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Education fund||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will institute a separate fund for educational assistance under the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. He made the announcement during an online interaction held with representatives of the various Pravasi organisations and the Loka Kerala Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/education-fund/article35273043.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to leave for New Delhi today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will leave for New Delhi on Monday. He is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. A government official said Mr. Vijayan was likely to seek Central assistance for Kerala’s infrastructure development projects, including the semi-high speed rail. The two leaders will discuss the pandemic situation, Zika virus outbreak, vaccination drive and steps to revive the COVID-19-hit economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-leave-for-new-delhi-today/article35272892.ece
12 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||One tunnel by July end: Collector||The work on the twin tunnels at Kuthiran is progressing well and if the momentum is maintained, the left tunnel will be ready by July end, outgoing Thrissur Collector S. Shanavas said after reviewing the work on Sunday. The work was progressing in a time-bound manner, he said. Public Works Minister Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas visited Kuthiran last week and reviewed the work. Removal of granite blocks from the tunnel entrance is in the final stage. Strengthening of the area above the tunnel entrance with concrete is progressing. Cleaning, concreting, and road-marking works too are on. Power connection Power connection will be ready in the tunnel soon with the support of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) soon. More employees have been deployed to finish the work fast. Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Mr. Shanavas said land acquisition for NH 66 development was progressing fast. “A special team has been formed for the purpose. It has acquired more than 500 acres of land in a year. Compensation is being distributed to those who had to part with land for the works,” he said. The Collector said village offices had been modernised at a fast pace. Except in three villages, all the village offices had been digitised. As many as 4,500 title deeds under Forest Rights Act were distributed in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-tunnel-by-july-end-collector/article35273026.ece
12 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||The Kerala connection to the Wimbledon semis||A yoga trainer from Kerala had something to cheer about when German tennis player Angelique Kerber reached the semi-final of the Wimbledon championship, 2021. Ms. Kerber, former world number one and winner of three grand slam titles, had gone through a prolonged bad patch after winning the 2018 Wimbledon, defeating Serena Williams in the final. (Ms. Kerber had won the 2016 Australian Open and 2016 US Open championships. She was also the silver medallist at the 2016 Rio Olympics.) She had faced many disappointing losses in the past three years. The 33-year-old had even considered retirement after her first-round exits in major tournaments. Her ranking had fallen to 28. Ms. Kerber was struggling to regain her form when she met P.R. Binoy, a yoga trainer from Irinjalakuda, near Thrissur, who has been conducting yoga training sessions in Europe since 2014. Mr. Binoy was introduced to Ms. Kerber in Germany by her friends. Since then, yoga has become part of Ms. Kerber’s fitness regime, he says. ‘Down to earth’ “She has been dedicatedly practising yoga since 2019. I felt great pride and pleasure when a tennis player of her stature approached me for training. She is very systematic and punctual. Very down to earth too, despite being once ranked No. 1 in the world. I too learned a lot from her,” Mr. Binoy recalls. Ms. Kerber declared her resurgence this year by winning the Bad Homburg Open 2021. On July 8, she played the semi-final at Wimbledon, losing to eventual winner and world No. 1 Ashleigh Barty. Mr. Binoy has conducted yoga training programmes in 18 countries, including New Zealand, Australia, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and Poland. “COVID has restricted many training programmes. I visited Germany last February. If restrictions are relaxed, I plan to go again next month,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-kerala-connection-to-the-wimbledon-semis/article35272387.ece
12 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Israel Consul General visits Muziris project||Israel’s Consul General Yaakov Finkelstein visited areas under the Muziris Heritage project on Sunday. He visited synagogues in Mala and Paravur and the Jewish cemetery in Mala. Muziris Heritage Project managing director P.M. Noushad welcomed him. He explained to the consul general the ongoing renovation works at the Mala synagogue. Along with Mr. Finkelstein, representatives of the Jewish community in Kochi too visited the sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/israel-consul-general-visits-muziris-project/article35273024.ece
12 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP presses for all-party meeting on Krishna water issue||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) would bring pressure on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to call for an all-party meeting to discuss the Krishna water dispute to ensure water is not illegally taken by Telangana, said party’s State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy. The party leaders will picket the Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar Projects to register their protest against the illegal tapping of the Krishna water for generating power, he added. At a press conference here on Sunday, when asked to comment on the statement of BJP Telangana State president that Telangana should have got 575 tmcft out of the 811 tmcft available from Krishna basin, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said that the A.P. unit of the party was not bothered about the comments of their party leaders in Telangana. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy alleged that Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had ‘entered into a secret agreement’ with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the sharing of Krishna water and that Mr. Jagan was fooling people here by remaining silent on the issue. “Why doesn’t the CM talk to the media or call for an all-party meeting on the issue? We need to question as to why the A.P. government did not use the police force to stop the TS from lifting the gates,” he said. What has stopped the A.P. Ministers from visiting the projects on Krishna where water was being illegally released for power generation at the cost of Rayalaseema’s needs, the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-presses-for-all-party-meeting-on-krishna-water-issue/article35272573.ece
12 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan at Prasanthi Nilayam from July 16||Devotees would be allowed to enter the Sai Kulwant Hall at Prasanthi Nilayam in Puttaparthi from July 16 for the darshan of Maha Sannidhi, the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust said in a release. Devotees would be allowed into the ashram only for Bhagawan’s darshan for an hour after morning and evening bhajans. There will be no seating in the Sai Kulwant Hall during the Vedam and Bhajans until further notice. Entry will be at 9.30 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. for an hour. People will not be allowed to other areas in the ashram. Face mask will be mandatory and devotees need to carry their own sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-at-prasanthi-nilayam-from-july-16/article35272991.ece
12 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State burglars held||The Hindupur police and Anantapur Central Crime Station personnel on Sunday arrested two inter-State burglars and confiscated Rs. 14 lakh worth of gold (280 gram) and silver (40 gram) ornaments from them, the CCS Deputy Superintendent of Police Sayyed Mahaboob Basha told mediapersons. Erikala Kavadi Nagendra, 35, and Sheik Illiyas, 33, working as daily labourers, got addicted to liquor and to fund their vices began breaking into locked houses in Hindupur and Anantapur towns, and at several places in Karnataka. They were working with and related to the known inter-State burglar Kavadi Durga Prasad, who is dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-state-burglars-held/article35272990.ece
12 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tuskers create a ruckus at V. Kota mandal||A 14-member herd of wild elephants on Sunday paralysed normal life in several villages of V. Kota mandal, close to Karnataka border. The herd destroyed crops in vast stretches and charged at the milling crowd of villagers, who surged into the fields to drive away the animals. The jumbos, which entered the mandal at Kummaramadugu village in the early hours of the day, passed through the fields located at Kummaramadugu, Venkatepalle, Danamaiahgaripalle, Chintalagunta and Maddiralla. Close to dawn, a large number of villagers from these places converged at Edaguriki village, knowing that the herd was camping in the fields. When the irate villagers tried to drive away the animals into the nearby forests, the pachyderms tried to charge at them, creating panic and forcing the villagers, who included women with children in arms, to run helter-skelter. The police from V. Kota rushed to the spot and tried to dissuade the people from handling the risky situation without the guidance of the elephant trackers. After a two-hour pandemonium, which almost led to cordoning off the wild animals, the situation subsided with the elephants crossing the Palamaner-Hosur National Highway and entering the forest cover nearby. Jumbo strays Meanwhile, an adult tusker, which strayed from the 14-member herd, created a ruckus at Danamaiahgaripalle, trampling tomato fields, flower gardens and pulling down branches at a mango orchard. The fear-stricken tusker, which was chased by the villagers, barged into a poultry farm and damaged a moped and a van. The forest staff, along with the elephant trackers, brought the situation under control. The villagers heaved a sigh of relief after the herd and the separated tusker moved into the forests. The villagers are still in the grip of fear as they apprehend the return of the wild herd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-in-ap-villages-as-tuskers-damage-crops/article35272381.ece
12 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jawan killed in road accident near Chittoor||An army jawan, Manoj (28), died on the spot when the scooter he was riding was knocked down by a speeding car at Rangampeta Cross village, 25 km from here, on Saturday midnight. According to Puthalapattu police, the jawan, who was working in Jammu and Kashmir, came to his village on leave. He got married three months ago. Manoj was returning home from Chittoor when the mishap occurred. The police have shifted the body to district hospital at Chittoor for autopsy. A case has been registered. Five injured as car hits median In another another road accident, five members of a family from Kandukuru village in Prakasam district were injured, one of them critically, when the car in which they were travelling hit the median on a flyover at Nagamangalam, on outskirts of Palamaner, and overturned. The mishap took place in the early hours of Sunday. The car driver died on the spot. The injured members included a couple, their son, and son-in-law. The daughter who received a head injury was rushed to SVRR Hospital in Tirupati. The Palamaner police said the couple hailed from Kandukuru in Prakasam district, and was on way to Bengaluru to see a marriage alliance for their son. The family members said that they had seen the driver dozing frequently in the early hours, despite cautioning him to stop the vehicle and rest for a while.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawan-killed-in-road-accident-near-chittoor/article35272574.ece
12 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inquiry into fund diversion in APSSDC||The A.P. State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) has directed the CID to probe into the alleged diversion of funds of Rs. 241.78 crore by Designtech and Siemens Projects through various shell companies. A forensic audit report of the APSSDC has concluded that the money was diverted from the APSSDC through shell companies. The report said that the two companies had utilised only the government contribution of Rs. 270.78 crore and did not invest their money, which was contrary to the original scheme proposed by the then government. A network of firms allegedly ‘siphoned off’ funds through a bogus invoicing scheme pertaining to the Siemens project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inquiry-into-fund-diversion-in-apssdc/article35273011.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS to raise Rs. 6,000 cr. borrowings||The State government has decided to raise Rs. 6,000 crore open market borrowings (OMB) for the second quarter of the current financial year. According to the indicative calendar of market borrowings by the State governments/Union Territories for the quarter July-September released by the Reserve Bank of India on Friday, the government indicated that it would raise Rs. 6,000 crore in four tranches. The amount forms part of Rs. 1.92 lakh crore total quantum of total market borrowings by the State governments/UTs finalised by the RBI in consultation with the governments concerned. Accordingly, the government has indicated that it will raise Rs. 1,000 crore during the auction to be conducted on July 27 and Rs. 2,000 crore on August 10. This will be followed by raising of another Rs. 1,000 crore on August 24 and Rs. 2,000 crore on September 7, according to the RBI calendar. The actual amount of borrowings would depend on the requirement of the State governments/UTs, approval from the Government of India under Article 293(3) of the Constitution of India and the market conditions, the RBI said in the release. Interestingly, the State government has decided to participate in the auction of securities to raise Rs. 2,000 crore on July 13. The amount, with a tenure of 30 years, will be raised through the auction to be conducted by the RBI through its core banking solution e-Kuber. The State government had raised total quantum of Rs. 13,500 crore through open market borrowings for the first quarter as against the Rs. 8,000 crore it had indicated for the period. The amount was raised at a time when the State had pressing financial commitments like payment of over Rs. 7,500 crore for its flagship scheme Rythu Bandhu involving crediting of Rs. 5,000 an acre into the accounts of over 60 lakh farmers. Implementation of the revised pay scales is another major issue with huge financial implications on the State exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-to-raise-rs-6000-cr-borrowings/article35272382.ece
12 July 2021||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Great future in store for students pursuing Town Planning course’||The growing demand for skilled town planners nowadays, in tune with rising population and shrinking land availability, has put the spotlight on Town Planning, an undergraduate course that prepares a student to participate in the urban and rural development. However, the potential of this profession still remains to be tapped. While the requirement of urban planners, also referred to as ‘city doctors’, is projected at three lakh by 2031, the number of qualified personnel available today is 5,000. Flagship government projects like Smart Cities Mission, AMRUT, Housing for All, Swachh Bharat, Skill India and Make in India offer vast scope to a student of this field. Planning has always remained a priority area as it addresses key social, economic and environmental concerns. The domain knowledge of planning always keeps changing by factoring in the new challenges, processes, methods and rules, says D. Vijay Kishore, Vice-Chancellor of Dr. YSR Architecture and Fine Arts University that offers an interdisciplinary B.Tech course in Town Planning for those who have qualified in EAPCET (earlier EAMCET). The university, established in 2020 in Kadapa, is among nine institutes that offer a course in Town Planning. A faculty member, C. Pratyusha Reddy, puts the average monthly pay for an urban planner at Rs. 50,000, which is projected to rise by 13% by 2026. Further studies Those passing out from the course can also take up postgraduate studies in city planning, transportation planning, environmental planning, remote sensing, public policy and energy management. “It is not just the land use, but the social and economic considerations for a healthy living environment that matter,” explains M. Reethu Mercy, another faculty in the Town Planning Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/great-future-in-store-for-students-of-town-planning-course/article35272994.ece
12 July 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child dies after beetle gets stuck in throat||In a freak accident, a one-and-half-year-old child in Kasaragod died after a beetle got stuck in his throat. The deceased was identified as Anved, son of Satyendran, a native of Nullipadi, Chennikara in Kasaragod. The boy suddenly collapsed while playing. He was rushed to a private hospital and then to Kasaragod Government General Hospital, where he was declared dead around 8.30 p.m. on Saturday. After a post-mortem examination, it was found that a beetle that got stuck in the throat was the cause of his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-dies-after-beetle-gets-stuck-in-throat/article35272383.ece
12 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No fresh investments in Kerala, says Kitex chief||Managing director of Kitex Garments Limited Sabu M. Jacob has said the group will not make any fresh investments in Kerala. He was speaking to reporters after returning from Hyderabad here on Sunday. The Telangana government had reached an agreement with the Kerala-based company for an investment of Rs. 1,000 crore in a garment unit at the Kakatiya Mega Textiles Park in Warangal. Mr. Jacob, who arrived by a private jet sent by the Telangana government at the Kochi airport before noon, said he was forced to go out of Kerala. He said he was received “royally” by the Telangana government. He said he was not involving himself in a political debate and did not want to counter Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Kitex Group and Kerala government are at a standoff over “serial raids and inspections” at the company in June. The company said its operations were disrupted and staff were questioned for long durations. Mr. Jacob said he was also served a notice by the Labour Department, which had found fault with the company on more than 70 counts. Mr. Jacob had said earlier that Kitex was withdrawing from plans to invest Rs. 3,500 crore in an apparel park and three industrial parks in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-fresh-investments-in-kerala-says-kitex-chief/article35272385.ece
12 July 2021||KOVVUR (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor dens destroyed, 3 held||In a joint operation, police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids on Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor dens in some island villages in the district in the early hours on Sunday. The teams led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police C. Jayarama Raju, Enforcement Superintendent D. Aruna Kumari and Kovvur DSP B. Srinath conducted raids in Maddurulanka, Gonguralanka and other island villages and arrested three ID liquor manufacturers and sellers. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said police destroyed five liquor manufacturing units, 11,200 litres of jaggery wash and country-made liquor. The accused were making the ID liquor in the island villages in the Godavari and were shifting the stocks on boats, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-dens-destroyed-3-held/article35272998.ece
12 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 kg gold ornaments confiscated at Kurnool||The Panchalingala Check Post Special Enforcement Bureau sleuths confiscated 7 kg of gold ornaments valued at Rs. 3 crore from two persons and arrested them while transporting the valuables illegally from Hyderabad to Bengaluru in the early hours of Sunday. The frequency of illegal transportation of gold and silver articles and biscuits had increased in recent months and the police had stepped up vigil, said SEB inspector P. Srinivasulu. Suspicious vehicles and passengers in public transport vehicles were being scanned at the Panchalingala check-post. In one such routine check at 1.45 a.m. on Sunday, they could lay hands on this consignment being transported by an SUV with Tamil Nadu registration. Two persons carrying the ornaments – Ajay Gadiya, 28, and D. Prakash, 25, – told the police that they were carrying the consignment from Krishna Jewellery Pearls & Gems, Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad to Sovan Jewellers in Nagarathpet in Bengaluru. The CI said that on further inquiry they were found possessing Rs. 10 lakh cash. The jewellery, cash and the car were confiscated. The case was handed over to the Taluka Urban Police Station in Kurnool for further investigation. They will in turn inform the Customs, Income Tax, and Commercial Taxes for necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-kg-gold-ornaments-confiscated-at-kurnool/article35272993.ece
12 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||KMC plants 50,000 saplings||The Kurnool Municipal Corporation(KMC) achieved a milestone by planting 50,000 saplings. Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji told The Hindu that while the corporation had planted 43,000 saplings, it had distributed the rest to interested citizens free-of-cost. “By Thursday evening, we could achieve a milestone of planting 50,000 saplings in the last couple of days and it was heartening to see many people coming forward to plant a sapling and maintain it,” said Mr. Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kmc-plants-50000-saplings/article35272575.ece
12 July 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore district registers 195 new infections, 1 death||Recoveries continued to outnumber fresh coronavirus cases in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, which reported 480 new infections in the past 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. The toll rose to 1,867 in the region as one patient each died due of COVID in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts, which so far accounted for 943 and 924 deaths respectively, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As many as 195 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 285 in Prakasam district tested positive for the infection during the period, while 418 patients in Prakasam and 263 in SPSR Nellore district recovered from the disease. The active caseload came down to 2,530 in SPSR Nellore district and 3,307 in Prakasam district. So far, over 2.46 lakh affected with COVID in the region, including more than 1.20 lakh in Prakasam district, have won the battle against the disease. Action plan Meanwhile, Nellore district administration prepared an action plan to combat a potential third wave in August. As many as 5,000 persons are being subjected to testing in the district every day. All the beds in the designated COVID-19 hospitals were being equipped with oxygen facility. There could be no room for complacency, Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said and directed the urban and rural local bodies to impose fine on those violating COVID norms. About 39% of the district population had been vaccinated so far. He wanted the health workers to continue the fever survey at the grassroots level to identify all symptomatic persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-district-registers-195-new-infections-1-death/article35272576.ece
12 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan, KCR raking up needless row over Krishna waters’||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrashekhar Rao are enacting a drama to cheat the people by raking up a needless controversy over the sharing of Krishna waters, BJP State President Somu Veerraju has alleged. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Veerraju further alleged that both Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Mr. Rao were hand-in-glove in the entire issue. If the State government was sincere in a finding a solution to the issue, it should take it up with appropriate constitutional bodies, including the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), instead of taking up public campaigns, he said. Irrigation projects The BJP would take up agitations in every district to press for early completion of a large number of small irrigation projects pending for long to make best use of the available water resources, he said. Mr. Veerraju said 60 projects pending across the State, including Thotapalli, Nagavalli, Veligonda, Gundlakamma and Galeru Nagari, should be completed on a war-footing. It was just not enough to focus attention only on Polavaram project, he added. “The BJP is of the view that rivers are national assets and they should be linked to find a permanent solution to riparian rows,” he said. The drought-prone Prakasam should be allotted at least 10 tmcft of Godavari waters during transfer from the Godavari basin to the Krishna basin, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-kcr-raking-up-needless-row-over-krishna-waters/article35273013.ece
12 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. unresponsive to NIMZ proposed in Prakasam: Veerraju||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Somu Veerraju has alleged that the defence cluster and National Investment Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) proposed by the Centre to spur growth in Prakasam district have remained a non-starter due to the ‘lukewarm response’ from the State government. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Veerraju said the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman G. Satheesh Reddy, whom he had met in New Delhi recently, had expressed eagerness on promoting defence manufacturing units in the district. “However, the State government has not responded positively to the grounding of the major infrastructure project at Donakonda,” he alleged. “The previous TDP government had shown little interest in taking forward the NIMZ project mooted by the Centre near Kanigiri. So is the YSRCP government. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should release a white paper, detailing the benefits that would accrue to the backward district including job creation and take steps for grounding of the project,” said Mr. Veerraju. He further accused the YSRCP government of sadding the State with more debts by mortgaging the public assets when the Centre was pumping in huge funds for development of highways, railways, ports, airports, parks and gymnasiums under various schemes including the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Fishing harbour “The Centre has sanctioned four fishing harbour berths worth Rs. 1,600 crore to Andhra Pradesh, but the State government has not come forward to chip in with its 40% contribution for the purpose. With no clear vision of the State government in this regard, fishermen are migrating to Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, which have a vibrant maritime policy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-unresponsive-to-defence-cluster-nimz-proposed-in-prakasam-veerraju/article35272578.ece
12 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Visakhapatnam Steel Plant will not be privatised’||Even as the BJP-led Central government has given approval in principle for 100% disinvestment of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited(RINL), party’s State president Somu Veerraju on Sunday maintained that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) would not be privatised. “I am categorically saying that the steel plant will not be privatised,” he repeatedly told the media here after the reporters posed a barrage of questions on the fate of the the country’s first shore-based integrated steel plant.” “There has been a big hue and cry on the issued made by many politial parties in the State. But, why no question was raised over the privatisation spree of the State-run dairies, sugar mills and spinning mills,” asked Mr. Veerraju and said there should be a simultaneous debate on the privatisation of public sector units in the State too. Calling for stern action to stop the alleged illegal mining of laterite in Visakhapatnam district, Mr. Veerraju alleged that illegal mining of mineral wealth including sand had been continuing nabated during the YSR Congress Party’s rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-steel-plant-will-not-be-privatised/article35273014.ece
12 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electric vehicles will be given a push: Somu Veerraju||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre is making all-out efforts to promote alternative fuel and electric vehicles in the wake of fossil fuel crossing the Rs. 100-mark, BJP Andhra Pradesh unit chief Somu Veerraju said on Sunday. Attributing the present predicament to over-dependence on crude oil imports, he told a media conference here that States should cooperate with the Centre to make available petrol and diesel at reduced rates. The State government on its part should reduce hefty taxes imposed on petrol and diesel and agree to the proposal to bring them under Goods and Services Tax(GST) regime, he said. Efforts were on to bring vehicles that could run by mixing ethanol with petrol up to 40% as hydrocarbon deposits would not last forever, he added. He also said electric vehicles that use alternative sources of energy, including solar power, would also be promoted by the Centre on a large scale in keeping with global energy transition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/electric-vehicles-will-be-given-a-push-somu-veerraju/article35272995.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases in Kerala maintain flat course||Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) remained unchanged at 10.48%, and the State reported 12,220 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The State added 97 recent deaths to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities and there were 1,14,844 active cases. The number of newly hospitalised patients stood at 2,279 and moderate or severe cases in hospitals increased to 24,854 in all. Total ICU admissions dropped to 1,943 and patients on ventilator support to 707 from 744. The cumulative case burden was 30,65,336 cases. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 1,861, Kozhikode 1,428, Thrissur 1,307, Ernakulam 1,128, Kollam 1,012, Thiruvananthapuram 1,009, Palakkad 909, Kannur 792, Kasaragod 640, Kottayam 609, Alappuzha 587, Wayanad 397, Pathanamthitta 299, and Idukki 242 cases. Cases drop below 2,000 Case numbers in Karnataka dropped to under 2,000, and stood at 1,978. Mortality for the day stood at 56, taking the total to 35,835. In Bengaluru Urban, fresh cases were below 500 at 433, while districts that reported over 100 new cases were Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Mysuru, Shivamogga and Tumakuru. Active cases stood at 36,737, while total positive cases so far rose to 28,71,298. The TPR for the day was 1.24% for 1,58,898 tests, while 89,037 vaccination doses were administered. Andhra Pradesh reported 16 more coronavirus deaths and 2,665 new infections on Sunday. The death toll crossed the 13,000-mark. Seven districts have witnessed more than a thousand deaths each till date. The cumulative case tally rose to 19,22,843 and active cases to 28,680. The TPR of 91,677 samples was 2.91%. East Godavari district reported four more deaths, Chittoor and Guntur three each and Srikakulam two, Krishna, Visakhapatnam, Prakasam and Nellore reported one death each and five districts reported zero deaths. East Godavari district also reported the highest single-day infections at 529, followed by Chittoor (353), West Godavari (293), Prakasam (285), Krishna (281), Guntur (223), Nellore (195), Kadapa (161), Visakhapatnam (112), Anantapur (106), Srikakulam (56), Vizianagaram (38) and Kurnool (33). A sharp drop in cases was observed in Telangana on Sunday as test numbers fell by around 35,000. Normal daily testing was of the order of over one lakh samples, and in the past few days, around 700 positive cases were being detected. However, on Sunday, only 65,007 samples were tested, returning 465 positives. The new cases included 70 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 42 from Karimnagar, 33 from Suryapet and 32 from Khammam. On Sunday, four more patients succumbed to COVID-19, pushing up the death toll to 3,729. The State’s total case tally stood at 6,31,683 with 10,316 active cases.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cases-in-kerala-maintain-flat-course/article35272372.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more Zika cases take Kerala’s tally to 18||Three more persons have tested positive for Zika virus (ZIKV) in Kerala, taking the total number of infections reported so far to 18. So far, lab-confirmed diagnosis of ZIKV has been reported only from Thiruvananthapuram. However, given the high density of Aedes species of mosquitoes across the State, the virus could be in circulation across the State. ZIKV was confirmed in three of the eight samples sent from a private hospital in the city, from where the first ZIKV case had been reported, to the lab in Coimbatore. Two of the samples are of patients who sought treatment at the private hospital, including that of a 10-month-old infant. The third belongs to a hospital employee. Of the 27 samples sent by the State earlier to NIV, Alappuzha, 26 had tested negative. The eight samples, of which three turned out to be positive, were part of the third lot of samples. Major worry Senior Health officials said the focus of the control measures would be on the screening of all pregnant women with fever symptoms as well as initiation of mosquito control measures on a war footing. As microcephaly (a condition in which a baby’s head is smaller in size than normal because of abnormal brain development) caused by ZIKV infection in pregnant women is the primary public health concern, the district administration has sent an alert to ultrasound scan centres and all gynaecologists that special attention be paid to the foetal biometric parameters at the scan at 6-8 weeks. Similar symptoms Sources said that fever with rashes, red eyes and joint pain was being reported in the district from several urban locations since the past four or five months. But as all the samples tested negative for both dengue and chikungunya, not much thought had been given to it. “The possibility of ZIKV never struck us. The symptoms overlap with other viral fevers and that unless one specifically tests for ZIKV, we cannot confirm it,” an official said. A six-member team from the Centre held discussions with State officials on the control measures to be adopted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-zika-cases-take-keralas-tally-to-18/article35272390.ece
12 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online portal to pay for liquor on the cards||The State government has initiated steps to mitigate long queues in front of liquor outlets. For a start, the government plans an online portal with a payment gateway for consumers to purchase legal alcohol. There is no home delivery of liquor. Instead, consumers could collect their buy from a Bevco or Consumer-fed store of their choice. They just need to show the bill send as an SMS to their mobile phone. Bevco outlets will start a separate counter for online customers. Extended timing The government is likely to extend bar and Bevco outlet timings from July 12. It might permit sales from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. instead of from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. The State had also slashed Bevco’s wholesale profit margin to allow bars to resume sales after a 20-day shutdown. Alcohol is prohibitively taxed in the State and puts an estimated Rs. 14,000 crore into the treasury annually. A senior official said the meandering queues in front of liquor stores were reminiscent of bread lines in strife-torn countries. The “demeaning spectacle” undervalued consumers and did not augur well for a State aspiring to evolve as a knowledge-based society and global investment destination. HC raps govt. The High Court had also criticised the government for relegating liquor buyers to a subaltern position and risking their health by causing them to swamp State-run outlets to purchase legal liquor during the COVID-19 pandemic. The court had given the administration time till next week to cobble together a coherent strategy to reduce crowds in front of liquor outlets.  An Excise official pointed out that most Bevco outlets operated out of dingy buildings. The dearth of liquor stores was the leading cause for the snaking queues in front of Bevco outlets. While Tamil Nadu has a liquor store for every 14,000 persons and Karnataka for every 10,000, a liquor store in the State caters to an estimated 1.13 lakh persons, an official said. Karnataka has 3,300 private liquor stores and the government runs 938 outlets. The Tamil Nadu government operates 5,500 retail liquor outlets. In comparison, Kerala has only 306 outlets. New outlets The LDF is likely to deliberate whether to open new liquor outlets and cut back on the number of dry days to prevent hoarding and black-marketing. The tourism sector has protested the “irrationally high” number of dry days in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-portal-to-pay-for-liquor-on-the-cards/article35272388.ece
12 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 attend faculty development event||As many as 200 participants from across the country attended the week-long AICTE-ATAL Faculty Development Programme (FDP) conducted by Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV)’s Institute of Pharmaceutical Technology that concluded recently. SPMVV was one of the 72 institutions selected across India to conduct the programme simultaneously via Webex. Vice-Chancellor D. Jamuna found the theme ‘Innovation, incubation and entrepreneurship’ relevant to contemporary times and thanked the AICTE for bestowing the opportunity to the all-women varsity. FDP coordinator Y. Indira Muzib said 15 technical sessions had been conducted during the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-attend-faculty-development-event/article35272997.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New admission policy worries private engineering college managements||The government’s decision to implement the new policy for admission to the engineering and other professional courses from the academic year 2021-22 has triggered disquiet among the managements of the private engineering colleges in the State. Unlike in the past, when 70% of the seats in the Convener Quota (Category-A) were filled by the government based on the students’ merit and the managements were allowed to fill the remaining 30% under the Management Quota (Category-B), the government now intends to take up the admission process for both the categories. “A Government Order to this effect was issued in 2012, but it had not been implemented. In 2020, the Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission had recommended the same, but the government could not go ahead due to lack of preparatory time,” said an official from the Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE). The new admission policy has become a cause for concern for the private engineering colleges, some of which have been accused of fleecing the parents by charging exorbitant fee and donations. Office-bearers of the Andhra Pradesh Private Engineering Colleges Managements’ Association (APPECMA) have been making representations to the officials of the Department of Higher Education, seeking permission to collect a tuition fee for Category-B seats of up to three times the fee fixed for the Convenor Quota seats. G.O. No. 12 issued in March last had allowed the institutions to collect for the Management Quota seats a fee of up to two times the fee notified for the Convener Quota seats. It was, however, superseded by an amendment through a fresh G.O. issued in July that not only withdrew the earlier permission but also substantially brought down the annual fee from the academic year 2020-21. Additional expenditure “To impart quality education, we need to attract quality faculty and pay salaries as per the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. We are also required to maintain premium status and secure accreditations of the National Board of Accreditation (NBA), National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). This is important to ensure good placements of the students,” said president of the association Choppa Gangi Reddy. “Special training is also imparted to students in coding, languages such as python and data mining, apart from soft skills. We incur an additional expenditure on it,” pointed out M. Sridhar, general secretary of the association. Asserting that their colleges played an important role in shaping the future of the students, the association leaders urged the government to consider allowing them to charge a fee of up to three times the fee notified for the seats under the Convener Quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-admission-policy-worries-private-engineering-college-managements/article35273020.ece
12 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop move to increase capacity of RLIS at Srisailam, says TDP||The TDP has asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to drop the proposal to increase the capacity of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) at Srisailam from 44,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Sunday, TDP MLAs Gottipati Ravi Kumar, Dola Bala Veeranjaneya Swamy, and Eluri Sambasiva Rao said that any further increase in the capacities of the projects at Srisailam would lead to reduced, or zero water release to the lower Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir. “This will severely affect the farmers of Prakasam district who are heavily dependent on the Sagar waters for both irrigation and drinking water needs,” they said. The TDP MLAs said that Prakasam district was known for its proneness to drought and lack of water supply. “In a 15-year period, the district receives normal rainfall only for three years, and in the remaining 12 years it experiences drought. During 2014-20, the district received water from Nagarjuna Sagar only for two years. For the remaining five years, water was supplied only for drinking purposes,” they said. “Over four lakh acres out of the total 11 lakh acres of cultivable land has turned into a desert due to lack of water supply. Farmers of Darsi, Addanki and Yarragondapalem completely depend on water from Nagarjuna Sagar, while those from Kondepi, Parchuru, Santanutalapadu and Ongole partially depend on it. If the Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir does not receive the required water from Srisailam, the Prakasam farmers will face a severe crisis,” the TDP leaders said. They further said that water would be released to Nagarjuna Sagar only when the Srisailam reservoir was full and reached 885 ft. “But Andhra Pradesh and Telangana projects are lifting water from the Srisailam project at the the levels of 825 ft and 805 ft. More than 1 lakh cusecs are being lifted at Srisailam even before the water level touched 850 ft,” they said, and called for proper regulation at the Srisailam project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-move-to-increase-capacity-of-rlis-at-srisailam-says-tdp/article35273018.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more deaths take State’s COVID toll beyond 13,000||The State reported 16 more coronavirus deaths and 2,665 new infections in 24 hours, ending Sunday morning. The death toll have crossed the 13,000-mark, with a rate of 0.68%. Seven districts have witnessed more than a thousand deaths each till date, while Chittoor, East Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam districts account for 56% of the total deaths reported in the State. The last 1,000 deaths were reported in 27 days, while it took just 14 days for the number to reach from 11,000 to 12,000. The cumulative tally increased to 19,22,843, while the recovery count went up to 18,81,161, with a rate of 97.83%. In the past day, 3,231 patients recovered and the number of active cases was out at 28,680. Test positivity rate The test positivity rate of the 91,677 samples tested in the past day was put at 2.91%, the lowest in the past several weeks. The positivity rate of the 2.29 crore samples tested remain at 8.37%. East Godavari district reported four more deaths, while Chittoor and Guntur reported three each and Srikakulam reported two. Krishna, Visakhapatnam, Prakasam and Nellore reported one death each and five districts reported zero deaths in the past day. East Godavari district also reported highest single-day infection tally of 529. It was followed by Chittoor (353), West Godavari (293), Prakasam (285), Krishna (281), Guntur (223), Nellore (195), Kadapa (161), Visakhapatnam (112), Anantapur (106), Srikakulam (56), Vizianagaram (38) and Kurnool (33).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-more-deaths-take-states-covid-toll-beyond-13000/article35273007.ece
12 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. seeks interest subsidy for energy efficiency projects||The State government has urged the Centre to introduce an interest subvention scheme to encourage entrepreneurs, particularly those associated with the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector, to implement energy efficiency projects on a larger scale. In this regard, the Energy Department has written a letter to the Ministry of Power, requesting it to provide at least 5% interest subsidy for rolling out the scheme. Energy Secretary N. Srikant stated in the letter that Andhra Pradesh had been playing a proactive role in ‘energy efficiency movement’ to achieve savings to the tune of around 25% i.e. 15,000 Million units (MU) of the total annual energy demand of 61,818 MU in commercial, domestic, municipal, industrial and agricultural sectors. Till date, the energy savings achieved in the State has been put at 2,932 MU, with the monetary savings of Rs. 2,014 crore. State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy stated that Andhra Pradesh was implementing various energy conservation and energy efficiency programmes with the support of Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE). In building sector, the government is poised to implement the Energy Conservation Building Code to yield energy savings. PAT scheme In industrial sector, the State has been successful in implementing the Perform, Achieve & Trade (PAT) scheme and achieved savings of 0.21 MTOE and 0.25 MTOE in cycle- I and II. In MSME sector, the Internet of Things technology was introduced in 43 units of the targeted 65. The Commissionerate of Industries has adopted an action plan for the roll out of IoT across the spectrum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-seeks-interest-subsidy-for-energy-efficiency-projects/article35273008.ece
12 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI to join all-party visit to Polavaram on July 16||The CPI has condemned the “forcible eviction” of the Polavaram project displaced persons without providing them proper Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package. At the State Secretariat meeting held here on Sunday, the CPI also decided to take part in the all-party visit to the Polavaram project site on July 16, and vowed to fight for the cause of the oustees. Disclosing the details of the meeting, party State secretary K. Ramakrishna said in a statement that the CPI was opposed to the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). He said the party also decided to launch an agitation against the alleged bauxite mining in the Agency areas. Stating that the CPI would extend its support to the student organisations’ agitation against the job calendar released recently, Mr. Ramakrishna said that as per the Finance Department, there were 2.35 lakh vacancies in the State. Referring to the housing programme, he said the government had earlier promised to constrict the housing units, but was now asking the beneficiaries to build the houses on their own. The Rs. 1.80 lakh being sanctioned for the construction of houses was now sufficient event to lay the foundation, Mr. Ramakrishna added. He accused the government of paying a deaf ear to the party’s demand for allocation of at least 1.5 cents of land in the urban areas for the shelter-less people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-to-join-all-party-visit-to-polavaram-on-july-16/article35273016.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure over bay triggers rainfall||Several parts of the State received light to heavy rainfall under the influence a low pressure formed over the west-central and its adjoining north-west Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Sunday. According to IMD and the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA), similar weather may continue . Some places may see heavy rain. As per the IMD’s inference, the low pressure area with the associated cyclonic circulation persists. APSDMA Commissioner K. Kanna Babu cautioned fishermen against venturing into the sea till Tuesday in view of the inclement weather. He said the coast might experience strong winds reaching a speed up to 65 kmph and heavy to very heavy rain may occur. The IMD warned of the prevalence of similar weather till Friday. During 24 hours, Veeravasaram, Palakoderu and Bhimavaram mandals in West Godavari, Visakhapatnam rural, Paravada and Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district, Amadalavalasa and Ichchapuram in Srikakulam and Sullurpet of Nellore recorded 50 mm to 90 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-over-bay-triggers-rainfall/article35273005.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aashaada saare presented to goddess Kanaka Durga||Aashaada maasam celebrations began on a grand note at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam here on Sunday with the temple priests and vaidika staff presenting ‘Aashaada saare’(a kind of presentation given to a married woman by parents or brothers) to goddess Kanaka Durga. On behalf of the vaidika and archaka staff, sthanacharya Vishnubhatla Sivaprasada Sarma presented the Aashaada sare and ‘mayua hara’, a golden necklace, worth Rs. 3.30 lakh, to the deity. Temple Executive Officer said devotees who are interested in offering saare can contact 9493545253 or 8341547300. Donations can be made from July 11 to August 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aashaada-saare-presented-to-goddess-kanaka-durga/article35272580.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. flays Centre’s ‘silence’ on Krishna water dispute||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath lashed out at the BJP-led Centre for its ‘failure’ to intervene and sort out the Krishna water row between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “On the eve of State bifurcation, the then UPA government at the Centre had announced Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh, besides many other development projects. But the NDA government never fulfilled it. Even after seven years of coming to the power, the promised projects such as Visakhapatnam railway zone and Dugarajapatnam port are yet to be a reality,” said Mr. Sailajanath. He alleged that the YSRCP was ‘incompetent’ to question the Centre’s ‘skewed policies’. He also criticised the BJP leaders from A.P. for their ‘failure to protest against the injustice being meted out to the State by their party leadership at the Centre’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-flays-centres-silence-on-krishna-water-dispute/article35273064.ece
12 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID to probe ‘irregularities’ in FiberNet||The government issued an order entrusting the inquiry into the alleged irregularities in the finalisation of a tender by the Andhra Pradesh State FiberNet Limited (APSFL), to the CID. According to the G.O (RT.No.85) , APSFL Chairman P. Goutham Reddy submitted a report on the lapses in finalising a tender in favour of a contractor and sought a probe into it preferably by the CID. The government directed the Additional Director General of Police of CID to investigate the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-to-probe-irregularities-in-fibernet/article35273009.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groceries distributed||Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi distributed groceries to over 500 beneficiaries in the Vijayawada West constituency on Sunday. The groceries were donated by Akshaya Patra Foundation. Ms. Bhagya Lakshmi said many people were facing trouble during the pandemic due to lack of work and income. She said more donors should come forward to help the needy, and appreciated the foundation for its gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/groceries-distributed/article35273060.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More infections in Vijayawada division||While the incidence of COVID-19 infections in the city has come down, the Vijayawada revenue division comprising the areas surrounding the city and the mandals in the western part of the district has been witnessing a rise in infections. During the past two days, the district reported 531 infections, 260 of them in the Vijayawada division, while only 51 were reported in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits. For many weeks, the Nuzvid division witnessed a rise in cases due to the prevalence of the virus in the mandals bordering Telangana. During the last two days, the Nuzvid division reported only 130 infections. As many as 1,628 infections and 21 deaths were reported in the district in the past week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-infections-in-vijayawada-division/article35273061.ece
12 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club holds executive body meeting||The new executive body meeting of the Rotary Club, Vijayawada Mid Town for the 2021-2022 financial year was conducted in virtual mode on Sunday. Rotary International Director A.S. Venkatesh, who participated as the chief guest, urged the members to intensify the service activities in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-holds-executive-body-meeting/article35273063.ece
12 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM congratulate Sirisha||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy congratulated Guntur-born Sirisha Bandla, who travelled to space. Mr. Jagan said it’s a proud moment for the State as Ms. Sirisha flew on Virgin Galactic spaceflight, and wished her luck . The trajectory of the 34-year-old aeronautical engineer had been amazing as she reached great heights to be the second India-born woman in space, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-congratulate-sirisha/article35273021.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists demand release of new job calendar by State government||The CPI(Maoists) has extended support to the students and unions protesting against the job calendar, which was recently released by the State government. Secretary of Visakha East Division Committee of the organisation Aruna released an audio tape here on Sunday in which she lashed out at the State government and appealed to people to fight against the policies of the government. Ms. Aruna said that during his padayatra Mr. Jagan had promised to provide 2.30 lakh jobs to solve unemployment problem in the State if voted to power. Two years after coming to power on June 17, the State government released a job calendar with just 10,000 jobs, disappointing the unemployed youth, who had high hopes of getting jobs under the new government, she alleged. Since this is a genuine cause, the CPI(Maoists) is supporting the youth and the unemployed youth associations, Ms. Aruna said. The Maoist leader alleged that in the last three years, there was no recruitment in the State. Moreover with the New Education Policy, about 24,000 primary schools in the State were being shut down, jeopardising the future of about 37,000 teachers, she alleged. “Every year, around 3 lakh students are passing out of degree colleges, and are waiting for jobs in the State. In Visakhapatnam district alone, around 3 lakh students are preparing for various competitive examinations,” she said. While notifications had to be issued for filling up of 2,000 posts under Group I and II categories, the State government has released just 36 posts, she said. Ms. Aruna demanded that the State government release a new job calendar with 2.30 lakh jobs notification as promised. She also demanded that notification be given for about 2,000 posts under Group I and II categories. She said that the State government should fill up about 20,000 vacant posts in the Engineering Department. An additional 740 vacant posts in the Revenue Department should be filled through the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission, Ms. Aruna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-demand-release-of-new-job-calendar-by-state-government/article35273004.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5,000 staff participate in slum development survey on first day||Around 5,000 staff from various secretariats took part in the slum development survey organised by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) here on Sunday. There are 793 slums in the GVMC limits. The secretariat staff had visited the slums located in all the zones and organised the survey. They collected details on the number of people living in each house, overall population and checked proof of residence. The residents also informed the staff about the issues in the locality. It was learnt that in many of the slums, people complained about bad roads, improper drains, drinking water and lack of permanent houses. The volunteers were instructed to collect all the details, check residence proofs and incorporate them in an app launched by the corporation. However in some areas, the volunteers faced troubles due to technical glitches in the app. The GVMC officials asked them to note down the details on paper and upload them in the app later. GVMC Commisioner G. Srijana inspected the survey at Vinayak Nagar, Ambedkar Colony and a few other areas. The programme began around 8 a.m., since the city witnessed rain early in the morning. There were a few technical glitches due to overload on app, but they were rectified. “We plan to complete the survey in all the 793 slums by tomorrow evening. Since we already have lot of data regarding boundaries of slums, population, lack of facilities in the slums, this exercise is more of a cross-checking. We plan to provide amenities in the slums based on the priorities,” Ms. Srijana said. Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Mohammed Nazir alleged that the the GVMC is creating panic among the people living in slums by conducting such surveys. In a release on Sunday, Mr. Nazir said that the volunteers were enquiring about the Aadhaar card, ration card, details of house owners, gas connection details and receipt of property tax. The State government had removed names of a number of white ration card holders earlier due to various reasons. People fear that they could face problems due to these surveys, he alleged. The TDP leader said that before taking such survey, the GVMC should have organised a discussion on it in the GVMC council and obtained its approval apart from creating awareness about the survey among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5000-staff-participate-in-slum-development-survey-on-first-day/article35273079.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resolution passed by Assembly against VSP privatisation not sent to Council, says PDF||Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) floor leader in the A.P. Legislative Council V. Balasubrahmanyam has extended support to the relay hunger strike being organised on the banner of the All Trade Unions, People’s Organisations Vizag Steel Plant and Public Sector Undertakings Protection Committee, at the Gandhi statue here on Sunday. Employees of the Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) participated in the 101st day of the relay hunger strike. The PDF leader, who is on a visit to the city, visited the camp and expressed solidarity. Addressing the participants, Mr. Balasubrahmanyam commended the workers and leaders of various trade unions, who were making sustained efforts to save the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). He alleged that the adamant attitude of the Union government was an indication of its policies of privatisation and corporatisation of PSUs. The BJP leaders were trying to fool people by saying that there was no cause for worry as the VSP would remain in Visakhapatnam and it would not be closed down, he said. The PSUs work for the cause of the people, provide employment to the youth and implement the rule of reservation, which was not the case with private organisations, he said. The PDF leader said that a resolution was passed in the Assembly by the YSR Congress Party government on the issue. But it was not sent to the Legislative Council. On the reason for not sending it to the council, the YSR Congress Party leaders say they do not want to hurt the BJP members in the Council, he said. FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma, UTF district secretary Appa Rao and leaders of HSL unions participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resolution-passed-by-assembly-against-vsp-privatisation-not-sent-to-council-says-pdf/article35273072.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Processions banned’||The Rathams (chariots) of Sri Jagannadha Swamy temples in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts should be confined to the respective temples and should not be taken out in a procession during the Ratha Yatra festival to be organised from July 12 to 22. The decoration of the deity in the ‘Dasavatharas’ should also be confined to the temple premises only, according to Deputy Commissioner of Endowments V. Pushpavardhan. The decision was taken after a meeting with Endowments Commissioner P. Arjuna Rao, Visakhapatnam Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy and Regional Joint Commissioner (Endowments) M.V. Suresh Babu, to check the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/processions-banned/article35273003.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRIs donate oxygen cylinders, concentrators||Non-Resident Indians living in the USA, have donated 1,000 ‘D’ type oxygen cylinders, for use in government hospitals in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts in view of the threat of the COVID-19 third wave. While 500 oxygen cylinders would be utilised in Visakhapatnam district, 250 each would be used in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. In addition to this, 63 oxygen concentrators were donated to Sri Sathya Sai Trust, Anantapur, and 10 oxygen concentrators were donated for use in North Andhra districts. The donors are: Gopalakrishna Vaddi of Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district, Madhav Devalaraja of Kurnool district and Nagaraju Kanneboyina of Dr. YSR district. Deepak Padmakumar, an IFS Officer in Beijing, coordinated the transport, logistics and import of the healthcare equipment from China to Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nris-donate-oxygen-cylinders-concentrators/article35273002.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 kg hashish oil seized, three students held||The police arrested three youth, while they were allegedly transporting 3 kg liquid ganja, also called as hashish oil or hash oil, at V Madugula area in the Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. Though the hashish oil was procured for Rs. 90,000 in the Agency areas of the district, the police estimate that it could be sold for around Rs. 3 lakh. The arrested were identified as Pavithran (22) and Surya Murali (23), both from Vellore district in Tamil Nadu, and S. Tilak (22) of Rajamahendravaram, all students pursuing B.Tech. and B.Sc., Three more accused — Reddy of Paderu, Krishna of Chittoor district and driver Rahul — are absconding. According to the police, Krishna had asked the three youth to collect the hashish oil from Reddy. Krishna had promised to give Rs. 30,000 and some quantity of ganja to the youth if they do the job. The trio along with another person had come to Paderu from Chennai in a car recently and collected the hashish oil from Reddy. Based on credible information, the district police organised checks on the Ghat Road at M.Kotapadu village and the team of V Madugula SI Rama Rao intercepted the car and seized the hashish oil. The police also seized a laptop, two mobile phones and the vehicle. A case was registered. Ganja seized, two held In another case, the police arrested two youth, A. Kiran (19) and B. Roshan Raju (20) from Simhachalam, while they were allegedly transporting 33 kg ganja at K.J. Puram village under V.Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam district, on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-kg-hashish-oil-seized-three-students-held/article35273076.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red Cross to conduct free surgeries for cleft lip||Cleft lip and palate is occurring in a child for every 100 births and timely treatment can cure the problem. Consanguineous marriages, lack of nutrition, smoking and alcohol consumption during pregnancy are some of the causes, says A. Sridhar Reddy, chairman, Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), A.P. Branch. Contact details Thousands of children born with the problem, have been treated free of cost and appealed to parents to consult Kanakeswara Rao, coordinator, on his mobile no. 99666 13754 for details. Dr. Sridhar Reddy said that apart from free surgeries, free transport and accommodation was being provided to needy children and their parents. The surgeries have to be done in a phased manner at the age of 3 months, 18 months and finally at seven or eight years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-cross-to-conduct-free-surgeries-for-cleft-lip/article35273001.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sankar Foundation to start eye hospital||Sankar Foundation Eye Hospital, Visakhapatnam, will shortly launch an eye hospital in Srikakulam. This was disclosed by managing trustee and CEO Manimala at a press meet here on Saturday. According to her, the hospital is nearing completion and will be inaugurated shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankar-foundation-to-start-eye-hospital/article35273071.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP sanctions Rs. 20 lakh for cataract surgeries||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL)-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant has sanctioned Rs. 20 lakh (Rs. 10 lakh each to Visakha Eye Hospital Trust and Sankar Foundation) for performing cataract surgeries, free of cost to 600 poor and needy patients, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. V. Santa Kumar, Chief General Manager (F&A), spoke on the need for such initiatives at a function held at the Administration Building of RINL-VSP on Saturday. K. Satya Narayana, CGM (HR & CSR), signed the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on behalf of the RINL-VSP, with Sankar Foundation and Visakha Eye Hospital Trust and dwelt on the background of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-sanctions-rs-20-lakh-for-cataract-surgeries/article35273067.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swachh Bharat campaign held||An awareness campaign was conducted by the HPCL, Visakh refinery, in association with Waltair Division of East Coast Railway as part the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan being organised at the Visakhapatnam railway station. A Swachhata pledge was administered by Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava to the gathering .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swachh-bharat-campaign-held/article35273068.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death and 112 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 112 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,50,526. The death toll has also increased to 1,036 after one more person succumbed to the coronavirus. On a positive note, the number of active cases has dropped to below 2,000 and stands at 1,988. As many as 171 persons, undergoing treatment for the virus, have recovered in the last 24 hours. This takes the recoveries to 1,47,502.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-and-112-new-cases/article35273074.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three persons drown while crossing river||Three persons reportedly drowned while crossing the Sarada river near Bangarumetta area in Butchayyapeta mandal in the Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as G. Ramu (48) and S. Srinu (45) of Vaddadi, and S. Darakonda (60) from Narsipatnam. All were masons. According to the police, the trio had gone to P Agraharam village in the mandal for some work. The mishap allegedly occurred when they were returning from P Agraharam and heading towards Vaddadi village by crossing the river. The bodies were fished out with the help of the Fire Department personnel and swimmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-persons-drown-while-crossing-river/article35273080.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quick response saves life of youth||Quick response by a woman police constable and two community guards saved the life of a youth who went missing in the sea here on Sunday. According to sources, one Akkireddy Nagendra of Gajuwaka area allegedly went missing in the sea, opposite Police Mess area, on Sunday afternoon. Constable G. Jyothi alerted the community/life guards B. Ramesh and M. Appalaraju who immediately saved the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quick-response-saves-life-of-youth/article35273081.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haribabu felicitated by Waltair Club||Kambhampati Haribabu, who was appointed Governor of Mizoram, was felicitated by members of the Waltair Club here on Sunday. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, MLC P.V.N. Madhav and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haribabu-felicitated-by-waltair-club/article35273073.ece
12 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use helmets, motorists urged||The district police have appealed to motorists to wear a helmet. In a press release on Sunday, SP B. Krishna Rao said that a majority of fatalities in two-wheeler accident cases was taking place due to not wearing a helmet or using a poor quality one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-helmets-motorists-urged/article35273077.ece
12 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||25-bed hospital comes up at Gurudeva Trust||Former Union Minister of State for Animal Husbandry Pratap Chandra Sarangi on Sunday urged people to treat physically challenged persons with respect and dignity since they were second to none in their abilities. They had faced many troubles during the COVID-19 pandemic as they couldn’t get proper medical aid in time. He formally inaugurated a newly constructed 25-bed hospital on Gurudeva Charitable Trust premises at Mangalampalem in the district. He said that free medical treatment for poor patients was the need of the hour. People would gain real happiness when they sacrificed something for others. S.Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao commended the efforts of the trust founder Raparathi Jagadish Babu in establishing the hospital with all the infrastructure and mobilising doctors and staff to provide treatment for patients in rural areas. Steel Exchange India Limited joint MD B. Suresh Kumar, BJP State medical cell in-charge V. Subrahmanya Sharma and AP BC Rajaka Corporation director E. Yuvasri were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-bed-hospital-comes-up-at-gurudeva-trust/article35272996.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS police stop MLA from visiting Pulichintala||Mr. Udaya Bhanu could not cross the barricades erected by the Telangana police, who were deployed in large numbers there ever since tension escalated following the drawal of water by Telangana for power generation allegedly without necessary clearances, including from the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). Addressing the media later, Mr. Udaya Bhanu said Telangana was drawing water to generate 120 MW “in blatant violation of the established protocol,” as per which the irrigation requirements in both the States were to be met first before utilising the water for power generation. ‘Water wasted’ He pointed out that massive quantities of surplus river water (about 75 tmcft) was wasted as Telangana kept drawing water by ignoring Andhra Pradesh’s “legitimate right to utilise its allocations.” Mr. Udaya Bhanu maintained that A.P. as well as Telangana were bound by the awards of the Bachawat Tribunal. It was Telangana that benefited the most out of the Krishna river water as former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had built more projects in that region, the MLA said, and demanded that Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao should help in reaching an amicable settlement and refrain from making provocative comments on the sensitive issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-police-stop-mla-from-visiting-pulichintala/article35273039.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Favourite haunt||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/favourite-haunt/article35273070.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS police stop YSRCP MLA from visiting Pulichintala||Mr. Udaya Bhanu maintained that A.P. as well as Telangana were bound by the awards of the Bachawat Tribunal. It was Telangana that benefited the most out of the Krishna river water as former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had built more projects in that region, the MLA said, and demanded that Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao should help in reaching an amicable settlement and refrain from making provocative comments on the sensitive issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-police-stop-ysrcp-mla-from-visiting-pulichintala/article35272989.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balancing-act/article35273000.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beefing up security||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beefing-up-security/article35273066.ece
12 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL unions seek fresh verification of membership||The major central trade unions operating in the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) have reiterated their appeal to the management of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) to conduct immediate fresh verification of membership of the unions through secret ballot to facilitate election of the recognised union of the government-owned coal company. Representatives of the CITU-affiliated SCEU, the AITUC-affiliated SCWU, the INTUC-affiliated SCML, the BMS-affiliated SCMKS, and the HMS-affiliated SM&EWU submitted memoranda to this effect to the SCCL management and also to the Regional Labour Commissioner, Union Ministry of Labour & Employment in Hyderabad on Friday. In the memorandum, leaders of the five major trade unions, constituents of the Joint Bipartite Committee for the Coal Industry (JBCCI), deplored that despite expiry of the two-year term of the Telangana Boggu Ghani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS), which won the recognised union status in the elections held in October 2017, the date of conduct of recognised union election was yet to be notified. They urged the SCCL management and the Ministry of Labour to expeditiously complete the process to help redress the grievances and resolve the long-pending issues of the SCCL workforce besides maintaining industrial peace. They suggested that the five trade unions may be allowed to represent and participate in discussions on behalf of the SCCL workforce at the ensuing meeting of the recently constituted National Coal Wage Agreement (NCWA)-XI for wage increase, welfare measures and other fringe benefits, in case of any delay in taking up the process of fresh verification of membership of the unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-unions-seek-fresh-verification-of-membership/article35272855.ece
12 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SP: Maoists using children for their needs||Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt has alleged that some top-rung Maoist leaders were using gullible tribal children as ‘guards’ and ‘cooks’ in their hideouts. In a statement issued here on Sunday, the SP said they had credible information that several tribal children were engaged in cooking by some Central Committee members of the banned outfit in “blatant violation” of child rights. “The ultras are forcibly imparting arms training to several children,” he charged. “We appeal to the human rights and child rights organisations to rescue the hapless children from the clutches of the ultras,” the SP said, adding that the police department will extend its full cooperation to these organisations in protecting the rights of children. He said police had so far rescued 14 child labourers and booked cases against those who engaged them under “Operation Muskaan” in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sp-maoists-using-children-for-their-needs/article35272838.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RT-PCR, RAT can detect prevailing COVID variants||‘Gold standard’ RT-PCR test and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) continue to work well and there is no evidence whatsoever to show that any of the existing COVID variants could escape the diagnostics, including the currently-dominant Delta variant across the world, said scientists of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). “RAT is designed against the ‘N’ gene which is relatively well conserved in any of the variants and so is less likely to escape. Going by the trend, Delta variant too is unlikely to escape. RT-PCR tests are designed across the genome and have multiple targets for the virus so chances of any variant escaping is very rare,” informed scientist Divya Tej Sowpati at a webinar organised recently. While there have been instances of RT-PCR tests showing ‘false negatives’, he suggests the individual concerned stay quarantined within a week in case of any obvious symptoms like fever, cold, body pains, and redo the test. “It is extremely rare for two ‘false negatives’ to come out of RT-PCR testing, hence most testing kits continue to be valid,” he said. Dr. Tej said while he was not in vaccine-based research, he could say that there was no co-relation in stating that variants which escape the diagnostic tests can also prevent the anti-bodies formation due to vaccination. “Protection from anti-bodies depend on the spike proteins and the likes,” he said, in the online event organised by PATH and Rockfeller Foundation. Virus variants do have an “advantage” in breaking the vaccine immunity but the vaccines are definitely effective against “severe or symptomatic form of disease at 97% infection, so the for the variant advantage stops there,” said the scientist. Lab consortium The recently-formed consortium of eight labs is to help upscale coronavirus genomic surveillance and to complement the national efforts led by INSACOG - Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium which will help in genome sequencing of the virus. This is to keep a watch out for virus ‘variants of concern’ - showing immune escape mutations, potential to escape diagnostics and changes in receptor binding to the hots and of ‘virus variants of interest’ - evidence of increased infectivity, possibly associated with severe disease and evidence of vaccine escaping immunity - among the population. The effort is to collect COVID samples from a wide geographic spread but at times more samples are collected from areas where there was specific outbreaks, super spreader events, more cases being reported from a particular hospital and so on, explained Dr. Tej.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rt-pcr-rat-can-detect-prevailing-covid-variants/article35272818.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bonalu festivities commence on a grand note||The annual Bonalu festivities in the city to coincide with the month-long Telugu calender of Aashada Masam commenced at the traditional temple inside Golconda Fort on Sunday. The celebrations will continue in different parts of the city till August 8 with congregations mainly on Sundays and Thursdays. ‘Thottela’ procession The festivities took off with the ‘thottela’ procession from Langar Houz to the Jagadambika temple in the fort. Idols of different regional forms of Mahankali were taken in the procession led by potharajus. Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy and Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav participated. They presented silk sarees to the deity at the temple on behalf of the government. 501 Bonalu offerings Later, Mr. Yadav led the presentation of 501 Bonalu offerings at Katta Maisamma temple in Lower Tank Bund. The programme was organised by the Shalivahana Association, where the Musheerabad MLA Mutha Gopal was present. Mr. Yadav also inaugurated a procession of ‘ghatalu’ at Ujjaini Mahankali temple in Secunderabad after special prayers. He will participate in a meeting at Salar Jung Museum (SJM) on Monday to discuss arrangements with officials and temple committees on Bonalu in Old City on August 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bonalu-festivities-commence-on-a-grand-note/article35272836.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Connectivity to ORR to be improved||The government has taken up a project to improve the road transport connectivity to the Outer Ring Road (ORR) from the core of the city and surrounding areas which will encompass 1-km stretch on either side of the growth corridor zone of ORR. The annual report of the Municipal Administration & Urban Development for the year 2020-21 which was released on Friday by the Minister for MA & UD K.T. Rama Rao, mentioned that the project for ‘Comprehensive Road Connectivity to ORR’ aims to provide efficient and seamless connectivity between ORR, Inner Ring Road and the core of the city, besides better road connectivity to the newly formed municipalities and urban local bodies within ORR and HMDA. For this, the city area is divided into four sectors based on ORR alignment, namely, Shamshabad Road to Patancheru, Patancheru to Shamirpet, Shamirpet to Pedda Amberpet, and Pedda Amberpet to Shamshabad Road. Consultants have been appointed to carry out detailed study and initiate the project, the report said. Road infrastructure has got the largest chunk of funds in the city projects, while the nala development was turned the Nelson’s Eye during the year 2020-21. Under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), 10 road projects were completed and opened to public in the year, with an expenditure of Rs. 503.28 crore. As part of the phase-I of the Missling Links Project taken up by the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation, 16 link roads covering a distance of 13.56 kilometres were completed and opened forto public with an expenditure of Rs. 154 crore. Six more roads are in progress with an estimated cost of Rs. 121.6 crore. As part of the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Project, under which major corridors have been given out for private upkeep, 383.44 km of road has been re-carpeted, which incurred an expenditure of Rs. 457 crore. Under the Maintenance wing, a total of 4476 works costing Rs. 1100.03 crore were sanctioned, and 2552 works costing Rs. 577.31 crore have been completed. HMDA has completed beautification of Tank Bund road and refurbishment of Necklace Road with a total cost of Rs. 64 crore. GHMC could complete only 383 of the 977 works taken up for storm water development in the city, with an expenditure of Rs. 83 crore. Under the annual desilting plan, 5.15 lakh cubic meters of silt was removed from open nalas and storm water drains, costing Rs. 41.38 crore. The Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP) through got a sanction of Rs. 858 crore from the government, is still at the drawing board stage. Feasibility report has been completed, the document mentioned.  City is divided into four sectors based on ORR alignment — Shamshabad Road to Patancheru, Patancheru to Shamirpet, Shamirpet to Pedda Amberpet, and Pedda Amberpet to Shamshabad Road||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/connectivity-to-orr-to-be-improved/article35272820.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Will remain in Congress’||Bhongir MP and senior Congress leader Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, annoyed after being denied the PCC president post, said that he would continue to remain in the Congress and work in the constituency. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, he refused to be drawn into discussion over the PCC chief issue and said he would not talk about politics now as announced earlier. He, however, said new PCC chief Revanth Reddy was a small figure in the party and asked the media not to rake up the issue with him. He felt there was no big leader to lead the Congress in Telangana. Mr. Venkata Reddy met Union Minister Tourism and Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday and sought his assistance in developing the historic fort in Bhongir town. He said the Bhongir fort had a huge history and was of tremendous tourism value if developed and promoted properly. Places of tourist interest in Telangana had been neglected for long and ‘being a native of Telangana you understand the historic importance of the fort,’ he told the Union Minister and sought help from the Tourism Ministry to promote it. The Minister assured that he would extend all the possible help for Bhongir fort promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-remain-in-congress/article35272848.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||STPP among top 6 thermal generation projects in Q1||The 2×600 megawatt Singareni Thermal Power Project (STPP) at Pegadapalli in Mancherial district has put up remarkable performance during the first quarter, April-June period, of the current financial year by securing sixth place among the 25 best performing thermal power stations across the country with an average plant load factor (PLF) of 92.49%. In April, the PLF of STPP was 98.57% followed by 89% in May and 90% in June. During the first quarter, the power project has generated 2,424 million units (MU) of energy and supplied 2,283 MU to the grid to meet the energy demand in Telangana. In terms of energy sales, the project has achieved 32.83% growth rate during the April-June period this year with a revenue ofRs. 944 crore against Rs. 711 crore achieved during the same period last year. According to officials of the power project, the plant stood in fifth place in 2017-18, the first year of power generation, and in seventh place in 2019-20. Despite overhauling of the two units taken up in 2018-19, the plant secured 16th place among the top thermal projects. “Recently, the plant was given the award for best operations and maintenance and best utilisation of fly ash by Mission Energy Foundation,” Chairman and Managing Director of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd, of which STPP is a subsidiary, N. Sridhar said. The power generation units of the projects also have the distinction of achieving 100% PLF on 15 occasions (month-wise) already with the second unit achieving it nine times and the first unit six times. The plant as a whole has achieved 100% PLF thrice so far in September 2018, February 2019 and February 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stpp-among-top-6-thermal-generation-projects-in-q1/article35272857.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Seasonal disease prevention plan will take sting out of Zika’||The detection of at least 18 cases of Zika virus in Kerala until Sunday evening has put other States on alert. In Telangana, although a general alert has not yet been issued, officials said precautionary measures being taken to prevent vector-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria would also help avoid Zika cases too. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), symptoms of Zika infection are generally mild and include fever, rash, conjunctivitis, headache and muscle and joint pain. “Symptoms typically last for two to seven days. Most people do not develop symptoms. Zika infection during pregnancy can cause infants to be born with microcephaly and other congenital malformations, known as congenital Zika syndrome,” says WHO. Health officials here initiated a slew of precautionary measures before the onset of monsoon to keep vector-borne diseases at bay. They were tasked to identify high-risk areas where the disease incidence was higher last year. A few of the preventive measures include release of Gambusia fish in stagnant water bodies, indoor residual spray, urging people to ensure water does not stagnate in empty or broken vessels, in tyres, coconut shells, or other containers lying around homes. Apart from Zika virus, dengue and chikungunya are spread by infected Aedes mosquitoes. This species breeds in stagnant fresh water. Since it is rainy season, rain water can accumulate in small or big empty containers lying around homes. Besides, many people forget or skip cleaning the water from coolers after summers, but this could turn into a potential breeding ground for the mosquitoes. “We have started to take preventive steps from the past few weeks which helps in prevention of Aedes breeding too,” said additional director at National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (Telangana), G. Amar Singh Naik. Chief entomologist at Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, A. Rambabu said they have started ‘Sunday 10 a.m. 10 Minutes’ programme through which people are encouraged to clear stagnant water in and around their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seasonal-disease-prevention-plan-will-take-sting-out-of-zika/article35272823.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister requests for issuing G.O. promoting Excise officers||Taking cognizance of news reports on long delays in granting promotions to officers in the Telangana Prohibition and Excise department, Minister of the department V. Srinivas Goud has requested Special Chief Secretary (Commercial Tax and Excise) to issue a Government Order (G.O.) within 24 hours effecting promotions to all of the eligible officers as approved in the Department Promotion Committee (DPC). It was reported in these columns that there is deep discontent among several officers in the department over the delays in granting promotions. Pointing out a G.O. issued on May 6, 2021 granting promotion for only 12 people, sources questioned why others were not promoted though many seniors have been waiting for it. Highly placed sources told The Hindu that the Minister cited the report published in these columns in the note addressed to the Special Chief Secretary on Sunday. Mr Srinivas in the letter said that DPC was conducted on January 18, 2021 for effecting promotions to officials in the department in cadres of additional commissioner, joint commissioners, deputy commissioners, assistant commissioners, assistant commissioners and Excise superintendents. “Only 12 officers were promoted in the cadre of deputy commissioner, assistant commissioner, and DPEO (Excise Superintendent) gave postings, and other officers who were approved in the DPC were not promoted nor given postings till date,” the Prohibition and Excise Minister said in the letter. It was learnt the Minister enquired about reasons for the delay in granting promotions though the DPC approved it for all eligible officers in the Excise department on January 18, 2021. The Minister also said that he approved a file on November 7, 2019, to issue postings to the officers reported from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana, and that the postings are pending since November 2019. Citing these two situations, the Minister said that the G.O.s were not issued till date. He said that if the GOs were not issued on the date of DPC approval, seniority fixation of the officials may be affected. “Further, the Chief Minister has issued instructions to resolve all grievances of employees related to promotions and upgrading of posts in all departments,” Mr Srinivas reportedly wrote in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-requests-for-issuing-go-promoting-excise-officers/article35272827.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TJS leader resigns from party||Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) Political Affairs Committee member and Chairman of Prof. Jayashankar Human Resources Development Centre, P. Srishail Reddy resigned from the party. Letter In a letter to Telangana Jana Samithi president M. Kodandaram, he said he was unable to continue in the party as it was not moving towards creating a political platform as expected of it. He thanked Mr. Kodandaram for the association and said he would continue to work for betterment of Telangana. Mr. Reddy is likely to join the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) along with L. Ramana, who resigned from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tjs-leader-resigns-from-party/article35272849.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lucknow doctor airlifted to Hyderabad for lung transplant||A resident doctor from Lucknow, who has been battling for life after getting infected with COVID-19 nearly three months ago, was airlifted to Hyderabad to undergo lung transplantation at a corporate hospital here. Currently, the doctor, Sharda Suman, is on ECMO support. Emergency delivery The resident doctor from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), Lucknow, contracted the infectious disease on April 14 when she was 32 weeks pregnant. As her health condition deteriorated, Dr Suman had to be put on ventilator support and an emergency C-Section surgery was performed on May 1. She was provided with ECMO support post delivery. A three-member committee recommended that she should undergo lung transplantation. The Uttar Pradesh government has sanctioned Rs. 1.5 crore for the procedure, said sources. Dr Suman has now been brought to KIMS Hospitals in Secunderabad in an air ambulance to undergo the procedure. “A green corridor was formed with the help of Hyderabad Police department to bring the patient to the hospital without any delay,” informed a press release. It was learnt that the transplantation will be taken up after finding compatible lungs.  A green corridor was formed with the help of Hyderabad Police to bring the patient to the hospital without any delay. KIMS Hospital authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lucknow-doctor-airlifted-to-city-for-lung-transplant/article35272824.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student on bike killed in road accident||A student travelling on a bike died in a road accident at Madhapur here on Saturday evening. According to the police, the victim, G. Sanjay Varma (21), who lives at a hostel at Prashanthnagar, Kukatpally, was going towards Raidurgam from KPHB Colony when the accident took place. Victim from AP When Varma, who was a native of Pendyala at Nidadavolu in West Godavari of Andhra Pradesh, reached Trident Hotel at Hi-Tec City, Madhapur, he lost control on his two-wheeler and hit the road median. As a result, he suffered severe injuries. Soon, passers-by rushed him to Maxcure Hospital for treatment, where the duty doctors pronounced him dead. Case registered Based on the complaint lodged by his uncle P.V. Ramaraju, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-on-bike-killed-in-road-accident/article35273042.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Zoo reopens, COVID protocols followed||Animal lovers thronged the Nehru Zoological Park in large numbers when it reopened after 70 days on Sunday. It was closed due to the COVID-induced lockdown. The zoo authorities allowed entry to visitors only after thermal scanning and ensuring that they wore face masks. Penalty Physical distance was insisted at ticket booking counters. Spitting would invite a fine of Rs. 100 while those found not wearing masks would be asked to leave the premises. Premises sanitised The cleanliness of zoo was maintained and the animal enclosures sanitised several times in the day throughout the period of closure. The fossil museum and aquarium were not yet open to public. Despite a steady drizzle, visitors enjoyed going around the zoo and ride on the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabadis-throng-zoo-after-70-days/article35272834.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hear contempt cases expeditiously: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy has urged the High Court of Telangana to speed up the trial of contempt cases being filed against government officials. He alleged that the ruling party had been using the act as an instrument to undermine political activities in the State with the police detaining persons who got bail for unlimited period of time, on Sunday. In a press release, he Mr. Reddy welcomed the admonishment of Telangana government by the Supreme Court regarding Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act describing it as a “draconian” one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hear-contempt-cases-expeditiously-bjp/article35272842.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TJS will contest polls’||Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president M. Kodandaram has said the party would be pro-active in politics contesting elections to fulfil the aspirations of Telangana martyrs, and the party plenary proposed in August would discuss all the issues. Mr. Kodandaram dismissed the merger of TJS in the Congress and said this was a ploy being propagated on the social media by ruling party sympathisers. He said the Telangana Jana Samithi believed in certain democratic norms and did not believe in ‘buying’ the leaders as was being done by the ruling party. The Telangana Jana Samithi chief said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had turned politics into a business of ‘selling and buying’ and his family’s only aim was to acquire assets. He demanded that the government fill the three lakh vacancies in the State and it was not moving despite unemployed youth taking their lives. Mr. Kodandaram charged that KCR had colluded with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy and compromised on sharing the Krishna water, denying the rightful share of Telangana. He said he would undertake a yatra from Hyderabad to Rajolibanda to sensitize people on the Krishna water row. He also demanded that the government start work on the Palamuru Lift Irrigation scheme immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tjs-will-contest-polls/article35272850.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ramana to join TRS on July 16||Former president of Telangana Telugu Desam Party (TTDP) L. Ramana will join the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the presence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on July 16. However, he would take the party membership from TRS working president K. T. Rama Rao on Monday. Mr. Ramana, a former Minister in the TDP government in the combined Andhra Pradesh, continued with the TDP even after the state bifurcation. He resigned recently stating that in the changing political scenario in the State he was leaving the TTDP as he wanted to be part of Telangana development process. Mr. Ramana, who also served as a Parliament member from the TDP in the combined AP, also contested in the recent Graduate MLC elections in Telangana without any success. Hailing from Jagtial in the combined Karimnagar district his entry was being seen as a move to counter the exit of Eatala Rajender from the TRS after differences with TRS chief KCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramana-to-join-trs-on-july-16/article35272851.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic curbs for Balkampet Yellamma Kalyanam||In view of Balkampet Yellamma Kalyanam at Yellamma Devasthanam, Balkampet, from Monday to Thursday, a large number of devotees are likely to visit Kalyanotsavam and Rathotsavam. There is a possibility of congestion with devotees and their vehicles on streets around the temple and to avoid inconvenience, commuters are advised to take the following roads and avoid movement towards the temple, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. Vehicles coming from Satyam Theatre going towards Fateh Nagar would be diverted at SS Bakery (left turn) - Abhilasha Towers ( right turn) – B.K Guda X Road - Straight towards Bhogha Residency (right turn) - Holy Cross (left turn) - Fateh Nagar Road. While traffic coming from Fateh Nagar and proceeding towards Satyam Theatre would be diverted at New Bridge towards Begumpet. Similarly, traffic coming from DK Road proceeding towards R&B Balkampet would be diverted at Padmasree apartments. Padmasree Apartments opposite lane towards Nature Cure hospital will remain closed and traffic coming from Begumpet to Balanagar (new bridge) will be diverted towards Begumpet Greenlands - Lal bungalow - Matha Temple - Satyam Theatre. By lanes and link roads from SR Nagar ‘T’ junction to Fateh Nagar will remain closed, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-curbs-for-balkampet-yellamma-kalyanam/article35272830.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Credit of TS progress in farming goes to engineers’||Rich tributes were paid to Nawab Ali Nawaz Jung Bahadur on the occasion of his 144th birth anniversary, which is also being celebrated as Telangana Engineers’ Day for the last eight years, here on Sunday. Vice Chairman of Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar and chairman of Telangana Water Resources Development Corporation V. Prakash Rao garlanded the bust of Ali Nawaz Jung in front of the Jala Soudha building, the headquarters of Irrigation Department. Portraits of M. Visveswaraya and R. Vidyasagar Rao were also garlanded. Ali Nawaz Jung lifetime achievement award was given to former MLA and retired commissioner of Irrigation Sana Maruthi, director (Lifts) of TS-Transco J. Surya Prakash and ex-director of SCCL P. Vasudeva Rao. Mr. Vinod Kumar said the engineers who played an active role in the movement for statehood to Telangana had also been contributing their might in rebuilding the State and the credit of keeping Telangana as the top producer of paddy in the country would go to the irrigation and power engineers, as the true heirs of Ali Nawaz Jung. He also complimented their role in realising Mission Bhagiratha to take treated water to every household. His invaluable contribution was forced into oblivion during the combined State but after formation of Telangana his birthday was being celebrated as Engineers Day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credit-of-states-progress-in-farming-goes-to-engineers/article35272840.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Another drama’||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi government and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao have unveiled a new ‘drama’ on the political landscape by once again raking up the issue of filling 50,000 government jobs trying to fool the public especially the unemployed youth, charged Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday. “The massive recruitment was promised during MLC elections with no progress. When the government is unable to pay salaries in time for existing employees, how does it expect to take care of the new recruits?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-drama/article35272843.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mother-son ‘enact’ drama||A mother-son duo allegedly staged an ‘attempt suicide’ drama in front of a fertilizer trader’s house at Tadicharla village in Malhar mandal of Jayashankar-Bhupalapally district on Sunday morning. Ragam Satish and his mother along with a few family members went to M Rajeshwar Rao’s house in the village alleging that the trader had forcefully taken over their three acres of agricultural land against his father’s debt. However, Koyyur SI Satyanarayana said Satish’s father Ilaiah took a hand loan from Rao by pledging three acres of land more than 10 years ago and failed to repay the amount. Then, Rao decided to transfer the land in his name and realised that the land was not in the name of Illaiah or Satish but one Basani Narayana. “Satish’s family was illegally farming the land and took a loan from Rao by pledging it with Rao,” the SI said. Three years ago Basani Narayana transferred the land to Rao. “Though the land is in the name of Rao, it is still in the possession of Satish and on Sunday he enacted a drama to threaten Rao,” police said. However, no case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mother-son-enact-drama/article35272844.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Exercise to identify vacancies gathers pace||The exercise in finalizing the cadre strength in different departments picked up pace with the Finance department conducting a day-long crucial meeting with special chief secretaries, principal secretaries, heads of departments and other senior officials on Sunday. Intensifying its efforts to identify the sanctioned strength in each department and the exact number of staff presently working, the departments had been asked to prepare comprehensive lists of regular employees and vacancies as well as those working on contract/outsourcing basis in them. Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao has been tasked with the responsibility of gathering information from the departments so that a central database on the existing vacancies can be prepared. This would enable the government to notify the recruitment schedule from time to time. The development follows the announcement made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao recently about the government’s intentions to fill 50,000 vacant posts in different departments. The Chief Minister said priority would be given to ensure filling of direct recruitment posts in the first phase and this would be followed by focus on vacancies that arose following promotion of the existing employees. Senior officials indicated that the exercise on preparation of the required lists would take time as the departments would have to identify regular and contract/outsourcing staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exercise-to-identify-vacancies-gathers-pace/article35272845.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cases plummet as corona tests see big drop||A sharp drop in COVID-19 cases was observed in Telangana on Sunday as the number of tests fell by around 35,000. Every day, over 1 lakh samples are examined, and in the past few days, around 700 positive cases are being detected. However, on Sunday, only 65,007 samples were tested and of them, 465 turned up positive. This drop in tests, and therefore, cases, is not unusual for a Sunday. The new 465 cases include 70 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 42 from Karimnagar, 33 from Suryapet and 32 from Khammam. Apart from GHMC which is a urban locality, the three districts have been recording high number of cases. A high-level team from the Health department is touring these districts to figure out the reasons for the wide prevalence of coronavirus. On Sunday, four patients succumbed to COVID-19, pushing up the death toll to 3,729. The State’s total case tally stands at 6,31,683 with 10,316 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-plummet-as-corona-tests-see-big-drop/article35272821.ece
12 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health dept. conducts Population Day programmes||On the occasion of World Population Day on Sunday, the State Health department conducted a series of programmes to generate awareness on family planning. Teams from the department’s Family Planning section had been organising programmes from June 27 in this regard. It will continue till July 20. “Stabilisation of Population will be held from July 11 to 24 where people who were mobilised will undergo temporary or permanent family planning surgery,” said G. Amar Singh Naik, in-charge director of the section. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer of Keesara division, Nookala Narayan Rao said a programme was held where couples eligible for family planning were explained about types of permanent and temporary contraceptive measures. Auxiliary Nursing Midwives, Accredited Social Health Activists and medical officers also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-dept-conducts-population-day-programmes/article35272825.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CP interacts with SHOs and DIs||Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Sunday addressed training sessions for 23-newly posted Station House Officers and Detective Inspectors regarding performance and rankings of police stations. He motivated the officers to perform their duties effectively by using technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cp-interacts-with-shos-and-dis/article35272832.ece
12 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||labourer dies||A 22-year-old construction labourer died after he accidentally fell into a concrete mixing plant at a construction site at Madhapur on Sunday. The victim, Sagbar Ali, son of Maslum Miya, hailed from West Bengal. He was working there for 45 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/labourer-dies/article35272833.ece
12 July 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||Bonalu starts at Eedupayala||Bonalu commenced on a grand note on Sunday at Goddess Vana Durga Bhavani temple at Eedupayala, the famous pilgrim place in the district. Despite cold weather and drizzling, a large number of devotees arrived here to offer Bonam to the Goddess. The Vana Durga Bhavani temple was decorated with vegetables as Shakambari. However, due to constant rains, the road became muddy and devotees had a tough time in reaching the temple. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy and other party leaders greeted people on the occasion of Bonalu with festivities starting from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bonalu-starts-at-eedupayala/article35272837.ece
12 July 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||CARPED extends assistance||Centre for Action Research and People’s Development (CARPED), an NGO, in association with Ernst and Young (EY) Foundation extended medical equipment required for the Primary Health Centre located at Kowdipally on Sunday. These organisations gave away oxygen concentrator, suction apparatus, inverters, mattresses, and commode, said said DM&HO Venkateswara Rao. CARPED secretary M. Bharath Bhushan, EY Foundation Assistant Director T. Anvesh, and State Media Rapid Response Cell communication coordinator David Brynerd were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/carped-extends-assistance/article35272853.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy raises eyebrows||“Stone the defectors” was the call given to the party cadre by Congress leader and Malkajigiri MP A. Revanth Reddy while taking over as president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) recently. Although it was welcomed by believers in democracy, it also raised eyebrows of observers of politics at the same with the reason being that all mainstream political parties except the Left have encouraged defection for their convenience and survival at one time or the other. The ruling and opposition parties, both at the Centre and in the State, are no exception. “Mr. Revanth Reddy himself is not sane on the yardstick as he completed his term as TDP MLA from June 2014 to December 2018 even after joining the Congress officially in November 2017. Conveniently, he handed over his resignation letter to the party president and not to the Assembly Speaker. Not only that but he was also allegedly involved in encouraging defection during an MLC election and was caught on camera,” a TRS leader who was elected twice to Lok Sabha but lost the last election remarked and observed that such a preaching would not suit a majority of political parties across the country as they are opportunistic.   In the Jawaharnagar municipal corporation on Hyderabad outskirts, there are a total of 28 divisions. The last elections to urban local bodies saw 24 divisions electing TRS candidates while four divisions returned Congress nominees. The division is part of Medchal Assembly constituency represented by Labour Minister Malla Reddy. The municipal corporation was recently sanctioned about Rs. 28 crore for development works which was supposed to be equally distributed in as many divisions. But, ruling TRS corporators are reportedly opposed to release of funds to divisions represented by Congress. They want Congress corporators to join the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) to enjoy the fruits.   The constitution of State and regional police complaints authorities to look into abuse of power by police officers and recommend action against them is a welcome step taken by the government though it was much delayed. The Supreme Court had issued guidelines wanting such committees in the former Uttar Pradesh DGP Prakash Singh case decades ago but State governments failed to implement them. By constituting State-level authority to deal with complaints against officers above the rank of Additional SP and regional authorities on officers of Deputy Superintendent of Police rank and below, the State government has embraced a two-tier system much like in other States. A retired official who almost made it to a top slot in a different State level authority recently but missed it because his name was leaked out was among those accommodated now.  (B. Chandrashekhar and N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-reddy-raises-eyebrows/article35272846.ece
12 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Lok Adalat resolves over 7,500 cases in Gurugram||More than 7,500 cases were disposed of involving a settlement amount of Rs. 2.79 crore at the Lok Adalats held in Gurugram on Saturday as part of the second National Lok Adalat this year. Lalita Patwardhan, Chief Judicial Magistrate and Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Gurugram informed that around 35,000 cases of all categories were taken up and 7,522 were disposed of, according to a press statement by the authority. As per the guidelines of Justice Mr. Rajan Gupta, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairman, Haryana State Legal Services Authority and S.P. Singh, District and Sessions Judge, and Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Gurugram, Lok Adalats were held at Gurugram Sessions Court and Sub-Divisions courts at Sohna and Pataudi. Mr. Singh constituted 14 Benches for the Lok Adalats, including two Benches only for traffic challans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lok-adalat-resolves-over-7500-cases-in-gurugram/article35272728.ece
12 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Water shortage in Delhi due to mismanagement’||Haryana government on Sunday said the State was facing acute water shortage due to delayed monsoon but was still maintaining water supply to Delhi without any reduction. ‘Delay in monsoon’ The people of Delhi were facing water scarcity because of delays in monsoon and poor water management, said a press statement issued by the Haryana Public Relations Department attributing it to an official spokesperson. It further accused the Delhi government of making false political rhetoric to hide its failure, adding the national Capital was being given its full share of water despite 40% less water in the Yamuna. The official spokesperson said according to the report of the Economic Survey 2017 of the Delhi government, 20% of the drinking water in Delhi was wasted due to mismanagement. According to experts, the amount of drinking water that is wasted is more than 30%. It is a matter of great regret that the Haryana government was facing criticism of the Delhi government despite making positive efforts and following the orders of the Supreme Court. He said Delhi has a share of 719 cusecs of water at Munak from Yamuna and Ravi Beas waters. In addition to it, 330 cusecs extra Yamuna water is being released by Haryana at Munak, as per compliance of Supreme Court orders pronounced on February 29, 1996. He said the Upper Yamuna River Board in its 52nd and 54th meetings has already verified this position. He said Haryana had no role in the water shortage in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/water-shortage-in-delhi-due-to-mismanagement/article35272730.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||A year after deluge, slum victims wait for rehabilitation||Savitri has not been able to pay house rent — Rs. 8,000 — for the last two months. She is worried as she doesn’t know how she’ll manage this month’s as well. A year ago, Savitri and nine other families lost their homes to a natural calamity. A heavy downpour swept away 10 houses in Anna Nagar slums, leaving their lives uprooted in a day. Nearly a year after, the affected families are now scattered across East and Central Delhi and are living on rent. The Hindu met a bunch of families who had to move to VinodNagar and are now struggling to make ends meet while waiting for rehabilitation. Lived in tents  Along with her two children, Ms. Savitri recalls living in a tent for nearly 15 days,the Delhi government had set up right after the incident. They stayed there opposite to their damaged houses, close to Indraprastha metro station. “It was raining for days even after the incident and we used to lie wet under the tent. Sometimes, we took refuge at the metro station,” she said. With a permanent solution not in hand, the authorities asked the families to move to a school where they lived for a month and a half. “When the school had to open for an examination, the officials again asked us to move to a rain shelter house at Sarai Kale Khan. It was so dirty, we refused. We were then asked to live with our relatives for a few days and were promised that we’ll be allotted houses. However, days passed by and no one even came to look for us,” said Janki who lives with her three children, husband and parents in-law in a house where she has to pay Rs. 4,500 as rent every month. Space constraint  Of the four families, presently living in VinodNagar, one is 60-year-old Jhima Devi. In a single-room accommodation, she lives with her husband and her 100-year-old mother-in-law. Her two sons and their families who used to live together with them in Anna Nagar, now live in separate rented accommodations because of space constrains. I haven’t paid rent for four months, said Ms. Devi. The COVID-19 induced lockdown only added to her woes. Ms. Devi’s husband, Nand Kishore, works at a hotel in Connaught Place and while he didn’t lose his job during the lockdown, he was paid nothing for two months. He was asked to join work only a week ago. “We have not paid rent for four months. Thankfully, one of my sons who works at a government school has been getting his salary. He helped us with money for food and other essentials,” she said, adding that her 100-year-old mother-in-law fell while walking and broke a bone and was had to be hospitalised. “Though the treatment was free of cost, we had to bear the cost of some medicines”. Adding to the woes  Ms. Devi has been getting calls from the landlord to pay up the rent which is now long overdue. “I told him that my husband has just resumed work and will pay up soon”. Adding to the miseries, Ms. Devi’s daughter, Manju, also lost her job six months ago due to the pandemic. The family faced the same problem during the lockdown last year but they didn’t have to bear the rent as they were at their own home last year. Kamla Devi (58) and her husband Pan Singh are also struggling to make ends meet as their sons who used to previously stay with them now live separately on rent. “We need money. My husband can’t walk properly. He works as a security guard outside an ATM,” she said. “I hope we don’t die waiting for the house”. It’s Ms. Savitri daughter’s fifth birthday next month and the mother is disheartened because due to financial crisis she won’t be able to celebrate it the way her daughter is expecting. She started working as a house help in AshokaNiketan is East Delhi. “I need to first take an e-rickshaw and then a bus to reach the house. Sometimes, I walk the path instead of taking an e-rickshaw to save some money”. Dodged by officials  Her husband Kuber Chand Kotiyal works as a security guard in Old Delhi and rides a cycle to work. He has been togoversnment offices a multiple times to get updates about their house but has been dodged every time. “In the last one year, I have tried to meet several officials in municipal department and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board [DUSIB] but they keep telling me that our work will be done. On July 5, along with a member from each affected family, I visited the DUSIB office in West Delhi. They told me to come next month. I told them that if nothing happens till next month, then all the families will come here and stay outside the office”. It has been learnt that survey of this JJ cluster has been conducted by the DUSIB for rehabilitation. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said that the government body has completed the formalities for rehabilitation of these families. “However, the Central government is intervening and asking the DUSIB to allot houses on rent. The discussion over the matter is ongoing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-year-after-deluge-slum-victims-wait-for-rehabilitation/article35272738.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||City sees lowest daily cases since April||The Capital recorded 53 fresh COVID-19 cases and three deaths on Sunday. The number of new cases added is the lowest since April 15, 2020. The health bulletin released by the Delhi government said 76,823 tests were conducted in the Capital in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.07%. Out of the total tests conducted, 53,280 were RT-PCR tests. There are 743 active cases in the city, of which 252 are under home isolation. The Capital has recorded 14,35,083 cases since the pandemic started last year with 25,015 deaths. The bulletin added that 79,527 beneficiaries had received the vaccination in 24-hours, of which 52,434 were administered the first dose. The cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated so far stand at 88,96,884. To ensure that COVID-19 appropriate behavior is being followed in markets across the city, the government continued with its inspection drive. On Sunday, it closed a part of the Sadar Bazar — from Bara Tooti Chowk to Qutub Road — till 10 p.m. on July 13 “Due to a large football, the market’s association and shopkeepers were unable to ensure COVID protocols on 10-07-2021 in the aforesaid market. The guidelines and directions of COVID protocol are being contravened in the above-said market, which may cause spreading of the virus,” the Central District Magistrate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/city-sees-lowest-daily-cases-since-april/article35272732.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Halls, auditoriums to reopen in educational institutions, says DDMA||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Sunday permitted the use of auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions for meeting and training purposes with up to 50% seating capacity. The DDMA said the move was taken owing to the considerable decline in COVID cases in Delhi. It said there will be strict adherence to standard operating procedures and other guidelines of the government and compliance with COVID-appropriate behaviour. The government said the notification by the DDMA provides an opportunity to the educational institutions to resume their academic preparation, including training, meetings for reopening whenever the situation improves further. However, schools and other educational institutions shall, however, remain closed and the teaching-learning activities shall continue online. This decision will give a boost to ongoing education projects of the Delhi government like teacher training in offline mode also in a phased manner, the government said. Parent-teacher meeting It is preparing to host a parent-teacher meetings for all government schools between July 19 and July 31. “These meetings can now provide an opportunity to the schools to get the views of parents on schools reopening and will be conducted using staggered timings,” the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/halls-auditoriums-to-reopen-in-educational-institutions-says-ddma/article35272733.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haryana withholding Delhi’s water share: DJB||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Sunday said there was a water shortage in the city with levels in the Yamuna at an all-time low as Delhi's water share was being withheld by Haryana. He added that the Delhi government will approach the Supreme Court if the Haryana government stops water supply to Delhi. “DJB has decided to move the Supreme Court against Haryana govt. seeking due supply of Delhi's legitimate share as already determined by the SC in 1995. The level of the Yamuna river at Wazirabad Pond in Delhi should be 674.5 feet. Whereas now the water level of Yamuna has come down to 667 feet as it has dried up,” Mr. Chadha said, adding that despite the SC orders, Haryana has stopped the water of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-withholding-delhis-water-share-djb/article35272734.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||Court seeks Centre’s reply on M.P. lawyers’ body petition||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre to respond to a petition by a Madhya Pradesh lawyers’ body challenging the transfer of the presiding officer of the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT), Jabalpur to DRT Lucknow. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued the notice on the petition by the State Bar Council of Madhya Pradesh. The Council, in its plea, said shifting DRT to a place 600 km away “ruptures and disturbs the convenience, affording capacity, reach of the litigants”. It said shifting DRT Jabalpur to other states is clearly arbitrary, dehors the provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act (RDDBFI Act). Next hearing The Council has also sought the appointment of a regular full-time incumbent presiding officer for DRT Jabalpur. The High Court will hear the case in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-seeks-centres-reply-on-mp-lawyers-body-petition/article35272735.ece
12 July 2021||Kabul,||Kabul airport gets anti-missile system||Afghan authorities said on Sunday they have installed an anti-missile system at Kabul airport to counter incoming rockets, as the Taliban pressed on with a blistering offensive across the country. Washington and its allies are due to end their military mission in Afghanistan at the end of next month, even as the insurgents say they now control 85% of the country — a claim that could not be independently verified and is disputed by the government. The Islamic fundamentalist group’s rapid gains in recent weeks have raised fears about the security of the capital and its airport, with NATO keen to secure a vital exit route to the outside world for foreign diplomats and aid workers. “The newly installed air defence system has been operational in Kabul since 2:00 am Sunday,” the Interior Ministry said in a statement. “The system has proven useful in the world in repelling rocket and missile attacks.” Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian told AFP it had been installed at the airport, though officials did not offer details about the type of system or who had installed it. But Afghan security forces spokesman Ajmal Omar Shinwari said the system was given by “our foreign friends”.  Regular attacks The Taliban have regularly launched rockets and mortars at government forces across the countryside, with the jihadist Islamic State group carrying out similar strikes on the capital in 2020. Over the years, the U.S. military installed several C-RAMs (Counter Rocket, Artillery and Mortar Systems) across its bases, including at Bagram, to destroy incoming rockets targeting the facilities, a foreign security official and media reports said. The C-RAMS includes cameras to detect incoming rockets and alert local forces.  Turkey has promised to provide security for Kabul airport once the U.S. and NATO troops leave next month. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday said Turkey and the United States had agreed on the “scope” of how the airport would be managed under the control of Turkish forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-airport-gets-anti-missile-system/article35272315.ece
12 July 2021||TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES,||Richard Branson takes off first in space tourism race||Swashbuckling entrepreneur Richard Branson hurtled into space aboard his own winged rocket ship on Sunday in his boldest adventure yet, beating out fellow billionaire Jeff Bezos. The nearly 71-year-old Mr. Branson and five crewmates, including aeronautical engineer Sirisha Bandla, from his Virgin Galactic space tourism company reached an altitude of about 88 kilometres over the New Mexico desert — enough to experience three to four minutes of weightlessness and see the curvature of the Earth — and then safely glided back home to a runway landing. “Seventeen years of hard work to get us this far,” a jubilant Mr. Branson said as he congratulated his team on the trip back. Mr. Branson became the first person to blast off in his own spaceship, beating Mr. Bezos by nine days. He also became only the second septuagenarian to depart for space. (John Glenn flew on the shuttle at age 77 in 1998.) Ms. Bandla became the third Indian-origin woman to fly into space after Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams. Wing Commander Rakesh Sharma is the only Indian citizen to travel in space. With about 500 people watching, including Mr. Branson’s wife, children and grandchildren, a twin-fuselage aircraft with his space plane attached underneath took off in the first stage of the flight. The space plane then detached from the mother ship at an altitude of about 13 kilometres) and fired its engine, reaching the edge of space. The entire flight up and back aboard the sleek white ship, named Unity, took just under 15 minutes. The flamboyant, London-born founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways wasn’t supposed to fly until later this summer. But he assigned himself to an earlier flight after Mr. Bezos announced plans to ride his own rocket into space from Texas on July 20, the 52nd anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing. Mr. Branson, who has kite-surfed the English Channel and attempted to circle the world in a hot-air balloon, denied he was trying to beat Mr. Bezos. Space tourism race Another one of Mr. Branson’s chief rivals in the space-tourism race among the world’s richest men, SpaceX’s Elon Musk, arrived in New Mexico to witness the flight, wishing Mr. Branson via Twitter, “Godspeed!” Mr. Bezos likewise sent his wishes for a safe and successful flight, though he also took to Twitter to enumerate the ways in which be believes his company’s rides will be better. Bezos’ Blue Origin company intends to send tourists past the so-called Karman line 100 kilometres above earth, which is is recognised by international aviation and aerospace federations as the threshold of space. But NASA, the Air Force, the Federal Aviation Administration and some astrophysicists consider the boundary between the atmosphere and space to begin 80 kilometres up. The risks to Mr. Branson and his crew were underscored in 2007, when a rocket motor test in Mojave Desert left three workers dead, and in 2014, when a Virgin Galactic rocket plane broke apart during a test flight, killing one pilot and seriously injuring the other. Ever the showman, Mr. Branson insisted on a global livestream of the Sunday morning flight and invited celebrities and former space station astronauts to the company’s Spaceport America base in New Mexico. R&B singer Khalid was on hand to perform his new single “New Normal” — a nod to the dawning of space tourism — while CBS “Late Show” host Stephen Colbert served as the event’s master of ceremonies. Virgin Galactic already has more than 600 reservations from would-be space tourists, with tickets initially costing $250,000 apiece. Blue Origin is waiting for Bezos’ flight before announcing its ticket prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/branson-returns-to-earth-after-touching-edge-of-space/article35272318.ece
12 July 2021||Seoul,||Xi, Kim vow to strengthen ties||The North Korean and Chinese leaders expressed their desire on Sunday to further strengthen their ties as they exchanged messages marking the 60th anniversary of their countries’ defence treaty. In a message to Chinese President Xi Jinping, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said it is “the fixed stand” of his government to “ceaselessly develop the friendly and cooperative relations” between the countries, the state-run Korean Central News Agency said. Mr. Xi said in his message that China and North Korea have “unswervingly supported each other,” according to China’s official Xinhua News Agency. “The world has recently seen accelerating changes unprecedented over the past century,” Mr. Xi said. “I wish to ... lead bilateral relations to unceasingly rise to new levels to the benefit of the two countries and their peoples.” North Korea has been expected to seek greater support from China, its major ally and aid benefactor, as it grapples with economic hardship exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic and crippling U.S.-led sanctions over its nuclear weapons program. China, for its part, sees preventing a North Korean collapse as crucial to its security interests and would need to boost ties with North Korea and other traditional allies amid fierce rivalry with the United States, some experts say. Mr. Kim said in his message that the bilateral treaty “is displaying its stronger vitality in defending and propelling the socialist cause of the two countries ... now that the hostile forces become more desperate in their challenge and obstructive moves.” Under the 1961 Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, North Korea and China are committed to offering one another immediate military and other aid in the event of an attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-kim-vow-to-strengthen-ties/article35272321.ece
12 July 2021||Riyadh,||U.S. alarmed as Saudi lawsuits threaten to expose secrets||Two lawsuits pitting Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler against a former intelligence czar threaten to expose highly sensitive U.S. government secrets, prompting Washington to consider a rare judicial intervention, documents show. The cases in U.S. and Canadian courts centre on corruption allegations levelled by state-owned Saudi companies against Saad Aljabri, a former spymaster who long worked closely with American officials on covert counterterrorism opera- tions. That marks the latest twist in a long-running feud between Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) and Mr. Aljabri. Mr. Aljabri’s patron, Prince Mohammed bin Nayef (MBN), is currently in Saudi detention after being deposed as heir to the throne in a 2017 palace coup. The legal drama sheds light on Shakespearean rivalries in the top echelons of the Saudi royal family, but Washington fears that a bitter courtroom showdown risks exposing sensitive information related to its covert operations. A rare U.S. Justice Department filing in a Massachusetts court in April noted Mr. Aljabri’s intention to “describe information concerning alleged national security activities”. “The (U.S.) government is considering whether and how to participate in this action, including if necessary and applicable, through an assertion of appropriate governmental privileges,” the filing said, without elaborating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-alarmed-as-saudi-lawsuits-threaten-to-expose-secrets/article35272317.ece
12 July 2021||PORT-AU-PRINCE,||Hospitalised wife of slain Haitian leader denounces enemies||The hospitalised wife of Haiti’s assassinated President Jovenel Moïse has given her first public statement since being wounded in the attack that killed him, accusing enemies of wanting “to kill his dream, his vision, his ideology”. Martine Moïse issued the recorded statement in Creole from the Miami hospital where she was being treated for wounds suffered in the attack early on Wednesday, and also posted a version on her Twitter account. “I’m alive, thanks to God,” she said in the recording, which also played on local radio stations. “But I love my husband Jovenel. We fought together for more than 25 years. During all these years, love radiated within the home. But suddenly, the mercenaries came and pelted my husband with bullets.” “You have to be a notorious criminal without guts to assassinate a President like Jovenel Moïse with impunity without giving him the chance to speak,” she added. “You knew who the President was fighting against. “These people hired mercenaries to kill the President and his family because of the projects of roads, electricity, drinking water supply, organisation of the referendum and elections ... “The mercenaries who assassinated the President are currently behind bars,” she added, “but other mercenaries currently want to kill his dream, his vision, his ideology.” The police say they have arrested more than a dozen people — most of them retired Colombian soldiers — and are searching for more, but it remained unclear who had hired the team that attacked the President’s house, or why.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hospitalised-wife-of-slain-haitian-leader-denounces-enemies/article35272563.ece
12 July 2021||Addis Ababa,||Abiy Ahmed wins huge majority in Ethiopia poll||Ethiopia’s ruling party won a landslide in a landmark parliamentary poll, results showed on Saturday, ensuring a new five-year term for Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed despite a brutal war in the northern region of Tigray. Mr. Abiy hailed the outcome of what he described as a “historic” election — the first time he faced voters since being appointed Prime Minister in 2018 following several years of anti-government protests. The winner of the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize had hoped to frame victory at the ballot box as a mandate for political and economic reforms and military operations. But the poll was held in the midst of the gruelling conflict in Tigray that has battered Mr. Abiy’s global reputation and raised fears of widespread famine. His Prosperity Party won 410 seats in the federal Parliament out of 436 where elections were held, according to results issued by the National Election Board of Ethiopia (NEBE), which said there would be a rerun in 10 constituencies.  June’s vote, which had been postponed twice due to the COVID-19 pandemic and logistical issues, was largely peaceful but Opposition parties decried harassment and intimidation. No voting was held in the Tigray region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/abiy-ahmed-wins-huge-majority-in-ethiopia-poll/article35272314.ece
12 July 2021||Paris,||Woman infected with two variants at the same time||A 90-year-old woman who died after falling ill with COVID-19 was infected with both the Alpha and Beta variants of the coronavirus at the same time, researchers in Belgium said on Sunday, adding that the rare phenomenon may be underestimated. The unvaccinated woman was admitted to a hospital in the Belgian city of Aalst after a spate of falls in March and tested positive for COVID-19 the same day. While her oxygen levels were initially good, her condition deteriorated rapidly and she died five days later. When medical staff tested for the presence of any variants of concern they found that she was carrying both strains. “Both these variants were circulating in Belgium at the time, so it is likely that the lady was co-infected with different viruses from two different people,” said molecular biologist Anne Vankeerberghen from the OLV Hospital who led the research. Dr. Vankeerberghen said it was difficult to say whether the co-infection played a role in the fast deterioration of the patient. The research, which has not yet been submitted to a medical journal for publication, is being presented at the European Congress of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases.  Lawrence Young, a virologist and Professor of Molecular Oncology at the University of Warwick, said, “This study does highlight the need for more studies to determine whether infection with multiple variants of concern affects the clinical course of COVID-19 and whether this in any way compromises the efficacy of vaccination.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/woman-infected-with-two-variants-at-the-same-time/article35272312.ece
12 July 2021||Hong Kong,||HK pro-democracy group downsizes over safety fears||One of Hong Kong’s most established pro-democracy civic organisations said it is letting go its paid staff and halving the size of its steering committee after Beijing stepped up its crackdown on opposition activity in the semi-autonomous Chinese city. The Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China is best known for organising an annual rally and candlelight vigil remembering those killed in the bloody 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square. The group said in a statement on Saturday that seven of its 14 remaining steering committee members had decided to step down in the face of “growing political and legal risks.” Of the seven members remaining, three are currently in jail for protest-related activities. While the 32-year-old group said the changes would affect its operations, it vowed that “regardless of whatever difficulties or challenges we face, the alliance will continue to grit our teeth and move onwards one step at a time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hk-pro-democracy-group-downsizes-over-safety-fears/article35272319.ece
12 July 2021||Sydney,||Australia pulls out last troops||Australia’s Defence Minister on Sunday confirmed the end of his country’s involvement in the 20-year Afghanistan war, saying the troop withdrawal had taken place “in recent weeks”.  Defence Minister Peter Dutton said the last 80 support personnel had left Afghanistan “in recent weeks”. “That doesn’t mean we won’t be a part of campaigns with the United States... where we deem that to be in our national interest or in the interest of our allies,” he added.  Australia had deployed 39,000 troops over the past 20 years as part of U.S. and NATO-led operations against the Taliban and terrorist groups in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-pulls-out-last-troops/article35272316.ece
12 July 2021||ROME,||EU-REL--Vatican-Pope-Surgery||Pope Francis,84, on Sunday made his first public appearance since a major intestinal surgery last week, greeting well-wishers as he stood for 10 minutes on a hospital balcony, offering hearty thanks for the prayers for his recovery. “I am happy to be able to keep the Sunday appointment of the Angelus, even here from Gemelli Polyclinic,” he said. “In these days of hospitalisation, I experienced yet again how important a good health service is, accessible to all, as it is in Italy and other coun- tries,” he said. "We mustn’t lose this precious thing.”Ap||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-rel-vatican-pope-surgery/article35272323.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A Kerala model for an anti-discrimination law||A couple turned down for a home they wish to rent, because they are Muslim. A qualified professional rejected for a job because he uses a wheelchair. A pair of students denied facilities on campus because of their caste or ethnicity. An air hostess dismissed for being above the weight deemed desirable, even though male stewards/pursers of that weight continue in their jobs. Forms of discrimination Such incidents are all too common in our society.“Silent segregation” on the grounds of marital status, gender, sexual orientation or eating preferences are followed in several housing societies and residents’ associations. The Housing Discrimination Project (https://bit.ly/3wvGQFC) at Jindal Global Law School has shown how extensive housing discrimination is across the country. The recent Pew Research Center Report (https://pewrsr.ch/2TOZF9v) has confirmed that a substantial number of Indians prefer not to have a person from a different religious community as their neighbour. The absence of a proper legal recourse for those who suffer from housing discrimination only makes matters worse. Even though Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code was read down by the Supreme Court of India to exclude consensual relations between adults of the same sex, social prejudice against members of the LGBTQIA+ community in the country remains strong. Article 15(1) of the Constitution of India prohibits the state from discriminating against individuals on basis of certain protected characteristics such as religion, race, caste, sex and place of birth. But it does not bar private individuals or institutions from doing what the state is not permitted to. Nor does it expressly list ethnicity, linguistic identity, nationality, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance and other personal characteristics as prohibited grounds of discrimination. The understanding of discrimination has also evolved over the years. It does not operate along a single axis; it can take the form of combined discrimination which is a combination of discrimination on two or more grounds. Last April, the Supreme Court, in Patan Jamal Vali vs State of Andhra Pradesh , recognised intersectional discrimination — discrimination on the basis of the intersection of personal characteristics, such as that faced by Dalit women as Dalits, as women and in the unique category of Dalit women. Discriminatory practices may also be indirect in nature, whereby policies that seem neutral and not expressly targeted at a particular group, still cause a disproportional adverse impact on disadvantaged sections of society. Legal remedies are needed Since discrimination thus operates on a wide variety of grounds, legal remedies are needed for its victims, whether direct, indirect or intersectional. A comprehensive anti-discrimination legal framework is required to fill the existing legal lacunae. India is one of the few liberal democracies without such a framework. The Sachar Committee, in 2006, recognised the need for an anti-discrimination law. This was further reiterated by the Expert Group on Equal Opportunity Commission headed by Prof. N.R. Madhava Menon. Though the proposal for an anti-discrimination law was approved by the United Progressive Alliance Cabinet, it was put on the back-burner after the government changed in 2014. When a Bill lapsed One of us (Tharoor) tried to revive the idea by introducing the Anti-Discrimination and Equality Bill, 2016 (https://bit.ly/3k5KoMf) in the Lok Sabha. Perhaps predictably, the Treasury Benches were not interested to take it forward and the Bill lapsed in 2019 with the dissolution of the Lok Sabha. It seems clear to us that the only way progressive legislation of this nature can be passed in the present climate would be if the States lead the way, by enacting anti-discrimination laws in their respective jurisdictions. States have a vital role in strengthening our right to equality. A central Bill cannot, at any rate, cover subjects that are under the exclusive jurisdiction of State governments. And if States take the initiative, the demand for a national anti-discrimination law to cover services and institutions under the domain of the Union government will be reignited. Kerala is one the best placed States to take this proposal forward, especially since both the major political fronts in the State have previously committed themselves to such legislation. The CPI(M) in its 2019 manifesto (https://bit.ly/3hVjEet) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in its 2021 State Assembly manifesto (https://bit.ly/2UGXFjn) have both promised to enact an anti-discrimination law which covers the private and the public sectors. The State legislature can use its powers under Entry 8 of List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution to enact an anti-discrimination law that attracts civil penalties for those who engage in discriminatory practices. Crafted for Kerala With the invaluable assistance of Professor Tarunabh Khaitan of Oxford University, we have drafted an anti-discrimination Bill for the Kerala government to consider introducing in the State Legislative Assembly. The Bill prohibits employers, landlords, traders, service providers, private persons performing public functions, and public authorities, from discriminating on grounds of caste, race, ethnicity, descent, sex, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, sexual orientation, religious identity, tribe, disability, linguistic identity, HIV-status, nationality, marital status, dietary preference, skin tone, physical appearance, place of residence, place of birth, age or analogous characteristics which are beyond the control of an individual or those that constitute a fundamental choice. At the same time, the Bill balances the anti-discrimination mandate with other rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The anti-discrimination mandate can be restricted in pursuance of a legitimate objective:for instance, a drama company putting up a production of the Ramayana can insist on only male applicants for the role of Ram. That would not be discrimination in the terms covered by the law. The Bill also introduces affirmative-action provisions whereby public authorities are obliged to progressively realise diversification of their workforces by recruiting members of disadvantaged sections excluded from society, such as transgender persons or persons with disabilities. Given the backlogs in our judicial system, the Bill establishes a ‘Kerala Equality Commission’ to adjudicate complaints and to provide policy recommendations to the State government. Given that the proliferation of post-retirement public offices for judges does not augur well for judicial independence, the proposed commission does not follow the tried and tested model of former judges presiding over statutory bodies. Rather, appointments to the Commission are left to the political process, with substantial weightage given to the largest parties in the State, both in the Treasury and Opposition benches, to ensure bipartisan buy-in to the process. The Bill has been forwarded both to the Law Minister of Kerala and the Leader of the Opposition with the suggestion that it should be subjected to a pre-legislative consultation process, so that democratic participation in enacting this historic law is encouraged (https://bit.ly/3reY74Z). If this Bill is enacted, it will be the largest expansion of civil rights in the State since the commencement of the Constitution, and it can be a model for other States to follow. We recognise that an anti-discrimination law is not a panacea for the problems of inequality and social prejudice that are deeply rooted in our society. Nevertheless, it is a necessary step — an idea whose time has come. Shashi Tharoor is Member of Parliament for Thiruvananthapuram and an author. Arvind Kurian Abraham is a fellow at the University of Oxford||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-kerala-model-for-an-anti-discrimination-law/article35272300.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Tapping on the potential of the youth||World Population Day is marked on July 11 every year to focus attention on the importance of population-related issues. It was first observed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in 1989 and aims to raise the discourse on sustainable ways to safeguard each life that adds up to a population. As flagged by a UNDP report last year, and subsequently in a global study by The Lancet , India will stabilise its population 12 years earlier than expected. Therefore, the window India has to leverage its ‘demographic dividend’ is narrower than we had thought. Fears of a ‘population explosion’ are misplaced; instead, it is critical that we focus our attention on safeguarding young people’s well-being because India’s welfare hinges on them. Impact of the pandemic At 253 million, India’s adolescent population is among the largest. Over 62% of India is aged between 15 and 59 years, and the median age of the population is less than 30 years. India’s ‘demographic dividend’ represents the potential for economic growth based on the age structure of the population. However, transforming this potential into reality requires adolescents and the youth to be healthy and well-educated. Even before COVID-19 caused country-wide school closures, India’s underfunded education system was inadequately equipped to provide the skills young people need to take advantage of emerging employment opportunities. According to the World Bank, public expenditure on education constituted 4.4% of GDP in 2019 and only 3.4% of GDP in 2020. Another report revealed that India stands 62nd in terms of public expenditure per student, and fares badly in quality of education measures such as student-teacher ratios. Coupled with the impact of COVID-19, this paints a bleak picture of the state of education today. In India, more than 32 crore students have been affected by the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. Of these, about 15.8 crore are female. The number of schoolgirls who are impacted is 158 million and many of those who have dropped out are unlikely to go back to school. Schools have remained closed even in remote areas where the effect of the pandemic has been minimal. Studies show that school closures have a serious impact on the lives and mental well-being of children. The impact of the pandemic on adolescents has been severe. A survey by the International Labour Organization reveals that 65% of adolescents worldwide reported having learnt less during the pandemic, and 51% felt that their learning would be further delayed. It also highlighted that adolescent mental well-being has taken a big blow, with 17% of young people likely to be suffering from anxiety and depression. It is important, therefore, for policymakers to balance the risks of transmission through children with the harm of prolonged school closures. By prioritising the vaccination of teachers and school support staff and also allowing a decentralised approach where district-level officials may reopen schools based on local COVID-19 transmission rates, schools could be opened in a safe and phased manner. In Odisha, for example, community schools have re-opened in some areas. Students wear face masks and sit physically distanced from each other outdoors under sheds or tents. With some innovation and creativity, opening schools with a mix of online and offline options could be an important step to addressing the learning needs and mental well-being of adolescents. Increased poverty levels during the pandemic may well have led to a worrying spurt in early marriages of girls in India. As demographers like Shireen Jejeebhoy note, while child marriage as a strategy to address household poverty has been noted in India in general, it has registered an alarming rise during the pandemic. This is linked with increases in gender-based violence. Adolescent girls are at high risk during times like these, given their vulnerability to abuse and trafficking, especially if primary caregivers fall ill or die. Restricted mobility due to lockdowns puts girls at risk of violence at home at the hands of caregivers or partners. The impact of the crisis on adolescents, especially girls, is of gigantic proportions, but the problem is not irredeemable, provided we display firm commitment to implementing quick and effective strategies to overcome the challenges. The way forward We are living through a global crisis and the road ahead is uncertain. This will have long-standing effects on adolescents and youth. Recognising that COVID-19 has affected all dimensions of the lives of youth, collaborative actions by key ministries, government agencies, and civil society will be central to developing a holistic and meaningful solution. It is imperative that we have in place mechanisms for better inter-sectoral collaboration as we move to safeguard the futures of our adolescents. School mid-day meals, for example, exemplify how improved nutrition benefits learning. Not only do they provide an incentive for parents to send their children to school on the assurance of one nutritious meal; they also provide the calorie intake required to stay alert in the classroom. Studies have established strong links between nutrition and cognitive scores among teenagers. Coordination across departments can enable better solutions and greater efficiencies in tackling the crisis that our adolescents face. Much could be gained if the Ministry of Education took steps to ensure that adolescents, especially girls, continue their education during the pandemic. Simultaneously, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare must collaborate with the Education Ministry to disseminate key information to help adolescents safeguard their health and ability to learn. Given that school closures have impacted access to schemes such as the delivery of menstrual hygiene products to adolescents, teachers can work as volunteers for collaborating with frontline health workers to distribute sanitary napkins to girls. To address the mental health of adolescents, the Health and Education Ministries should strengthen outreach via existing helplines and by enabling conversations on critical issues regarding their reproductive and sexual health. There is enough academic research to demonstrate how the demographic dividend contributed to growth in other countries, especially during East Asia’s economic miracle of 1965-1990. During that period, East Asia's working age population grew at a faster rate than its dependent population, thereby expanding the per capita productivity of these economies. This occurred because East Asian countries developed social, economic, and political institutions and policies that allowed them to realise the growth potential created by the transition. Improving the lives of our adolescents in mission mode would lift their lives, but also generate a virtuous cycle with healthier and educated young adults contributing substantially to securing India’s future. Poonam Muttreja is Executive Director and Dipa Nag Choudhury is Director of Programmes, Population Foundation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tapping-on-the-potential-of-the-youth/article35272311.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Shaping a trilateral as Rome looks to the Indo-Pacific||One of the signs of India’s growing centrality in the Indo-Pacific strategic architecture is its burgeoning engagement with key western nations. Even countries which have been lackadaisical in their regional outreach so far have begun to approach the Indo-Pacific with a new seriousness and have been reaching out to New Delhi. The growth of India’s weight in Indo-Pacific affairs comes at a time when it is becoming clearer that complex regional geopolitical problems cannot be addressed adequately by rigid and structured traditional alliance frameworks. This aspect is even more evident in the context of the Indo-Pacific, where the geographical vastness of the area and the criticality of the challenges posed by China’s assertive initiatives clash with a region lacking multilateral organisations capable of solving problems effectively. But as a new pushback against China takes shape and as Indian foreign policy becomes strategically clearer, there is a new momentum to initiatives such as the Quad. Countries that share similar values and face similar challenges are coming together to create purpose-oriented partnerships. In doing so, they are making it possible for participating nations to address specific common challenges, from maritime security to a coordinated pandemic response, including consolidating and further developing strong reciprocal trade relationships, without compromising the political autonomy of each participant. Italy’s outreach Recently, Italy has also begun to signal its intention to enter the Indo-Pacific geography. It has done so by seeking to join India and Japan in a trilateral partnership. This initiative comes after years of Rome’s relative absence from the geopolitical affairs of the region as it sought to concentrate more on the Atlantic and European dimensions while maintaining good, albeit well below potential, bilateral relations with India. The Italian government headed by Prime Minister Mario Draghi has started to pay attention outside its immediate neighbourhood again. At the same time, Italy has become more vocal on the risks emanating from China’s strategic competitive initiatives. Recently, Mr. Draghi described Chinese competitive practices as “unfair” and invited the European Union (EU) to be franker and more courageous in confronting Beijing on its violations of human rights, reiterating that with respect to China “the reciprocal visions of the world are very different”. On the Indian side, there is great interest in forging new partnerships with like-minded countries interested in preserving peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific. During a recent India-Italy-Japan trilateral, organised by the Italian embassies in India and Japan, Riva Ganguly Das, Secretary (East) of the Ministry of External Affairs, reiterated that the responsibility of keeping the Indo-Pacific free and open, and working for the welfare of its inhabitants falls on like-minded countries within and beyond the region. Need for a clear strategy With the expression of interest on the Italian side, the first step towards this trilateral has been taken, yet it needs to evolve into something more significant. The Italian government must formulate a clear Indo-Pacific strategy that must indicate its objectives and, above all, the means and initiatives it is willing to implement on its own and in cooperation with its partners. Italy’s tendency to privilege diplomatic action through the mechanisms of the EU can be a resource for consolidating the EU-India strategic relationship. But Rome must go beyond that in defining and implementing, at the margins of the EU’s common initiatives, its own policy with respect to the Indo-Pacific. Trilateral cooperation is key The India, Italy and Japan trilateral initiative can, and should, be a forum to foster and consolidate a strategic relationship between these three countries, and specifically expand India-Italy bilateral relations. As it stands, relations between Rome and Tokyo are historically strong, and those between New Delhi and Tokyo are a strategic pillar of the free and open Indo-Pacific. A trilateral cooperation can be the right forum for India and Italy to learn more from each other’s practices and interests and consolidate a strategic dialogue that should include the economic, the security and the political dimensions. The next G20 leaders’ summit in Rome, in October, before the presidency handover to India in 2023, should be the right opportunity for further trilateral coordination on economic and political issues at an institutional level. To consolidate the trilateral cooperation in this field, the three countries need to define a common economic and strategic agenda. A strategic trilateral between India, Italy and Japan has, in the medium to long term, a lot of potential. Their compatible economic systems can create a virtuous and mutually beneficial contribution to the reorganisation of the global supply chains that is now being reviewed by many players as a natural result of the Chinese mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the security level, the well-defined India-Japan Indo-Pacific partnership can easily be complemented by Italy, already present in the western Indian Ocean where it is engaged in anti-piracy operations off the coast of Somalia. At the multilateral level, the three countries share the same values and the same rules-based world view. Despite these fundamental convergences, the risk inherent in missing this opportunity also exists. For this reason, a clear political will is needed from all sides, and Italy, in particular, should recognise its interests in playing a larger role towards the maintenance of a free and open Indo-Pacific. Robust India-Italy strategic ties can be the first step towards the realisation of this goal. Harsh V. Pant is Director of Research at the Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations at King’s College London. Mauro Bonavita is a PhD candidate at King’s College London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/shaping-a-trilateral-as-rome-looks-to-the-indo-pacific/article35272303.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Secrecy is a weapon||In 2014, when writer Perumal Murugan was forced to go silent for a period due to the excesses of a caste-based vigilante group with the backing of the district administration, there was justifiable outrage among writers and artists. There were protest meetings across Tamil Nadu. In one such meeting, a group of young artists came up with numerous posters that demanded that the freedom of expression be upheld. After the meeting, I was presented with a set of posters which were based on the poems by the modern Tamil poet, Atmanam. These posters adorn my office and constantly remind me not to take free speech for granted. Right to free speech In journalism, we talk about two forms of censorship: one imposed by external forces and the other imposed by us on ourselves due to fear. Though Mr. Murugan was granted relief by the High Court, legal scholar Gautam Bhatia, in his article “The fault in our speech” (July 7, 2016), pointed out the limitations in the court’s approach. The judgment was based on three rather restrictive arguments: “First, that the book has won many prizes, and has gained critical acclaim; second, that Indian culture had always celebrated sexuality until the Victorian British suppressed it; and third, that read as a whole, the book is not intended to titillate or eroticise, but instead, to make a broader point about how social pressures can impact individual lives.” Mr. Bhatia rightly argued that “for speech to be truly free, the judiciary must stop asking literature to justify its aesthetic or its politics before the Bar, whether mediated by an awards jury or not”. Throughout South Asia, writers, poets and journalists often invoke the legendary Faiz Ahmad Faiz to defend our right to express ourselves fully. His poetry ‘ Bol (Speak)’ galvanised many for decades to fight for the fundamental right to free speech. He wrote: “Speak, for your lips are free; speak, for your tongue is still yours. Your upright body belongs to you; speak, for your soul still is yours”. What unites a legal mind like Mr. Bhatia and a cultural icon like Mr. Faiz is their unending quest to secure rights for everyone. Mr. Faiz wrote the Report of the 1968 Standing Committee on Art and Culture, which was forgotten not only in Pakistan but across South Asia. It is important for courts and the governments to listen to Mr. Faiz. He wrote: “Culture is lived and evolved by the whole community… The arts are not a luxury. They are an important factor in a nation’s mental and moral health and productive efficiency.” There is a body of literature about freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Such works talk about the excesses of governments and the legal recourse. But there are no clues in literature on how to deal with a government which makes its decisions in total secrecy. James Madison, author of the Bill of Rights in the U.S., once said that “a popular government without popular information or the means of acquiring it is but a prologue to farce or a tragedy or perhaps both”. In India, now there is very little credible popular information. Journalists are forced to rely on sources and form an opinion based on conjectures. Official silence On July 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi effected a major reshuffle in his Cabinet. Beyond headline management by the government, citizens know very little about the factors that led to this change. The strap line that accompanied the reshuffle story on the front page of this newspaper read: “Move aimed at bringing in qualified professionals and balancing regional and community aspirations in the run-up to upcoming elections”. I was intrigued by two sentences in the story. One read: “Government sources termed it an effort by Mr. Modi to strike a balance between political messaging of including MPs from various regional centres as well as from marginalised communities and beefing up the skill set of the ministries with professionally and educationally qualified additions.” And the other said: “Several ministries have been clubbed together, sources say, to increase synergy.” Why should journalists rely on sources for such perfectly legitimate and democratically valid reasons? Why was there no official briefing? Journalists are forced to cite sources because of the official silence. How do we address this important democratic deficit? The government is aware that secrecy is a potent weapon. It is no longer a prologue to farce or tragedy. It is tragedy. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/secrecy-is-a-weapon/article35272306.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A ride to safety||The world is not yet out of the COVID-19 pandemic, which continues to take a high toll on populations and economies. This unprecedented health crisis has also severely impacted the gains made in the education sector over the last few years. In India alone, 1.5 million schools shut down in 2020, affecting 320 million learners and impacting their education, protection and well-being. Throughout this pandemic, the exceptional effort undertaken by teachers must be highlighted. Using the resources available to them, Indian teachers mobilised as one and have remained on the front-lines of education to ensure continuity of learning, often against formidable odds, even though the pandemic claimed the lives of many of them. As the country steps up its efforts to tackle the devastating effects of the second wave of COVID-19, the national vaccination campaign has assumed greater importance than ever before, so that we can finally move to a ‘new normal’. There is an urgent need to better recognise teachers as front-line workers and prioritise them in the vaccination campaign. While this has already been done by many State governments, the model should be replicated nationwide. This will not only speed up the reopening of schools so that students can get back to ‘in person’ learning, but will also provide safety.  Barriers to vaccination Mass vaccination campaigns do not solely depend on the availability of vaccines. Such efforts are always hindered by a lack of suitable transport facilities, and difficult or prolonged travel time to the vaccination sites. Teachers, like anyone else, may be worried about travelling long distances to the vaccination centres for fear of contracting the virus on public transport and may not be able to access other means of conveyance. Keeping these limitations in mind and to support the process of swift vaccination for teachers initiated by the government, the ride-sharing company Uber and UNESCO are coming together to offer a ‘Free rides for teachers’ vaccination’ campaign to provide teachers with the means to travel to the vaccination centres in a safe manner while offsetting the costs of traveling long distances. The initiative offers 1,00,000 rides to 25,000 teachers to and from vaccination centres to get the two vaccine doses. The offer will be implemented in Chennai, Coimbatore and Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu. The rides will be made available via a promotional code communicated to the teachers with a detailed pictorial brochure to help them download the application and use the code. Global partnerships The impact of the pandemic across the globe necessitates a coordinated response. Last year, UNESCO launched the Global Education Coalition (GEC), a platform for collaboration to protect the right to education during the pandemic and beyond. The coalition brings together more than 175 members from the UN family, civil society, academia, and the private sector focusing on three key issues, namely connectivity, teachers, and gender to ensure continuous access to education for all. As we now begin to re-imagine education in a post-COVID-19 world, we must remember that renewed cooperation between governments and the private sector can go a long way in combating this crisis. Through our partnership with Uber, we wish to acknowledge the continued commitment of teachers to their students and their critical role in contributing to the achievement of the 2030 targets under Sustainable Development Goal 4. In this crisis, teachers have shown great leadership and innovation in ensuring that #LearningNeverStops, and that no learner is left behind. They have also helped in communicating measures that prevent the spread of the virus and providing assistance to ensure the mental well-being of all children. An accelerated vaccination process will enable them to stand fully ready when schools reopen. Eric Falt is the Director and Representative of the UNESCO New Delhi Cluster Office covering Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-ride-to-safety/article35272307.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooperative spirit||Alongside the state and the market, cooperatives play a vital role in the country’s development but are seldom the focus of policy planning. The creation of a new Union Ministry to oversee the cooperatives sector will redeem it from negligence, according to the Government. Critics fear that this Ministry is purposed to concentrate even more powers in the hands of the Centre. Cooperatives are dominant in agriculture, credit and marketing, but not limited to those. Some are big — IFFCO has around a third of the market share in fertilizers. In milk, cotton, handlooms, housing, edible oils, sugar and fisheries, they are formidable. As market conditions are evolving, cooperatives in States such as Kerala have got into complex operations: running IT parks and medical colleges. More avenues for expansion, such as insurance, remain untapped and the regulatory regime must evolve in step. The legal architecture of the sector began evolving since 1904 under colonial rule, and in 2002, the Multi State Cooperative Societies Act was passed, taking into account the challenges arising out of liberalisation. Considering the fact that cooperatives fall in the State list of the Constitution, the Centre will have to innovate to provide legal sanctity for the new Ministry. A separate Ministry can marshal the diffused capacity of the sector, however. That said, this move will turn disastrous if the attempt is to appropriate the political capital of the sector, which is significant. Cooperatives are not meant to operate by the market logic of maximising profits but to share the benefits to all stakeholders equitably. Though not uniform across India, cooperatives have made significant contributions in poverty alleviation, food security, management of natural resources and the environment. True, the sector has become an instrument of patronage and pilferage. Mismanagement and corruption destroyed the sector in some States. The potency of cooperatives as an apparatus of political control is personally known to Minister-in-charge Amit Shah, once president of a district cooperative bank. Besides serving localities and segments that markets might ignore, cooperatives are also effective in mediating politics at the local level, outside of the parliamentary system. Despite regulatory oversight by the RBI and States, there is considerable autonomy for the sector which is often misused. The remedy is not an overarching Ministry and diktats from Delhi. The premise of a cooperative is that decisions are made by those affected by them. The case for transparency and efficiency in the sector is strong; that goal must be pursued not by scaring the very soul of the sector but by advancing the cooperative spirit. The new Ministry could indeed be a catalyst, but it must not fashion itself as a command authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cooperative-spirit/article35272294.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Silver win||Sport is a distillation of micro-tragedies and mega-ecstasies enmeshed with whirring limbs, glistening sweat, unabashed tears and booming laughter. And football presents a wider canvas for all these attributes, which were exhibited at Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana Stadium late on Saturday night. When the Copa America final that pitted eternal rivals Argentina and Brazil wound to a close, it primarily offered redemption to Lionel Messi, of the phlegmatic smile and magical feet fame. One of the greatest ever footballers and fit to join a pantheon headlined by Pele and Diego Maradona, until now Messi had one missing link — a cup triumph for Argentina. After his 34 summers, that aberration was finally erased once his team defeated Brazil 1-0 in a scrappy contest with the odd streaks of brilliance. Messi, miracle-dispenser with FC Barcelona, was seen by his countrymen as the prodigal son, who never delivered, and they embalmed for posterity their affection towards the late Maradona. Messi and his fellow Argentines constituted a dysfunctional family of unspoken hurts. All that anguish could dissipate thanks to the latest victory which came after a 28-year title drought for the Albiceleste . Their 15th Copa America trophy put them on a par with toppers Uruguay, well ahead of Brazil with nine. Incidentally, Copa America with its 1916 inception even predates the FIFA World Cup, which commenced in 1930. Argentina and Brazil have embellished the championship’s storied history and in South America with its seize-the-day spirit, novels infused with magical realism and samba dance, football is seen as an extension of aesthetic joy. The final though did not live up to that esoteric aim. There were sparks marred by some rough tackles. Messi was not in his elements, marked tightly and weighed down by expectations, he even missed scoring his team’s second goal in the closing minutes. But having drawn the Brazilian defenders towards him all through the game, Messi created spaces that his team-mates could exploit. Even in that missed goal-scoring opportunity, Messi seemed keen on doing an assist rather than performing the deed and this is the mark of a man desperate for affection from his squad and country. The match was by then firmly in Argentina’s grip thanks to the 22nd minute goal slotted by Angel Di Maria, who capitalised on a long-pass from Rodrigo De Paul. A stung Brazil, especially Neymar, mounted rapid sorties on either side of half-time. Two attempts were adroitly foisted by Argentina goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez and when the Selecao seemingly breached the citadel, it was deemed off-side. Argentina and Messi were destined for their shot at glory in a 10-team intra-continental tournament, which despite other simultaneous global attractions like the Euro and Wimbledon, had its own effervescent charms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/silver-win/article35272295.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Struggle for Bangla Desh (From an Editorial)||Mr. Jaya Prakash Narayan, Mr. Sadaq Ali, President of the Congress (O), Mr. Krishna Menen and other leading politicians continue to call for the immediate recognition of Bangla Desh. The demand has also been pressed by some members in the Lok Sabha and the Jan Sangh plans to take the issue to the streets next month. Though the Government’s sympathies are fully with the Bangla Desh movement there are good reasons for not according diplomatic recognition at this stage. There would be little point in that recognition unless it can be followed up with massive supply of arms to the freedom fighters. This would be treated as an act of war by Pakistan and provide grist for Pakistan’s propaganda mill which has been trying to tell the world that India promoted a seccessionist movement in East Pakistan and that the Awami League is a pro-Indian party. Pakistan would probably welcome any sign of Indian intervention in the east, and if black-out exercises are being held in New Delhi and troops put on the alert in Kashmir, it is because India fears that Islamabad may provoke a war at any moment, just to make it appear that India has engineered the Bangla Desh struggle to weaken Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/struggle-for-bangla-desh-from-an-editorial/article35272304.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t let go of your no-claim bonus||When you transfer your vehicle insurance to the buyer, you get to keep the best part of it for yourself — your no-claim bonus (NCB). This is the accumulated reward for your claim-free record. This can go up to 40% and you get to encash it at renewal as a discount on your Own Damage premium. When you sell your car, the NCB stays with you as it is attached to you, and not the vehicle. But it is not automatic. You have to make a request in writing and get a letter confirming it. When you write to your insurance company stating you have sold your car and they may transfer your insurance policy to the buyer, write another letter asking that your NCB be retained with you. They will write back confirming the percentage of your NCB. When you buy another car, you can give this letter to the insurance company and request that the NCB discount be applied to the premium. This works in practice only if your old and new insurer are the same. The good news though is that it applies even if your NCB was earned on a smaller car and the new car is a pricey one, with a heftier premium!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dont-let-go-of-your-no-claim-bonus/article35272291.ece
12 July 2021||Kochi,||Managing the pressure of Olympics well: Neeraj Chopra||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra had an idea of what the field could look like at the Tokyo Olympics during the recent Kuortane Games in Finland. The Asian Games champion was competing against the best like World No. 1 Johannes Vetter, World champion Anderson Peters and former Olympic champion Keshorn Walcott. Brightest prospect Chopra, the brightest prospect to win independent India’s first-ever athletics medal at the Olympics, wished he could have got more such events on the road to Tokyo. The Finland meet where Chopra finished third with 86.79m and which Vetter won with 93.59m, was the only strong meet he did this year. “That gave me a natural feel of top-class competition. The more such competitions I do, the better it is,” said Chopra, from his training base in Uppsala in Sweden, on Sunday. “I had to make changes to my training and competition schedule because of the COVID-19 situation. I have to plan well so that I’m at my peak in Tokyo. My training is now going well and I’m ready. I’m trying to do my best but it depends on the day. I will try my best to get a medal for the country.” Chopra, who has a personal best of 88.07m, had hoped to do the July 13 Diamond League in Gateshead (England). “But getting the UK visa was difficult, so I had to skip the Diamond League. There is no time for competition now. I’ll now have intense training for a week and then will go to Tokyo on July 26,” said the 23-year-old, currently No. 4 in the world list this year. He is now working on his technique. “I was giving more height in my throws, I want to reduce it a bit so that I’ll get longer throws... and I’m improving,” he said. With expectations on him huge, is Chopra under pressure? “There was more pressure during the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games. I have learned to handle the pressure of the Olympic Games,” he said. He listens to music, virtually working out the competition in Tokyo in his head, and does a bit of meditation to stay cool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/managing-the-pressure-of-olympics-well-neeraj-chopra/article35272588.ece
12 July 2021||Paris,||Lavillenie twists ankle in Tokyo run-in||French pole vaulter Renaud Lavillenie suffered a potential blow less than two weeks from the Tokyo Olympics when he twisted his ankle warming up for a competition in northern France on Sunday. The 2012 Olympic champion, one of the main medal hopes of France's track and field team, landed awkwardly on the mat and immediately pulled out of the Sotteville-Les-Rouen meet. Participation not in doubt Medical scans showed a twisted left ankle, with his training group saying his participation in the July 23-August 8 Tokyo Games, with pole vault qualifying scheduled for July 31, was not in doubt. “Clearly not the ideal scenario for my last competition before the Olympic Games,” tweeted Lavillenie, 34. No fracture “I leave the clinic with an ‘encouraging’ verdict: no fracture, a big sprain. The countdown begins.” After several injury-blighted seasons, Lavillenie cleared an impressive 6.06 metres this winter before suffering a calf injury that ruled him out of the European indoor championships in Torun, Poland. The Frenchman rested up for six weeks, but has come back strongly. He is currently ranked second in the world with 5.92m, behind Swedish world record holder Armand Duplantis (6.10m), one of the big favourites for the gold in Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lavillenie-twists-ankle-in-tokyo-run-in/article35272974.ece
12 July 2021||HOVE,||Spinners script incredible win for India||The Indian spinners worked wonders during the final overs as the visitors edged out England by eight runs in the second T20I to level the three-match series here on Sunday. Batting first, India lost its way after a good start provided by opener Shafali Verma (48, 38b, 8x4, 1x6) and captain Harmanpreet Kaur’s 31 (25b, 2x4, 2x6) to finish on 148 for four. A flurry of boundaries from Shafali helped India race to 47 for no loss in four overs. The 17-year-old produced the kind of hitting she is known for as she slog swept left-arm spinner Sophie Ecclestone for a four and six before smashing pacer Katherine Brunt for five boundaries in a row. The more experienced Smriti Mandhana (20 off 16) was happy being a spectator at the other end. Harmanpreet, who promoted herself to No. 3, finally found some form and chipped in along with Deepti (24 off 27). In reply, opener Tammy Beaumont’s 59 (50b, 7x4) and skipper Heather Knight’s 30 (28b, 4x4) put England in a solid position before it was restricted to 140 for eight in 20 overs. Poonam Yadav (two for 17) and Deepti Sharma (one for 18) brought India back into the game in the final five overs.  The scores: India 148/4 in 20 overs (Shafali Verma 48, Harmanpreet Kaur 31) bt England 140/8 in 20 overs (Tammy Beaumont 59, Heather Knight 30, Poonam Yadav 2/17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spinners-script-incredible-win-for-india/article35272396.ece
12 July 2021||London,||Djokovic makes it 20-all, stands shoulder to shoulder with Federer and Nadal||Novak Djokovic had the weight of tennis history on his shoulders and an Italian with dynamite on his racket strings to contend with, but emerged victorious to earn a sixth Wimbledon and a record-levelling 20th Grand Slam title on Sunday. Matteo Berrettini, playing inspired tennis in his first Major final, unleashed everything in his formidable arsenal. But it was not enough, as the Serb pulled through 6-7(4), 6-4, 6-4, 6-3 on what might prove to be a momentous day in the raging argument about the greatest men’s player of all time. “That was more than a battle. He has a true hammer, an Italian hammer and I felt that today,” Djokovic, 34, said. Djokovic is now tied with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal on 20 singles Majors and the World No. 1 can become the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to complete the calendar-year Grand Slam, at the US Open. “I have to pay a tribute to Rafa and Roger. They are the two most important players I’ve ever faced and the reason I am where I am today,” Djokovic said. On Sunday, Berrettini was bidding to become the first Italian to win the Wimbledon singles title. When he went 2-5 down in the opening set, it looked as though the day might pass him by. But after surviving an exhausting 11-minute service game, in which he saved a set point, the 25-year-old began to ratchet up the power, with booming serves and powerful forehands. Djokovic failed to serve out the set at 5-3 as Berrettini chased a dropshot to break. In the tie-breaker, Berrettini was the aggressor and took the set after firing down a 138mph ace. The effort of snatching a 71-minute first set took its toll on Berrettini. Djokovic stormed ahead 4-0 in the second, overcame a small blip and levelled the match. Djokovic struck the early blow at 1-1 in the third, as a net-skimming backhand from out wide forced a volley error from the Italian. But Berrettini threatened to break straight back, thundering a forehand winner to reach deuce. Djokovic, though, steadied in time to take a 3-1 lead, survived another tough service game to move 4-2 ahead, and cupped his hand to his ear for the crowd to respond with football-style chanting. Even after Djokovic claimed the third set, Berrettini looked dangerous. But when the Italian double-faulted on break point in the seventh game of the fourth, his hopes were over and it was time for Djokovic to chew on a blade of grass and soak in the acclaim of 15,000 fans.  Congrats Novak on your 20th Major. I am proud to have the opportunity to play in a special era of tennis champions Roger Federer    1 Djokovic is the first men's singles player after Rod Laver in 1969 to win the first three Majors of the calendar year  1 First French Open-Wimbledon double for Djokovic. He is now the fifth man in the Open Era to achieve the feat, after Laver, Borg, Nadal and Federer  1 First grass-court loss for Berrettini after winning the first set. He was 22-0 on the surface before this, out of 27 wins overall  7 Djokovic's seventh victory out of 14 Grand Slam finals in which he has lost the first set  8 Djokovic has won eight of the last 12 Major titles, with Nadal (3) and Thiem (1) accounting for the other four. It makes the Serb the Open Era leader for most Slams after turning 30. Nadal is next with six||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-clinches-sixth-wimbledon-title-draws-level-with-federer-and-nadal/article35272404.ece
12 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Hockey star Keshav Datt cremated||Double Olympic gold medal-winning hockey player Keshav Datt, who passed away on Wednesday, was cremated in the presence of his son and daughter here on Sunday. Datt’s son Arun and daughter Anjali arrived here in the morning from London and Copenhagen respectively. They took part in an event, organised by Hockey Bengal (HB) at the Netaji Indoor Stadium, where hockey lovers gathered to pay their respects to the legendary player, who won gold medals in the 1948 and 1952 Olympic Games. West Bengal Sports Minister Aroop Biswas, hockey Olympic bronze medallist Dr. Vece Paes, HB and Bengal Olympic Association (BOA) president Swapan Banerjee and Mohun Bagan General Secretary Srinjoy Bose were among those who paid their tributes to Datt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hockey-star-keshav-datt-cremated/article35272970.ece
12 July 2021||Chennai,||Debjit happy about new ISL guidelines||Chennaiyin FC’s new goalkeeper Debjit Majumder says the presence of more Indian players on the field from the next edition of the ISL will give the national coach a variety of options for selection. According to the new set of guidelines for the 2021-22 season of the Indian Super League, the clubs will have to field a minimum of seven Indian footballers at one time, from the previous six. “It’s a great decision. For the Indian team and their coaches also, it’s going to be helpful as they can observe more Indian players in different positions before selecting the Indian squad,” Majumder was quoted as saying by ISL. “Indian footballers will get more options to prove themselves on a big platform. “The up-and-coming players will also get more motivation for performing well.” A rise in the number of Indian players means one spot less for foreign stars which will now be capped at four. “Nowadays, many good young foreign players like Bright Enobakhare, Hugo Boumous and Scott Neville are joining the ISL clubs. Therefore, quality of football is increasing gradually. “Adjusting with them makes Indian players sharper. Our players are getting more confident. This will help Indian football directly. Infrastructure in the league has always been great since the early years. Rather, it gets better every year.” Unperturbed  The 33-year-old Majumder, who recently joined the club from SC East Bengal after inking a multi-year deal, said that he is unperturbed by the task on hand. “Yes, it is (tough challenge). But I have always faced a lot of challenges. “Playing for Kolkata giant ATK FC and Mumbai City FC have always been a huge challenge. So, I am not worried about challenges to come.  Indian footballers will get more options to prove themselves on a big platform. The up-and-coming players will also get more motivation for performing well||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/debjit-happy-about-new-isl-guidelines/article35272972.ece
12 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Vinesh reflects on her journey to Tokyo||Reflecting on her journey from picking up a career-threatening injury in the 2016 Rio Olympics to emerging as a top medal contender for the Tokyo Games, ace wrestler Vinesh Phogat has thanked his fans and well-wishers and asked all to pray for her during the upcoming Olympic Games. In a long emotionally-charged message posted on Twitter on Sunday, Vinesh said she had been reflecting on her journey in the run-up to her second Olympics. Hugely satisfying “The journey to Tokyo has been long, bittersweet and difficult at times. But, ultimately (it’s) hugely satisfying. The pandemic and all its consequences have added a completely different dimension to the road to the Olympics but all the twists and turns have come together to make the trip sweeter,” said Vinesh. “Casting my mind back five years, I wasn’t even sure whether I would be able to get on to the mat again. “The injury in Rio was easily one of the lowest moments in my career, and even had me questioning whether I would ever be able to wrestle again. Giving up though is something that has luckily never crossed my mind. “Yes, I had doubts about whether my body would heal and allow me to get on the mat, but I was sure that I was never going to spare any effort towards rebuilding myself and then let my body decide!” She thanked many people, including family members, who helped in her recovery from the injury and provided moral support to her during the tough time. “Getting back to action in Delhi at the Asian championships in 2017 and winning a medal in the first international competition since the injury gave me a huge boost. Treasured memories “Woeller Akos’ contribution has also been instrumental in my success and I am glad to have such an illustrious coach in my corner! Over the last few years, I have had some incredible times at the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games, and finally that bronze medal at the World championships. These are all treasured memories and regular reminders of how this wonderful sport will continue to reward you if you keep putting in the work! She thanked Wrestling Federation of India, Olympic Gold Quest, Sports Authority of India and Target Olympic Podium Scheme for their support. Vinesh thanked her fans. “Milte hain tokyo mein, bus duaon mein yaad rakhna (See you in Tokyo, pray for me!),” she concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-reflects-on-her-journey-to-tokyo/article35272976.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||World Cup begins in Sochi today||Wildcard B. Adhiban heads a group of nine well-prepared Indians who begin as first-round favourites to join teammates P. Harikrishna, Vidit Gujrathi and D. Harika in the second round of their respective sections of the chess World Cup. The action begins in Sochi on Monday. Each round comprises a two-game mini-match on classical time-control. Tie-breaker In case of a tie, players will be required to play a pair of games in rapid, blitz formats, followed by an Armageddon game, if necessary. Nicknamed ‘The Beast’ for his aggressive, uncompromising play, Adhiban is looking to become the first Indian, after Viswanathan Anand, to go past the third round. After landing in Sochi, Adhiban recalled: “When I made my debut, in 2013, I reached the third round but never again in three more attempts. So I am keen to break that ‘hoodoo’ this time.” He starts favourite against Malawi’s Chiletso Chipanga in the campaign-opener. Wildcard “I cannot be complacent, though. “ I will have to take it one game at a time and not get ahead of myself,” said Adhiban, who considers himself lucky to get a wildcard. Also present at the venue is the country’s noted coach Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh. Ramesh’s presence should be of immense help to three of his students — Aravindh Chithambaram, siblings R. Praggnanandhaa and R. Vaishali.  First-round pairings (involving Indians):   Men: B. Adhiban vs Chiletso Chipanga (Mwi); Aravindh Chithambaram vs Michael Concio Jr. (Phi); Nihal Sarin vs Arthur Ssegwanyi (Uga); R. Praggnanandhaa vs Paulo Bersamina (Phi); D. Gukesh vs Pawel Teclaf (Pol); P. Iniyan vs Sebastian Bogner (Swi).   Women: Padmini Rout vs Ulviyya Fataliyeva (Aze); Bhakti Kulkarni vs Anastasya Paramzina (Rus); R. Vaishali vs Zhou Qiyu (Can).   Adhiban starts favourite against Chiletso Chipanga in the campaign-opener Each round comprises a two-game mini-match on classical time-control||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-cup-begins-in-sochi-today/article35272593.ece
12 July 2021||Harare,||Bangladesh crushes Zimbabwe by 220 runs||Bangladesh beat Zimbabwe by 220 runs in their one-off Test on Sunday as the home team was all out for 256 in its second innings on the final day and well short of its target of 477 to win. Bangladesh spinner Mehidy Hasan picked up four for 66 in the Zimbabwe second innings for nine wickets in the match. Resuming on 140 for three, the Zimbabweans had to bat through the entire day with just seven wickets in hand to save the Test, but didn’t come close.  The scores: Bangladesh 468 and 284/1 decl. bt Zimbabwe 276 and 256 in 94.4 overs (Brendan Taylor 92, Donald Tiripano 52, Mehidy Hasan 4/66, Taskin Ahmed 4/82). Bangladesh won by 220 runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-crushes-zimbabwe-by-220-runs/article35272583.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Italy-based Indians to leave for Tokyo on July 17||The Indian boxing contingent, which is preparing for the Olympics in Italy, will leave for Tokyo from its training base in Assisi on July 17. Nine pugilists, including four women, have qualified for the Games. India’s qualification performance in boxing this time was markedly better than the 2016 Rio Games where only three made the tournament-proper, none of them women. Though athletes travelling from India would be facing added restrictions after arriving in Tokyo, those who would be heading to the Japanese capital from foreign training bases like Euorpe will get some relaxations on the severity of the quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/italy-based-indians-to-leave-for-tokyo-on-july-17/article35272589.ece
12 July 2021||LAUSANNE,||COVID-19: Sport-Specific Regulations for Olympics||If a participant tests positive for COVID-19 in the final of the boxing event in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics, then the opponent will receive the gold medal, and the COVID-19 participant will be facilitated with the silver medal. This specification has been made clear in the Tokyo Olympics’ Sport-Specific Regulations (SSR), jointly formed by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the international federations (IFs). If a boxer cannot compete, the athlete will not be disqualified and will be marked as DNS. In case he/she cannot start the event, it will be treated as walkover once the competition has started, as per the regulations. The opponent will progress to the next round. Similarly, if a wrestler has reached the final but is unable to compete due to COVID-19, the grappler who lost against him/her in the semifinals will fill the vacant place and compete in the final. In shooting, if an athlete/team is not able to compete due to COVID-19, they will not be disqualified and will be marked as DNS. There will be no change to the format or groupings. For the mixed team event, in case an athlete can no longer take part in the event, but the NOC has another athlete on-site, the NOC can replace an athlete team member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-sport-specific-regulations-for-olympics/article35272591.ece
12 July 2021||Andorra la Vella,||Kuss wins Stage 15||Defending champion Tadej Pogacar survived a torrid day as the Tour de France hit the Pyrenees on Sunday, the Slovenian holding on to the overall lead despite constant pressure from a clique of Ineos riders. The gruelling Stage 15 was won by American Sepp Kuss of the Jumbo Visma team, who broke on the last of four tough climbs to distance 41-year-old Alejandro Valverde, who was second at the finish line of the tax-haven principality of Andorra. Kuss, a 26-year-old Coloradan, became the first American since Tyler Farrar back in 2011 to win a stage on the Tour de France, and his family was present to witness the feat.  Monday is a rest day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kuss-wins-stage-15/article35272402.ece
12 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand finishes runner-up||Neither age nor lack of tournament play could stop Viswanathan Anand from finishing runner-up at the Croatia Grand Chess Tour at Zagreb on Sunday. Playing his first event in 16 months, the 51-year-old came up with a superb display to take the second spot in a strong field. He scored 21 points (rapid and blitz combined), two behind winner Maxime Vachier-Lagrave of France.  The standings: 1. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) 23 points; 2. Viswanathan Anand 21; 3. Anish Giri (Ned) 20.5; 4-5. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) and Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) 20; 6. Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) 19; 7. Alexander Grischuk (Rus) 18; 8. Anton Korobov (Ukr) 15.5; 9. Garry Kasparov (Rus)/Ivan Saric (Cro) 12.5; 10. Jorden Van Foreest (Ned) 10.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-beats-kasparov-again/article35272394.ece
12 July 2021||Rio De Janeiro,||Messi and Neymar picked as the best||Argentina’s Lionel Messi and Brazil’s Neymar were picked as the two best players of the Copa America just before they met in the final. Messi dished up four goals and five assists in six matches. Neymar delivered two goals and three assists in five games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-and-neymar-picked-as-the-best/article35272405.ece
12 July 2021||BENGALURU,||Brace by Manoj||A brace from Manoj helped RWF FC defeat Postal Dept FC 4-1 in the BDFA A-division league on Sunday.  The results:   A-div.: RWF 4 (Manoj 14, 21, Rajesh 18, Samanyu 62) bt Postal Dept. 1 (Pravruth 63).   B-div.: DYES 2 (Arjun 31, Santhosh 34) drew with Goans 2 (Tejas 28-OG, Sunil 45) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brace-by-manoj/article35272582.ece
12 July 2021||LONDON,||The Gregory show gives England the series||Lewis Gregory (40 & three for 44) helped England beat Pakistan by 52 runs in the second ODI at Lord's on Saturday and take a 2-0 lead in the three-match series.  The scores: England 247 in 45.2 overs bt Pakistan 195 in 41 overs (Saud Shakeel 56, Gregory 3-44).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-gregory-show-gives-england-the-series/article35272391.ece
12 July 2021||GROS ISLET,||WI takes 2-0 series lead||Hetmyer made 61 in a 103-run partnership with Dwayne Bravo on Saturday which set the West Indies on course to a comprehensive 56-run win over Australia in the second Twenty20 international. Bravo went on to make an unbeaten 47 as the West Indies made 196 for four, plundering 123 runs from its last 10 overs against a limp Australian attack. In the chase, Mitchell Marsh made 54 but for the second time the rest of the Australians provided little resistance and the tourists were bowled out for 140.  The scores: West Indies 196/4 in 20 overs (Lendl Simmons 31, Shimron Hetmyer 61, Dwayne Bravo 47 n.o.) bt Australia 140 in 19.2 overs (Mitchell Marsh 54; Hayden Walsh 3/29).   Toss: Australia; MoM: Hetmyer; West Indies won by 56 runs to lead five-match series 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/windies-take-2-0-series-lead/article35272397.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Advent of Alavandar||It was indicated through divine will to Nathamuni that his grandson would preserve and propagate the Vaishnava tradition that was entrusted in his custody. At the time of his death, Nathamuni asked disciples to bequeath this inheritance to his grandson and name him Yamunai Thuraivar. The term ‘Alavandar’ means ‘One who has come to reign,’ and his advent is seen as a landmark event in Vaishnava tradition, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Born as a precocious child, he gained extraordinary proficiency in the sastras at a young age. An event in his early life proved his ability to engage in intellectual debates with felicity. Once Akki Azhwan, the court scholar, presuming himself to be the greatest scholar, insisted that all other scholars should pay him tribute in the form of dues. When this demand was sent to Alavandar’s preceptor Maha Bashya Bhatta, the disciple asked his preceptor to ignore it. Learning that a young boy had dared to defy the royal scholar, the king was curious to meet him. So he invited him to the court. Much impressed by his effulgence and demeanour, the king promised him a share in the kingdom if he won in the debate with Akki Azhwan. The queen was sure that the boy would win. Alavandar humbled the conceited scholar by posing three statements and challenged him to negate these. ‘Your mother is not a barren woman, the king is paramount and the queen is a good wife.’ Akki Azhwan had to accept defeat. The queen greeted the boy thus, ‘you who have come to rule us all in spiritual matters.’ and the king gifted him a small country to rule. Alavandar, owing to the efforts of Nathamuni’s disciples, soon took charge of the legacy of the rich tradition that would instil intense faith and devotion to God in people’s heart and soul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/advent-of-alavandar/article35272356.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 10:22 IST,||Sudoku — July 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-12-2021/article35273602.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The exit-entry exams dilemma||With both Class 10 and Class 12 board exams being cancelled, there is grave concern about students’ future plans. The Class 12 board exams have a huge impact on the choice of colleges for undergraduate courses. Apart from merit-based admissions, more than 50% students appear for common entrance exams such as NEET, CLAT and IIT-JEE. Class 12 marks simply become an eligibility criterion here, and admissions are strictly based on entrance exam scores. Varied skillsets  In such a context, a large percentage of Class 12 students tend to prepare for two types of high-stakes assessments: the school exit exams and college entrance exams. Currently, there is an outcome-based assessment for school exit exams to certify students at the end of 14 years of schooling. The question paper has a combination of MCQ and open-ended questions, and students must exhibit both knowledge and understanding of the topic. The exam has been criticised for its vast portions, tendency to promote rote learning and predictable paper pattern. In comparison, the skillsets to be demonstrated and the nature of preparation required for entrance examinations tend to vary dramatically. The question papers mostly include many MCQs that require students to be quick in selecting the right answer. The construct for assessment is derived from the objectives of future academic stream that a student is aspiring for. For example, while the focus of the CLAT is to assess reading comprehension along with critical thinking and analytical skills, IIT-JEE assesses problem-solving abilities based on quantitative problems. Though the scope of the question paper remains within the prescribed syllabus, the complexity of the questions is higher than that of the board exam. This leads to enormous pressure among students, as both require a different kind of preparation. External help Since the entrance exams act as a gateway to students’ dream stream, coaching centres step in, offering help to decipher, drill in and practice these papers. Ideally, the preparation for their school exit exams should make students competent enough to crack the specialised entrance exams with minimal additional prep. However, this is not the case, primarily due to a lack of alignment between what is tested and how it is tested in both exams. The National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020) also recognises the need to design high-quality common as well as subject-specific entrance exams in such a way that it does not require students to go through any additional coaching. School education should be such that students are not just prepared to perform in one exam designed in a specific way. They should be equipped to critically apply their subject knowledge, as required, irrespective of the exam format. In fact, the higher secondary education curriculum should be well-rounded enough to provide scope for smooth transitioning of students from school to higher education without the need for ‘additional coaching’ of any kind. The writers are faculty at Azim Premji University  Ideally, the preparation for their school exit exams should make students competent enough to crack the specialised entrance exams with minimal additional prep||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/the-exit-entry-exams-dilemma/article35272561.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The exit-entry exams dilemma||With both Class 10 and Class 12 board exams being cancelled, there is grave concern about students’ future plans. The Class 12 board exams have a huge impact on the choice of colleges for undergraduate courses. Apart from merit-based admissions, more than 50% students appear for common entrance exams such as NEET, CLAT and IIT-JEE. Class 12 marks simply become an eligibility criterion here, and admissions are strictly based on entrance exam scores. Varied skillsets In such a context, a large percentage of Class 12 students tend to prepare for two types of high-stakes assessments: the school exit exams and college entrance exams. Currently, there is an outcome-based assessment for school exit exams to certify students at the end of 14 years of schooling. The question paper has a combination of MCQ and open-ended questions, and students must exhibit both knowledge and understanding of the topic. The exam has been criticised for its vast portions, tendency to promote rote learning and predictable paper pattern. In comparison, the skillsets to be demonstrated and the nature of preparation required for entrance examinations tend to vary dramatically. The question papers mostly include many MCQs that require students to be quick in selecting the right answer. The construct for assessment is derived from the objectives of future academic stream that a student is aspiring for. For example, while the focus of the CLAT is to assess reading comprehension along with critical thinking and analytical skills, IIT-JEE assesses problem-solving abilities based on quantitative problems. Though the scope of the question paper remains within the prescribed syllabus, the complexity of the questions is higher than that of the board exam. This leads to enormous pressure among students, as both require a different kind of preparation. External help Since the entrance exams act as a gateway to students’ dream stream, coaching centres step in, offering help to decipher, drill in and practice these papers. Ideally, the preparation for their school exit exams should make students competent enough to crack the specialised entrance exams with minimal additional prep. However, this is not the case, primarily due to a lack of alignment between what is tested and how it is tested in both exams. The National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020) also recognises the need to design high-quality common as well as subject-specific entrance exams in such a way that it does not require students to go through any additional coaching. School education should be such that students are not just prepared to perform in one exam designed in a specific way. They should be equipped to critically apply their subject knowledge, as required, irrespective of the exam format. In fact, the higher secondary education curriculum should be well-rounded enough to provide scope for smooth transitioning of students from school to higher education without the need for ‘additional coaching’ of any kind. The writers are faculty at Azim Premji University  Ideally, the preparation for their school exit exams should make students competent enough to crack the specialised entrance exams with minimal additional prep||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/the-exit-entry-exams-dilemma/article35272558.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Broaden your horizons||I have selected commerce stream for Class 11. I have to choose either Computer Applications, Psychology or Maths as an optional subject. I want to pursue Psychology, but my parents insist I take Maths. I want to be in government service. Which is a better option? – Simran Dear Simran, I would agree with your parents that you take either Maths or Computer Application, as these will help for the entrance exams after Class 12 You can always read Psychology side by side now, and engage in short-term courses online to know more about the subject My son is in Class 12. He is not interested in academics but scores slightly above average in his exams. However, he does not finish his revision or paper or tasks on time. He doesn’t seem to have found a passion or career that will motivate him or drive him to excel. What can we do? – Gijo Dear Gijo, He sounds just like any other teenager, but it is time he starts to think seriously about what’s next. Talk to him about meeting a career counsellor at the earliest to help him identify his likes, dislikes, interests, aptitudes, skill sets, and his inherent personality type. This will give him clarity and help him step up. I am doing LLB from Delhi University, but also want to do a diploma/degree in Yoga. Is it possible to do this simultaneously? – Nikhil Mishra Dear Nikhil, Of course, you can do a course in Yoga as well. Many institutions offer part-time/diploma/certification. Depending upon your LLB course work, you can choose what works for you. Alternatively, if it is not the diploma/degree that is the motivation, but the art and the knowledge, experience a particular form from a registered school nearby, till you have the luxury of joining a full-time programme. I am studying in Class 8. I want to be in the Army, but my parents want me to prepare for the IAS. What do I do and for which do I start preparing? – Aditya Prakash Dear Aditya, I would like you to do a small experiment. Ask your father to help you meet three Army officers and three IAS officers. Speak to both sets and find out what work they do and what about it interests you more and why. Make notes and write down your observations and then have a final conversation with your parents. You have time till Class 10 to start working on the NDA exam, so don’t worry.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, guidance and suggestions on education and careers. It is a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.   The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/broaden-your-horizons/article35272560.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Virtual reality and crash of expectations||It has been nearly a year since Ghaziabad resident Anshika Singh enrolled at the Delhi University (DU) for under-graduation. However, with online classes continuing to be the norm due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been difficult for her to gauge how college functions or access the facilities on campus. For several first-year students like Ms. Singh, who are set to appear for their second-semester examinations next month, a lack of interaction with professors and peers, sans the computer screen, has meant that the “college life” they expected was in dissonance with the reality. Ms. Singh, a student of Miranda House, said: “After boards, we thought we’ll get to go out, explore an independent life which DU offers and meet people coming from different parts of the country. But we lost out on the chance. The exposure that DU offers, including extracurricular activities, is also why you want to join the university. But due to the pandemic, interactions got restricted.” The BA (Programme) student added: “At times attending online classes feel like listening to podcasts. Interaction with teachers also gets restricted and you simply do not get the exposure you hoped for. For many, mental health issues are also on a rise. When there is interaction, you get to learn stuff, which is not present online. We do not even have direct interaction with the administration. The experience for which I joined Miranda House is still unclear for me. Even for teachers, this is a whole new scenario.” Attending online classes was not equivalent to the “human connect” that you would expect on campus, others added. Prathit Singh, a Political Science student of Ramjas College, said: “When you join a DU North Campus college you have expectations. Initially, I adapted to the life of online classes but eventually, the enthusiasm faded away. Online lectures are difficult to focus on at times. Even though I was able to make a few friends and meet them online, the human connect is missing. I am missing out on a very important thing.” It was more stressful during the onslaught of the second wave. “During the second wave, it was even more stressful when professors were also unwell. Everything around us was distraught and gradually the pace of classes was also reduced as several students and teachers were infected. The motivation is slightly slipping away but we don’t really have an alternative at the moment,” said the Kolkata resident. Stifled dreams  Stating that the current batch was “extremely unfortunate” due to curtailed dreams of independence and self-discovery, Dhruv Garg, a student of Kirori Mal College (KMC) said, “In order to have bonds one has to step out and college is essentially the first time people travel and live by themselves. That is something we missed out on. I have been able to make friends online but for a lot of people it is difficult.” “Last week I met a few of my online friends for the first time and it did not really feel overwhelming. It was quite normal. I think the transition from online to offline will be okay for me,” said Garg, a student of Economics. Professors at the university also said that the current structure of teaching-learning, brought in due to the ongoing pandemic had an adverse impact on the students. Practical hurdles  Tanvir Aeijaz, professor at Ramjas College, said: “Students have been impacted both academically and socially. Academically a lot of things we do in the classroom like impromptu discussions are missing in online classes. The liveliness and experience of the classroom are not there. This makes a huge difference. A majority of the students often do not have their videos on for several reasons which also make it difficult for the teacher to know if the student is even present.” There are manifold hindrances, he said. “Communication gets distorted online. University is a space that once students enter, they are in a different mind space altogether and there is some purpose. The academic charm is missing in online classes. Teaching-learning within a structured environment is not there and if that ecology is missing then the factors that determine learning also changes. Online students are getting impoverished in terms of learning and knowledge and it is a huge loss for them,” said Mr. Aeijaz. Dystopic reality Speaking of a “dystopic reality” that professors and students are currently experiencing, St. Stephens College professor Nandita Narain said: “There is no sense of a community, class or college. This is not even a pale shadow of what is actually experienced in a college, mostly from each other and to a large extent from teachers. In this virtual reality, most people do not even switch on their videos so one doesn’t even know who they are speaking to.” “It is to be seen how the current batch copes in the second year as their first year foundation will be shaky,” lamented Ms. Narain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virtual-reality-and-crash-of-expectations/article35272727.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active count rises to 1.16 lakh with 8,535 new cases||Just 6,013 patients were discharged in Maharashtra on Sunday against a surge of 8,535 new COVID-19 cases as the State’s active case tally rose again to 1,16,165. A total of 350 deaths were added to the progressive death toll. As many as 118 of these have occurred in the last 48 hours and 38 were from the past week. A further 194 fatalities had been added as per the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, said the State Health Department. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,25,878 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 2.04%. The total cases have reached 61,57,799 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 59,12,479 with the recovery rate standing at 96.02%. “Of a total 4,40,10,550 laboratory samples tested thus far, 61,57,799 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 13.99%) have returned positive with over 2.10 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported more than 1,000 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,68,389. Nine deaths were recorded as the toll touched 17,509. According to district authorities, the active cases stand at 10,700 while the fatality toll has crossed 18,093. Mumbai recorded 558 new cases to take its total tally to 7,27,694 while the active cases rose to 11,423. Fifteen fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,627. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra registered more than 1,400 new cases taking its total cases to 1,74,017 of whom 13,157 are active. As many as 36 deaths saw the toll go up to 5,048. Satara added 755 cases and 16 deaths as its total case tally climbed to 20,26,36 of whom 8,505 are active while the fatality toll rose to 4,874. Neighbouring Sangli logged more than 1,100 new cases and 22 deaths. The total tally stands at 1,65,264 with the active cases rising to 11,717 while its death toll reached 4,552.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtras-active-count-rises-to-116-lakh-with-8535-new-cases/article35272906.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal promises free power in Uttarakhand||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised up to 300 units of free electricity per month to every family in Uttarakhand and free electricity to the farmers of the State. Mr. Kejriwal, on a visit to the State, said that if the AAP is voted to power in the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttarakhand, it would also waive old electricity bills and provide 24 hours of power across the State. “Uttarakhand has been blessed by abundance of beauty and natural resources. There are rivers, mountains, trees, vegetation, and even herbs in the State. There are great, honest, and hardworking people as well in Uttarakhand. But the leaders and parties here have left no stone unturned to destroy Uttarakhand,” he said at a press conference in Dehradun. Mr. Kejriwal said two parties in the State have been looting it in turns and questioned why a State that generates electricity and even sells it to other States was not providing free or cheap electricity to its people. He added that all-round development was taking place in Delhi and promised to do the same in Uttrakhand if voted to power. ‘Series of guarantees’ “Kejriwal does what he says. This is our first guarantee in a series of guarantees. This means I will come again next month to talk about another issue. And then again next month to talk about another issue. Today I am here to give you a guarantee on the issue of electricity. We will also announce a CM face for the State,” he said. Promising to stop corruption in the State, the AAP convener invited all those who wanted to do good work to join the AAP. “The politics of Uttarakhand is taking a turn. The politics of Uttarakhand is about to change. All of you who are not being able to do good work in your respective parties can come and join the Aam Aadmi Party,” Mr. Kejriwal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-promises-free-power-in-uttarakhand/article35272710.ece
12 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt. allows cinema halls, pools and spas to open||The Haryana government on Sunday allowed cinema halls, swimming pools and spas to open with certain restrictions in further relaxation in the Covid-induced lockdown in the State. However, the lockdown has been extended for another week till July 19. Announcing the extension of the lockdown till 5 a.m. on July 19, the Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson Haryana State Executive Committee, Vijai Vardhan, in a three-page order, allowed the cinema halls to open with maximum 50% seating capacity with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Spas are also allowed to open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. with 50% capacity. The order also allowed the swimming pools to open, but only for the athletes and swimmers practising for a competitive event. The State government also relaxed the restrictions on gatherings in open spaces allowing up to 200 people. The maximum number of people attending wedding, funerals and cremations has also been increased to 100. Exams allowed Similarly, universities, colleges and Industrial Training Institutes are allowed to open for doubt classes, practical classes in laboratories, practical examinations and offline examinations. Coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes, both private and government, are also allowed to open. The Vice-Chancellor of National Law University, Delhi, has been allowed to hold Common Law Admission Test on July 23 in the State. The Haryana government had first imposed a week-end lockdown in nine districts from 10 p.m. of April 30 to 5 a.m. of May 3. The entire State was then brought under lockdown for a week on May 3 and the restrictions are being extended on a weekly basis thereafter. As per earlier orders, all shops are allowed to open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. and shopping malls from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. The restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. with 50% seating capacity and corporate offices are allowed to run with full capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-govt-allows-cinema-halls-pools-and-spas-to-open/article35272707.ece
12 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea of overweight candidate in IAF recruitment||The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of an overweight candidate seeking recruitment as airman in the Indian Air Force (IAF), noting that he could end up being a liability for the force rather than being of any help in the defence of the country. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Amit Bansal remarked once there is a rule specifying the weight for the particular height, it “has to be abided by and a slight variation even therein cannot be tolerated”. “The court cannot dilute the said rule by permitting violation of the rule, in the name of being miniscule. To direct such a person to be recruited, would amount to burdening the respondents — Indian Air Force — with an overweight airman who would be unfit to do the duties required from him and would end up being a liability for the respondents rather than being of any help in the defence of the country,” the Bench remarked. The High Court’s direction came on a plea by one Shivam Kumar, who had applied for recruitment as airman in IAF. During the medical examination conducted as part of the recruitment process, he was found medically unfit on the ground of being overweight by 2 kg. Easily manageable Mr. Kumar challenged the finding of medical unfitness and sought a direction to IAF to conduct re-examination of his medical fitness. In the alternative, he sought a direction for his appointment as an airman on the basis of the medical certificate of fitness issued by a private hospital. Mr. Kumar argued he was overweight by 2 kg only, “which is nothing and which is easily manageable”. The HC, however, denied his plea saying: “Well before participating in the recruitment process ought to have known the weight requirement.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-plea-of-overweight-candidate-in-iaf-recruitment/article35272718.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 held for ‘honeytrapping’ businessman||A software engineer and his two associates have been arrested for allegedly honeytrapping a businessman and demanding Rs. 1 crore from him after threatening to upload his morphed pictures on social media platforms, police said on Sunday. The main accused, Raj Kishor Singh, a software engineer based in Gurugram, fell into bad company due to lavish lifestyle, they said. He opened a spa and recruited women for call girl services. To meet his expenses, he used them to honeytrap rich and wealthy businessmen, shoot intimate pictures or videos and demanded money from them after threatening to upload them if they failed to pay up, they said. Police said Singh along with Aryan Dixit (28) and another female associate, also a software engineer, would target wealthy businessmen through Tinder. The woman would initiate chats to lure the victim and later fix up a meeting, police said. “During the meeting, the woman would place the camera hidden in her handbag discreetly in the room and captured intimate videos and pictures. After a few days, the victim would get an extortion call from Singh, who threatened to upload the videos and pictures on the social media platforms if the demanded money was not paid,” a senior police officer said. The arrests of all the three accused were made by Delhi Police’s Crime Branch after it received a complaint from a businessman. In the complaint, the businessman stated that he had received calls from an unknown person who was demanding Rs. 1 crore from him and threatening to publish his nude and morphed pictures along with a woman on social media sites, according to the police. Deception, disclosure Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Manoj C said during investigation, technical surveillance was mounted, manual information was collected and location of the suspect was identified. “A raid was conducted and one of the suspects identified as Rajkishor Singh was nabbed from Gurugram who disclosed his involvement and revealed names of his two associates,” the DCP said. Another raid was conducted at DLF Phase II in Gurugram from where the woman was arrested while her co-accused and friend Dixit was nabbed from south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, he said. During the search, two handbags fitted with spy camera, memory card, USB pen drive, laptop containing videos and pictures of victims, and a mobile phone used to make extortion calls were recovered, he added. Police said Dixit, who is an MBA graduate, runs an online garment business. Singh was previously arrested in a case registered at Connaught police station, they added.  During the meeting, the woman would place the camera hidden in her handbag discreetly in the room and captured intimate videos and pictures. A senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-held-for-honeytrapping-businessman/article35272722.ece
12 July 2021||Pune,||Next Speaker will be from Congress: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the three constituents of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi had decided that the next Speaker of the Assembly would be from the Congress. The post fell vacant after Congress MLA Nana Patole resigned in February to take over as the party’s Maharashtra unit president. Speaking to reporters in Baramati, Mr. Pawar said, “The three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) have decided that the new Speaker will be from the Congress only. We all will support whatever the party (Congress) decides about the Speaker (candidate).” Recently, Governor B.S. Koshyari had written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to take a call on filling the post of the Speaker. However, the election of Speaker could not be held during the recently concluded two-day monsoon session of the State legislature. Replying to a question on the suspension of 12 MLAs of the BJP during the monsoon session for alleged misbehaviour, Mr. Pawar said, “They were suspended based on what happened in the Assembly. Nothing much to dig into it...It is done.” The 12 MLAs were suspended for one year for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer in the chamber of the Assembly Speaker on July 5. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had alleged that the move was aimed at reducing the number of BJP MLAs in the Lower House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/next-speaker-will-be-from-congress-pawar/article35272904.ece
12 July 2021||Guwahati,||Assam-Mizoram border row flares again||A day after a suspected IED blast was carried out inside Cachar district of Assam allegedly by miscreants from Mizoram during an eviction drive, two back to back explosions took place on Sunday along the inter-State border on the side of the neighbouring State, a police source said. Tension is running high in Khulicherra area of the district, where people from Mizoram have reportedly entered up to 6.5 kilometres inside Assam land a few days ago, following which the Assam Police along with civil administration carried out an eviction drive. “Two blast sounds were heard coming from the Mizoram side at 2.40 am and 2.43 am. The CRPF, which is a neutral force deployed at Khulicherra Point-II, has been asked to enquire into the suspected blasts on the Mizoram side,” an Assam Police source said. The situation is at present normal although tension still prevails and Assam Police personnel are on alert in the entire border area, he added. On Saturday, an explosion took place targeting a delegation of Assam government officials, including senior police officials, who were on a visit to oversee the construction of a road along the border, but no casualty was reported in the incident.  ‘Miscreants used IED’ Initially it was believed to be a grenade attack but the police later suspected that the miscreants used IED, the source said. Additional Director General of Police (Border) Harmeet Singh is camping at the spot and monitoring the situation. Meanwhile, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that he has written to his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga to settle the border dispute by using satellite mapping of the actual border locations. “For complete peace, we should hand over the inter-State border to Central police forces after we fix the border issue. We are building roads within the Constitutional boundary of Assam. We will not take an inch of land from Mizoram,” he added. There has been a long border dispute between Assam and Mizoram in that area along with other locations in Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts of the Barak valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-mizoram-border-row-flares-again/article35272711.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for looting realtor in Uttam Nagar||The police on Sunday arrested three men including the employee of a property dealer for executing an armed robbery of cash worth Rs. 8 lakh and gold ornaments at his house in west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar after holding his family hostage, police said. The two accused, Ankush (23) and Mukul (24), were arrested following an encounter that took place near Uttam Nagar bus terminal, they said. When the police team tried to apprehend them, the duo opened fire which hit the bulletproof jacket of one of the policemen. In retaliation, the police team opened fire which hit Ankush, police said. Based on their disclose, the third, Deepanshu alias Vashu (21), is a resident of Sadar Bazar. He is an employee of property dealer Vinod Lal, at whose house an armed robbery was executed, a senior police officer said. “Deepanshu was also arrested later for providing information to the accused men about the availability of cash and jewellery at Mr. Lal’s house,” he said. The incident took place on July 7 around 1.30 p.m. Four armed men posing as electricians entered Mr. Lal’s house in his absence. All of them were carrying weapons and had their faces covered with masks to conceal their identity. While one of them was wearing a helmet, others were wearing a cap. They held the family hostage and fled with Rs. 8 lakh and gold ornaments, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said: “Our team had been trailing them and at about 5 a.m. on Sunday, when two of the accused men were spotted near Uttam Nagar bus terminal, the accused were asked to surrender but they defied and fired upon police team. In retaliation, our team fired back and one of the accused got injured.” Out of danger He was taken to hospital for treatment and is stated to be out of danger, he said. They also disclosed their involvement in two more robberies including one in Sadar Bazar which they executed on June 26 this year, he said. The police have recovered a countrymade pistol, three live cartridges, three empty cartridges, a button-actuated knife and a stolen motorcycle. “Efforts are being made to nab the accomplices of the arrested accused and to collect corroborative as well as linking evidence for further investigation,” he said.  The accused were asked to surrender but they defied and fired upon police team. In retaliation, our team fired back and one of the accused got injured Santosh Kumar Meena DCP ( Dwarka)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-held-for-looting-realtors-house-in-uttam-nagar/article35272721.ece
12 July 2021||Thane,||Builder suicide: HC says no to cancellation of bail||The Bombay High Court has rejected the Maharashtra government’s application seeking cancellation of bail to four accused in the suicide case of Thane-based builder Suraj Parmar in 2015. While three of the accused are sitting corporators in the Thane civic body, the fourth one is a former corporator. In his suicide note, Parmar had blamed the four for his extreme step, accusing them of harassing him for money. A Thane district court had earlier granted bail to the four accused. In its order dated July 7, High Court judge, Justice Prakash D. Naik, said, “A long time has lapsed after the bail of the applicants. Hence, all the applications (seeking cancellation of bail) be disposed of.” “In view of the submissions, all the applications stand disposed of as rejected,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/builder-suicide-hc-says-no-to-cancellation-of-bail/article35272900.ece
12 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmer electrocuted at Singhu protest site||A 46-year-old farmer died of electrocution at the Singhu border, the site of farmers’ agitation, said the police. Sohan Singh (42), was found dead near an electric transformer late on Saturday night, said Sub-Inspector Shamsher Singh of Kundli Police Station in Sonipat. “He died of electrocution. A post-mortem was conducted,” he said, adding that the police have ruled out any foul play. Deep sorrow Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a coalition of farmer unions spearheading the agitation, issued a press statement expressing deep sorrow at “the sad loss of life of a farmer warrior of the Delhi protest” and conveyed its heartfelt condolences to the family. The SKM, in a press statement, said that the deceased belonged to Kauke Kala village in Punjab’s Ludhiana district. He was a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) and is survived by his mother, wife, three daughters and a son. Farmers, from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting in huge numbers at Delhi’s borders since November 2020, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmer-electrocuted-at-singhu-protest-site/article35272715.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five arrested in Bara Hindu Rao firing case||Five men, including two contract killers, have been arrested in connection with a firing incident in Bara Hindu Rao area, which left two passers-by dead three days ago, police said on Sunday. Danish, the key conspirator, who is the partner of arrested builder Feroz, too was among the arrested. Two pistols with five cartridges were seized from Rahul alias Charlie (23) and Himanshu (21), both from Nand Nagri. The third arrested man is Mehtab, who is a relative of the absconding suspect, said DCP (North) Anto Alphonse. During initial investigation, it was found that the complainant Haji Naeem and his nephew Munib shared rivalry with other builders of Sadar Bazar and Bara Hindu Rao. Munib had managed to get a stay on the construction of a building at Ahata Kidara, which was later demolished. Upset, the builder conspired with his partner to settle scores. He then got into touch with Mehtab, the partner’s relative, to eliminate Munib and Naeem. Technical surveillance was mounted and sources were deployed to nab the accused. Acting on a tip-off, Rahul was apprehended from Civil Lines and the others were arrested later, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-arrested-in-bara-hindu-rao-firing-case/article35272719.ece
12 July 2021||Thane,||Darekar says BJP will take a call at appropriate time||The BJP would take a call on whether to field a candidate for the election of the Maharashtra Assembly speaker or to chalk out another strategy at an appropriate time, party leader Pravin Darekar said on Sunday. Mr. Darekar also said that the induction of BJP leaders Narayan Rane and Kapil Patil into the Union Cabinet would prove beneficial especially for the Konkan region. Speaking to reporters in Dombivali, the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council also said that the induction of four ministers from Maharashtra, including Mr. Rane and Mr. Patil, would fast-track development and ensure more funds for the State. Mr. Darekar claimed that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) constituents — Sena, NCP and Congress — lacked coordination. “There is constant bickering among these three constituents. When it comes to the election of the Speaker, the BJP will take a call on whether to field a candidate or to chalk out a different strategy,” he said. Responding to a query on the demand for restoration of OBC quota in local bodies in Maharashtra, Mr. Darekar said the BJP didn’t expect NCP leader and Minister Chaggan Bhujbal to praise Devendra Fadnavis “whom he has always been blaming for everything”. “Since the empirical data on OBC is faulty, the State should set up a commission and deal with the issue,” he said. Mr. Darekar said the MVA government had failed to procure even a single COVID-19 vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/darekar-says-bjp-will-take-a-call-at-appropriate-time/article35272902.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||390 families apply for COVID relief||The Delhi government on Sunday announced that around 390 beneficiaries have applied under the government scheme to provide financial assistance to families who lost their relatives to COVID-19 Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said that 220 applications were for a pension of Rs. 2,500 per month and 170 for Rs. 50,000 one time ex-gratia. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Mr. Gautam had launched ‘Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana’ on July 6. Under the scheme, Rs. 50,000 ex-gratia will be given to every family that lost a member to COVID-19 and an additional Rs. 2,500 per month will be given if the deceased was the sole breadwinner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/390-families-apply-for-covid-relief/article35272716.ece
12 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman strangulates infant son||A 26-year-old woman was arrested for strangulating her 11-month-old infant to death following a quarrel with her husband in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri, police said on Sunday. Accused Jyoti, who hails from Ritoz village in Gurugram, got married in 2011 when she was 16-years-old but did not share cordial relations with her husband, they said. She told police that her 11-month-old son was suffering from fever and her husband Satveer Tanwar refused to take him to visit a doctor, police said. The woman used dupatta to strangulate her infant following a quarrel between her and Satveer. The child was then taken to Apex Hospital, Chhatarpur by his father and other relatives where he was declared brought dead, a senior police officer said. A case of murder was registered and during investigation, both the mother and father of the child levelled allegations against each other for killing the infant. CCTV footage from the village, call records, statements of witnesses were taken which revealed that the murder was committed by Jyoti, he said. “Jyoti has been arrested and the duppatta used by her to strangulate the infant was also recovered,” the officer said. “During interrogation, accused disclosed that she had a quarrel with her husband, Satveer, on July 9 at around 3.30 p.m. as her husband Satveer didn’t like her since their marriage. She also stated that her son was suffering from fever and Satveer refused to take him to doctor,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-strangulates-infant-son/article35272720.ece
12 July 2021||Mumbai,||NCB arrests one for supplying drugs in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted a special drive against drug traffickers in Mumbai’s Mahim and arrested one person who allegedly used to sell contraband to youngsters, an NCB official said on Sunday. The drive, led by NCB’s zonal director Samir Wankhede, was held late Saturday night following a number of complaints from residents of drug trafficking in the area. A team of the NCB maintained a vigil in the area and apprehended drug peddler Wasim Shamim Nagor at the Mahim beach and later arrested him, the official said. During a search, the agency officials seized ‘hashish’ from his possession, he said, adding that a preliminary investigation into the matter revealed the accused used to supply drugs to youngsters. The NCB team also found some teenagers consuming drugs at the place. They were counselled and their parents were also informed about the ill-effects of drugs. “These youngsters gradually get addicted to drugs, which would not only affect their lives, but also their families and the entire society,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ncb-arrests-one-for-supplying-drugs-in-mumbai/article35272901.ece
12 July 2021||Chhatarpur (M.P.),||Six of family die due to electrocution||Six members of a family were electrocuted to death during a construction work at a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur district on Sunday morning, a police officer said. The incident took place at Mahua Jhala village, about 42 km from the district headquarters, while the construction work of a septic tank was underway, Bijawar police station in-charge Mukesh Singh Thakur said. The deceased were in the age group of 20 to 65 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-of-family-die-due-to-electrocution/article35272705.ece
12 July 2021||Kota,||Curfew in Rajasthan dist. after murder||A curfew was imposed and internet services suspended for 24 hours in Rajasthan’s Baran district following the murder of a teenage boy, police said on Sunday. Azad, a resident of Shramik Colony in Talab Para area, was allegedly killed on Saturday evening by Hemant Rathore and his accomplices over a one and half-year-old dispute. ‘No communal angle’ “The murder is the result of personal enmity and rivalry between two groups with no communal angle,” ASP Vijay Swarnkar said. The victim was shot twice and then attacked using iron rods outside Baran Grain Mandi gate, police said. , A video of the incident was posted on the internet on Saturday night, following which, the district administration imposed a curfew under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and banned internet services for 24 hours till 3 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curfew-in-rajasthan-dist-after-murder/article35272712.ece
12 July 2021||July 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Light and sound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/light-and-sound/article35272714.ece
12 July 2021||Gurugram,||Farmers break glass of Deputy Speaker’s car||Agitating farmers allegedly broke the rear windscreen and a window glass of Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s official vehicle during a protest against his participation at a party function in Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa on Sunday. Mr. Gangwa was coming out from the university in his car escorted by the police when around a hundred farmers carrying black flags blocked his way around 4 p.m. and prevented him from leaving. “In the ensuing commotion, farmers broke the rear windscreen and a window glass of Mr. Gangwa’s vehicle. Some stones were also pelted. But he was safely escorted out of the area,” Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sirsa, Sanjay Kumar told The Hindu over phone. Local MP Sunita Duggal was also present at the function inside the university, but she managed to leave from another gate. However, she was earlier shown black flags at a function in Fatehabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-break-glass-of-deputy-speakers-car/article35272704.ece
