13 July 2021||Kathmandu,||In blow to Oli, Nepal SC directs Deuba to be appointed PM||Nepal’s Supreme Court on Monday reinstated the House of Representatives for the second time in five months, and directed President Bidya Devi Bhandari to appoint Nepali Congress chief Sher Bahadur Deuba as Prime Minister by Tuesday. A five-member Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana, issued the verdict stating that President Bhandari’s decision to dissolve the Lower House upon a recommendation of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli was an unconstitutional act, delivering a blow to the veteran Communist leader, who was preparing for snap elections. Nepali Congress veteran Mr. Deuba, 74, has served as the Prime Minister on four occasions; first from 1995 to 1997, then from 2001 to 2002, again from 2004 to 2005, and from 2017 to 2018. Currently, he is the Leader of the Opposition in the House. The court also ordered summoning a new session of the House of Representatives at 5 p.m. on July 18. Chief Justice Rana said the Bench has concluded that party whip does not apply when lawmakers take part in the voting to elect a new Prime Minister as per Article 76 (5) of the Constitution. The Bench, which included the senior-most Justices Dipak Kumar Karki, Mira Khadka, Ishwar Prasad Khatiwada and Ananda Mohan Bhattarai, had concluded hearings last week. President Bhandari had dissolved the 275-member Lower House on May 22 and announced snap elections on November 12 and 19. Last week, the Election Commission had announced the schedule for mid-term elections despite the uncertainty over polls. Verdict welcomed Welcoming the court verdict, senior leader of the Nepal Communist Party-UML Madhav Kumar Nepal said, “The Supreme Court has done a commendable job. This has saved the political system that is in place. Since the court has directly asked to appoint Deuba as new Prime Minister, we have no role to play now.” Under Mr. Madhav Nepal’s leadership, 23 lawmakers of the UML had put their signature in favour of Mr. Deuba’s claim to the prime ministership. “Parliament has been reinstated. We will now go to Parliament,” he said. “The court’s verdict has also raised moral questions on Oli’s actions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-blow-to-oli-nepal-sc-directs-deuba-to-be-appointed-pm/article35292367.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inflation remains above 6% in June||After touching a six-month high in May, India’s retail inflation was virtually unchanged in June at about 6.3%, remaining out of the central bank’s comfort zone for a second month in a row. Economists expect the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to revisit its inflation estimate of 5.1% for 2021-22 and stressed that lack of fiscal policy action to cool prices could precipitate a faster unwinding of RBI’s growth-supporting approach to interest rates. Growth impulses remained fragile with the second COVID-19 wave hurting the recovery momentum, according to quick estimates of industrial output for May, with output levels 8% lower than April. Manufacturing output tanked 9.5% month-on-month, electricity production fell nearly 7%, although mining moved up marginally by 0.6% in May. Headline factory output increased 29.3% over an incomparable May 2020, when industrial production had collapsed over 33% in the midst of a national lockdown. However, this was 13.9% below the pre-pandemic levels of May 2019. “Consumer durables and capital goods stood out as the worst affected sectors in May, trailing the pre-COVID levels by 41.2% and 36.9%, respectively,” noted Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. With petroleum product prices continuing to soar, fuel and light inflation hit 12.7% in June from 11.9% in May. Food inflation, which had flared up from just 2% in April to 5% in May, rose further, led by a 34.8% inflation rate for oils and fats and 19.4% for eggs. Persistently sticky retail prices for fuel and food translated into little respite for citizens, as inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) declined by just four basis points from May’s 6.30%, as per the National Statistical Office. One basis point equals 0.01%. DBS Group Research economist Radhika Rao said Monetary Policy Committee members may retain a growth focus but are likely to express discomfort on the recent bout of sticky inflation, in the absence of corrective fiscal steps like excise duty cuts on fuel. “If the CPI inflation remains entrenched above the 6% upper threshold in the next two prints (July-August 2021), a preponement of rate normalisation can’t be ruled out,” warned Ms. Nayar, who expects the tightrope walk between supporting a ‘nascent, incomplete’ growth revival and preserving the need to anchor inflationary expectations, to continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inflation-remains-above-6-for-second-month-in-a-row/article35292379.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI/BENGALURU,||All-party meet in Tamil Nadu passes resolution against Mekedatu project||While an all-party meeting in Tamil Nadu on Monday unanimously passed a resolution urging the Union government not to accord permission to Karnataka for Mekedatu dam, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai insisted that the Centre had no reason to stall it since drinking water was a major project component. The meeting in Chennai was convened by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the resolution said no construction must be undertaken at Mekedatu without the permission of the downstream States as per the Supreme Court’s judgment. “Yet, Karnataka is making efforts to construct a dam at Mekedatu. This is highly condemnable,” the resolution said. The parties, including BJP, said that the project would affect water supply for the farmers of Tamil Nadu. The resolution would be submitted to the Union government. However, Mr. Bommai in Bengaluru reiterated that the Karnataka government was “100% committed to implementing the project”. “We will put all our might to get the clearance for the project from the Centre,” he said. All rights and interests of the farmers would be safeguarded by implementing the project and the government hoped the Centre would consider the State’s request and “give justice to the people of Karnataka”, the Minister said. Meanwhile KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar alleged that the Tamil Nadu government had been raking up the issue for political gains. The BJP government should demonstrate the political will to take up the project, he said. The Tamil Nadu government has filed a petition in the Supreme Court opposing the construction of the dam across the river, claiming that it would hurt the interests of its farmers. Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart inviting him for talks on the contentious project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-party-meet-in-tamil-nadu-passes-resolution-against-mekedatu-project/article35292416.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Decks cleared for e-bike taxis in State||Commuters will soon have another transport option as the decks have been cleared to introduce electric bike (e-bike) taxi services in the State. Other than big players, the State government will also allow individuals to register an e-bike as a taxi to earn a livelihood. S/he will be allowed to attach the vehicle with an aggregator or operate independently. The Transport Department will allow pillion riders (customers) to book e-bike taxis to travel only for a distance of up to 10 km. Officials say the main aim of e-bike taxis is to act as feeder services for Namma Metro and city buses. The fare structure will be notified at a later stage. The department is likely to introduce fares in two stages — 5 kmand 10 km. Comprehensive guidelines will be released by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. The government will allow e-bikes only in urban centres. Aggregators interested in operating e-bike taxis have to obtain a licence in each city. The Chief Minister had announced introduction of e-bike taxis in the previous Budget. Riders Sources in the department said e-bike taxis would be allowed with various riders, such as mandatory installation of GPS, ‘bike taxi’ to be written predominately on the vehicles, insurance coverage for rider as well as customer, mandatory wearing of helmets, and antecedent check of the riders. A senior official said, “In Bengaluru, allowing e-bike taxis will help reduce pollution and provide public an economical option to travel short distances. At present, in many places, due to narrow roads, bus connectivity to metro stations is not possible in a radius of five to 10 km.” In the past, aggregators such as Ola, Uber, Rapido, and others had tried to introduce bike taxi services in Bengaluru city by attaching personal bikes of riders (white-board vehicles). But the department took strong objection and impounded hundreds of vehicles, making owners pay heavy penalty for using private vehicles for commercial purposes. Officials had said that bike taxis would not be allowed in the absence of guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decks-cleared-for-e-bike-taxis-in-state/article35292419.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Traders threaten to open shops on all days from Thursday||Hardening its stance against the ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) has said it will reopen all shops and commercial establishments on all days from Thursday onwards, if the State government does not take a favourable stance soon. Ever since the second wave struck two months back, only shops selling essentials and restaurants providing food parcels are being allowed to function on all days. Weekend lockdown The samiti has been for the past few weeks demanding that the government ease the restrictions so that all commercial establishments are allowed to function on all days. It has also taken a stance against the weekend lockdown, during which almost all establishments stay shuttered. Severe restrictions Except the shops for essentials, all other establishments are allowed to function only on three days. In addition, there are several other types of shops, including those selling home appliances, furniture, and other material, which have not yet been allowed to open. The decision was announced after a meeting of the samiti’s State committee on Monday afternoon. A joint statement of samiti president T. Naseeruddin, general secretary Raju Apsara, and treasurer Devasia Mechery said the shops would function on all days by following the COVID-19 protocol. Talks held with Minister Earlier in the day, the samiti leaders met Minister for Local Self-Government M.V.Govindan and handed over a memorandum of their demands. “The Minister assured us to look at our demands favourably. But it is hard for us to survive without reopening shops in the current situation,” said Peringamala Ramachandran, samiti vice president. Recent weeks had witnessed the suicide of a lights and sounds shop owner and a goldsmith after their businesses had run into losses due to the extended lockdown. The samiti had staged protests following the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traders-threaten-to-open-shops-on-all-days-from-thursday/article35292722.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Plan to curb visits by pilgrims from outside during weekends||With a gradual increase in test positivity rate (TPR) in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts and neighbouring Kasaragod in Kerala reporting 10% test positivity rate, the Dakshina Kannada district administration is contemplating introducing more restrictions. It is likely to stop the visits of people from other parts of the State to religious places in Dakshina Kannada during the weekends. Responding to Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor’s demand for further relaxations in COVID-19 norms in the light of festivals and other religious functions from August at the quarterly Karnataka Development Plan meeting here, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that the TPR was at 1.7% last week in the Dakshina Kannada. However, it rose to 2.59% on Sunday, while it reached 4% in Udupi district. The Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru continues to receive complicated COVID-19 cases, he said. Congregation of devotees from other districts at pilgrimage centres during weekends is a matter of concern, Dr. Rajendra said. Loads of devotees arrived at Kukke Subrahmanya and Dharmasthala on Saturday and Sunday last and there is a need to prevent such gatherings. Meanwhile, the administration continues to screen people arriving in Dakshina Kannada for their COVID-19 negative certificate or vaccination certificate for at least one dose at border check-posts. People travelling between Kerala and Karnataka alight from buses at borders and take another bus after crossing the border by foot. Chairing the meeting, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari said that there are demands to allow sevas and Anna Daana at pilgrim centres and this will be discussed in a Cabinet meeting shortly. “We will review the COVID-19 situation next week and take appropriate a decision for Dakshina Kannada,” he said. Steep bills Dr. Rajendra said that the District Price Audit Committee went through bills related to 2,802 patients treated under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Scheme and found 66 instances of hospitals charging more than the prescribed rate. Show-cause notices have been issued to these hospitals, he said. People, who have complaints against overcharging by hospitals for COVID-19 treatment under the AB-ArK Scheme, can approach the district administration, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plan-to-curb-visits-by-pilgrims-from-outside-during-weekends/article35292812.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Caution sounded against Zika virus||Asking people to be cautious against Zika virus, dengue, malaria and chikungunya viral infection caused by the bite of mosquito, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that people should test themselves for all types of fever and viral infection symptoms at nearby health facilities. In a statement, Mr. Jagadeesha said on Monday that cases of Zika viral infection have been noticed in Kerala. People in the border districts should take care against getting bitten by mosquito carrying Zika virus. They should also not opt for unprotected sex and infusion of untested blood, which also cause the transmission of Zika virus. Fever, body ache and other symptoms noticed in Zika viral infection are also noticed in dengue and COVID-19 infection, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha asked people to make use of mosquito repellents and clear stagnant water deposits in and around their houses where these mosquito breed. He also asked people not to sleep outside their houses. In Mangaluru, Mayor Premanand Shetty chaired a meeting to review prevention measures on Monday. District Nodal Officer for Vector Borne Disease Control Naveenchandra Kulal asked multi-purpose workers of the Mangaluru City Corporation to focus on clearing mosquito breeding sites during their house visits. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caution-sounded-against-zika-virus/article35292814.ece
13 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Uniform relaxation in curfew in all districts from today||The government has relaxed COVID-19 curfew uniformly in all the 13 districts from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. with effect from July 13 and ordered that commercial establishments should be shut by 9 p.m. The restrictions will come into force at 10 p.m. and be in vogue till 6 a.m. The decision to ease the curfew was taken at a review meeting on COVID, chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, wherein he observed that the government felt the need for curfew relaxation owing to the fall in daily positivity rate below 5%. The meeting resolved to make wearing face masks in public places mandatory and to impose a penalty of Rs. 100 in case of violation. Besides, it had been decided to order the closure of shops and establishments for two to three days as a punishment for flouting the norms. Mr. Jagan instructed the officials to set up a WhatsApp number for sending photos of people violating the rules and to strictly enforce the prohibitory orders under Section.144 to contain the spread of the pandemic. Testing Mr. Jagan ordered that only those suffering from fever and other symptoms should be tested, and the establishment of oxygen generation plants be completed at the earliest to deal with the likely resurgence of the pandemic. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to focus on vaccination of both government and private school teachers depending on the availability of vaccines, and to complete it before the reopening of schools. Officials told the Chief Minisetr that there were 28,680 active cases at present and 5,695 patients were being treated in hospitals and 4,976 people in COVID Care Centres. The recovery rate increased to 97.83% and positivity rate decreased to 2.91%. The positivity rate was less than 3% in seven districts. A total of 3,876 black fungus cases were registered till date, of which 324 persons died and 2,500 were discharged. As regards vaccination, 1,31,43,873 people had been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uniform-relaxation-in-curfew-in-all-districts-from-today/article35292368.ece
13 July 2021||Kolkata,||‘Swadeshi’ ink-maker scripts a new chapter||Sulekha is today a blend of the past and the future: its factory in Kolkata that manufactures, among other things, ink for the fountain pen, runs on solar power. But thanks to the growing number of people in India who are discovering the joy of writing the old-fashioned way, it is the past, more than the future, that has put the spotlight back on this pre-Independence company. It was in 1934 that, on the suggestion of Mahatma Gandhi, brothers Sankaracharya and Nanigopal Maitra started a small factory in Rajshahi (now in Bangladesh) to manufacture swadeshi ink. In 1939, they shifted to Calcutta and thereafter there was no looking back for Sulekha — it was making over one crore 60-ml bottles annually in its heyday — until it was hit by the trade movement in the 1980s. Sulekha ink, like fountain pens, became a thing of the past, preserved in the memory of its once-users and also in some of Satyajit Ray’s stories and films. “Problems began from the late 1970s due to the socio-economic and political conditions prevailing in Bengal at the time. Militant trade unionism was causing low productivity, resulting in recurring cash loss. We finally closed down in 1988. Many other factories in Jadavpur (where the company is located) — Bengal Lamps, Usha, Krishna Glass, Annapurna Glass and others — also downed their shutters,” Kaushik Maitra, managing director of Sulekha Works Ltd., told The Hindu . The company reopened in 2006, after overcoming the cases piled up against it in various courts during the 18 years of closure, and this time it diversified into homecare and hygiene-care products and also into solar projects, making only a small amount of ink for sentimental reasons. “We ventured into solar products in 2011-12. Initially, we were making solar lanterns and were soon assigned by Indian Oil to solarise a petrol pump near Siliguri. More and more people showed interest but at the same time many were sceptical. That’s when we decided to instal solar power in our factory — it has nearly eliminated our energy cost and helped us convince others,” Mr. Maitra said. It was not until the Deepavali of 2020, amid the pandemic and also when the growing number of fountain-pen enthusiasts in India had organised themselves into various social-media groups and become an influential voice, that Sulekha (literally, beautiful handwriting) formally relaunched its once-popular ink, causing an instant buzz. “Orders are coming from all over India and enquiries are coming from all over the world, thanks to social media,” Mr. Maitra said. The relaunch began with the ‘Swadeshi’ line of inks — a set of Royal Blue, Executive Black, and Scarlet Red sold in a khadi pouch made in Santiniketan. This was followed by the Swadhin range: red, blue, black and green. “The shades have been chosen deliberately to create consciousness about sustainability: black for carbon footprint, red for global warming, blue for clean energy and green for sustainability. It is a journey from darkness to light, from good to bad, from subjugation to beingswadhin(free),” Mr. Maitra said. Then there is the Samarpan series, which includes a blue-black dedicated to Mother Teresa and a moss-green limited edition that’s dedicated to 50 years of Bangladesh, where the Sulekha story began. “We are soon going to launch 10 more colours. Giving expression to your creativity through fountain pens, through different colours of ink — the joy is unmatchable and it is back in fashion. Ball pens, on the other hand, are nothing but plastic waste; each weighs 10-12 gm and lasts for about a week in the hand of a student. So if a student writes for 40 weeks in a year, he uses up 40 pens and therefore generates 400 gm of plastic waste annually. Considering there are tens of millions of students in West Bengal alone, you can imagine the damage,” Mr. Maitra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/this-swadeshi-ink-maker-scripts-a-new-chapter/article35292375.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,||HC gives the green light for holding SSLC exam||Taking judicial note of declining infections during the second wave of COVID-19 in the State, the High Court of Karnataka on Monday refused to interfere with the State government’s decision to hold an abridged version of SSLC examination on July 19 and 22 for the academic year 2020-21. “The conduct of examination is in the interest of students, besides being beneficial for their academic and professional future,” the court observed while noting that the government had taken adequate safety measures by issuing an SOP. However, the court noted it would be the “collective decision” of the individual parents and their children to attend the exam as per the revised timetable notified, as the government could not compel them to write the exam. A Division Bench, comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, passed the order while declining to entertain a PIL petition filed by Singre Gowda, the managing trustee-cum-secretary of Gnana Mandira Education Trust, which is running a school in Bengaluru city. The petitioner had sought a direction to cancel the exam while contending that holding the SSLC exam during the pandemic posed a danger to the health of students as experts were predicting a possible third wave of COVID-19 that could affect children.  On the petitioner’s contention that SSLC students were being discriminated against when II PU students were being promoted without holding an exam, the Bench said the government had no sufficient data to promote SSLC students without the exam. The government, in the case of II PU students, had data of marks scored in Class X and I PU final exams for assessment of students for their promotion sans an exam, the Bench noted. Beneficial to students On the abridged exam format, the Bench orally observed that it was for the parents and their children to decide whether they wanted to take such an exam, in which all six subjects could be completed in two sessions of three hours each having only multiple choice questions, which was easier to answer, or to attend the full version of three hours of exam in each of the six subjects next year in the regular exam format. “The revised format appears to be a boon even for an average student,” the Bench orally observed. On the petitioner’s claim that the government should be held responsible if students and teachers were infected with COVID-19 after attending the SSLC exam, the Bench said the decision to appear for the exam was a “collective decision of parents and children and the government cannot force any student to take exam”. The petitioner could not show arbitrariness either in the decision of the government to hold the exam or in revising its format, the Bench said. The Bench also observed orally that it would be in the interest of students to have a certificate of the board of examinations after duly attending the exam instead of securing a certificate as part of mass promotion. Earlier, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi pointed out that all the students, who appear for the two-day exam, would be declared as promoted even if they fail to secure minimum marks, and the exam was for determining the score of individual students. Pointing out that the COVID-19 technical advisory committee had recommended holding the exam during the third week of July with the necessary safeguards, Mr. Navadgi pointed out that both the High Court and the Supreme Court had upheld the decision of holding SSLC exam in a similar situation during June 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-gives-the-green-light-for-holding-sslc-exam/article35292417.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Don’t permit Mekedatu project: all-party meet||A meeting of all legislature parties in Tamil Nadu, including the BJP, unanimously passed a resolution on Monday, urging the Union government not to accord permission to Karnataka for building a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. The meeting was convened by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat. The resolution said no construction must be undertaken at Mekedatu without the permission of the downstream States as per the Supreme Court’s ruling. “Yet, Karnataka is making efforts to construct a dam at Mekedatu. This is highly condemnable,” it said. The parties observed that the project would affect water supply for the farmers of Tamil Nadu. The project, which goes against the Supreme Court’s judgment, is a “challenge” to the Constitution, the resolution said. “Hence, all the departments of the Union government concerned should not grant any permission for the project,” it added. Through another resolution, the parties extended their support to the State government’s measures to prevent Karnataka from building the dam. The parties also resolved to send a team of representatives of all legislature parties to hand over the copies of the resolutions to the Union government so as to underscore the unanimous opposition to the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-permit-mekedatu-project-all-party-meet/article35292456.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Panel studying trial data of new vaccine’||The green signal for the emergency use approval of ZyCoV-D, the COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila for those aged 12 and above, will take a few more days, Union Health Ministry officials said on Monday. The vaccine had shown good results in the Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials, and the data for the Phase-3 trials, conducted in more than 28,000 volunteers, was now under examination by the Subject Expert Committee, they said. NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul had recently said, “If all goes well, this vaccine’s supply will begin in August-September.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-studying-trial-data-of-new-vaccine/article35292953.ece
13 July 2021||GUNTUR,||A.P. to move apex court over inter-State river water dispute||With the Krishna river water dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana showing no signs of abating, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to move the Supreme Court on the matter, highly placed sources in the State government have revealed. Notifying projects Sources confirmed that the government was moving ahead to file a writ petition in the Supreme Court, to urge the apex court to pass directions notifying all the major irrigation projects on inter-State rivers as National Projects and hand over the responsibility of guarding the projects to central paramilitary forces. ‘Suspend GO’ The petition would also urge the court to suspend the GO issued by the Telangana government giving nod for drawing water for power generation from major irrigation projects and urge for directions to be given to Centre for fixing the guidelines of Krishna River Management Board, said sources. “The Telangana government is using every means to crush the aspirations of farmers in Andhra Pradesh and in fact, resorting to blatant violation of human rights by forcing the release of an enormous amount of water into the sea,” said a senior government official. ‘National treasure’ Senior irrigation officials in the government have been closeted for over three days finalising the contents of the writ petition, to plead in the Supreme Court that proper directions should be given to the Centre to recognise all the reservoirs and the power generation plants as national treasure and hand over the responsibility of manning them to central paramilitary forces. “The tribunals and courts have made it clear the allocations made to different States, but the Supreme Court’s guidelines are necessary to implement them. We are witnessing these situations where upper riparian States have been indiscriminately drawing water and constructing new projects or expanding the existing projects and only a Supreme Court order can set the things in order. The Bachawat award had also made it clear that priority would be given to using water for drinking and irrigation needs but some states are flouting the orders. Such violations would only undermine the food security of the state and the country as well,’’ the sources in the government added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-move-sc-over-river-water-sharing/article35292330.ece
13 July 2021||Pune,||‘ED has sought info on loans to sugar mill’||Ramesh Thorat, chairman of Pune District Central Cooperative Bank, said on Monday said that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sought information about loans granted to Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills, whose assets were attached recently. Assets worth over Rs. 65 crore of the Satara district-based mill were attached under the money laundering law in connection with the alleged Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam. “Two days back, we received a notice from ED seeking details about the loans. For 10 years, we have been dealing with the mill and all loans were given to them by adhering to rules and regulations laid down by NABARD and MSCB,” said Mr. Thorat, a former MLA. The cooperative bank is not involved in any wrongdoing, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-has-sought-info-on-loans-to-sugar-mill/article35292830.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Initiate contempt proceedings against Haryana: DJB to SC||The Delhi Jal Board has asked the Supreme Court to initiate contempt proceedings against two Haryana officials for “wilfully” disobeying a court order to maintain the water level at the Wazirabad reservoir at full capacity to serve the drinking water needs of the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/initiate-contempt-proceedings-against-haryana-djb-to-sc/article35292517.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,||New names for Warangal notified||The State government on Monday issued a preliminary notification renaming the existing Warangal (Urban) and Warangal (Rural) districts into Hanamkonda and Warangal districts respectively. The government invited objections and suggestions to the proposal, which includes transfer of four rural mandals to proposed Hanamkonda district and two urban mandals to the new Warangal district (hitherto Warangal Rural district). Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had received representations to rename and reorganise the two districts during his visit to Warangal on June 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-names-for-warangal-notified/article35292658.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,||11 COVID-19 deaths in twin districts||Dakshina Kannada reported 10 COVID-19 deaths and 126 new cases on Monday. Four of the deceased were from Mangaluru, three from outside the district, two from Puttur taluk and one from Bantwal taluk. With 289 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 2,002. The test positivity rate was put at 2.19%. There are 32 cases of mucormycosis. A fine of Rs. 97.67 lakh has so far been collected in 80,099 cases of people not wearing masks and keeping social distancing. In Udupi district, a COVID-19 patient died and 66 new cases were reported. Of the new cases, 57 patients are in home isolation and nine in healthcare centres. With 129 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 837. There are nine cases of mucormycosis, said a bulletin from the Udupi district administration. As many as 19,437 persons were vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada on Monday, taking the total number of persons covered to 9.75 lakh. Of this, In Udupi, a total of 4.46 lakh people have received the first dose and 1.51 lakh their second dose of the vaccine so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-covid-19-deaths-in-twin-districts/article35292813.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,||NCSC vice-chairman visits IIT-M||Arun Halder, vice-chairman, National Commission for Scheduled Castes, visited IIT Madras on Monday and held discussions with its director and other officials. While the visit came in the backdrop of the recent allegation of discrimination by a faculty member, sources in the NCSC said it was part of a routine inspection of institutions. However, they acknowledged that the issues of reservation and discrimination figured prominently at the discussion. Addressing the media later in the day, Mr. Halder said the discussion was satisfactory and the IIT Director and other officials assured him that there was no discrimination. He said that on certain complaints submitted through the NCSC, the administration was asked to submit an action-taken report within 30 days in keeping with the NCSC norms. Sources privy to the meeting said the non-implementation of reservation in the recruitment of faculty members was discussed and NCSC officials urged the administration to take steps to fill the vacancies in accordance with the reservation policy. Mr. Halder highlighted that, for the first time, representatives of the IIT Madras SC/ ST Employees’ Welfare Association attended the meeting. Representatives of the association stressed the need for implementing reservation in recruitment. Members of ChintaBar, a students’ collective, met the vice-chairman and presented a memorandum that highlighted the poor representation of SC/ST students in the enrolment for MS and Ph.D. programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncsc-vice-chairman-visits-iit-m/article35292481.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,||‘Tough steps must for population control’||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan expressed his support to the “no government jobs for those with more than two children” rule in Uttar Pradesh. To a query from journalists, he said that growing population is a serious issue and it has to be controlled. There is a need for such rules that have been brought in by the Yogi Adityanath government. The governments need to take stringent steps for population control, he said. He was in Dharwad for a meeting of academics in Karnatak University and other engagements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tough-steps-must-for-population-control/article35292632.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Nature’s fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/natures-fury/article35292414.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Panel studying trial data of new vaccine’||The green signal for the emergency use approval of ZyCoV-D, the COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila for those aged 12 and above, will take a few more days, Union Health Ministry officials said on Monday. They also refuted claims by several State governments, including the Delhi administration, of vaccine shortage. Senior officials told The Hindu that ZyCoV-D had shown good results in the Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials, and the data of the Phase-3 trials, conducted in more than 28,000 volunteers, was now under examination by the Subject Expert Committee. NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said recently, “If all goes well, this vaccine’s supply will begin in August-September”. Three-dose vaccine ZyCoV-D is a three-dose vaccine, intradermal vaccine, which is to be administered using the PharmaJet needle-free system. The second and the third doses are to be administered on the 28th and the 56th days. The vaccine can stored at 2-8 degree Celsius. The company sought emergency use approval on July 1. In a statement, Zydus Cadila said it had conducted a study during the second wave, which reaffirmed ZyCoV-D’s efficacy against new mutant strains, especially the Delta variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-studying-trial-data-of-new-vaccine-officials/article35292373.ece
13 July 2021||HAVANA,||Thousands of Cubans rally against govt.||Chanting “freedom” and calling for President Miguel Diaz-Canel to step down, thousands of Cubans joined street protests from Havana to Santiago on Sunday in the biggest anti-government demonstrations on the Communist-run island in decades. The protests erupted amid Cuba’s worst economic crisis since the fall of the Soviet Union, its former ally, and a surge in coronavirus infections, with people voicing anger over shortages of basic goods, curbs on civil liberties and the authorities’ handling of the pandemic. Thousands gathered in downtown Havana and along parts of the seaside drive, their shouts of “Diaz-Canel step down” drowning out groups of government supporters brandishing the Cuban flag and chanting “Fidel”. Special forces vehicles, with machine guns mounted on the back were seen throughout the capital, Havana, and the police presence was heavy long after protesters had gone home. Mr. Diaz-Canel, who also heads the Communist Party, in a televised speech on Sunday afternoon, blamed the unrest on old Cold War foe, the U.S., which in recent years tightened its decades-old trade embargo on the island. He said many protesters were sincere but manipulated by U.S.-orchestrated social media campaigns and “mercenaries” on the ground, and warned that further “provocations” would not be tolerated, calling on supporters to confront such “provocations”. President Joe Biden said the U.S. stands with the people of Cuba. “We stand with the Cuban people and their clarion call for freedom and relief from the tragic grip of the pandemic and from the decades of repression and economic suffering to which they have been subjected by Cuba’s authoritarian regime,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thousands-take-part-in-cuba-anti-government-protests/article35292377.ece
13 July 2021||Kolkata,||Speculations rife over Mitra quitting W.B. govt.||The long absence of State Finance Minister Dr. Amit Mitra from the West Bengal Assembly proceedings has triggered speculation about the possibility of him stepping down. Dr. Mitra did not contest West Bengal Assembly election due to his failing health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speculations-rife-over-mitra-quitting-wb-govt/article35292772.ece
13 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Puri Rath Yatra begins without devotees||The world famous annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath got under way without devotees for the second year in a row in the coastal town of Puri on Monday due to COVID-19 restrictions. Every year, three deities are taken out in the Rath Yatra covering 3 km along the Grand Road connecting the 12th century Shri Jagannath temple and the Mausi Maa temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/puri-rath-yatra-begins-without-devotees/article35292773.ece
13 July 2021||Patna,||Bihar educational institutions open||Educational institutions in Bihar opened on Monday and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar too is all set to resume ‘janata durbar’ after five years, adhering to COVID-19 guidelines and protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-educational-institutions-open/article35292775.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC eases curbs for Goa residents to return||The Bombay High Court at Goa on Monday permitted fully vaccinated residents and those who work in Goa to enter the State without a COVID-19 negative report till August 5. They would have to produce verified certificates of receiving both shots of the vaccine, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-eases-curbs-for-goa-residents-to-return/article35292831.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC rejects Sanatan plea to restore FB page||The Bombay High Court in Goa on Monday refused to grant relief to Sanatan Sanstha seeking resotration of its Facebook page . A Division Bench of Justices M.S. Sonak and M.S. Jawalkar was hearing an appeal filed by the group accused of killing rationalists Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare, M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-sanatan-plea-to-restore-fb-page/article35292832.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||Antibody cocktail therapy promising: BMC||The treatment of COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms with an antibody cocktail has reduced the treatment period to five to six days and only one out of around 200 patients required oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/antibody-cocktail-therapy-promising-bmc/article35292833.ece
13 July 2021||BELAGAVI,||Plan to acquire 5,000 acres for industrial corridor||The State government has drawn up plans to acquire 5,000 acres of land along the Dharwad-Belagavi stretch of the Pune-Bengaluru National Highway to develop it as an industrial corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plan-to-acquire-5000-acres-for-industrial-corridor/article35292634.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||68 killed in lightning strikes in three States||Nearly 68 persons were reportedly struck dead by lightning on a single day in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, according to reports on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those killed and Rs. 50,000 for those injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/68-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-three-states/article35292844.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Third accused held from M.P. in Kitty murder case||The police on Sunday arrested the third accused in the Kitty Kumaramangalam murder case and recovered jewellery worth Rs. 50 lakh. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused — Suraj Budhe, 36, a resident of Mahipalpur — was arrested from M.P.’s Tikamgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-accused-held-from-mp-in-kitty-murder-case/article35292845.ece
13 July 2021||PATNA,||Laws won’t help to check population growth: Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asserted on Monday that it was not possible to ensure population control through laws. He was reacting to Union Rural Development Minister and senior BJP leader Giriraj Singh’s call for a policy on population control in Bihar, similar to the one launched by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/laws-wont-help-to-check-population-growth-nitish/article35292519.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||68 killed in lightning strikes in 3 States; experts issue warning||With the monsoon making a slow revival over several parts of India, except the northwest region, there is a rise in lightning-linked deaths. Nearly 68 were reportedly struck dead by lightning on a single day in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, according to reports from the States on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those killed in the lightning strikes in all the three States and Rs. 50,000 for the injured. Over the years, the Home Ministry’s statistics consistently cited lightning as the biggest natural disaster-linked killer in India. In 2019, an analysis by private weather company Skymet reported that five States accounted for half the lightning strikes that year, led by Odisha with 9,37,462 strikes or about 16% of the cloud-to-ground strikes. There were 20 million lightning strikes in that period with over 72% of them being instances of “in-cloud” lightning. The most recent statistics from the National Crime Records Bureau, from 2019, said that year, there were 8,145 deaths in the country attributable to forces of nature. Of these, 35.3% deaths were reported due to ‘lightning’, 15.6% deaths due to ‘heat/sun stroke’ and 11.6% deaths due to ‘flood’. Most of those who died due to accidents caused by forces of nature were reported to be belonging to the age-group of 30-45 (25.3%) and 45-60 (24.9%) together. Under ‘lightning’, Bihar (400), Madhya Pradesh (400), Jharkhand (334) and Uttar Pradesh (321) reported the maximum number of victims. Experts have warned of a rise in lightning disaster partly due to the cascading effects of global warming. At a seminar last month, S.D. Pawar, scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, stated that annual lightning deaths had risen nearly two and a half times from the late 1960s to 2019 and were directly linked to the climate crisis, that increased moisture over land due to warming. Open fields Several weather agencies now issue lightning-related warnings and there are apps that generate customised forecasts. However a large proportion of deaths are in rural areas with open fields and people, in a bid to take shelter from the rain, choose to stay under trees that are frequently struck by lightning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/68-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-3-states-experts-issue-warning/article35292276.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||VHP flays U.P.’s population Bill||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has objected to incentivising public servants and others to follow the “one-child norm” mentioned in certain sections of the proposed Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021. The objection pertains to not just the fact that China has had to reverse its one-child policy because of its negative impact of the availability of a working population, but because of what the VHP termed an “imbalance between different communities because they are known to respond differently to family planning and contraception”, flagging different Total Fertility Rates (TFR) between Hindu and Muslim communities in States such as Kerala and Assam. The Bill has been published by the Uttar Pradesh Law Commission inviting suggestions and modifications, with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath actively promoting it as a desired policy aim of his government. China as example VHP’s acting president Alok Kumar has written to the Law Commission formalising its objection, citing the example of China and its government’s recent relaxation of the one-child norm followed earlier to illustrate his point. He asked that Section 5, 6(2) and 7 of the Bill “go well beyond” the said Bill’s objectives, which aimed to stabilise the population and promote the two-child norm. “The Sections 5, 6(2) and 7 of the Bill, which incentivise public servants and others to have only one child in the family, go well beyond the said objects of the Bill in the Preamble,” Mr. Kumar said. “In a contracting population, the ratio between the working age and dependent population gets disrupted,” the letter said. “In an extreme case, the one-child policy would lead to a situation where there is only one working age adult to look after two parents and four grandparents. In China, which adopted the one-child policy in 1980, it was called the 1-2-4 phenomenon. To get over it, China had to relax its one-child policy,” it added. ‘Further imbalance’ “In the case of Uttar Pradesh, the one-child policy is likely to lead to further imbalance between different communities because they are known to respond differently to the incentives and disincentives related to family planning and contraception,” Mr. Kumar noted, citing examples of Assam and Kerala where, he stated, the TFR of Hindus was far below the replacement rate of 2.1, but that of Muslims was 3.16 in Assam and 2.33 in Kerala. “In these States, one of the communities has thus entered the contraction phase, while the other is still expanding,” he observed. Many States have some type of incentive programme for population control, including Assam, with Uttar Pradesh, less than a year away from Assembly election, bringing in a draft law that promises to raise the political heat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vhp-flays-ups-population-bill/article35292299.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMA urges Centre, States not to let the guard down on COVID||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday warned that a third wave of the pandemic was inevitable and imminent, and appealed to the Central and State governments not to let their guard down against COVID-19. It said mass gatherings in tourist and religious places along with flouting of safety norms spelt danger. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the IMA said that travel, tourism, pilgrimages and religious functions could wait for a few more months. Opening up travel and allowing people without vaccination to participate in such mass gatherings would create potential super-spreaders of a third wave. Only if vaccination covers as much of the population as possible and COVID-appropriate behaviour is strictly followed, it is possible to face the third wave with confidence and mitigate its impact, the IMA stated. The medical association said it was painful to note that at a crucial stage when everyone needed to work for the mitigation of a third wave, in many parts of the country, both the government and people were turning complacent. IMA national president J.A. Jayalal said, “It is the duty and responsibility of everyone at this moment to strictly enforce and follow the COVID-appropriate behaviour for minimum three more months and ensure everyone gets vaccinated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-urges-centre-states-not-to-let-the-guard-down-on-covid/article35292319.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT Rules: SC gives petitioner a week’s time||The Supreme Court on Monday gave a week’s time for a petitioner to study the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules of 2021 to verify whether it addresses the issue of communally sensitive content posted on social media platforms. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana even suggested that the petitioner, advocate Khaja Aijazuddin, could approach the government. Mr. Aijazuddin said he had moved the apex court on the suggestion of the Telangana High Court. He sought directions to the government to restrain social media platforms from carrying Islamophobic content on their timelines and to direct a CBI or NIA probe against Twitter and its users involved in putting out “inflammatory posts”. The petition referred to how “massive publicity was given by the media that many of the positive cases of symptoms of coronavirus were found from Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi”. The petition contended “there was a massive trending of tweets on Twitter attaching the Muslim religion to the cause of spread of coronavirus”. He said he was “aggrieved with trending on Twitter under the name and styled #Islamiccoronavirusjihad, etc”. It amounted to promoting hatred against a particular religion, which is a criminal offence both under the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act of 2000. The petition, filed in May, asked the court to direct the government to frame specific guidelines under the Information Technology Act of 2000 about “hate messages against any religious community including Islamophobic posts on various social media platforms”. The Bench, including Justice A.S. Bopanna, addressed Mr. Aijazuddin, “Have you not examined the recent IT Rules... it takes care of this...” The petitioner, however, argued that the Rules did not “consider religion but only defamatory content”. The CJI said, “Have you read the latest Rules? Please do your homework and come... list after a week”. The new Rules was notified on February 25 under the Information Technology Act of 2000. It regulates social intermediaries, content on digital media and addresses cyber-crime. It comes in place of the Information Technology (Intermediate Guidelines) Rules of 2011. Already, the different aspects of the new Rules are under judicial scanner. The government has recently moved the apex court to transfer the cases pending against it from various High Courts to it. On July 9, a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the government’s transfer plea to a pending special leave petition titled ‘Justice for Rights Foundation versus Union of India’. The Justice Khanwilkar Bench had said the case would be listed before an appropriate Bench on July 16. The government's transfer petition is likely to come up before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud on July 16. The ‘Justice for Rights Foundation’ case is pending before this Bench and primarily concerns the regulation of content shown on over-the-top (OTT) platforms. This Bench has been examining the issue in the backdrop of the new IT Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-rules-sc-gives-petitioner-a-weeks-time/article35292282.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pandemic upends dreams of Indian medicos in China||When Sandeep* applied to the Nantong University on China’s east coast in 2017, he hoped to gain a medical education of decent quality at a fraction of the cost charged by Indian private universities. Instead, ever since he returned home to Kota, Rajasthan, in January 2020, he has been restricted to online classes and video lectures in what should be hands-on clinical subjects. “I’m about to start my final year. At this stage, we should be going to hospitals and dealing with actual patients and bodies. Instead, we are getting practicals on a screen. They record a surgery in the operation theatre and send us the video. I can find that on YouTube if I wanted to,” says the 22-year-old, who did not want his real name to be used. Asif*, a fourth year student at the Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, says his teachers keep reassuring students that practical subjects can be taught once they return to classes, but offer no timeline for return. Sandeep and Asif are among the 23,000 Indian students in China, almost all of whom are in medical programmes, according to Indian Embassy data. Most of them returned to India during their winter break in January 2020 just before COVID-19 started to spread through China, and later India as well, shutting down borders and preventing their return to campus. On Monday, students intensified a Twitter campaign on their plight, with their hashtag #PMModiHelpIntlStudents garnering more than 24,000 tweets by mid-afternoon, and trending among political tweets. Forming a union via the Telegram messaging app, almost 3,000 students under the banner of “Indian Students in China” sent a letter through email to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 27. They urged Mr. Modi to take up their cause with Chinese authorities, seeking clarity on a possible date of return. “If our returning is not possible, then arrange some practical work for us in India so that we can continue our studies,” added the letter. “We are not sure whether the National Medical Commission will recognise our degrees if we have online classes only,” said Neel Bhatt, a final year student at the Guangxi University of Chinese Medicine. Sandeep and Neel are also part of the wider China International Students Union, which includes representatives from 270 universities and multiple nationalities. Their June 30 letter to Chinese President Xi Jinping raised questions during a Chinese Foreign Ministry briefing on July 9. ‘High importance’ “The Chinese government always attaches high importance to the issue of foreign students coming to China for their studies. On the basis of ensuring safety amid COVID-19, we will consider in a coordinated manner arrangement for allowing foreign students to return to China for their studies,” said spokesperson Wang Wenbin, without offering any timetable for the return of international students. During the same press conference, he hit out at the U.S. for refusing the visa applications of Chinese students, provoking accusations of hypocrisy from aggrieved Indian students. China imposed even stricter curbs on international travel starting in March this year, barring even its own nationals from returning from many countries including India, amid concerns over new variants. The Chinese Embassy is no longer issuing health codes that are needed to travel even for Chinese citizens who remain in India. Last week, Li Bin, Vice-Minister of the National Health Commission, said recent local clusters linked to imported cases of the Delta variant “reminded us that we cannot relax our pandemic control measures”. Recent weeks have seen lockdowns imposed in some districts in Guangzhou as well as in Ruili. Complicating China’s opening plans are doubts about the efficacy of some Chinese vaccines. The Indian Embassy in Beijing said in March that it “has continued to follow up closely with Chinese authorities, including the Ministry of Education, regarding the concerns of Indian students in China”, but officials say there is little India can do, considering the sweeping restrictions in place, until China decides to open up and reconsider its “zero case” strategy, which appears unlikely.  (*Sandeep and Asif are pseudonyms as those students were not willing to be named)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-upends-dreams-of-indian-medicos-in-china/article35292303.ece
13 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Puri Rath Yatra under way without devotees||The world famous Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath got under way without devotees for the second year in a row in the coastal town of Puri on Monday due to COVID-19 restrictions. Majestic chariots of sibling deities Lord Balabhadra, Lord Jagannath and Devi Subhadra were towed by ‘sevayatas’ (traditional priests). Annually, three deities are taken out in a chariot procession called Rath Yatra covering 3 km along the Grand Road connecting the 12th century Shri Jagannath temple and the Mausi Maa temple. Servitors carried the huge wooden idols from the temple swaying them rhythmically in a ritual described as pahandi . Though devotees used to jostle for space to get a glimpse of the deities during pahandi in earlier years, millions of people watched the procession through live telecast this year. Puri’s titular king Dibyasingha Deb carried out symbolic sweeping of wooden floor of all chariots before ‘sevayats’ began pulling the chariots. Last year , the State government decided not to allow the festival, fearing that it would trigger the further spread of the disease. However, as per a Supreme Court order, the yatra was held without the participation of devotees. To keep devotees off the Grand Road, the Puri district administration made sure hotels and lodges there were vacated. All lanes and bylanes leading to the Grand Road were guarded by police personnel. As many as 65 platoons, led by 10 Additional Superintendents of Police, 31 Deputy Superintendents of Police and 64 inspectors, were deployed for the smooth conduct of the Rath Yatra. Chariots would remain parked outside the Mausi Maa temple for the next one week. On the ninth day, the deities would start their return journey towards their abode in the Jagannath temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/puri-rath-yatra-under-way-without-devotees/article35292316.ece
13 July 2021||PATNA,||Nitish says laws won’t help to check population growth||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asserted on Monday that it was not possible to ensure population control through laws. He was reacting to Union Rural Development Minister and senior Bihar BJP leader Giriraj Singh’s call for a policy on population control in Bihar similar to the one launched by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “Look at China or, for that matter, any other example,” Mr. Kumar told a select group of presspersons on the sidelines of his weekly janata ke durbar mein mukhyamantri (Chief Minister in people’s court) programme that resumed on Monday after gap of nearly five years. “It was eureka moment for my government when data showed that girls’ education up to Class 12 helped in drastically reducing fertility rate,” he said. “Some people may believe that this can be done only by a law, but our thinking is clear. I’m not in favour of any law,” said Mr. Kumar, who heads a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in alliance with the BJP. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while launching the State’s population policy for 2021-2030, had said, “Increasing population can be an obstacle to development.” Mr. Singh later said there must be a similar legislation in Bihar to check the exponential growth in population. “Overpopulation is a major obstacle to development and social harmony,” he told presspersons in his Lok Sabha constituency of Begusarai on July 11. The BJP MLA from the Bisfi constituency in the State, too, echoed a similar sentiment. “A conspiracy is under way to turn India into an Islamic nation,” he said. The ruling alliance partner, Janata Dal (United), and the Opposition mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) leaders reacted strongly to the BJP leaders’ comments. “They are advocating this to polarise votes,” said JD(U) leader Ghulam Gaus. Opposition Congress MLC and senior State party leader Prem Chandra Mishra said his party “was also in favour of containing population growth, but not through force”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-says-laws-wont-help-to-check-population-growth/article35292294.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Both Houses to function simultaneously||For the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak in March 2020, sessions of both Houses of Parliament — the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha — will be held simultaneously, ending the two-shift routine followed since September last. Addressing a press conference ahead of the monsoon session, scheduled to begin on July 19 and go on till August 13, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said 323 Lok Sabha members had been fully vaccinated, while 23 had not been able to take their first jab due to some medical reasons. In the Rajya Sabha, 205 members had got both the vaccine shots, 16 took the first dose and six could not take any of the shots due to medical reasons. Mr. Birla said while the high percentage of fully vaccinated members was a relief, there would be no laxity in following COVID-19 protocols. All members would be expected to wear masks both inside the House chamber and outside. The only difference this time would be that the members would sit in their respective chambers. In the last two sessions, to maintain social distancing, the Rajya Sabha met in the morning and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon. Mr. Birla said the new Parliament building, which was under construction as part of the Central Vista, would be in place in time. “The construction is about 10 days behind the schedule, but will be completed soon,” he noted. The Parliamentary Secretariat had developed an online application, on which live telecast of the proceedings could be seen. Mr. Birla said despite COVID-19, the 17th Lok Sabha had transacted a record business during the first five sessions compared to the previous Lok Sabhas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/both-houses-to-function-simultaneously/article35292307.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NEET to be conducted on September 12 in 198 cities||The National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental programmes will be held on September 12, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Monday. The examination was originally scheduled to be held on August 1. The application process will begin at 5 p.m. on July 13 through the National Testing Agency website, the Minister. “In order to ensure social distancing norms, number of cities where examination will be conducted has been increased from 155 to 198. The number of examination centres will also be increased from the 3,862 centres used in 2020,” he said. The Minister added that masks will be provided to all candidates at examination centres. The NTA will also ensure that staggered time slots during entry and exit, contactless registration, proper sanitisation and seating with social distancing are implemented, in line with COVID safety protocols. 16 lakh last year NEET (UG), or National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Undergraduate), is used for admission to MBBS and BDS courses as well as programmes for alternative or traditional medicine and nursing. More than 16 lakh students appeared for the exam last year. There is no clarity as yet on whether the NEET syllabus will be reduced or greater internal choice provided in the question paper, to take into account the fact that many school boards had reduced their syllabi by up to 30% due to the pandemic. Last year, NEET was held in September, and then repeated in October to cater to those who missed the exam due to COVID. Some students had urged that multiple attempts be permitted this year as well, similar to engineering entrance examination JEE. However, the NTA had earlier announced that NEET will revert to a single date in 2021. It will also be conducted in pen-and-paper mode, unlike JEE which is a computer-based test staggered across multiple sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-to-be-conducted-on-september-12-in-198-cities/article35292322.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghan situation to dominate Jaishankar’s central Asian visit||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar travels to Central Asia on Tuesday for two back-to-back meetings focusing on Afghanistan, which will see him face-to-face with the Foreign Ministers of both Pakistan and China as well as attending a conference with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and U.S. Special Envoy Zalmay Khalilzad. Mr. Jaishankar will first attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) ministerial in Dushanbe on July 13 and 14 after which he will travel to Tashkent for a regional connectivity conference on July 15 and 16. Though Mr. Jaishankar has been at the same venue as the Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi at least twice in the past few months, the SCO meeting marks the first time he will be in the room with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, since the two met in Moscow last September, when they agreed to de-escalate tensions at the Line of Actual Control. However, the agreement has yet to be fully implemented on the ground. The External Affairs Ministry declined to comment on whether Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang will have a separate meeting at either of the two venues that both will travel to. The focus of both meetings is expected to be the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and regional solutions for the country in the wake of the U.S. and NATO troops pull-out, said organisers. Dushanbe will host a special SCO-contact group meeting of eight member states (Russia, India, China, Pakistan and Central Asian states) with Afghanistan Foreign Minister Hanif Atmar on July 14. Significantly, the contact group, which normally meets at the level of Deputy Foreign Ministers, is being upgraded this time, and all Foreign Ministers are expected to give a joint statement on Afghanistan. The statement will be of particular importance as the Taliban has stepped up violence in the country, and Taliban militants claim they are taking over more towns and cities from the Afghan forces, which led to India pulling all its staff out of the Kandahar Consulate on Saturday. Afghanistan was high on the agenda of Mr. Jaishankar’s meetings in Tehran and Moscow last week as well. In Tashkent, Uzbekistan President Shavkat Mirziyoyev will make a greater push for trade connectivity between South and Central Asia, including discussing the importance of the Chabahar project with India and signing a transit trade agreement (TTA) with PM Khan that will give Uzbekistan access to Pakistani ports, benefiting trade with Afghanistan as well. “Afghanistan is not just a neighbour, but a part of our region. Presently it is seen by some as a source of problems and threats, but it is also a source of possibilities, and the President feels that the foremost purpose of this conference is to strengthen connectivity, including through Afghanistan,” Uzbekistan Ambassador to India Dilshod Akhotov told The Hindu in an interview. He added that Afghanistan would be included in the Uzbekistan-India-Iran trilateral in the future, and plans for a Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA) with India were also under consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-situation-to-dominate-jaishankars-central-asian-visit/article35292288.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Muslim women flag growing online abuse||We were targeted for being Muslim women and being vocal on social media, say women who were ‘sold’ online on a mobile application whose name uses a derogatory term for Muslim women. Last week, the Delhi Police Cyber Cell registered an FIR against the app for sharing images of the women without their consent. It also sent a notice to the web platform that hosted the app. “A friend sent me a tweet last week with a link to an app that was conducting an online sale of Muslim women. I clicked on the link, which took me to the homepage with a message that read ‘find your [derogatory term]’. When I clicked on that message, a picture of a woman would appear describing it as the deal of the day. That’s how I found my picture there as well as pictures of some of my friends,” says Hana Mohsin Khan, a commercial pilot. She counted at least 83 images on the portal. “Accompanying the picture was a button that would allow you to share it, implying that men could share me among themselves. It was quite disgusting.” Muslim women are easy prey for online hatred and such incidents are all too common, they say. To Ms. Khan’s surprise, an innocuous post from her on Twitter last year on her love for flying, too, had invited hatred and vitriol. “For some this may be a new experience, but I have been a target for nearly a year,” says Sania Ahmad, a 34-year-old journalist, whose picture too was posted on the mobile application. “I called out a few Twitter accounts last year for auctioning pictures of Pakistani women. Ever since, the owner of the account and his minions have been hounding me, running polls and bidding on me as well as issuing gangrape threats to me,” Ms. Ahmad says. She and others urge that the impunity enjoyed by the abusers must end, else the harassment will only worsen. In May, around Id, Hasiba Amin was similarly ‘auctioned’ on Twitter. “Bids were called for me, starting from $1, then there were people who placed their bids using my picture and I was ‘sold’ for 77 paise,” she says. Though she has filed an FIR, there is yet to be any action. “I think it is very obvious that the reason this has happened to any of us is because we are Muslim women and most of us are vocal. It is a combination of misogyny and Islamophobia. There is an image of Muslim women of being oppressed, sitting in their houses and not allowed to speak. But this image has been shattered through different protests led by Muslim women and that is why they are coming after us,” Ms. Amin fears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-women-flag-growing-online-abuse/article35292363.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Records of freedom fighters to be digitised||Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Monday said the National Archives’ records related to freedom fighters would be digitised within a year as a part of the commemoration of 75 years of Independence next year. Mr. Reddy, who took over the Culture and Tourism Ministries after the Cabinet reshuffle last week, visited the National Archives on Monday morning. After his visit, he told presspersons that the National Archives of India, which houses over 18 crore pages, 64,000 volumes and 1.2 lakh maps, had started the digitisation process, but it would take a long time to complete. “The records of the freedom movement and freedom fighters would be digitised in the coming year as a part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav,” he said, referring to the year-long series of activities leading up to Independence Day 2022. Mr. Reddy said he would review the digitisation project in general and that of the freedom fighters in particular soon to speed up the work. Safety precautions Asked about the safety of the records during the proposed demolition of the annexe building as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, Mr. Reddy said “precaution will be taken for each page”. To a question about crowds gathering at tourist hotspots after the second wave of the pandemic abated, Mr. Reddy said it was the “State governments’ responsibility” to impose the protocol. He appealed to the public to cooperate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/records-of-freedom-fighters-to-be-digitised/article35292274.ece
13 July 2021||HAVANA,||Thousands of Cubans rally against govt.||Chanting “freedom” and calling for President Miguel Diaz-Canel to step down, thousands of Cubans joined street protests from Havana to Santiago on Sunday in the biggest anti-government demonstrations on the Communist-run island in decades. The protests erupted amid Cuba’s worst economic crisis since the fall of the Soviet Union, its former ally, and a surge in coronavirus infections, with people voicing anger over shortages of basic goods, curbs on civil liberties and the authorities’ handling of the pandemic. Thousands gathered in downtown Havana and along parts of the seaside drive, their shouts of “Diaz-Canel step down” drowning out groups of government supporters brandishing the Cuban flag and chanting “Fidel”. Special forces vehicles, with machine guns mounted on the back were seen throughout the capital, Havana, and the police presence was heavy long after protesters had gone home. Mr. Diaz-Canel, who also heads the Communist Party, in a televised speech on Sunday afternoon, blamed the unrest on old Cold War foe, the U.S., which in recent years tightened its decades-old trade embargo on the island. Mr. Diaz-Canel said many protesters were sincere but manipulated by U.S.-orchestrated social media campaigns and “mercenaries” on the ground, and warned that further “provocations” would not be tolerated, calling on supporters to confront such “provocations”. President Joe Biden said the U.S. stands with the people of Cuba in their call for freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thousands-in-cuba-join-anti-government-protests/article35292286.ece
13 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Dalit man thrashed on suspicion of goat theft||A Dalit man was tied to a tree and thrashed by a group of people in Mohanpura village of Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district on the suspicion that he had stolen a goat from a house. The incident, which took place on Friday last week, came to light when its video clip went viral on social media. Similar thefts were earlier reported in the village, but there was no trace of the thief. Some villagers suspected that Dalit youth Ramesh Balai was the culprit, as he was allegedly seen roaming around the spot. Some villagers forcibly took Ramesh from Mali Kheda roundabout near Mohanpura and tied him to a tree. The youth was beaten mercilessly though he pleaded innocence and said he did not know anything about the goats. A villager shot a video of the incident and posted it on the social media groups. Alerted by the video, the police swung into action and launched a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalit-man-thrashed-on-suspicion-of-goat-theft/article35292520.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepal SC directs Deuba to be appointed PM||Meanwhile, Prime Minister Oli’s supporters, including youths and students affiliated to the ruling CPN-UML, took to streets here to protest against the top court’s verdict against the 69-year-old Communist leader. Cadres of the National Youth Force affiliated to the CPN-UML gathered in Maitighar Mandal near the court premises chanting slogans against the verdict. “We are not bound to accept all the orders passed by the Supreme Court, beware!” read a banner carried by the demonstrators. Mr. Oli’s confidant and former Minister Mahesh Basnet was also present at the protests, according to media reports. As many as 30 petitions were filed against the dissolution of the House by the President. One of the petitions was filed by the Opposition parties’ alliance with the signature of 146 lawmakers, demanding reinstatement of the Lower House of Parliament and appointment of Mr. Deuba as the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-sc-directs-deuba-to-be-appointed-pm/article35292277.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Monsoon eludes Delhi despite fair conditions||While the conditions for the monsoon’s onset over Delhi are in place, meteorologists are unable to set a precise date. For well over a week now, the monsoon — that was to have reached Delhi on June 27-29 — has been on the threshold of the region with its northernmost limit over a stretch that spans Barmer, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritstar. “Conditions are ripe for the monsoon in Delhi and it is only a matter of time,” M. Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD, told The Hindu on Monday. The latest forecasts, as of Monday morning, indicate no significant rain over the region for the next 24 hours and only chances of a “light drizzle” for the early part of the week. ‘Unprecedented failure’ With questions swirling on IMD’s failure to predict the monsoon in Delhi, the agency issued a statement late Monday arguing that the failure of their model was unprecedented. “Such type of failure by numerical models in prediction of monsoon advance over Delhi is rare and uncommon. It is needless to mention that the IMD has predicted well with high accuracy about the advance of monsoon over Delhi in the recent past years and also the advance of monsoon over different parts of the country during the monsoon-2021 accurately about four to five days ahead. The IMD is monitoring the situation continuously and will provide the regular updates on advance of monsoon into remaining parts of northwest India including Delhi.” After the monsoon made its onset over Kerala on June 3, its southwest branch made a rapid journey upwards, prompting the IMD to forecast that it could arrive by June 15. “We made a mistake with that. However after July 1, the IMD’s position has been that the monsoon would set in around July 10. We are seeing the setting in of the characteristic monsoon winds as well as low humidity and the clouds are there too. The rain is soon inevitable,” said Mr. Mohapatra. The overall monsoon rainfall from a surplus has turned to an 8% deficit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-eludes-delhi-despite-fair-conditions/article35292280.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Inflation remains above 6% for second month||Growth impulses remained fragile with the second COVID-19 wave hurting the recovery momentum, according to quick estimates of industrial output for May, with output levels 8% lower than April. Manufacturing output tanked 9.5% month-on-month, electricity production fell nearly 7%, although mining moved up marginally by 0.6% in May. Headline factory output increased 29.3% over an incomparable May 2020, when industrial production had collapsed over 33% in the midst of a national lockdown. However, this was 13.9% below the pre-pandemic levels of May 2019. “Consumer durables and capital goods stood out as the worst affected sectors in May, trailing the pre-COVID levels by 41.2% and 36.9%, respectively,” noted Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. DBS Group Research economist Radhika Rao said Monetary Policy Committee members may retain a growth focus but are likely to express discomfort on the recent bout of sticky inflation, in the absence of corrective fiscal steps like excise duty cuts on fuel. “If the CPI inflation remains entrenched above the 6% upper threshold in the next two prints (July-August 2021), a preponement of rate normalisation can’t be ruled out,” warned Ms. Nayar, who expects the tightrope walk between supporting a ‘nascent, incomplete’ growth revival and preserving the need to anchor inflationary expectations, to continue. “Beyond the monthly swings, inflation continues to stay above the mid-point (4%) of the inflation target since late 2019… Pipeline risks are in focus, from service inflation as the second wave ebbs, pass-through from higher input prices as well as risks of a sub-normal southwest monsoon,” Ms Rao pointed out. While the pace of price rise slowed marginally in rural India from 6.5% in May to 6.2% in June, inflation experienced by urban consumers quickened further to 6.4% from 5.9% in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inflation-remains-above-6-for-second-month/article35292289.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Panel studying trial data of new vaccine: govt.||The second and the third doses are to be administered on the 28th and the 56th days. The vaccine can stored at 2-8 degree Celsius. The company sought emergency use approval on July 1. In a statement, Zydus Cadila said it had conducted a study during the second wave, which reaffirmed ZyCoV-D’s efficacy against new mutant strains, especially the Delta variant. On vaccines’ supply, the Health Ministry said that more than 38.86 crore (38,86,09,790) doses had been provided to the States/Union Territories so far through all sources and a further 63,84,230 were in the pipeline. “Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 37,31,88,834 doses [as per data available at 8 a.m. on Monday],” it noted. More than 1.54 crore (1,54,20,956) balance and unutilised doses were still available with the States/UTs and private hospitals, it added. Meanwhile, doctors across the country are reporting increased cases of Long COVID. COVID-19 infection and symptoms that continue for 4-12 weeks and beyond the initial illness with a wide range of symptoms affecting all systems- respiratory, cardiac, neurological, muscular and even general fatigue, is known as Long COVID. “It seems to affect older persons plus those with comorbidities,” said Madhu Handa, medical director, Moolchand Hospital. In some cases, it could seem like a cycle of improvement and then getting worse again. “We are still learning how long the illness lasts and it can vary in different individuals. There is proven research that it is common for COVID-19 to last for five months or more and there are reports of it lasting 12 months also. It is found that older people, women, and those who had five or more symptoms in the first week of becoming ill with COVID-19 are more likely to develop Long COVID,’’ she noted. Doctors indicate that Long COVID affects around 10% of those aged 18 to 49 who get COVID-19, increasing to 22% in people over 70. “People with asthma are also more likely to develop Long COVID and Type 2 Diabetes and existing cardiovascular conditions are also a clear link in people who developed it,’’ said Dr. Handa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-studying-trial-data-of-new-vaccine-govt/article35292291.ece
13 July 2021||Kolkata,||Speculation over Mitra resigning from W.B. govt.||The Budget statement of the West Bengal government for the year 2021-22 was printed on July 7 with Finance Minister Amit Mitra’s name on it. It was, however, tabled in the State Assembly by Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Partha Chatterjee. Earlier this year on February 5, before the State went to the polls, the interim Budget document with Dr. Mitra’s name was tabled by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the State Assembly. The long absence of the Dr. Mitra from Assembly proceedings has triggered speculation about the possibility of him stepping down from the post. Dr. Mitra did not contest West Bengal Assembly election due to his failing health, but was appointed the Finance Minister for the third time in 2021. Sources in the Trinamool Congress said Dr. Mitra had expressed his unwillingness to contest in the Assembly bypolls. Elections to seven vacant Assembly seats are due in West Bengal and Ms. Banerjee has on several occasion urged the Election Commission of India to hold these bypolls without delay. Along with Ms. Banerjee, who is not a member of West Bengal Assembly since she lost the Nandigram Assembly seat by a narrow margin, Dr. Mitra will have to get elected before the six-month window ends on November 2 to remain a Minister in the State Cabinet. There is little possibility that the West Bengal Legislature Council, for which the State Assembly passed a resolution earlier this month and requires a nod by Parliament, will be constituted before November 2021. Therefore, facing the bypolls, if they are held, is the only option for Dr. Mitra to retain his position as Finance Minister. Higher-ups in the Trinamool Congress government said Ms. Banerjee had not yet taken a decision on the issue of Dr. Mitra giving up the Finance Minister post . On July 7, after the State Budget was tabled, the Chief Minister repeatedly asked presspersons to direct questions related to the Budget to Dr. Mitra, who was virtually present at the press conference. Neither the Chief Minister nor Dr. Mitra has said anything about him stepping down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/speculation-over-mitra-resigning-from-wb-govt/article35292297.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Ahead of session, Sonia convenes strategy group||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament from July 19, Congress president Sonia Gandhi convened a meeting of the parliamentary strategy group on Wednesday. The virtual meeting could be a platform through which Ms. Gandhi makes an announcement about the appointment of a new party leader in the Lok Sabha, replacing Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Post the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results, with 52 seats, the Congress fell short of the required number to get the official designation of the Leader of the Opposition. Mr. Chowdhury, however, has been functioning as the leader of the single largest Opposition party in the House. For some time now, there has been a talk about replacing him with a more articulate speaker, but there is no official word yet. However, speculation is that the party may choose someone like Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Gaugav Gogoi or Ravneet Bittu to put across its views more effectively. “I have no information about it,” Mr. Chowdhury told The Hindu last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ahead-of-session-sonia-convenes-strategy-group/article35292305.ece
13 July 2021||New delhi,||Choksi gets bail, can return to Antigua||The Dominica High Court has granted bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, allowing him to travel to Antigua and Barbuda for treatment of his neurological condition, local media there reported. The court has granted a consent order by Choksi’s legal team permitting him to go to Antigua, where he has been staying as a citizen since 2018 after he left India, after depositing 10,000 Eastern Caribbean dollars (approximately Rs. 2.75 lakh) as bail money to seek medical attention from a specialised neurologist, Nature Isle News reported. The court has also stayed the ongoing trial before a magistrate for his alleged illegal entry into Dominica on May 23, till his return, it said. The court order has come as a major jolt to Indian efforts to bring back Choksi, wanted in the Rs. 13,500-crore scam in the Punjab National Bank, from Dominica, where he was held for illegal entry after his disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda. “Dominica courts finally upheld the rule of law and rights of a human to be treated in the medical facilities of his choice,” Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/choksi-gets-bail-can-return-to-antigua/article35292362.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||Antibodies treatment found effective: BMC||The treatment of COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms with an antibody cocktail of Casirivimab and Imdevimab has reduced the treatment period from 13 to 14 days to five to six days and only one out of around 200 patients required oxygen supply, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday. The BMC treated 200 patients with the cocktail at Seven Hills hospital in Andheri, and according to officials, the results were encouraging. The BMC said that only one (0.5%) patient required oxygen supply after this line of treatment and the death rate came down by 70%. A total of 212 patients were given the cocktail through saline bottle and the results of 199 had been received. Out of these, 101 were from the 18 to 45 age group, 45 from the 45 to 59 age group and 53 from above 60 years. Out of the 199, 74 had at least one comorbidity. Before the start of the treatment, 179 had fever, while 158 had cough and fever. Also, four patients were to be put on oxygen supply. The average HRCT (high-resolution computed tomography) score was seven to eight, while the highest was 11. BMC officials said fever subsided within 48 hours upon receiving the treatment and only one patient needed oxygen supply. “More importantly, none of the patients showed side effects of the cocktail,” said an official, adding that this treatment avoided the use of Remdesivir and other steroids, which is a positive sign. “This will also reduce the cost of the treatment and since hospital time is curtailed, it will ease the pressure on the medical system,” the official noted. Tried in U.S. The antibody cocktail treatment was being tried in the U.S. since November 2020 and former President Donald Trump too underwent a similar treatment. The antibodies medicines were registered with India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation on May 10, 2021, and the Drug Controller General of India has given permission for its use. The BMC said this treatment could be carried out on those above 12 years and with a weight of over 40 kg and with mild to moderate symptoms. Those who were presently not on oxygen but faced the possibility of health deterioration could get this treatment. It could also be done on patients with any comorbidity such as diabetes, kidney disease, heart problem, asthma, high blood pressure, sickle cell or brain related problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/antibodies-treatment-found-effective-bmc/article35292314.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Editors Guild condemns assault on U.P. journalist||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) has condemned the recent assault on local journalist Krishna Tiwari by the Chief Development Officer, Unnao, Divyanshu Patel, and demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government take action against him. The Guild, in a statement on Monday, said the assault on Mr. Tiwari was a part of the continuing trend of heavy-handedness by the the State authorities in dealing with the media. “This incident has come against the backdrop of increased persecution of journalists in the State of UP, as the administration has punished, penalised, and incarcerated journalists in an effort to intimidate them from freely reporting on crimes, state excesses, and the management of the pandemic,” the Guild noted. “EGI demands that strict action be taken against the official and that concrete steps be taken to improve the environment for independent journalism in the State,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-condemns-assault-on-up-journalist/article35292323.ece
13 July 2021||Pune,||IISER Bhopal scientists identify protein that helps in plant growth regulation||Scientists at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Bhopal have identified a protein that plays a critical role in plant growth regulation and can have potentially significant implications in the agriculture sector. The protein ‘BBX32’ thus identified is a B-box (BBX) protein (B-box play an important role in plant growth and development) that helps provide leads to control the timing of seedling emergence and help maximise proper seedling establishment, thereby enhancing crop yields in areas prone to heatwaves during the Indian summer. ‘BBX32’ helps in plant growth regulation by keeping its first leaves folded until they emerge out of the soil and thus provide crucial aid in the seedling establishment process. This protein is activated in the darkness by a steroid hormone in plants called Brassinosteroid (BR). The research in this work was led by Dr. Sourav Datta, Head of Department of Biological Sciences, IISER Bhopal, and the study was recently published in the prestigious U.S. journal Plant Physiology run by the American Society of Plant Biologists. “Nearly 25 years ago, scientists in the U.S. discovered that the steroid hormone Brassinosteroid keeps cotyledons folded in the dark. The basis of this discovery was the fact that plants with defects in BR synthesis or signalling produced open cotyledons in the dark,” Dr. Datta said. Cotyledon opening is a key morphological change that occurs in seedlings during de-etiolation (etiolation is a process in flowering plants grown in partial or complete absence of light). BR inhibits the opening of the cotyledons in darkness while light promotes their opening. The problem is that just how BR regulates cotyledon unfolding has remained relatively unknown. “Now, we have found that ‘BBX32’ is regulated both by light and BR to the control cotyledon unfolding during the transition from dark to light,” Dr. Datta said. Nevedha Ravindran, the lead author author of the research paper, explained that she got a strong clue about the role of ‘BBX32’ in BR when she found that it interacted with ‘BZR1’ — a BR signalling gene. “BBX32 also interacts with PIF3, another dark-active protein to regulate the cotyledon separation process,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iiser-bhopal-scientists-identify-protein-that-helps-in-plant-growth-regulation/article35292779.ece
13 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||A scaled down procession||The 144th Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra was taken out from Lord Jagannath Temple in Ahmedabad early on Monday morning in the presence of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. The Yatra was carried out with limited participation due to the pandemic. Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited the temple for morning aarti before the yatra began. The traditional procession along 19 km was taken out amid a curfew with only five vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-scaled-down-procession/article35292320.ece
13 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Why did Singh not act against Deshmukh: HC||The Bombay High Court said on Monday that one would have to get to the root of the corruption allegations made against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and wondered if those behind reinstating police inspector Sachin Vaze could claim impunity. Mr. Vaze was reinstated last year after being on suspension for 17 years for a custodial death. He is lodged at Taloja jail in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and the Mansukh Hiren murder cases. A Division Bench was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Deshmukh to quash the FIR registered against him by the CBI after another Bench directed it to inquire into the corruption allegations against him. The Bench asked additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, appearing for the CBI, what prevented Mr. Singh from initiating an inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh when he got to know of his alleged misconduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-did-param-bir-not-act-against-anil-deshmukh-hc/article35292776.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||Kharge: Cong. will make govt. answerable||As the monsoon session of Parliament is set to begin from July 19, the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, on Monday said that the Congress party will take along all like-minded parties and individuals to make the Union government answerable to the “plight” of the common Indian due to inflation and the hike in fuel prices. “The Prime Minister never addresses issues concerned to the common people. Even in this session, he will give one speech at the end... He should first think about becoming the guru of the country and then think about becoming a vishwa guru,” he said at a press conference. Asked whether the Congress would join hands with other anti-BJP units, Mr. Kharge said the party would do everything to make the government answerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kharge-cong-will-make-govt-answerable/article35292777.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||Nana Patole triggers fresh controversy||A video of Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole’s speech at an indoor party programme where he had said that the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister were keeping a track of his movements created a flutter yet again in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Addressing the party workers at a programme in Lonavala on Sunday, Mr. Patole said both other parties — the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — had become restless since the Congress had talked about going solo in the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nana-patole-triggers-fresh-controversy/article35292778.ece
13 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Most districts in Odisha run out of vaccine||The COVID-19 vaccination drive came to grinding halt in 24 out of 30 districts of Odisha after vaccine stocks were depleted on Monday. Except the six districts of Cuttack, Sundargarh, Keonjhar, Sambalpur, Mayurbhanj and Nabarangpur, not even a single vaccination centre was operational in the rest of the districts. Only 220 vaccination sites were operational on Monday. The State had in the past inoculated more than 4 lakh people in a single day by setting up 1,730 vaccination centres. As vaccine stocks were not replenished against utilisation, the number of doses came down fast. The Odisha government had earlier raised an alarm over vaccine shortage, saying the Covishield allocation for July was 25.31 lakh doses against requirement of 28.31 lakh doses for second dose in July. The next consignment of Covishield is to be made available to the State on July 15. The Odisha government had requested additional allocation of 15 lakh doses of Covishield. Wherever vaccines were available, people were seen queuing up before centres early from the morning, flouting physical distance norms. Police personnel were roped in to maintain order outside vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-districts-in-odisha-run-out-of-vaccine/article35292325.ece
13 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Arrest created suspicion in public’s mind’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said the arrest of two persons in Lucknow by the Uttar Pradesh Police for allegedly plotting terror attacks months ahead of the State Assembly election has created suspicion in the public’s mind. If the claims of the police are true, then this is a serious matter and necessary action should be taken, she said. The police on Sunday had arrested two persons on the suspicion that they were planning to carry out terror attacks in parts of eastern U.P. and Lucknow ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-created-suspicion-in-publics-mind/article35292295.ece
13 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam CM tables cattle protection Bill||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday tabled the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, on the first day of the Assembly’s Budget session. The State Cabinet had a week ago approved the Bill seeking to ban the transport of cattle within as well as to and from Assam. The Bill would replace the existing Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950, which allowed the slaughter of cattle above the age of 14 after approval from local veterinary officers. “No person shall transport or offer for transport or cause to be transported any cattle without a valid permit from any place of another State through Assam to any place outside the State of Assam, any place within the State of Assam to any place outside the State of Assam where the slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law,” the Bill said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cm-tables-cattle-protection-bill/article35292300.ece
13 July 2021||Srinagar,||‘Govt. workers dismissal arbitrary’||Jammu and Kashmir parties, including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Hurriyat, on Monday described the termination of 11 government employees, including two sons of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddion, under Article 311, as “arbitrary and unjust”. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti said, “It’s inexplicable to punish sons for the deeds of the father.” NC leader Imran Nabi Dar termed the termination a “measure blind to justice and arbitrary in nature”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-workers-dismissal-arbitrary/article35292301.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka meets U.P. leaders||Congress general secretary for Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday had a brainstorming session with leaders from the State regarding the party’s political strategy for next year’s Assembly election. The virtual meeting of the Congress’ advisory council for the State decided that party workers would hit the streets against the State government over issues such as price rise, unemployment and law and order. The Congress is keen to visibly scale up its political activities to compensate for a weak organisational structure on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-meets-up-leaders/article35292304.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Oxygen plants inaugurated in Gujarat||The Cabinet recently approved a Rs. 23,000 crore package for COVID-19 emergency response, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya pointed out on Monday, Virtually inaugurating two oxygen PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) plants at Sir Takhtasinhji Hospital at Bhavnagar in Gujarat, he said the government had made adequate provisions for paediatric care in all hospitals to provide the most effective healthcare for children, he said. “We are also developing a system of buffer [oxygen] stock at the State and Central levels that can be used in case of any health crisis. Thus, a comprehensive plan and capacity-building in the next six months is being taken up through this COVID-19 package,” he stated. Associated facilities such as a fire-fighting system and an automatic oxygen source changeover system were also inaugurated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oxygen-plants-inaugurated-in-gujarat/article35292317.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC eases curbs for Goa residents||The Bombay High Court at Goa on Monday permitted fully vaccinated residents and those who work in Goa to enter the State without a COVID-19 negative report till August 5. A Division Bench of justices M.S. Sonak and M.S. Jawalkar allowed the workforce that includes people related to labour, construction and industries in Goa; those who run businesses in the State and all Goa residents were required to travel outside of the State for work or medical reasons. People would have to produce verified certificates of receiving both shots of the COVID-19 vaccine before entering the State. The Bench granted this relief till August 5 and will hear the matter again to decide if tourists who are fully vaccinated can also enter Goa without negative reports. The court passed the interim relief after its order on May 6 directed the authorities of Goa to not allow residents without a negative RT-PCR report done 72 hours before arrival. The hearing was part of a bunch of public interest litigation pleas filed by the South Goa Advocates Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-eases-curbs-for-goa-residents-to-re-enter-state/article35292324.ece
13 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Teenager held for communal speech at Haryana event||Gopal Sharma alias Ram Bhakt Gopal, 19, accused of shooting at a Jamia student last year during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, was arrested by the Gurugram Police on Monday in connection with his hate speech at a mahapanchayat in Pataudi earlier this month. He has been charged with outraging religious feelings and promoting enmity between different groups. Sharma was arrested at Sikanderpur Badha village, said the police. The arrest came following the registration of an FIR against him late on Sunday night on a complaint by a resident of Jamalpur village. The case was registered at Pataudi police station under Section 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion etc.) and 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs). The complainant, in the FIR, said the teenager gave a provocative speech at mahapanchayat organised at Ramlila Ground in Pataudi on July 4. He further added that the speech could instigate riots and create law and order situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teenager-held-for-communal-speech-at-haryana-event/article35292278.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||FMGE: Delhi HC asks NBE, NMC to respond to plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the National Board of Examination (NBE) and the National Medical Commission (NMC) to respond to a plea by doctors challenging the imposition of cost and certain adverse observations made by it on June 11 while dismissing their petition seeking to postpone the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (FMGE) due to COVID-19. The exam was scheduled for June 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fmge-delhi-hc-asks-nbe-nmc-to-respond-to-plea/article35292279.ece
13 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||India faces danger of narco-terror: Amit Shah||With the growing menace of narcotics, India is facing the danger of narco-terror as drug traffickers and peddlers further their illegal and disruptive activities using drug money, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said in Gandhinagar on Monday. He inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Research and Analysis of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances at the National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) in Gandhinagar. “The Centre has decided that we will not let narcotics enter our country and not let India become its pathway. It is important to stop this menace,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-faces-danger-of-narco-terror-amit-shah/article35292284.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC refuses relief to Sanatan Sanstha||The Bombay High Court in Goa on Monday refused to grant relief to the Hindu group Sanatan Sanstha that wanted an order to restore its Facebook page that was taken down by the company. A Division Bench of Justices M.S. Sonak and M.S. Jawalkar was hearing an appeal filed by the group accused of killing rationalists Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare, M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh. The appeal said by blocking its page, Facebook was being high handed, arbitrary and violating a constitutional right. It said its Facebook pages were used to spread the essence of their spirituality and allied matters. Facebook’s action prevented it from communicating or propagating its philosophy, and its followers from accessing information that it posted. The Bench, however, was not convinced. “The dispute regarding blocking or unblocking of the petitioner’s Facebook pages appears to be governed by the contractual relationship between the petitioner and respondents [Facebook] and, normally, purely contractual disputes between private parties cannot be adjudicated in proceedings under Article 226 [power of the high court] of the Constitution of India,” it said. The court said there was no case made out for grant of any declaratory relief. “Even the advocate for Sanatan Sanstha was unable to point out any provision under the Information Technology Act, based on which the petitioner could insist on maintaining a Facebook page on the platform provided without agreeing to be bound by the contractual terms that may have been proposed.” The high court said that if there was some breach of contractual relationship involved in the blocking of the Facebook page, they could take appropriate steps before an appropriate forum to secure redress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-refuses-relief-to-sanatan-sanstha/article35292285.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Third accused in Kitty Kumaramangalam murder case arrested||The absconding third accused in the Kitty Kumaramangalam murder case has been arrested, the Delhi Police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South West) Ingit Pratab Singh said Suraj was arrested on the night of July 11. His associates Raju and Rakesh were arrested earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-accused-in-kitty-kumaramangalam-murder-case-arrested/article35292292.ece
13 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 2,652 fresh cases||With 2,652 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, the total number of infections recorded in the State has risen to 25,21,438. As many as 3,104 persons were discharged after treatment, and the total number of persons discharged has gone up to 24,56,165 persons. Public health officials recorded 36 more deaths as having been caused by the infection. Thus far, 33,454 persons have succumbed to the infection, according to the daily health bulletin. The State has 31,819 patients under treatment. High caseload Eight districts — Chennai (165), Coimbatore (290), Chengalpattu (139), Erode (193), Salem (170), Thanjavur (191), Tiruppur (157) and Tiruchi (103) — continued to report the most number of cases. Ramanathapuram (19), Tenkasi (17), Tirunelveli (16) and Perambalur (12) had the lowest number of fresh infections. In Chennai the number of active cases stood at 1,680. As many as 25,200 samples were tested in the city. So far, 5,35,278 persons have tested positive in the district and 5,25,336 have been discharged. The district has recorded 8,262 deaths. As many as 12 persons have died at private hospitals and 24 at government hospitals. While seven persons with no co-morbidities died, 29 persons died of pre-existing health conditions. A 64-year-old man from Nagapattinam, who was admitted to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on June 29, tested positive the next day. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on July 10. An 88-year-old man from Kanniyakumari tested positive on July 1, and was admitted to Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on July 8. He died on July 10, and the hospital cited COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause of death. Tests and vaccination The bulletin said 1,40,463 RT-PCR tests were done and 1,39,428 persons were tested. So far, 3,46,86,755 tests have been done and 3,38,29,697 persons have been tested. As many as 3,79,277 persons were administered vaccines at 2,142 sessions across the State on Monday. Among them were 608 healthcare workers and 2,570 frontline workers. A total of 1,90,544 persons in the 18-44 age group; 1,36,675 persons in the 45-59 age group with co-morbidities; and 48,880 senior citizens were inoculated. So far, 1,66,41,262 have been vaccinated.  Twelve persons died at private hospitals and 24 at government hospitals. While seven persons with no co-morbidities died, 29 persons died of pre-existing health conditions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-2652-fresh-cases/article35292489.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired staff struggle to invest in post office savings scheme||Though rules allow people above the age of 55, who have opted for voluntary retirement or have been given compulsory retirement, to invest their settlement funds in the post office senior citizen savings scheme (SCSS), frontline staff are apparently rejecting such deposits. An individual aged above 60 can invest under the savings scheme. However, there is an exemption clause which allows employees aged above 55 and below 60 to invest their settlement amount in this scheme, subject to the condition that the investment be made within one month of receipt of such an amount. “The government guidelines clearly state that such employees can invest in SCSS, but the frontline staff at post offices are not accepting the investments, as it appears they are not well versed with the regulation,” Suresh Parthasarathy, founder, myassetsconsolidation.com, pointed out. He has been guiding retirees to invest in SCSS. “The prospects of getting a job for employees above 55 are bleak, and they have to depend on monthly interest incomes to manage their family cash flow. Products like bank fixed deposits and postal deposits are the major interest earners for them,” he added. Higher rate of interest At present, SCSS offers a better interest rate of 7.4% per annum, when compared to rates between 5.3-5.5% offered by banks. Also, post office deposits come with a sovereign guarantee. People are also finding it difficult to meet the requirement that the settlement funds need to be invested within a month of receipt, amid the pandemic. Mr. Parthasarathy said with COVID-19 lockdowns only now being eased, the 30-day time-frame given to invest the settlement amount is not sufficient and the Union Finance Ministry needs to look at extending the time frame, to help this category of employees to invest in the SCSC. “It is high time the postal department took the initiative to popularise the scheme and it must have sufficient displays at post offices to educate the general public,” he added. When contacted, a senior official from the postal department said the Finance Ministry has to take a call regarding extension of time frame from 30 days. He also pointed out that if the field staff are rejecting the investment, the concerned individual can make a representation to a higher official.  The prospects of getting a job for employees above 55 are bleak, and they have to depend on monthly interest incomes to manage their family cash flowSuresh ParthasarathyFounder, myassetsconsolidation.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-staff-below-60-struggling-to-invest-in-post-office-savings-scheme/article35292500.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kancheepuram residents demand bus stand along Bengaluru highway||Kancheepuram, known for its ancient temples and silk saris, lacks good public transport. A bus terminus along the Chennai-Bengaluru highway has been a long-pending demand of the residents. While the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur are blessed with excellent public transport round-the-clock, the people of Kancheepuram district have been struggling with poor bus and train services. F. Berry, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Makkal Urimai Pathukappu Ozhal Ozhippu Sangam, says besides being a leading pilgrimmage centre in the country, the temple town is also known for its silk saris. But residents and traders of the district headquarters find it tough to travel to Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruavallur because of inadequate bus services. The suburban train services too are limited after the morning peak hours. Although long-distance buses from Chennai take the Chennai-Bengaluru highway via Kancheepuram district, they do not take deviation to reach the bus stand to avoid traffic congestion. Thus, people of the temple town have to either travel to Chengalpattu or Chennai for boarding long-distance buses. The sangam has sent a representation to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for constructing a new bus terminus on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway in one of the four places, namely Ponnerikarai, Vellakal, Vedal or Rajakulam, to provide better connectivity for Kancheepuram residents. Kancheepuram MLA C.V.M.P. Ezhilarasan said the main reason was that the bus terminus was located well in the heart of the temple town. The long-distance buses originating from Chennai avoid taking deviation from Chennai-Bengaluru highway to avoid getting caught in traffic snarls. The two-time MLA said he had already given a representation to Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan to shift the bus terminus to a place along the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway. Mr. Ezhilarasan said very soon a site would be identified on the Chennai-Bengaluru highway for constructing a new bus terminus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kancheepuram-residents-demand-bus-stand-along-bengaluru-highway/article35292466.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SC/ST admissions drop by 50%||The admission of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students to engineering courses has dropped by nearly 50% in Tamil Nadu over the years. The period in question is the academic years from 2016-17 to 2020-21. For the purpose of this study, the admission to colleges under the jurisdiction of the Directorate of Technical Education has been taken into account. The main reason cited by activists is the State government “tightening certain norms” in the implementation of the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, one of the flagship schemes of the Central government, for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students since August 2017. At that time, the State equalised the course fees for the government and management quota seats at self-financing colleges. This meant the tuition fees of students enrolling under the management quota were only partially reimbursed. Though there are seven components of the scheme such as maintenance allowance, study tour allowance and book allowance, it is the tuition fees that matter the most. The scheme covers students pursuing any course after Class 10, but it attracts more students of professional courses such as engineering and medicine than those of other courses. During 2012-17, the State allowed the full reimbursement of tuition fees, as determined by the fee fixation committee for self-financing colleges. During this period, there was a huge rise in the coverage of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students under the scheme. To cite an instance, the number of beneficiary students was 45,315 in 2011-12. But it went up by about 270% five years later with 1,23,199 students. The previous AIADMK government had contended that under the given guidelines, its committed liability, which was Rs. 353.55 crore in 2012-13, rose to Rs. 1,526.46 crore in 2017-18. The State had also complained that the Centre had not fully paid its share of the scholarship amount. Furthermore, the government was of the view that as the tuition fees for government quota seats were less than that of management quota seats, there existed an “incentive” for the self-financing colleges to promote more admissions under the management quota than under the government quota. M. Bharathan, convener of the Amebdkar Kalvi Nutrandu Iyakkam, points out that the students choose private colleges owing to a variety of reasons — the quality of teaching and infrastructure available — and no ulterior motive needs to be attached. Referring to the revision of the guidelines by the Central government in March this year under which the Central and State governments will share the cost of the scholarship scheme on a 60:40 basis, G. Chandramohan, another activist, feels that as the burden of the State governments will be less now than in the past, the Tamil Nadu government can do away with the “stringent norms” fixed by the previous regime. In a petition addressed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, he and Mr. Bharathan have sought that Rs. 2,000 crore be spent under for the scholarship scheme, of which 60% will be provided by the Centre. K. Samuel Raj, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front, wants the authorities to ensure that the scholarship is disbursed at the right time. Delay in payment is a recurring feature. He feels that the private colleges, too, should pursue with the State government whenever there is a delay in the payment of the scholarship, instead of making the students to run from pillar to post. A. Nagaraasan, general secretary of the Aathi Thamizhar Peravai, calls upon the government to increase the quantum of internal reservation for the Arunthathiyars to 6% from 3% so that more students of the community can be covered under the scheme.  As burden on the States will be less now, Tamil Nadu government can do away with ‘stringent norms’ fixed by the previous regime G. ChandramohanActivist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scst-engg-admissions-drop-by-50/article35292485.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As lockdowns take away their jobs, Irulas struggle to survive||Over the past two lockdowns, residents of two Irula settlements — Nariyamputhur and Vandivakkam — in Kancheepuram district have been barely surviving with rice from fair price shops. They have been able to stretch the rice for the whole month as they have only two meals a day. “It is always ‘puli’ or ‘kaara kozhambu’ since we cannot afford to buy vegetables as we do not get much work. Only some of us have the 100-day job scheme cards and get work for a few days a year. Earlier, we used to work on agricultural fields but now all that has stopped, which is why our men have turned to cutting trees and stones. If they get, they work as labourers in construction sites,” said Chandra of Nariyamputhur, who walks slowly with her grand-daughter, holding her hand and guiding her through the rough terrain. Asked how long the 15-odd families have been living in the settlement, which is not near any other human inhabitation, she said, “My father-in-law came here before us and before him came his in-laws. Now, I live here with my children and their children.” They live on poromboke land with houses made of palm leaves with no power supply; hence, they have no televisions, no mixers or grinders. They also do not have gas stoves since they cannot afford LPG and depend on firewood picked from around their villages. Windy season “This is the windy season and we are afraid the palm leaves will fly off and the mud walls will break and fall on us. Many nights are spent sleepless. If it is too windy and the rain is heavy, we all sit in the hut that is the strongest,” explained Panchali, who got two packets of tea in the 14-item pack, part of the State government’s COVID-19 relief from her fair price shop. “We are illiterate and since we do not know how to count, we did not know how many items we got. When each of us found different items in the bag we went back to the shop, and the man told us that we were yet to get five more items,” explained their neighbour Seetha. Samuel Pradeep Raja, secretary of Care Trust, and his wife Priscilla have been helping them get family cards and voter ID cards. “We were helping another Irula colony in Padur and when these people heard about that, they came to us. We did a baseline survey and applied for family cards. Some have the cards, others are yet to get them. When it rains, their homes get flooded. If the district administration gives them homes on a higher elevation or pattas, it will be helpful,” he said. Tiruvannamalai model Ms. Priscilla, who has done her Ph.D. in social work, pointed to the example of Tiruvannamalai district where IAS officer K.S. Kandasamy, as Collector, worked a miracle to rehabilitate Irula people by arranging homes, along with other facilities. “He, along with the DRDA, also managed to give them a livelihood by giving them cattle. If the Kancheepuram district administration take action, these people too can see a sea change in their lives,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-lockdowns-take-away-their-jobs-irulas-struggle-to-survive/article35292501.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||91-year-old man treated for ruptured heart in Chennai||A 91-year-old man was recently treated at Madras Medical Mission for a hole in the two lower chambers of his heart. The man, who hails from Puducherry, had been airlifted from New Delhi where he was living with his son, for treatment. The nonagenarian had suffered two heart attacks earlier. After the first attack some months ago, he was put on medication instead of surgery or procedure. However, he developed heart failure with accumulation of fluid around his lungs. However, a month later he developed breathlessness and he was admitted in another hospital and medications were adjusted. His health improved and he travelled to Delhi to visit his son. He then suffered a second heart attack. He was revived through electrical shocks, chest compression, aggressive resuscitation and ventilator support. But he suffered ventricular septal rupture, where the weakened infracted muscle resulted in a large hole between the heart’s left and right ventricles. His breathlessness worsened. He was airlifted to Chennai for interventional closure in Madras Medical Mission hospital, said K. Sivakumar, head of paediatric cardiology and senior consultant. The doctors closed the rupture using pin-hole punctures in the groin blood vessels. The fact that he was healthy and lived independently and did not have diabetes, hypertension and cholesterol, reduced the risk from the procedure, a hospital release said. The procedure lasted an hour and the patient spent 48 hours in the intensive care after which he went back to his son, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/91-year-old-man-treated-for-ruptured-heart/article35292468.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activists urge govt. to rein in Tangedco, save Ennore creek||Activists, including Poovulagin Nanbargal G. Sundararajan, economist S. Janakarajan, and Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna, who visited the Ennore Creek on Monday, urged the State government to stop Tangedco’s construction activity in waterbodies in the area. They said the civil works taken up by the power utility to carry coal had blocked the flow of the Kosasthalaiyar and had damaged mangroves and the riverbed at two places in Puzhuthivakkam near Ennore. The team that inspected the location at the behest of the Save Ennore Creek campaign and local fisherfolk said the Tangedco coud not be given exemption from the law and should not be allowed to damage waterbodies. Flyash contamination Already, more than 1,000 acres of the river’s backwaters had been heavily contaminated with flyash from the leaking pipelines of Tangedco. The power utility had not complied with the order of the National Green Tribunal to remove flyash, the team alleged. Pointing out that the backwaters were critical for Chennai’s flood and water security and for the livelihoods of thousands of fishermen, the team urged the State government to step in to ensure that public sector units treated waterbodies with respect and operate within the framework of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-urge-govt-to-rein-in-tangedco-save-ennore-creek/article35292460.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||French firm to set up medical devices unit at Cheyyar Sipcot||French medical technology firm, Institut Georges Lopez (IGL), is setting up a manufacturing facility for organ preservation solution at Cheyyar, Tamil Nadu. It will establish and operate a plant manufacturing medical devices and solutions for flushing and preservation of organs. An MoU regarding this was signed in May 2020 between IGL India Transplantation Solutions Private Ltd. and the State government. The company has given an investment commitment of about $2.5 million (Rs. 20 crore) and provide about 30 jobs. It has been allotted two acres of land at Cheyyar Sipcot and approvals will start soon, said a government source. Guidance Bureau, the department which is instrumental in bringing in investments into the State recently on its Twitter handle, said the IGL unit will enable more life saving transplant procedures through improved quality and length of preservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/french-firm-to-set-up-medical-devices-unit-at-cheyyar-sipcot/article35292467.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy staff call off stir||The indefinite protest started by conservancy workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation’s Ambattur zone on Monday was called off temporarily following an assurance that a discussion with senior officials will be held on Tuesday. The workers, who were engaged for many years on a temporary basis under the National Urban Livelihood Mission, went on strike demanding regularisation of jobs. They had carried out demonstration and human chain protests last week. V. Hari Prashanth, zonal secretary of Uzhaippor Urimai Iyakkam, an association of the workers that is leading the protests, said that the strike would resume on Wednesday if the talks failed. The contract of the workers ends on July 15. Though officials assured them that their employment would be extended beyond July 15, they did not specify the duration, the workers said. Ambattur MLA Joseph Samuel took part in the negotiations on Monday. The workers highlighted the earlier assurance by the DMK that their jobs would be regularised. Though a large number of workers in Ambattur zone went on strike, GCC officials said that handling of solid waste was not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-staff-call-off-stir/article35292471.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No intention to enter politics: Rajini||An hour after reigniting speculation on the possibility of his entering politics, actor Rajinikanth on Monday declared that he had no intention of doing so in future. He also disbanded Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), which he founded in 2018 as a precursor to the party that he had promised to launch to contest in the 2021 Assembly election. He had declared his political intentions in December 2017. RMM meeting The actor tweeted his clear-cut statement hours after he met RMM office-bearers. Rajinikanth’s next film, Annathe , is set for release on Deepavali day this year. In the statement, the actor said: “It is my duty to clarify the status and functions of the RMM. This has become a question mark in the minds of office-bearers and fans. I transformed Rajinikanth Fans Welfare Association into Rajini Makkal Mandram to form a political party and enter politics and created organisational posts at the State and district levels. However, what we wanted to do was not possible due to the circumstances. “I have no intentions to enter politics in the future. Therefore, RMM will be disbanded. Rajinikanth Fans Welfare Association will function like before without any affiliated wings.” An hour earlier, addressing reporters outside his residence in Chennai, Mr. Rajinikanth appeared to hint that he was again considering an entry into politics. “I couldn’t meet the RMM office-bearers after I said that I couldn’t enter politics. The Annathe shooting got delayed and then we had elections and then the [the second wave of] coronavirus . I had gone for my health check-up in the United States and returned. Should we continue the RMM and what are going to be its functions... are some of the questions that are there in the minds of the RMM members and fans. And also, there are questions about whether I am going to enter politics in future... I will discuss all this with the RMM office-bearers and make an announcement,” he said. In the past, after a long wait and anticipation, the superstar decided not to enter politics in the last week of December 2020, citing COVID-19 and his fragile health, just weeks after he had said he would form a party and contest in the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-intention-to-enter-politics-rajini/article35292476.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. against NEET, but students should prepare for it: Minister||“We are taking all efforts not to conduct NEET in the State. But students should not be found wanting in preparation in case the test is held due to some reason,” said Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian. In response to Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s announcement on Monday that NEET would be held on September 12, he told reporters that the State government had, on June 10, constituted a committee under a retired judge A.K. Rajan to assess the impact of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admission. On June 28, the BJP’s State secretary K. Nagarajan filed a public interest litigation seeking to quash the government’s order to constitute the committee. Mr. Subramanian said several major political parties had impleaded themselves in the case regarding the committee and that it would come up for hearing in the Madras High Court on Tuesday. The government would give its opinion when the case was being heard, the Minister said. The DMK was against the conduct of NEET. But the students should continue to prepare for NEET. “We are continuing NEET coaching. Students should not be left high and dry at the last minute in the event NEET is held. There is no harm for the students to prepare for the exam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-against-neet-but-students-should-prepare-for-it-minister/article35292483.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Algorithm developed to track changes in cancerous cells||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras have developed a mathematical model to identify cancer-causing alterations in cells. The algorithm, driven by artificial intelligence, uses an unexplored technique of leveraging DNA composition to pinpoint genetic alterations responsible for cancer progression. Although DNA sequencing has revolutionised the area of cancer research, the complexity and size of the sequencing datasets pinpointing the exact changes from the genomes of cancer patients is difficult. B. Ravindran, head of the Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and AI and Mindtree faculty fellow, and Karthik Raman, faculty at the same centre, led the research. Shayantan Banerjee, a master’s student, performed the experiments and analysed the data. The results of the experiment were published in the peer-reviewed journal Cancers . One of the major challenges involves the differentiation between relatively small number of ‘driver’ mutations that enable cancer cells to grow and the large number of ‘passenger’ mutations that do not have any effect on the progress of the disease,” Mr. Ravindran said. The researchers hope that the mathematical model will ultimately help discover potentially novel drug targets and enable prescription of right drug at the right time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/algorithm-developed-to-track-changes-in-cancerous-cells/article35292587.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||False affidavits: EC to initiate prosecution||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday informed the Madras High Court that it shall launch criminal prosecution against candidates who had submitted false information in the affidavits submitted by them while filing nominations for the recently-held Assembly election in the State. The submission was made before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy during the hearing of a case filed by B. Ramamoorthy of Vellore. He had accused former AIADMK Minister K.C. Veeramani of having furnished false information regarding his assets. The petitioner pointed out that he had already filed a writ petition in March this year highlighting the alleged false affidavit filed by the former Minister while contesting from Jollarpet constituency. However, by the time the case got listed for hearing, the last date for rejecting the nominations had expired. Hence, the court disposed of the case with an observation that the petitioner could challenge the election if Mr. Veeramani wins. Since, the former Minister lost the election, the petitioner gave a representation to the District Election Officer (DEO) and the Returning Officer urging them to prosecute him for the reportedly false affidavit. The petitioner complained that Tiruppattur Collector-cum-DEO, had on May 26 refused to prosecute the former Minister under Section 125A (punishment for filing false affidavit) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and instead asked the litigant to set the law in motion. When the case was listed for admission on Monday, the ECI counsel too argued in favour of the stand taken by the DEO. Not convinced, the judges directed the ECI to file it’s counter affidavit within a fortnight. However, later in the day, senior counsel G. Rajagopalan told the court that ECI itself would act on the issue. He said the ECI would take a call on launching prosecution on a case-by-case basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/false-affidavits-ec-to-initiate-prosecution/article35292480.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conmen trick elderly woman, steal gold||A 70-year-old woman fell prey to conmen who diverted her attention, and stole close to 13 sovereigns of gold jewellery from her in Kolathur on Monday. According to the police, Saratha, a resident of Thirumurugan Nagar, was walking to the Kanniyamman temple in Srinivasa Nagar. Two men stopped her on Makkaram Garden Main Road and told her that riots had broken out in the nearby street. They offered to help her keep the jewellery in her purse. Ms. Saratha, gave them her gold bangles and chain. When she reached home she did not find the jewellery. A complaint was lodged in Rajamangalam police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conmen-trick-elderly-woman-steal-gold/article35292457.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISKCON holds rath yatra||The annual rath yatra of Sri Jagannath, Sri Baladeva and Sri Subhadra was celebrated on Monday at ISKCON Temple at Akkarai on ECR here. The deities were placed on a small rath that was taken around the Sholinganallur temple complex. Devotees performed namsankirtan . Fruits were distributed as prasadam , said a press release from Sumithra Krishna Das, ISKCON temple president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iskcon-holds-rath-yatra/article35292464.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation officials caution T. Nagar traders||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan inspected Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar here on Monday night and advised traders’ association to engage volunteers to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour. Following reports of crowding in the commercial hub, a team of officials, led by Dr. Radhakrishnan, conducted a surprise inspection in the evening. The officials stressed the need for traders’ cooperation to prevent a third wave of COVID-19 in Chennai. The traders’ association on Monday agreed to take more steps to support the Greater Chennai Corporation staff and the police in promoting COVID-appropriate behaviour. Suresh Kumar, Inspector, R1 Mambalam police station, Corporation sanitary officer Sreenivasan, corporation sanitary inspector Prabhu, Ranganathan Street Association joint secretary Sheraffuddin, treasurer Kasin, and secretary Shahul Hameed accompanied Dr. Radhakrishnan. The officials advised them to follow standard operating procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-officials-caution-t-nagar-traders/article35292473.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Megalithic full-length sword unearthed||The excavations at Mayiladumparai in Krishnagiri district have yielded a full-length iron sword broken at places. “We have unearthed swords in the past at many places. But they are small. This is the first time the Department of Archaeology has unearthed a full-length sword with a handle in Tamil Nadu. The length is 60 cm,” Minister for Archaeology Thangam Thennarasu told The Hindu . The Archaeological Survey of India had previously found a full-length sword, but not in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/megalithic-full-length-sword-unearthed/article35292487.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Denied bank loans, fishing boat owners seek aid||Bogged down by loans, boat owners of Kasimedu have appealed to the State government to provide them financial support. With banks not coming to their rescue, many boat owners say they have been forced to borrow up to Rs. 10 lakh to go on fishing. “Last year, the State government attempted to get us loans through Kissan credit cards. However, the banks refused and the scheme did not take off in the fisheries sector. Exporters, who buy fish from Kasimedu, pay much less than what is due to the boat owners citing various reasons, including their own loans,” said community leader M.E. Raghupathi. As a result of the combination of low fish prices and high cost of diesel, only 40% of the boats go on voyages. “Since the voyages have become longer, we need to spend more on diesel, ice, provisions for men and payments. Earlier, we used to have week-long voyages, but now they are for 20-25 days. The boats venture into deeper sea meaning they have to be bigger to withstand the voyages. They cost around Rs. 1 crore, which is no small amount and there is no financial assistance from the formal sector,” said Varadhan, another community leader. K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Association said the need of the hour was setting up a bank exclusively for fishermen. Sources in the department said a meeting of boat owners and exporters would be convened shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/denied-bank-loans-fishing-boat-owners-seek-financial-aid/article35292887.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hotels seek time to file GST returns||The Chennai Hotels’ Association has sought time till December to file GST returns for the period affected by COVID-19. Passing resolutions on Monday, the association said that it would take hotels time to consolidate their accounts. It urged the governments at the Centre and in the State to set up a revolving fund from which loans could be provided to hotels depending on their size. “The amount can be between Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 50 lakh and a two-year moratorium could be provided for repayment. We need a bail out package since most of us are in dire straits and many have even shut shop,” said association president M. Ravi. The association sought a break in payment of various taxes, including property tax, water tax and licence fee for another six months. The hotels, while thanking the State government for relaxing lock down timings till 9 p.m., have sought to extend it by another hour, a press release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-seek-time-to-file-gst-returns/article35292461.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic SI rewarded for nabbing thief||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Monday rewarded a 53-year-old traffic sub-inspector, who caught a wanted suspect after a chase during a vehicle check in Periamet police station limits a few days ago. R. Kolangiappan, an sub-inspector attached to the Periamet traffic wing, was checking vehicles for drunken driving on Demellows Road near Pattalam on June 10. He spotted two youth, riding a bike, slow down some distance away. When he walked towards them, the duo abandoned the bike and took to their heels. Mr. Kolangiappan and his colleagues chased and caught one of them. They found silver articles, bangles and a watch in his possession. He was handed over to the law and order police for inquiry. “The suspect was identified as Nagaraj alias Bayangara Nagaraj from R.K. Nagar. He is involved in some cases. The bike he was riding was stolen from Kovalam that evening. His accomplice is Rafeeq,” an official said. The Commissioner rewarded Mr. Kolangiappan on Monday for his effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-si-rewarded-for-nabbing-thief/article35292458.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Scrap age limit for teachers’||The Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association has appealed to the State government to remove the upper age limit for recruiting teachers in government and aided institutions. Currently, 40 is the upper age limit for teachers from the general category and 45 for those from reserved categories. Following a National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) resolution to convert the validity of the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) from seven years into a lifetime certificate, the association said the government should consider scrapping the upper age limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-age-limit-for-teachers/article35292888.ece
13 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews highway works||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday asked officials to enhance highways infrastructure to enable safe road travel and easy movement of goods across the State. He reviewed various works of the Highways and Minor Ports Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reviews-highway-works/article35292474.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation cancels works worth Rs. 98.19 cr. citing financial crunch||The Coimbatore Corporation has cancelled works worth Rs. 98.19 crore citing financial crunch. The Corporation Council headed by Special Officer-cum-Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara took the decision at a Council meeting held on June 30, 2021. The Council had cancelled works for which the Corporation had selected the contractor, but no work was started on the ground, and also works for which the Corporation had floated tender in February this year ahead of Assembly elections, but could not proceed further. In resolution cancelling the works, the Corporation said for works already completed, the Corporation was supposed to give the contractors Rs. 120 crore and it had not. Therefore, considering the current financial position, the Corporation had decided to cancel the works, which included road repair work, storm water drainage cleaning and construction, park maintenance, toilet and other building maintenance works among others. The Corporation had cancelled 75 works worth Rs. 14.93 crore in North Zone, 103 works worth Rs. 26.06 crore in East Zone, 102 works worth Rs. 26.81 crore in South Zone, 64 works worth Rs. 20.10 crore in West Zone and 52 works worth Rs. 10.27 crore. The resolution came to light after the Corporation under Commissioner Mr. Sunkara had started making public Council minutes and resolutions that were kept hidden from the public since July 2017. Welcome move Civic activist S.P. Thiyagarajan, who had to battle it out before the Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman and Madras High Court, said it was a welcome move. In response to RTI queries in the past, the Corporation was evasive in its response, strengthening suspicion that it flouted rules. But now, the Corporation had started posting Council resolutions, which was a welcome move. The resolutions would throw light on irregularities, if any, during the dark period because there was no elected council then and the Commissioners had doubled up as Special Officers with powers of the Council. Since his taking over as Commissioner, Mr. Sunkara had made public more than 750 resolutions. Only resolutions for the second half of 2019, 2020 and first half of 2020 were pending. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said Mr. Sunkara’s move towards giving a transparent administration was to be welcomed as the Corporation had kept people in the dark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-cancels-works-worth-rs-9819-cr-citing-financial-crunch/article35292506.ece
13 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP unit passes resolution in favour of ‘Kongu Nadu’||The BJP Coimbatore North District unit has triggered a controversy by adopting a resolution in favour of the formation of “Kongu Nadu” by carving out the districts of the western region of Tamil Nadu. The resolution, which was passed during the unit’s executive committee meeting on Sunday at Annur, appealed to the Central government to “reorganise” the State’s administration for the formation of Kongu Nadu, for the sake of “protecting the self-esteem and livelihoods” of the people from the western region and to ensure development. However, the BJP’s State treasurer S.R. Sekhar told The Hindu on Monday that neither the national leadership nor the State leadership of the party had taken a stand regarding the proposal for Kongu Nadu so far. The issue will be taken up for discussion by the Tamil Nadu BJP after the newly-appointed State president K. Annamalai assumes office on Friday, he said. MLA condemned Other resolutions that were passed by the BJP’s Coimbatore North District unit included the one condemning the State government for allegedly allocating fewer COVID-19 vaccine doses to Coimbatore district and another to condemn Thiruchengode MLA E.R. Eswaran for allegedly denigrating the slogan ‘ Jai Hind’ in the Assembly. For political gain: MDMK The idea of “Kongu Nadu” is aimed at political gain, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhgam Coimbatore urban district secretary R.R. Mohankumar said in a statement issued here on Monday.  The people and political parties should sink their ideological differences to defeat this idea, which was a plan by separatist forces. The move would only fan hatred among Tamils who lived in harmony. It should be defeated particularly by people living in Western districts, Mr. Mohankumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-unit-passes-resolution-in-favour-of-kongu-nadu/article35292499.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Works taken up to rejuvenate River Kowsika push up groundwater level||Coconut farmers in a few villages in Sulur Panchayat Union have the luxury of not watering their field for at least a month a year, thanks to the District Rural Development Agency’s intervention under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. “The Agency had raised the bunds of coconut farms in Kittampalayam and a few other villages using persons engaged under the MGNREGA scheme. This led to water stagnation in the coconut fields, thereby eliminating the need for farmers to water for a month,” says farmer M. Vetrivel. Raising of the farm bunds was one of the many works that the Agency had taken up for the development of River Kowsika and areas dependent on it under the scheme. The other benefit is that groundwater level has increased by at least a few feet there, he adds. The Agency took up work in 2018-19 to rejuvenate the river with a three-pronged approach – erosion control measures, groundwater recharge and rejuvenation of water bodies, says the Agency’s Project Director, Coimbatore, S. Kavitha. The Agency, based on technical input given by the Art of Living organisation, decided to construct boulder checks to control erosion, slowdown the speed of running water and increase soil moisture. Of the 526 boulder check proposed across the river’s course in five panchayat unions – Periyanaickenpalayam, Sarcarsamakulam, Annur, Sulur and Avinashi – the Agency has thus far constructed 180. And, it has dug 302 recharge wells as well for water percolation, she adds. The next step was dredging tanks in the River Kowsika system. It involves deepening a few tanks so that the water spread is not wide and thin and concentrated to prevent easy evaporation. The final step, Ms. Kavitha says, was planting saplings to develop tree groves. The Agency has completed work in a spot identified for tree grove, is working in the second place and has issued orders for nine more places. The tree groves are to prevent soil erosion, increase chances of rain and improve biodiversity. The result is that right from the River’s upstream in Periyanaickenpalayam to its confluence with River Noyyal there is an increase in ground water table by five to seven feet, says P.K. Selvaraj, president, Athikadavu Kowsika Nathi Membattu Sangam. The areas around River Kowsika will stand to gain more once the State Government completes the Athikadavu-Avinashi groundwater recharge scheme and there is good rain, he adds. And, the benefit will be pronounced because Periyanaickenpalayam, Sarcarsamakulam, Annur and Avinashi come under the over-exploited and Sulur under semi-critical categories as far as groundwater use is concerned, Ms. Kavitha adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-taken-up-to-rejuvenate-river-kowsika-push-up-groundwater-level/article35292503.ece
13 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trains partially cancelled||Salem Division of Southern Railway on Monday announced the partial cancellation of train services to Rameswaram due to maintenance works at Pamban Railway Bridge. A release said that Train No. 06618 Coimbatore – Rameswaram Weekly Special Train, scheduled to operate from July 20 to September 14, will be partially cancelled between Ramanathapuram and Rameswaram and will be operated only till Ramanathapuram. Train No. 06617 Rameswaram – Coimbatore Weekly Special Train, scheduled to operate from July 21 to September 15 will be partially cancelled between Rameswaram and Ramanathapuram. The train will start from Ramanathapuram and will be operated till Coimbatore Junction. Train No. 06734 Okha – Rameswaram Weekly Special Train, scheduled to leave Okha from July 13 to September 14, will be partially cancelled between Mandapam and Rameswaram. The train will be operated via Salem, Namakkal, Karur and Dindigul Junctions only till Mandapam, according to the release. Similarly, Train No. 06733 Rameswaram – Okha Weekly Special Train, scheduled to leave Rameswaram from July 16 to September 10, will be partially cancelled between Rameswaram and Mandapam. The train will be operated from Mandapam via Dindigul, Karur, Namakkal and Salem Junctions to Okha in Gujarat, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-partially-cancelled/article35292497.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephant dies of anthrax||Anthrax has claimed the life of a wild elephant in a reserve forest area near Anaikatti in Coimbatore district, the Forest Department said on Monday. The blood smear samples collected from the carcass had the presence of Bacillus anthracis, the bacterium that causes anthrax, senior officials said. With the test confirming the death by anthrax, the Forest and Animal Husbandry Departments will take measures to contain the spread of the infection. The carcass of the female elephant, aged 13-15, was spotted by a patrol team in a forest area of the Anaikatti central beat of the Thudiyalur section of the Coimbatore forest range. A government veterinarian lifted the blood smear samples. Blood oozed from the anus and the mouth in a possible indication of anthrax infection. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, said the carcass would be destroyed on Tuesday, by deep burial or cremation, to prevent the spread of the infection. The Department has asked frontline workers to monitor other elephants which had been roaming with the deceased elephant. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said the Coimbatore Forest Division would check with Kerala’s Forest Department whether any case of anthrax was reported in that State recently because Anaikatti is located between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Anthrax is endemic to elephant habitats. Cross-infection may happen as head of cattle and wild animals use the same grazing areas and waterbodies on forest fringes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-elephant-dies-of-anthrax/article35292479.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery hallmarking: experts working on inputs of stakeholders||A committee of experts formed by the government is working on inputs from all the stakeholders on hallmarking gold jewellery, according to M.V.S.D. Prasada Rao, Deputy Director General , Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Southern Region. In a meeting with Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association on Sunday, Mr. Rao highlighted the features of Hallmarking Unique ID (HUID) and mandatory hallmarking that came into effect recently in 256 districts that have assaying and hallmarking centres. Jewellers with annual turnover upto Rs. 40 lakh and export and re-import of jewellery as per Trade Policy of the government, jewellery for international exhibitions and government approved B2B domestic exhibitions are exempted from mandatory hallmarking. Watches, fountain pens and special types of jewellery such as Kundan, Polki and Jadau are also exempted. Jewellery manufacturers, retailers, importers, wholesalers, and distributors will have to register with the BIS. But, artisans or manufacturers who are manufacturing the gold jewellery on job work basis need not. Hallmark will be done at the first point of sale which may be manufacturer, whole-seller, distributor or retailer. Gold of additional carats i.e. 20, 23 and 24 will be allowed for hallmarking, he added. Mr. Rao clarified that old unhallmarked jewellery available in households can be sold to jewellers and they can get it hallmarked as it is or after melting and making new jewellery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-hallmarking-experts-working-on-inputs-of-stakeholders/article35292505.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Small traders can register online for welfare board||The State government has eased norms for small traders to enrol with the traders welfare board, said P. Moorthy, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration. The Minister spoke to presspersons here on Monday after discussions with officials of the two departments and the traders. He said that for three months, the small traders could enrol with the Tamil Nadu Traders Welfare Board without payment of fee and they could join online. The enrolment facility was available online in Tamil too. In the Registration Department, officers had started coming to office by 10 a.m. and the control room, which had three numbers, in Chennai received 100 to 150 complaints a day. The issues they brought to the notice of the officials were addressed in an hour. Some of the officers had been suspended or transferred based on complaints. On bringing electricity and petroleum products under GST, the Minister said the Central government and the Chief Minister would discuss the issue and arrive at a decision. The MSME sector had sought time for payment of taxes and this would be taken to the attention of the Chief Minister and the demand would be studied, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-traders-can-register-online-for-welfare-board/article35292496.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Congress takes out cycle rally against fuel price hike||Members of the Coimbatore Urban District Pradesh Congress Committee took out a bicycle rally on Monday condemning the fuel price hike. Fuel prices Committee president K. Karuppasamy said the daily increase in fuel prices and petrol shooting past the Rs. 100-mark had hit hard people from all sections of society. The fuel price increase would have cascading effect on the economy and there was every possibility that the prices of essential commodity could go beyond the reach of the common man. It was to condemn this fuel price hike that the Committee members took out the rally from the party office to Puliakulam. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee Working president Mayura S. Jayakumar led the rally, which saw the participation of around 150 members. Mr. Karuppasamy also said the protest held here was in response to a call given by the State unit of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-takes-out-cycle-rally-against-fuel-price-hike/article35292507.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DLSA to assist persons who need legal aid||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) will render legal aid to persons who cannot afford the services of a lawyer. Sources said the legal aid was offered to the poor and the marginalised as per the directions of the National Legal Services Authority. Principal District and Sessions Judge and chairman of DLSA R. Sakthivel chaired a meeting on July 5 at which various aspects of the service were discussed. Sources said a panel of lawyers was available with the DLSA for the service. An accused could seek the services of the panel through the police when taken into custody. This would ensure that the accused was not subjected to physical or mental torture by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dlsa-to-assist-persons-who-need-legal-aid/article35292493.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two injured in assault||Two persons were assaulted by a nine-member group near S.M. Palayam here on Monday. The police said M. Karthik (23) aka Seenu from Gandhi Nagar near Sivananda Colony and S. Karthik (26) from Samathuvapuram were attacked by nine men when they were travelling on a two-wheeler on S.M. Palayam to NGGO Colony road around 11 a.m. on Monday. The police said the group of men came on motorcycles and waylaid the duo. They assaulted them with knives and escaped. The injured were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Their condition was stable. The police identified four members of the group and efforts were on to trace all the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-injured-in-assault/article35292498.ece
13 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for daughter’s murder||A 47-year-old woman from a village near Karamadai bludgeoned her daughter, a widow and mother of two, to death using a grinding stone in the early hours of Monday. The Karamadai police arrested N. Nagamani, a resident of Kanuvaipalayam near Karamadai, who, according to the police, committed the murder of Mahalakshmi (31) alias Nathiya under the influence of alcohol. Mahalakshmi married Saravana Kumar of Somayanur 15 years ago. The woman, her 13-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son continued to live with Kumar’s mother Thulasimani after he was killed in an accident, said the police. Thulasimani allegedly sent Mahalakshmi to her house six months ago, accusing her of not taking care of children properly due to her habit of spending too much time on mobile phone. Thulasimani was taking care of the children. According to the police, Nagamani also used to quarrel with Mahalakshmi for spending more time on mobile phone. wNagamani also suspected that her daughter had affairs with some men. The mother-daughter duo had a quarrel over the same issue on Sunday evening. They slept early after the quarrel. Nagamani woke up around 12.30 a.m. and bludgeoned Mahalakshmi with a grinding stone when she was asleep. Karamadai inspector M. Selvaraj said Nagamani was arrested on Monday morning. She was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-murdering-daughter/article35292512.ece
13 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jain monks reach Coimbatore||A group of Jain monks from Tirunelveli reached Coimbatore through padayatra on Monday. A release said Acharya Kirtiprabhasagarsuri along with his disciples had walked barefoot from Tirunelveli and reached the Suparshwanath Jain temple on R.G. Street in Town Hall. They were received by members of the temple administration and the monks would stay for four months in the city, the release said.   Sri Ramakrishna Hospital in collaboration with Buddhi Clinic, Chennai, inaugurated Integrated Brain and Mind Care Centre on Monday. A release said the centre would provide treatment for neurodisabilities and mental illness by combining Ayurvedic system and modern rehabilitative science. The centre was inaugurated by Managing Trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust D. Lakshminarayanaswamy, and founder of Buddhi Clinic Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jain-monks-reach-coimbatore/article35292510.ece
13 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation to raise Miyawaki forest at Vairapalayam||The Corporation has proposed to raise a Miyawaki forest using native trees on the 7.4 acre Cauvery river bund at Vairapalayam where accumulated legacy waste was bio-mined last year. The then Erode Municipality had encroached the river bund to dump municipal waste for 65 years. The waste accumulated to 90,000 cubic metre and the leachate from the waste had polluted the ground and water. When River Cauvery was in spate for a week in August 2018, over one-third of the waste got washed away in the river. Under the Smart City Mission project, a private company bio-mined the accumulated waste during 2019 and 2020. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that work to raise a Miyawaki forest using native trees such as neem and pungam would commence in a week. He said that bio-mining of 4.45 lakh cubic metre waste at Vendipalayam compost yard would be completed by the end of December, after which a Miyawaki forest would be raised there. Bio-mining project is being executed by the civic body at a total cost of Rs. 37.25 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corporation-to-raise-miyawaki-forest-at-vairapalayam/article35292627.ece
13 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Uzhavar Sandhais reopened after two months||All the five Uzhavar Sandhais in the district that were closed for two months due to the COVID-19 pandemic were reopened on Monday. The farmers’ markets were functioning at Sampath Nagar and Periyar Nagar in the city and at Perundurai, Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam in the district. Due to the pandemic and lockdown, the markets were closed in May and June and functioned temporarily at alternative places and also vegetables were sold through mobile vehicles. The State government had announced relaxations of norms and allowed the vegetable markets to function from July 5. Uzhavar Sandhais were allowed to reopen with 50% shops from July 12. At Sampath Nagar market, of the total 134 registered farmers, 65 farmers were allowed to sell their produce of which only 54 farmers turned up. The farmers arrived at 4.30 a.m. while people were allowed from 5.30 a.m. after thermal scanning was done. Hand sanitizer was given to people while both farmers and people were asked to wear masks and ensure personal distance while on the premises. Since 40 farmers got vaccinated, others were also encouraged to take vaccine shots at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uzhavar-sandhais-reopened-after-two-months/article35292629.ece
13 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination resumes in Erode||Over 16,000 persons were vaccinated at 111 centres across the district on Monday. While 100 to 170 doses of Covishield were allotted to each of the 91 vaccination centres in the rural areas, 180 doses of Covishield were allotted to each of the 20 centres in the Corporation limits. As news spread that the State had received vaccines and would be distributed to districts, people waited in queues at the centres from Sunday evening to collect tokens on Monday morning and get vaccinated. Vaccination camps were last held in the district on July 3, when 15,710 people received their shots. On July 7, 1,600 doses were allotted to a few centres in the district as many waited for hours and returned. On July 8, 2,400 Covishield doses and 1,550 Covaxin doses were allotted to the centres and camps were held. So far, 4.62 lakh people have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-resumes-in-erode/article35292631.ece
13 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents erect huts on PWD land seeking house sites||Demanding free house sites, residents erected six huts on a land belonging to the Public Works Department (PWD) at Nalli Thottam on Nasiyanur Road which were later removed in the presence of police on Monday. At 3 a.m., a few persons erected the huts on the land and were demanding pattas. They said that 166 families were living by encroaching upon the water bodies in the then Veerappanchatiram panchayat, which now came under the Corporation limits, for 50 years. All of them were daily earners and due to development, farm lands were destroyed paving the way for construction of houses and textile processing units. Since the pathway, where they were residing, led to a private land, the individual had filed a case in the court and they were evicted. They said that they later lived at Periyasemoor and Vettukattuvalasu areas and the district administration allotted house sites for 61 families at Lakkapuram. “The remaining 105 families were not given sites and our petitions to the district administration did not yield any result so far,” they said and wanted plots allotted to them. On information, the police arrived at the spot and held talks with them. Later, Veerappanchatiram Village Administrative Officer Alagarsamy informed them that their request would be taken up with the Collector. Following the assurance, the residents removed the huts and left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-erect-huts-on-pwd-land-seeking-house-sites/article35292625.ece
13 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Karungalpalayam line (July 13, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Sai Guru Nagar, Cauvery Road, Vandiyuran Kovil Street, SCM Canteen, Vetri Nagar and Check post.  Ondikaranpalayam line (July 13, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.) : Thottampatti areas only.  Gangapuram line (July 14, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.) : Attayampalayam and Pappankadu areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35292617.ece
13 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man killed by wild elephant||A 56-year-old man of Iggalur village in Talavadi, who entered the reserved forest area in Talavadi forest range of Hasanur Division to graze cattle, was killed by an elephant on Monday evening. Forest officials said that around 5 p.m., M. Mahadevan took his cattle inside the forest. Farmers nearby heard the trumpeting of an elephant and rushed to the spot. They found the body 500 metres inside the forest area. On information, officials conducted an inquiry and handed over the body to relatives. Officials said that since the incident took place inside the forest area, the case was not eligible for compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-by-wild-elephant/article35292624.ece
13 July 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Act tough against land-grabbers’||Raising concerns about nefarious activities of land-grab mafia, the Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption (IAC) has urged Puducherry Chief Minister and Lt. Governor to deal with the issue in a firm manner. “Complaints about land-grab incidents have been on the rise in Karaikal, and there have been instances of land mafia using fake documents for registration of property with the tacit support of a section of corrupt officials in the government departments,” president of Karaikal unit of IAC S. Anand Kumar said in a representation to the Puducherry government. Data on land The land mafia has the support of those officials who are pliable. The mafia operates with the knowledge of the data of land and property ownership. Particularly, the locked properties of those living abroad are identified and grabbed through the method of fake registration, Mr. Anandkumar said. There are apprehensions that the issue, if left unchecked, could lead to clashes within land mafia groups and trigger law and order problems. Irrespective of whether the perpetrators of the crime are supporters of the ruling or opposition parties, the government must not hestitate to book the criminals under the Goondas Act, Mr. Anandkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-tough-against-land-grabbers/article35292590.ece
13 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want GAIL to remove pipelines laid on farmlands||Farmers under the banner of Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Paadhukaapu Sangam have petitioned the district administration demanding that GAIL remove the pipelines that were laid on farmlands in Kundumaranapalli and some villages of Kelamangalam, under the Kochi-Kootanad-Bengaluru-Mangaluru gas pipeline project. The project has been stiffly opposed by farmers across seven districts through whose farmlands the pipeline was laid. In April, GAIL was accused of putting pressure on farmers to cede parcels of land to lay the pipelines in some villages of Kelamangalam. Trenches were allegedly dug on farmlands for laying of pipelines. In the run-up to the Assembly elections, farmers organised sit-in protests outside the Collectorate. Talks were held with the Collector with the demand that GAIL shall be directed to cease works. The farmers’ organisation claimed that Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy had promised that works would not be allowed and that a written assurance, signed by the Revenue Divisional Officer, Hosur was given to the farmers. However, over the past weekend, farmers of Kundumaranapalli had jumped into the trenches after GAIL officials descended on the scene to start works to lay the pipeline. Following objections from the locals and talks with the local Tahsildar, GAIL authorities left the spot. The farmers have now demanded that the Collector intervene and have the pipelines removed from the fields and the trenches closed. Katju expresses solidarity Expressing solidarity with the farmers in a post on Facebook, former Supreme Court Judge and former Chairman of the Press Council of India Markandey Katju slammed the DMK government for allowing the pipelines to be laid. In the post, Mr. Justice Katju stated that the DMK had promised to protect the interests of farmers in its manifesto but was allowing an “atrocity”. Tamil Nadu had lost five lakh acres of agricultural lands, as per the Planning Commission report in 2011 and that the State could not afford to lose any more lands, he said. When contacted, the District Collector said the works had been stopped temporarily.  “Land value has been fixed as per the norms. We have asked GAIL authorities to hold meetings with the affected farmers. Whatever grievances are there, GAIL authorities shall technically explain to them (farmers),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-gail-to-remove-pipelines-laid-on-farmlands/article35292495.ece
13 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||CBSE schools yet to refund excess fee collected last year||As a fresh academic year has begun in the midst of the continuing pandemic, parents with children studying in CBSE schools are grappling with the task of summoning funds for tuition fees, even as the reopening of schools remain uncertain. This is when, a majority of the CBSE schools had collected the full fee for the last academic year during the pandemic, when classes were online. “Many schools are yet to refund 25% of the full fee collected last year, even as the High Court ruled that the fee shall only be 75%,” says G. Sridharan, district president, Democratic Youth Federation of India. “It appears that CBSE schools are out of the radar of the authorities or so it appears, he says. For instance, there is no clarity as to who to raise complaints with regard to the fee violation of the schools. If there is a nodal officer for RTE enforcement, there has to be a district level nodal officer for enforcement of fees norms by CBSE schools at the district level, he says. “As a parent if I’m asked to pay, I have no choice but to pay.” A majority of the big CBSE schools do not have Parent-Teacher Associations and the parents grievances do not find a forum to voice, say a cross-section of parents, The Hindu spoke to. Very few schools had stuck to reasonableness. “For instance, my son’s school adjusted the bus fee collected last year to this year’s term fee. But most CBSE schools have collected full fee including transport fee stating that they will have to pay the teachers,” says Sridharan. However, some CBSE schools in Hosur had only paid half the pay for the teachers citing online classes.   The Hindu spoke to Chief Education Officer R. Balamurali about the complaints of full fee collection by some CBSE schools and the non-refund of fees for the last academic year. Asked about the enforcement of the court order, Mr.Balamurali says the fee payment is an agreement between the parents and the school management and if parents willingly pay it may not be a problem. However, when asked to clarify about the lack of choice for parents when the schools insist on full fee, and if there is a scope for intervention, the CEO says, the parents can raise a complaint. However, the administration has not issued a district-level circular to the CBSE schools to stick to the fee collection norms. “At the State-level it has been advised that CBSE schools shall only collect 75% fee, and it is a given. When we receive a complaint, we ask the schools to sort it out with the parents,” says Mr.Balamurali. In pursuant of this, the Krishnagiri District Residents Welfare Association had petitioned the District Education Officer seeking enforcement of the court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-schools-yet-to-refund-fee-collected-last-year/article35292615.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Colleges wait for Plus Two mark statements to start admissions||Colleges in the district are receiving continuous enquiries from parents regarding admissions for this academic year as there is ambiguity regarding the results for Class 12 owing to COVID-19 pandemic. But a few private and government-aided colleges in the district have started issuing online applications. Lady Doak College Principal Christianna Singh said that the college would strictly follow guidelines issued by the State government regarding admissions for this academic year. “We will wait for the government guidelines on marks for Class 12 students and accordingly start our admission process,” she said. She said that many parents were getting anxious over the ambiguity in college admissions this year. “We hope that the government releases concrete guidelines for evaluation of Class 12 students and the admission process for colleges,” she added. M. Palani Natha Raja, Principal (in charge) of Thiagarajar College of Engineering, said that the college would start the admission process based on the Class 12 marks of the students. “We are waiting for the mark format which is to be released by the CBSE and other boards of education, following which we will start issuing online applications due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. American College Principal M. Davamani Christober said that they had started issuing online applications from June. Around 25,000 applications have been received by the college till date. “This is just an initial online registration for the students. After the mark statement is issued for Class 12, we will start the admission process,” he said. Mr. Christober said that most parents make a rough calculation of the final marks based on the marks obtained by the students in Classes 10, 11 and 12. Similarly, EMG Yadava Women’s College has also started issuing online applications, said a college staff. However, admissions will start only after mark statemkents are issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-wait-for-plus-two-mark-statements-to-start-admissions/article35292611.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Transgender clinic in GRH offers various services||Transgender Multi-speciality clinic is functioning at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Thursdays between 10 a.m. and 12 noon. This is the second such facility in the State, established under National Health Mission. A press release from Dean A. Rathinavel said that the clinic offered services such as psychological counselling, hormonal therapy, sex reassignment surgery, breast transplantation, mastectomy and hysterectomy. As per government guidelines, transgender individuals will have to live with gender role that they want to become for a period of one year with stable mental status, before undergoing sex reassignment surgery. The Transgender Clinic Medical board also issues medical certificate to get identity card and various benefits from the Social Welfare Department. Till date, around 150 transgender individuals, 145 transwoman and five transmen have used the services of the transgender clinic. The medical team of the clinic includes Medical Superintendent Vijayaraghavan, Head of Endocrinology department Sridhar, HOD of Psychiatry Kumanan, HOD of Plastic Surgery Suresh Kumar, HOD of Gynaecology Sumathy, and Resident Medical Officers Srilatha and Raveendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgender-clinic-in-grh-offers-various-services/article35292614.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers against ‘mass cleaning’||Conservancy workers of Madurai Corporation affiliated to Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU) staged a demonstration inside Arignar Anna Maligai premises here on Monday, urging the Corporation Commissioner to revoke the ‘mass cleaning’ schedule. CITU district secretary M. Balasubramaniam said that there was already a severe shortage of conservancy workers with the Corporation. Hence, each conservancy worker was taking up the tasks that were to be performed by two workers. In this scenario, Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan has instructed the conservancy workers to undertake ‘mass cleaning’ across the city till August 5. Hence, conservancy workers were deputed from nearby wards and far away locations to perform ‘mass cleaning.’ But no vehicles had been provided to help the conservancy workers reach the ‘mass cleaning’ spots. Similarly, the workers were struggling to carry other equipment to these wards. Hence, the Commissioner must immediately address these issues, said Mr. Balasubramaniam. The protesters also urged for swiftly filling the ‘permanent vacancy’ posts of conservancy workers in the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-against-mass-cleaning/article35292801.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to renovate TAHDCO houses built in Melur||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Madurai district administration to file a report after inspecting the houses in Government Adi Dravidar Welfare Colony in Melur. A public interest litigation petition filed before the court complained of dilapidated condition of these houses. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the authorities to file the report on the petition filed by A. Alagu of Melur. The case was adjourned for filing the report. The petitioner complained that the houses built by the Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation (TAHDCO) in Kanmoipatti were more than 30 years old. They were damaged and not fit for living. The ceilings were completely damaged. Last year, due to heavy rains, houses were inundated. The houses could collapse any time and posed a threat to the inhabitants. Despite sending repeated representations to the authorities concerned, requesting them to reconstruct or renovate the houses, the authorities have not looked into the requests. They have to take necessary steps to renovate or reconstruct the houses in order to protect the lives of 25 families living there, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-renovate-tahdco-houses-built-in-melur/article35292612.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses plea to reconvey land||Taking note of the fact that the State government had already initiated steps to utilise a portion of land in Tiruchi for the purpose of issuing house site pattas to people belonging to backward and most backward classes, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed a petition that sought reconveyance of the land. The court was hearing a petition filed by R. Rajathi of Tiruchi in 2014. The father-in-law of the petitioner was the owner of a 7.68-acre property in Nagamangalam village. This, along with other properties, were acquired to construct a law college. Compensation was paid to the land owner. Subsequently, the government decided to withdraw from the process of acquiring the lands, except that of the land belonging to the petitioner’s father-in-law. A reconveyance of the land was sought. Now, the government has initiated plans to use the land to issue house site patta. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that the land was vested with the government and the father-in-law of the petitioner had already received the compensation money. The court said that the landowner becomes persona non grata after the land vests with the government and the land once vested in the State cannot be divested. The judge observed that the State even has a right to change the user. Section 48 B of Land Acquisition Act does not confer any right to the parties to claim reconveyance. This provision merely empowers the government to reconvey, provided the conditions specified in the said section are fulfilled. The State government has initiated steps to use the particular land for the purpose of issuing house site patta to people belonging to backward and most backward classes. Once such a stand was taken by the government, the request made by the petitioner pales into insignificance and Section 48 B of the Act becomes inoperational, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-plea-to-reconvey-land/article35292589.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rail link to remain suspended||Rail link to Rameswaram i will remain suspended for two months till mid-September following engineering works on Pamban sea bridge. They are Train Nos. 02205/02206 and 06851/06852 Chennai-Rameswaram-Chennai; Train No. 06849/06850 Tiruchi- Rameswaram-Tiruchi. Train No.06618/06617 Coimbatore-Rameswaram-Coimbatore (weekly); Train No. 06780/06779 Rameswaram-Tirupati-Rameswaram (tri-weekly); Train No. Manduadih-Rameswaram-Manduadih (weekly), Train No. 06733/06734 Rameswaram-Okha-Rameswaram (weekly) and Train No. Bhubaneswar-Rameswaram-Bhubaneswar (weekly) trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-link-to-remain-suspended/article35292798.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs Municipality to maintain crematoria||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed Rajapalayam Municipality authorities to take the necessary steps to clean and maintain the crematoria in Rajapalayam, Virudhunagar district and file a report. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the authorities to file a status report on the public interest litigation petition filed by N.S. Ramaraj of Rajapalayam. The petitioner complained that the crematoria were not maintained properly. He said that there was a lack of basic facilities at burial grounds and crematoria. There was no water supply, no electricity supply and the grounds were full of thorny bushes. There was a lack of any kind of maintenance, he said. The court directed the authorities to remove the thorny bushes and take necessary steps to maintain the burial grounds and crematoria. The court asked the authorities to file a report on the facilities proposed to be undertaken to maintain the crematoria in Rajapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-rajapalayam-municipality-to-maintain-crematoria/article35292599.ece
13 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 126.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,333 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.03 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,138 cusecs and a discharge of 469 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,023 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Sathaiyar dam 10, Periyar dam 4.8, Thekkadi 2.8, Gudalur 1.5 and Shanmuganathi dam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35292606.ece
13 July 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Sri Neelakanda Swami Temple to get a Rs. 1.85-cr. renovation||Renovation of the 1,700-year-old Sri Neelakanda Swami Temple in Padmanabhapuram near here will be taken-up shortly as the Tamil Nadu Government is keen on conducting the ‘kumbabhishekam’ of the temple in near future, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment P. K. Sekar Babu has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday after inspecting a few temples in the district, Mr. Sekar Babu said he was visiting all the districts to identify the temples for which ‘kubhabishekam’ was not conducted even after a century. The 1,700-year-old Sri Neelakanda Swami Temple in Padmanabhapuram, one of the 12 prime ‘Sivalayams’ of Kanniyakumari district, would be renovated on an outlay of Rs. 1.85 crore. The 5-level tower, tank mandapam, compound walls, flag-mast etc. would get renovated under this programme before the ‘kumbhabishekam’. Prior to the commencement of this exercise, the roads leading to this temple would be relaid and the temple’s tank desilted. The Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment would soon appoint more priests and workers in the new-look temple, he informed. The Minister said the renovation of Sri Athikesava Perumal Temple in Thiruvattar, which was getting dragged since 2010, would be completed on an outlay of Rs. 6.88 crore so as to conduct the ‘kumbabhishekam’ of the shrine before the end of this year. Mr. Sekar Babu informed that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin would shortly make an announcement about one-time, three-time and six-time puja in the HR and CE temples even in the temples that did not have significant revenue. After inspecting the roof of Mandaikaadu Sri Bhagavathi Amman Temple, which got damaged in the recent fire accident, Mr. Sekar Babu asked the HR and CE officials to expedite the repairing work. Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj, HR and CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran and District Collector M. Aravind accompanied Mr. Sekar Babu during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-neelakanda-swami-temple-to-get-a-rs-185-cr-renovation/article35292601.ece
13 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man held for quackery||The police on Monday arrested a man who runs a pharmacy for dispensing allopathic medicines to people, without formal medical knowledge. Based on a tip-off, health officials and police conducted checks at the premises of the pharmacy in Tiruchengode and found Mohanraj giving medicines to people. Tiruchengode town police registered a case and arrested the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-quackery/article35292620.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Meet to discuss plans for U.T.’s new Assembly complex held||A consultative meeting was held to discuss the construction of a multi-storey Puducherry Assembly complex-cum-administrative building on Monday. The meeting, chaired by Speaker R. Selvam, was attended by Public Works Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, senior officials and an architect, who was involved in the construction of new Legislative Assembly complex of Telangana. Perpared years ago Mr. Selvam told The Hindu that the existing design was prepared years ago. “The Chief Minister has suggested certain changes in the earlier plan so a new design has to be worked out. We held a preliminary meeting on Monday,” he said. According to an official, an expression of interest has to be floated, inviting firms to participate in the selection of the designer. It would be done at the earliest. Means to optimise the space for the construction of the Assembly were also discussed. Once the new complex comes up, the secretariat and various departments which at the present are located in different places would function from the new House complex. The plan is to lay the foundation after the Independence Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-to-discuss-plans-for-new-assembly-complex-in-ut-held/article35292875.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Education group announces scholarships for schoolchildren||The Achariya Group of Educational Institutions has instituted scholarships for sustaining the education of those students who have lost their parents due to the pandemic. J. Arawindan, managing director, Achariya Group, said scholarships had also been introduced for students whose parents have lost their job due to the lockdown, and also for those hailing from poor economic backgrounds, in order to help continue their education without breaks. The scholarships for schoolchildren form part of measures to lend a helping hand to students’ education during the catastrophic COVID-19 pandemic, so that their academic pursuit continues uninterrupted. As part of relief measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, the institution has also been offering its students the option to pay their tuition fees in affordable monthly instalments, Mr. Arawindan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-group-announces-scholarships-for-schoolchildren/article35292882.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Infection rate falls below 2% in Puducherry||The Union Territory reported two COVID-19 deaths and 81 new cases as the infection rate fell below the 2% mark on Monday. Puducherry and Karaikal recorded one death each to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,771. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,411), Karaikal (223), Yanam (104) and Mahe (33). Puducherry accounted for 63 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 4,214 tests, followed by Karaikal (6), Yanam (1) and Mahe (11). The test positivity rate was 1.92%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.33%. With 171 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 1,413. Of this, 246 patients were in hospitals and 1,167 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,19,057 cases against 1,15,873 patients recovered. Of an estimated 13.90 lakh tests administered so far, over 11.88 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the total number of persons vaccinated in the Union Territory aggregated to 5,92,907. So far, 37,530 healthcare workers, 22,942 frontline staff and 4,23,271 members of the public have been vaccinated across the Union Territory. Cases in Cuddalore Cuddalore district on Monday reported 81 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s tally to 59,020. The district saw 57,288 recoveries, and 839 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 52 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 43,171. Kallakurichi district reported 66 positive cases, taking the tally to 28,104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infection-rate-falls-below-2-in-puducherry/article35292616.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||About 36,000 take the jab as vaccination drive concludes||About 36,000 persons took the COVID-19 jab during the three-day mass vaccination campaign organised by the Health Department that concluded on Monday. The three-day drive, which began on Saturday, was organised as part of the Health Department's push for 100% coverage for the population of the Union Territory. The effort is to attain the goal of full coverage by August 15. Health Secretary T. Arun said getting most of the population above 18 years inoculated was the best shot to prevent the worst consequences of an anticipated third wave. The three-day intensive drive targeted vaccinating at least 10,000 on each day across 100 session sites in the Union Territory. People could walk-in with a designated identity card to get a COVID shot in these locations. An estimated 19,800 persons were vaccinated in the first two days of the drive. While 12,016 beneficiaries took the jab on day one and 7,865 on the following day, were administered vaccines on the concluding day of the campaign. The key points to promote vaccination has been its availability for free and accessibility. Messages on inoculation as the best option to prevent infection, or offset serious complications have also been given out. The Health Department has been emphasising the findings of a survey among COVID-19 patients where an estimated 97% of those who required ICU/ventilator/oxygen support had not taken a single dose of vaccine. To address the public’s misgivings, all departments have teamed up to set up volunteers to go door-to-door and encourage vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/about-36000-take-the-jab-as-vaccination-drive-concludes/article35292886.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister wants single grade separator near Rajiv and Indira Gandhi Squares||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has requested the Union Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) to consider the construction of a single grade separator instead of two separate ones at Rajiv Gandhi and Indira Gandhi Squares. He made the request to Additional Director General of MoRTH Balakrishnan during the latter’s recent tour of Puducherry to review approved and upcoming projects. Subsequently, the Chief Minister wrote a letter to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, requesting him to consider the grade separators as a single project, an official said. The earlier plan, according to the official, was to have the grade separator starting at Latha Steels and end at after Rajiv Gandhi Square. The other would start near N.T. Mahal and cover Indira Gandhi Square. As per the fresh plan, the grade separator would start at Latha Steel and end at Indira Gandhi Square in one full stretch, the official said. Mr. Balakrishnan agreed to consider the new proposal actively, he said, adding that the MoRTH also agreed to provide funds to the tune of Rs. 17 crore for the annual repair of roads. The Additional Director General also reviewed projects for the construction of bridges at Ariyapalayam, Malattar and 18-km of road improvement works from Indira Gandhi Square to near Madhagadipet. The Ministry had already sanctioned Rs. 72 crore, Public Works Department Chief Engineer V. Sathyamoorthi told The Hindu . The department had already started the tender process, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-wants-single-grade-separator-near-rajiv-and-indira-gandhi-squares/article35292880.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry varsity’s MBBS results are out||Following the intervention of the office of Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Pondicherry University released the results of the final year and first year MBBS examinations on Monday. On Saturday, representatives of the final year MBBS students of the university’s affiliated medical colleges met the Lt. Governor, and aired their grievances. The students stated that the results of the final year MBBS exams taken in March-April 2021 were yet to be announced. The university had earlier clarified that the delay was due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-varsitys-mbbs-results-are-out/article35292881.ece
13 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 2 lakh vaccinated in Pudukottai district’||Minister for Law S. Reghupathy on Monday said the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine had been administered to 2,62,230 people in the district till now. A total of 37,911 people had been administered the second dose. Inaugurating a COVID-19 vaccination camp at Nachandhupatti village in Tirumayam taluk, Mr. Reghupathy called upon those who had taken the first dose of the vaccine to take the second dose without fail. Local body representatives should create awareness among people of the importance of vaccination. The general public should take precautionary measures such as wearing masks, maintaining personal distancing and resorting to hand washing so as to guard themselves from the viral infection. The intense measures taken by the State government had resulted in the decline of COVID-19 cases in the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2-lakh-vaccinated-in-pudukottai-district/article35292577.ece
13 July 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Shift TASMAC outlet, urge villagers||Villagers from Damodaranpattinam in Tiruvadanai Taluk in the district submitted a memorandum to the District Collector seeking shifting of a TASMAC outlet in their locality on Monday. The villagers were accompanied by CITU office-bearers led by M. Ayyappan. Speaking to reporters, Mr Ayyappan said that about 1,200 people lived in the village. The TASMAC outlet which was functioning there had become a big nuisance to the people, especially the womenfolk, who used the village Oorani (tank) for bathing and washing clothes. With the TASMAC shop open even beyond the stipulated time, the villagers found it tough to use the oorani. On many occasions, the youth had to accompany the womenfolk and during such time wordy altercations with the drunken crowd was a common occurrence. Though the villagers had submitted petitions to the RDO and DSP at Tiruvadanai in the past, nothing tangible had been done in their favour. Hence, they approached the Collector. Hundreds of people, who had come to the Collector’s office on Monday to submit petitions were a disappointed lot. According to M. Karunamoorthy of the CPI, when people thronged the Collectorate with a sign of hope to get a solution for their long standing problems, there was nobody to receive the petitions. Just two staff collected the petitions and sent the public away, he alleged. Another group of people, after handing over the petition to the staff, said that when the Collector was unavailable, a senior official should be present to meet the public at the weekly grievance day meeting. However, an officer in the Collector’s office said that due to the pandemic, there were certain restrictions in allowing the public. For all official purposes, only a third of the staff were present at the office, while others were given COVID-19 duty, he clarified. Another officer said that the public can use the online option to submit their memorandum, which was being attended to by the officials concerned. In the above case, the officer said that very soon, the TASMAC outlet would be relocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shift-tasmac-outlet-urge-villagers/article35292604.ece
13 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 COVID-19 positive mothers treated last year at Salem GH||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has treated over 1,000 COVID-19 positive mothers during the last one year. The hospital’s Obstetrics and Gynaecology department handles over 1,000 patients a month and besides Salem, patients from Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Kalakuruchi, Namakkal visit the hospital. Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy said that from April 2020 to March this year, the department had handled an average of 1,300 out-patients a month and had successfully treated and discharged 1,338 COVID-19 positive mothers. It had also handled deliveries of 467 COVID-19 positive mothers during the same period. S.S. Subha, Head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology department, said that a separate team and operation theatre was set up at the hospital for treating COVID-19 positive mothers. She added that about 110 beds were allotted for them. Dr.Subha said that since January this year, 206 deliveries of COVID-19 positive mothers were handled by the department with maximum number of deliveries happening during the month of May. A total of 2,816 deliveries were handled between April and June this year. Dr.Valli said that the hospital had also started vaccinating antenatal and postnatal mothers. The vaccination for antenatal mothers was started on July 7 and a total of 30 persons had received the vaccination. About 51 postnatal mothers have also been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1000-covid-19-positive-mothers-treated-last-year-at-salem-gh/article35292623.ece
13 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Smart City works inspected||Salem MP S.R. Parthibhan, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj and senior officials inspected the works under the Smart Cities Mission here on Monday. Officials said 43 works were on under the Mission. The MP and others reviewed the works at Kumaragiri Lake and Pallapatti Lake and the Smart Road works on Thammanan Street. They also visited the temporary VOC Market. Mr. Parthibhan asked the officials to expedite the works and complete them within the time schedule. Later, Mr. Chirsturaj visited the vaccination centre on Kannagi Street to assess the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-works-inspected/article35292621.ece
13 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadres protest against fuel price hike||Congress cadre protested here on Monday against the hike in fuel prices, saying it severely affected the people. Taking out a cycle rally from various parts of the district to Mahatma Gandhi statue near the Old Bus Stand, they condemned the government from not controlling the prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-cadres-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article35292618.ece
13 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Sanction compensation for loss of crop last year, says farmers’ body||The Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam on Monday staged a demonstration in front of the Collector’s Office here demanding sanction of compensation under the crop insurance scheme for damage suffered by farmers last year. The demonstrators, led by its State vice-president R. Sukumar, who presented a representation to the district authorities, said the premium to the tune of Rs. 19 crore was paid towards crop insurance during 2020-21. Although several farmers suffered big losses due to heavy rain in the delta, compensation had not been sanctioned so far and demanded immediate sanction of relief to the affected lot. The farmers also raised slogans against the proposed move to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu by Karnataka. If the dam was constructed, the delta region would be rendered a desert, they contended and urged the Centre and Cauvery Water Management Authority to prevent it. A group of members of Thiru Arooran Sugars Sugarcane Producers Association staged a demonstration demanding action against officials of sugar mills for allegedly obtaining banks loans in the name of sugarcane farmers. The affected farmers were being issued notices by the bank as the loans had not been repaid, the demonstrators said. They demanded that the government take over the assets of the mills and ensure disbursement of dues to farmers who had supplied sugarcane to them and settle the dues to the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanction-compensation-for-loss-of-crop-last-year-says-farmers-body/article35292593.ece
13 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Land acquisition for ISRO’s rocket launch facility reaches final stage’||Work on the Indian Space Research Organisation’s rocket launch facility at Kulasekarapattinam in the district will commence once the acquisition of land is completed, MP Kanimozhi has said. During an informal chat with reporters here on Monday after she laid foundation stone for new classrooms in a private school here, Ms. Kanimozhi said work on acquiring land for ISRO’s space vehicle launch facility was going on as the DMK was keen on establishing a rocket launch pad at Kulasekarapattinam. As this exercise had reached the advanced stage, the next level work on establishing the rocket launch facility would commence once the land was handed over to ISRO. “I will meet the officials concerned during my visit to New Delhi to press the demand for the early commencement of work on this facility,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. District Collector K. Senthil Raj was present. The Collector also inaugurated a mobile unit for giving treatment to the differently-abled children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isro-land-acquisition-at-final-stage/article35292588.ece
13 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Establish polytechnic and higher secondary school’||Cadres of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi submitted a petition at the Collectorate on Monday seeking the establishment of a polytechnic college and a government higher secondary school on behalf of Tiruchendur Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple. After staging a demonstration in front of the Collectorate for a while, the VCK cadres submitted the petition. They said the Tiruchendur Lord Subramaniya Swamy Temple, being administered by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment, had adequate land in Keezha Naalumoolaikinaru village. Hence, this land should be used for establishing a polytechnic and a government higher secondary school, which would be of great help to the poor students of the region. A group of anti-Sterlite protestors including M. Krishnamurthy, Prabhu and others submitted petition to Collector K. Senthil Raj against the operation of the oxygen plant of Sterlite Copper beyond July 31. Since the number of fresh COVID-19 cases and the need for oxygen had come down drastically, the district administration should not allow the oxygen plant to function after July 31, as permitted by the State Government. Moreover, special ;egislation should be enacted to ensure the permanent closure of the copper smelter and due legal action should be taken against those who were behind firing on anti-Sterlite protestors. A group of 7 persons who were reportedly injured in the police firing in the anti-Sterlite protest on May 22, 2018, but did not get any employment in the government department, also submitted petition to the Collector seeking employment as per their educational qualification. A group of farmers, led by O.A. Narayanasamy, president of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam, submitted petition seeking immediate return of their gold ornaments pledged in the cooperative societies as their crop loan had been waived. They said the crop loan availed by the farmers after pledging gold ornaments was waived by the previous State Government. Though the farmers were given the loan waiver certificate, the gold ornaments pledged for getting the farm loan were yet to be returned to the borrowers. “Since the farmers are in need of the gold ornaments to be pledged in the cooperative society to start their farming operations, the Collector should take immediate steps for returning the pledged valuables to the borrowers at the earliest,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. Collection of toll A petition was submitted against the collection of toll on Thoothukudi – Tirunelveli 4-lane national highway “as it is not properly maintained”. “Since this busy road is full of potholes, which are causing accidents everyday due to poor maintenance, the Collector should order the closure of the toll gate near Vaagaikulam,” said S. Jegajeevan, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/establish-polytechnic-and-higher-secondary-school/article35292602.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco’s power play has MSME sector reeling||MSME sector in the region has been hit hard by Tangedco's levy of 90% of the sanctioned demand or recorded demand, whichever is higher, for the lockdown relaxation period. “There is no rationale in this method of calculating power charges at the time when industries in MSME sector are fast turning sick due to mounting loans,” said Rajappa Rajkumar, president, Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association. “There has been no intervention by the State government on the issue. Industries in MSME sector, at this critical juncture, must be charged only for actual power consumption, The government has to honour its commitment to levy charges based on actual consumption to prevent MSMEs from shutting down operations,” he contended. It is distressing to see banks issuing takeover notices of Non Performing Assets (NPAs) of industries that has turned sick and many units struggling to survive, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar rued. Last year, Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) had issued an order directing Tangedco to collect 20% of the contracted demand or recorded demand, whichever was higher, as minimum demand charges from high tension consumers. In view of the epidemic, the industries were prevented from using electricity up to the sanctioned demand, he said. Tangedco, it is learnt, has plans to issue revised bills by applying Regulation 6(b) of the Supply Code. But, it is only for the duration of total lockdown. “Industries that resumed operations at the time of lockdown relaxation have no choice but to pay charges to the tune of 90% of the sanctioned demand or recorded demand,” said R. Ilango, president, Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association. Last month, the State government had announced formation of an expert committee to formulate schemes for revival of MSMEs. The announcement made by Governor Banwarilal Purohit in his customary address to the State Assembly specifies that the expert committee will consist of industrialists, banking and financial experts, and government officials. Representatives of MSME sector in the region say they are still in the dark about the promised committee. “For any progress in this direction, representation to industrialists in the MSME sector in the expert committee is an absolute necessity, Problems to this sector have to be resolved decisively,” Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedcos-power-play-has-msme-sector-reeling/article35292579.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi child protection unit begins rehabilitation efforts||The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in Tiruchi has begun efforts to rehabilitate 102 children who lost either parent, and two minors orphaned due to COVID-19. District Child Protection Officer R. Anitha told The Hindu the children would get the relief announced by the Chief Minister — a deposit of Rs. 5 lakh for children who lost both parents and Rs. 3 lakh for those who lost one of their parents. Dispelling confusion about the relief, Ms. Anitha said they had received several queries about the same. “Families want to know if there is more than one child, would they each get Rs. 3 lakh or would it be divided among them. We want them to know that each child would be given Rs. 3 lakh individually,” she said. Once the DCPU receives an alert about children orphaned due to COVID-19 or who has lost one parent, they determine the kind of help they need. They would get either institutional care or non-institutional care. “Three homes under the control of the DCPU have been identified and is ready to serve. However, the good news is that we have had no such cases so far. The relatives of the children have decided to care for the children, and we will monitor them till they turn 18,” she said. For non-institutional care, the DCPU takes the help of NGOs to help them with financial assistance and any other help they might need. “We also help them out with supply of groceries,” Ms. Anitha said. The unit has also accessed a list of COVID-19 deaths from the office of the Deputy Director of Health Services, through which they are reaching out to more children. The DCPU can be reached through ‘1098’ helpline. “Children who are orphaned due to COVID-19 will also get Rs. 3,000 monthly for their daily expenses until they turn 18 years,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-child-protection-unit-begins-rehabilitation-efforts/article35292594.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Yatri Nivas to reopen on July 24||The Yatri Nivas in Srirangam, which had been used as a COVID Care Centre for the last three months, will be reopened for providing accommodation to devotees visiting Ranganathasamy Temple from July 24. S. Marimuthu, Joint Commissioner of the Temple, toldThe Hinduthat it was handed over to the district administration to accommodate mild and asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. Before handing over the facility, the temple administration had safeguarded the beds, linens and other items in a separate place. Patients were accommodated in dormitories with new beds and linen provided by the district administration. Since the cases had come down drastically, the district administration closed the COVID Care Centre. The district administration cleared all items from the campus on July 10. The Joint Commissioner said a special cleaning and fumigation drive had been undertaken on the campus. The cots would be refitted with beds and linens of the temple. As a precautionary measure no one would be given accommodation up to July 23. The devotees would be allotted rooms from July 24. Devotees could make online bookings at Yatri Nivas. Initially, bookings would be accepted up to August 30, Mr. Marimuthu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yatri-nivas-to-reopen-on-july-24/article35292569.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minors rescued from child labour in Thanjavur||Two minors — boy and girl — who were engaged as child labourers in herding ducks at Paachur village near Orathanadu in Thanjavur district were rescued by revenue officials on Saturday based on information to the Thanjavur Collector. The rescued boy was aged nine years and the girl was six years old, an official release said. The children were subsequently accommodated in Government Children's Home after being produced before the Child Welfare Committee. Official sources said the Orathanadu Tahsildar rescued the children who were said to be close relatives hailing from Krishnagiri district where their parents resided. The minors were engaged as child labourers by a person by Gangadurai and deployed to herd ducks near Orathanadu. T he children were said to have been looked after by Gangadurai, who also hailed from Krishnagiri district, and his wife. The sources said Gangadurai was absconding. The Labour Department was investigating the case and was trying to establish contact with the parents of the rescued children. It was trying to trace the whereabouts of Gangadurai. Meanwhile, Thanjavur Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver met the rescued children on Monday and handed over sweets and clothes to them. He asked officials not to keep the children in separate homes and shift them to a home where boys and girls were allowed to be accommodated. He also asked the officials to pay special attention to the rescued minors. The Collector inspected Annai Sathya Government Children's Home in Thanjavur and interacted with all children who were continuing their education and heard their grievances. He also inspected the facilities at the home and the food provided to the children, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minors-rescued-from-child-labour-in-thanjavur/article35292592.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 494 fresh COVID cases||The central region reported 494 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. The region reported a sudden increase in the number of deaths, as 15 people succumbed to the illness, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Health Department. In Thanjavur, four patients succumbed to COVID-19, while three died in Pudukottai. Two deaths each were reported in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai reported one death each, while no fatalities were reported in Karur and Perambalur. Thanjavur continued to report the highest number of cases even as it reported a slight dip compared to the previous day. A total of 191 patients reported positive, while Tiruchi reported a further dip with 103. The seven other districts in the region reported less than 45 fresh COVID-19 cases. In Nagapattinam, 44 patients tested positive, while Pudukottai reported 37 and Tiruvarur 36. In Ariyalur, 26 fresh cases were reported and in Mayiladuthurai 24. Karur reported 21 cases. Perambalur district reported the lowest number of fresh cases among the central districts with 12 patients testing COVID-19 positive on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-494-fresh-covid-cases/article35292572.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Now, paddy loading at Ariyalur shed||The railway goods shed at Ariyalur saw paddy loading for the first time on Monday. About 1,100 tonnes of paddy was loaded by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation in 21 freight wagons for transportation to Hosur for hulling, said a senior railway official here. The goods shed in Tiruchi division has been witnessing cement loading in large quantities over the years due to the presence of major cement units in the district. However, this is for the first time that paddy has been loaded from the goods shed for transportation by rail, said the official. Usually, paddy and rice are loaded from various goods sheds in the fertile delta region, which falls under the Tiruchi division, and transported by rail to destinations within the State. Paddy is loaded at Mannargudi, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Kumbakonam, Peralam, Mayiladuthurai and Cuddalore. It is sent for hulling at Polur, Royapuram in Chennai, Chettinad near Karaikudi, Namakkal, Hosur and Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-paddy-loading-at-ariyalur-shed/article35292576.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DPC staff instructed to procure paddy swiftly||With paddy arrivals at direct purchase centres (DPCs) in Uppilliyapuram taluk picking up over the past few days, the district administration has instructed Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation staff to ensure that the produce brought in by farmers is procured swiftly. Collector S. Sivarasu, who inspected some of the DPCs in the taluk last week, has instructed TNCSC to hire additional staff, if necessary, for procurement. “No farmer should be affected and paddy from farmers who have been issued tokens should be procured swiftly,” he said. In a statement issue later, Mr. Sivarasu said 16 DPCs were established in Tiruchi district for procuring the harvest from the summer paddy crop. On an average, about 1,000 bags were being procured at the DPCs, the Collector said. However, additional units had been established at B.Mettur, Erakudi and Vairichettipalayam in Uppilliyappuram Taluk and Navalurkuttapattu in Manikandam taluk to procure about 2,000 bags a day, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpc-staff-instructed-to-procure-paddy-swiftly/article35292583.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Collector: vector control measures stepped up||With Kerala reporting 18 cases of Zika virus, the district administration has stepped up vector control measures across Tiruchi Corporation, Town Panchayat and village panchayats. About 670 temporary workers are being deployed for Zika/dengue prevention measures, which primarily focuses on mosquito control. They will work in coordination with the Health Department and the local bodies, Collector S. Sivarasu said on Monday. He instructed officials to monitor closely all persons arriving in the district from Kerala. They should be kept under surveillance for two weeks and those reporting any symptom should be immediately referred to the nearest government hospital for testing and treatment, he said. Chairing a meeting on revenue measures taken to prevent dengue/Zika and other monsoon diseases here, Mr. Sivarasu said so far no case of Zika had been reported in Tiruchi district. Surveillance had been mounted to screen cases of the virus infection. However, people should immediately report to hospitals if they show any symptom and desist from self-medication or approaching quacks. Zika virus was primarily transmitted through aedes aegypti mosquito. Infected persons usually reported symptoms such as acute fever, rashes, joint/muscle pain, conjunctivitis and headache after a week. Zika infection in pregnant women could cause microcephaly to the baby, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-vector-control-measures-stepped-up/article35292584.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 600 police personnel vaccinated||A day-long COVID-19 vaccination camp was organised for police personnel attached to city police, ministerial staff and their families here on Monday. Over 600 police personnel were vaccinated during the course of the camp that was inaugurated by Commissioner of Police A. Arun at the Community Hall in K.K. Nagar Armed Reserve ground. The camp was organised adhering to the State government's stipulated guidelines, a police press release said. The initiative on Monday came as Tiruchi reported 103 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-600-police-personnel-vaccinated/article35292933.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mukkombu barrage to be completed by December||The new regulator being built across the Kollidam at Mukkombu will be completed by December, according to S. Ramamoorthy, Chief Engineer, Public Works Department, Water Resources Organisation, Tiruchi Region. The barrage is being constructed, at an estimated cost of Rs. 387.50 crore, 75 meters away from the old barrage, of which portion collapsed in August 2018. The work, being executed by L&T for the PWD, began in March 2019. The barrage was to have been completed by March 2021. But the two lockdowns during the summer of 2020 and 2021 have delayed the work. But the company has expedited the work by deploying 220 migrant workers. Mr. Ramamoorthy told The Hindu that while the construction of the southern arm of the barrage would be ready by August, the northern arm would take a few more weeks. The laying of approach roads and a concrete road on the bridge and the construction of retaining walls would be completed by this year-end. “The progress of the work is being monitored daily,” he said. He said more than 90% of the work had been completed. The southern arm would have 45 shutters and the northern arm 10 shutters. All shutters of the southern arm had been erected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mukkombu-barrage-to-be-completed-by-december/article35292595.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Planetary conjunction of Mars, Venus today||Stargazers are in for a treat as a celestial alignment — where two planets appear to be close to each other — that will be visible to the naked eye on Tuesday. On observation from the Earth, Venus would seem to approach Mars and overtake it. According to a release from Anna Science Centre-Planetarium, the planets would appear at an angular separation of about half a degree. However, Mars will be at a distance of 37.19 crore km from the Earth and Venus at 21.38 crore km on Tuesday. A similar event occurred on August 24, 2019, but the alignment was only three degrees from the sun and, hence, was not visible. The next such conjunction would appear on February 22, 2024. The tight pairing of Mars and Venus can be spotted in the western sky after sunset. Planet Venus will be bright and the faint Mars can be spotted close to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/planetary-conjunction-of-mars-venus-today/article35292570.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadre held for bid to hold rally||Thirty-four Congress members were arrested after they attempted to take out a cycle rally condemning the Central government for the sharp rise in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas cylinders. The functionaries assembled near Arunachala Mandram — the party office near the Main Guard Gate — from where they planned to take out a cycle rally led by party urban district president Jawahar. However, police prevented the party cadre from taking out the rally and arrested them. They were later released, according to police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-cadre-held-for-bid-to-hold-rally/article35292573.ece
13 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo resumes service in Tiruchi-Hyderabad sector||IndiGo resumed flight service on the Tiruchi-Hyderabad- Tiruchi sector on Monday after it was suspended during the lockdown period. The airline will operate an ATR aircraft on the sector daily in the evening. An airline official said the service would be in operation till July 31. The flight from Hyderabad with 77 passengers arrived here at around 6.05 p.m. and returned to Hyderabad with 48 passengers on board after a 30-minute halt. This is the third domestic destination operated by the airline from Tiruchi. IndiGo operates daily services in Tiruchi-Bengaluru and Tiruchi-Chennai sectors. It operates an overseas flight to Dubai on Thursdays and Saturdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indigo-resumes-service-in-tiruchi-hyderabad-sector/article35292574.ece
13 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Fuel price hike: Congress cadres ‘submit’ petition to Gandhi’s statue||Seeking the intervention of Mahatma Gandhi for reducing the fuel price, the Congress cadres ‘submitted’ a petition to the statue of the Father of the Nation at Thatchanallur here on Monday. Led by Tirunelveli city district president of Congress, Sankarapandian, the party cadres submitted the petition to the Mahatma Gandhi Statue at Thatchanallur. In the petition, the protestors said the Narendra Modi-led BJP Government at the Centre, which was pursuing anti-poor and pro-rich policies over the past eight years, had taken no step for the uplift of the downtrodden even during the pandemic. Even though leaders of various political parties including Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were appealing to the Centre to take sincere steps for reducing the skyrocketing fuel price, the Centre had taken no step to bailout the people from this crisis. “Hence, Mahatma Gandhi should advise the Centre to reduce the fuel price, which is essential for reducing the prices of all essential commodities,” Mr. Sankarapandian said after ‘submitting’ the petition to the statue. The Congress cadres had originally planned to organise a cycle rally from Thathanallur to Kamaraj Statue in front Tirunelveli Railway Junction in protest against the fuel price hike. When the police denied permission for this agitation, they decided to submit petition to Gandhi Statue at Thatchanallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-congress-cadres-submit-petition-to-gandhis-statue/article35292938.ece
13 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Folk artistes seek free houses||A group of 15 folk artistes submitted a petition at the Collectorate on Monday seeking free houses. The petitioners from Natarajapuram in Melapalayam here said they were living in the place for over 16 years but they were struggling a lot with their children as they did not own land or house. Since cultural events during temple festivals had been banned in the wake of the pandemic, their livelihood had been wiped-out. They said that they belonged to below poverty line group and were struggling to feed their children especially during this pandemic-induced lockdown. They added that their landlords were chasing them away as they were unable to pay the house rent. “Hence, the Collector should give us free houses,” the petitioners said after submitting the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/folk-artistes-seek-free-houses/article35292802.ece
13 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter held for murdering sibling||Police have picked-up a woman and her daughter for allegedly murdering another daughter. Police said M. Sermakani, 35, of Muthuveerappapuram near Moolaikkaraipatti in the district was living with her mother Murugammal, 60, for the past several months after her husband left her. Sermakani’s younger sister Arunachalam alias Selvi, 30, was also living with her mother following a domestic quarrel with her husband. When Murugammal found that Sermakani was pregnant, it triggered heated argument between them for the past few days. Against this backdrop, Sermakani was found dead in her house on Monday. On getting information about the suspicious death of the woman, the Moolaikkaraipatti police rushed to the spot to send Sermakani’s body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Since the police suspected that Sermakani was murdered by Murugammal with the assistance of Arunachalam, they have been picked-up for interrogation. Moolaikkaraipatti police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-daughter-held-for-murdering-sibling/article35292597.ece
13 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Building contractor murdered in Tirunelveli||A building contractor was murdered by an armed gang in broad daylight at Vadakku Thaazhaiyooththu on the city outskirts on Monday. Police said N. Kannan, 36, a building contractor from Vadakku Thaazhaiyooththu, had gone in a cargo auto along with the driver of the vehicle to fetch water for an ongoing construction activity. When he was standing near the auto even as the driver had gone to switch on the pump to get water, five persons who came to the spot in three bikes hacked Kannan to death on the spot and escaped. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thaazhaiyooththu, Archana visited the spot. Friend of an accused Police suspect that the murder was the handiwork of the supporters of history-sheeter P. Muthu Mano, 27, of Vaagaikulam near Moontradaippu in the district. Muthu Mano was beaten to death in Palayamkottai Central Prison on April 22 last where he had been lodged after getting arrested in connection with an attempt to murder case along with three of his associates. “Since Kannan was a friend of Jacob, one of the accused in the murder of Muthu Mano, we suspect that his friends would have murdered him,” a police officer privy to the ongoing investigation said. Thaazhaiyooththu police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-contractor-murdered/article35292598.ece
13 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 116.75 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had in inflow of 932.76 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam (permissible level is 118 feet) stood at 76 feet. The dam had an inflow of 83 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35292941.ece
13 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmer arrested on charges of poisoning peafowl in Tiruppur||The Forest Department on Sunday arrested a farmer in connection with the death of 35 peafowl in Tiruppur. On Friday, the Forest Department found 17 peahens and seven peacocks lying dead on a patta land near Muthanampalayam in the city, which falls under the Tiruppur Forest Division. The officials also found eight peahens and three peacocks dead on the same plot on Saturday. According to officials, K. Bannari (47) was a resident of Pollikalipalayam in Muthanampalayam, who leased a portion of the land to cultivate cereals and vegetables.  As peafowl used to damage the crops on the field, he allegedly sprayed weedicide on the crops, causing the birds to die following consumption, investigations revealed. Kin stage demonstration  After the accused was picked up for interrogation on Sunday evening, a group of residents and relatives staged a demonstration at the Office of the Forestry Extension Officer alleging that he was falsely accused of poisoning the peafowl. The officials held talks with them, following which they dispersed. Bannari was booked under provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 as the peacock is protected under Schedule I of the Act. He was remanded in judicial custody on Monday, the Forest Department officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-arrested-on-charges-of-poisoning-peafowl/article35292508.ece
13 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors seek relief||A group of street vendors from Tiruppur petitioned Collector S. Vineeth on Monday urging the Corporation to waive the pending rent to set up their shops at a pedestrian subway. According to the petition, 18 shops were functioning in the pedestrian subway opposite the Old Bus Terminus in Tiruppur. The vendors said their livelihood was affected as they were unable to open their shops for several months due to the COVID-19 restrictions and could not pay the monthly rent to the Corporation. ‘Reopen schools’ A student studying Class VIII petitioned the District Collector on Monday seeking reopening of schools in the State. P. Pandiswaran (13), a student of a private school, said in his petition that the studies of many students were being affected as the schools remained closed due to the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-seek-relief/article35292509.ece
13 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Netaji market in Vellore will resume operations tomorrow||The British-era Netaji Market will be back in business from Wednesday. The district administration has decided to allow wholesale traders to return to the market after they threatened to shut their shops permanently from the temporary accommodation owing to lack of basic amenities and poor sales. They were allowed to function from there since May to prevent overcrowding. The traders shut their shops on Monday as a token protest before the District Collector, P. Kumaravel Pandian, called them for a meeting to discuss the issue. “We are allowed to operate from the Old (Netaji) Market by following COVID-19 norms. We have convened a meeting on Tuesday among traders to insist on taking adequate safety measures in the market. We hope our business will be back on track,” said 68-year-old S.S.T.A. Balu, president, Vellore Town Netaji Market Vegetable Traders’ Association. At present, the playground-turned-vegetable wholesale market near mango mandi has only 86 shops with more than 40 wholesale traders having discontinued their work since last year mainly due to lack of business. Further, the temporary market, which operates between 1 a.m and 9 a.m., becomes slushy and water-logged during rain, making it difficult for goods-laden lorries and retail traders to navigate the market. Most vegetables such as onions, potatoes, cabbage, beans and greens come from Bengaluru, Mysore, Udhagamandalam, Hosur and Agra. Every day, on an average, the Vellore market gets 70 trucks of vegetables and are re-distributed to key towns like Arani, Ambur, Katpadi, Arcot, Ranipet and Arakkonam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/netaji-market-in-vellore-will-resume-operations-tomorrow/article35292884.ece
13 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Lorry driver murders youth in Arcot||A 28-year-old was murdered by a lorry driver on Vembur Bypass Road, off the Bengaluru Highway, in Arcot on Monday. According to the police, Manikandan, from Nathamuni Street, was riding his two-wheeler with his friend, Mr. Arun, 21, riding pillion on the Vembur Bypass Road. While Manikandan tried to overtake a lorry, the driver was unable to provide the required space due to the narrow road. This angered Manikandan, who argued with the driver. The lorry driver stopped his vehicle, and allegedly stabbed Manikandan to death while injuring Arun. Ranipet Superintendent of Police visited the spot and ordered a search on the lorry driver, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-driver-murders-youth-in-arcot/article35292878.ece
13 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 35 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,437, with 35 new cases reported on July 12. While a total 45,967 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 393. The district’s death toll is 1,077. In Ranipet, 37 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,500. In Tirupathur, 33 new cases were reported on Monday, and the total number of cases stood at 27,830. In Tiruvannamalai, the number of new cases was 78, taking the total to 50,788. The number of active cases stands at 1,177.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-35-new-cases/article35292943.ece
13 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Bus services resume between T.N. and Puducherry||After a gap of nearly two months, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Villupuram division, on Monday resumed bus services to the Union Territory of Puducherry following relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown norms. A TNSTC official said 180 buses would be operated from Villupuram, Tindivanam, Cuddalore, Chidambaram and Chennai to Puducherry from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Official sources said Puducherry showed an interest in resuming inter-State services and that the Tamil Nadu government responded positively. “Both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry road transport corporations will resume services as per the previous agreements,” an official said. Based on the response, a decision on operating more buses will be taken. According to the SOP, only 50% of the seats must be occupied and hand sanitisers must be made available for passengers. The conductors must ensure that all passengers wear face masks for the entire duration of the journey. Bus drivers and conductors have been provided with masks and the buses would be disinfected at the end of every trip, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-resume-between-tn-and-puducherry/article35292877.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 290 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 290 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. The Health Department said that 8,970 swab samples were subjected to test. The district had 3,905 active cases on Monday while 392 persons recovered. The Department did not report any death due to COVID-19 in the district on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 157 new cases, taking the overall tally to 85,673. The Health Department reported the death of a 56-year-old man, causing the toll to reach 801. A total of 1,543 active cases were in the district and 228 persons were discharged on Monday. In the Nilgiris, 84 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 29,486. The toll increased from 171 to 172, and 876 persons are undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 193 new cases. While 153 persons were discharged, 2,742 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-290-new-cases/article35292514.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ready for catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-for-catch/article35292609.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bounty in the making||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bounty-in-the-making/article35292807.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The time to sow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-time-to-sow/article35292936.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t permit Mekedatu project’||Speaking at the meeting, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said the dam would affect Tamil Nadu farmers. “Karnataka is trying to build a dam at Mekedatu, just 4 km from the Tamil Nadu border. We have to stop it by all means. If the dam is built, the welfare of our farmers will be affected. Water supply to Tamil Nadu will come down. We [the political parties] have to prove not only to Karnataka but also to the Union government that all the parties in Tamil Nadu stand united on the Cauvery issue,” he said. He said that even in normal circumstances, Karnataka was not releasing Tamil Nadu’s share of Cauvery water. “If the dam is built, how Tamil Nadu will get Cauvery water becomes a big question,” he said. “The Cauvery issue is not a political issue but of livelihood of the people of Tamil Nadu... We have to take a decision devoid of any political motive,” he said. AIADMK representative D. Jayakumar said Karnataka should be taken to the Supreme Court for acting in contempt of the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal. Meanwhile, Minister for Water Resources Durai Murugan said Karnataka’s decision to go ahead with the construction of a dam at Mekedatu amounted to ignoring the Supreme Court’s judgment. Responding to the statement of Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraja Bommai that the State did not require anybody’s clearance to construct the dam, he pointed out that both the Supreme Court and the Cauvery Tribunal, in their respective orders, maintained that no State could claim ownership over the river waters of any State since they are considered a national asset.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-permit-mekedatu-project/article35292477.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem sees 170 COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Monday reported 170 new COVID-19 cases and one death. According to health officials, 118 cases were indigenous and 32 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal reported 80 new cases, all indigenous. Vaccination drive A vaccination drive would be conducted at 138 centres in Salem on Tuesday and 15,500 Covishield doses have been allotted to the centres. While 105 centres would function in rural areas and 33 centres have been set up in the Corporation limits. Erode district reported 193 new cases on Saturday. While 153 persons were discharged, 2,742 persons are under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 49 new cases on Monday. While 72 persons were discharged, there are 693 active cases in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 52 new cases and one death on Monday. While 74 persons were discharged, the district has 757 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-sees-170-covid-19-cases/article35292619.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Inspiring Engineers of JIT’, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article35292511.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State to implement NEP fully by 2030||“The State government plans to completely implement the National Education Policy (NEP) by 2030, well ahead of the time limit of 2035 set by the Union government,’’ Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in Dharwad on Monday. “All government colleges will implement the policy from this year itself. We will set a phased deadline for private colleges to implement the policy. However, if any private college comes forward to implement the policy from this year, we will support it,” he said. He spoke to journalists after a meeting of academics and officers at the Karnatak University Dharwad. Those private colleges that have quality infrastructure can implement NEP from the current year, but those who don’t have such facilities in place, can implement it in a gradual manner, he said. All government higher education institutions will make use of learning management systems (LMS) and Unified University College Management System (UUCMS) to enable them to implement the policy. NEP aims at integrating various capabilities of the human intellect. It aspires to provide global exposure to students even as it wishes to make them aware of the roots of the Indian tradition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-implement-nep-fully-by-2030/article35292637.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vaccination has picked pace, says Joshi||“The Union government is trying hard to ensure universal vaccination. But it will take time. It is wrong to expect it to be completed in a short span of time. Vaccines needed for the whole country cannot be manufactured in a day,’’ Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Monday. Congress leaders who are making allegations against the government that has neglected its duty of vaccinating everyone should introspect on their rule. While two industrial units are manufacturing vaccines under the BJP rule, as many as three vaccine units were closed down during the Congress rule. They should recall this, he said. He said that over 80% of the target population [over 45 years] had received two doses of vaccine. The pace has picked up after the universal vaccination programme that was launched on June 21. Since then, 12 crore people have been given the vaccine. The Government of India is spearheading the world’s largest vaccination programme. In Karnataka, 2.6 crore of the 6.44 crore people have been vaccinated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-has-picked-pace-says-joshi/article35292638.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Plan to acquire 5,000 acres for industrial corridor||The State government has drawn up plans to acquire 5,000 acres of land along the Dharwad-Belagavi stretch of the Pune-Bengaluru National Highway to develop it as an industrial corridor, Minister for Medium and Heavy Industries Jagadish Shettar said in Hubballi on Monday. The industrial corridor, planned under a Centrally aided project, will come up around Mummigatti village on the highway. He was speaking after inaugurating roads developed under the Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City project at a cost of Rs. 25 crore in the Gokul Industrial Area. The State government has declared Hubballi-Dharwad as a fast moving consumer goods cluster. The government has granted 358 acres of land to Aequs company that plans to invest Rs. 3,524 crore and 50 acres to Uflex company that will invest Rs. 1,464 crore. Of the Rs. 936 crore sanctioned to Hubballi-Dharwad under the Smart City project, the Centre and the State have released Rs. 336 crore till now. Of this, works worth Rs. 110 crore have been completed. Tenders have been called for works valued at Rs. 660 crore, including a sports complex worth Rs. 150 crore. Smart City Managing Director Shakeel Ahmed, City Corporation Commissioner Suresh Itnal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-to-acquire-5000-acres-for-industrial-corridor/article35292641.ece
13 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Second office of KDEM inaugurated||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan inaugurated the second office of the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), working at increasing the share of the digital economy to 30% of the State’s GDP, in Hubballi on Monday KDEM was inaugurated in Bengaluru a few months ago. It aims to attract investments for the IT/ITeS sector in the State and to create 10 lakh jobs by 2025. It works to achieve the target by focusing on five verticals of IT products and enabled services, innovation and start-ups, electronic system design and manufacturing (ESDM), beyond Bengaluru, and talent accelerator, he said. It is a government body but has 51% private participation to show the industry friendliness of the State. This is also to send a message that the government wants to act as a facilitator and not a monitoring authority, he said. He announced that the pre-event of Bengaluru Tech Summit 2021 will be held in Hubballi. In order to strengthen the digital economy, the government will focus on improving connectivity even to remote parts, providing 24x7 electricity, and reducing the rural-urban divide by establishing needed infrastructure, he said. KDEM will strive to attract investment for agri-tech industries. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target for India to become a $1 trillion digital economy by 2025. By then, Karnataka’s contribution from the digital economy would be about $300-350 billion . Of this, $150 billion would alone be from IT exports. Hubballi and Dharwad have several educational institutions, including IIT-D, and an ecosystem to nurture entrepreneurial growth. It has the potential to be grown as a good innovative industrial cluster, he said. Karnataka is the first in the country to roll out an Engineering Research and Development policy. “We have earmarked Rs. 600 crore for this purpose by 2025,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-office-of-kdem-inaugurated/article35292649.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dhaba owner dies trying to stop two groups fighting||A dhaba owner who tried to stop two groups from fighting in his roadside eatery was killed in Mugat Khan Hubli village in Belagavi district on Sunday night. Prakash Naganur (38) was beaten to death by the youth fighting in his dhaba. He was taken to a hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead. The police said that the groups were fighting over repayment of a loan of Rs. 1,500. A group of youths entered his dhaba at night to demand money from another group that was having dinner there. The verbal abuses between the two groups gave way to punches, and Prakash decided to intervene. When he tried to push the fighting members away, they turned against him and began beating him up. He suffered injuries and started bleeding. His staff took him outside and arranged for a vehicle to be taken to hospital. However, he died mid-way, the police said. Senior officers of the District Police visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dhaba-owner-dies-trying-to-stop-two-groups-fighting/article35292639.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘HDK politicisied KRS issue because Sumalatha beat his son in LS polls’||Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, has alleged that H.D. Kumaraswamy JD(S) leader, politicised the issue of the safety of KRS dam only because Sumalatha Ambareesh, Mandya MP, defeated his son Nikhil Kumaraswamy in the Lok Sabha polls. Speaking to journalists in Hubballi on Monday, the Congress leader said that the State government added to the controversy by not ordering an inquiry into Ms. Ambareesh’s allegations that the dam was threatened by stone quarries. The Mandya MP made serious allegations that the dam had developed cracks due to illegal mining. The government should have taken them seriously and ordered an inquiry into the allegations, he said. “Senior officers and scientists should have visited the spot and submitted a report. But that was not done. What followed the allegation was a counter allegation by JD(S) leaders and the whole issue was politicised. Mr. Kumaraswamy is unhappy with Ms. Ambareesh as she defeated his son in the polls,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. He alleged that the State government was silent on the issue as some BJP leaders were also involved in illegal mining near the KRS. The former CM alleged that there was large-scale corruption in the State government. “The BJP government should be ashamed of its corrupt acts. There are allegations of large scale irregularities in the pollution control board. There is corruption even in the transfer of officers. The government is using the epidemic as a shield against transparency. They know that the opposition parties can not organise street protests against the government at this time. That is why they are using all tools to make money,” he said. He alleged that the government was not allowing discussion on the caste census in the Legislature. “If the subject comes up, then the government will be bound to provide social justice. That is why they are shying away from it,” he said. To a query he said there was neither in-fighting nor factionalism in the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-politicisied-krs-issue-as-his-son-lost-to-sumalatha/article35292646.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Over 65 crore unemployed: Baragur Ramachandrappa||AIDYO organised a webinar on the problem of unemployment here on Sunday. Baragur Ramachandrappa, writer, AIDYO president Ramanjanappa Aldalli and others participated. Prof. Ramachandrappa said that the BJP governments at the Centre and in the State are not working for the welfare of the common man. Looking at their policies and schemes, it is clear that they are working for benefiting the corporates. The priority of the government is to offer red carpet to the corporates and completely neglect the less privileged, he said. He said that it is the moral responsibility of the government to create employment opportunities for all eligible persons and qualified youth. Unfortunately, these governments have completely failed to generate employment opportunities. Studies indicate that over 65 crore people in India are unemployed now, he said. The party that came to power claiming it will make India a global super power has failed in providing jobs to people who voted for it, he said. It promised to create two crore jobs per year , but could not meet even 10% of its promise, he said. Over the years, over 52 lakh posts in government departments have fallen vacant. However, no efforts have been made to fill them. Studies say that in the second wave of the pandemic, 1.47 crore people lost jobs, but the wealth of the top 100 billionaires increased by Rs. 13 lakh crore, he said. Mr. Aldalli spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-65-crore-unemployed-baragur-ramachandrappa/article35292635.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Huge crowd welcomes ex-CM||A huge crowd gathered to welcome Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, in Badami on Monday, disregarding COVID-19 guidelines. The police had to struggle to control the crowd and there was no social distancing and only a handful of persons wore masks. Mr. Siddaramaiah attended a KDP meeting and took part in some programmes at Badami. He told journalists that he WILL contest from Badami though workers were inviting him to contest from their districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-crowd-welcomes-ex-cm/article35292643.ece
13 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Businessman murdered||Unidentified men killed a young man in Hubballi on Monday. A city-based businessman, Abhishekgouda Patil, was knifed at Gopankoppa Cross Road in Hubballi in the early hours. His friends rushed the bleeding victim to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, but he did not survive. The victim was a relative of Ishwargouda Patil of the BJP’s district farmers wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-murdered/article35292640.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination must to attend offline classes, say pvt. colleges||Students who want to attend offline classes will have to get the jab as many private colleges have made it mandatory to get vaccinated. This, even though the State government has said that vaccination is not mandatory to attend offline classes. Abraham V.M., Vice-Chancellor, Christ (Deemed to be University), said students who have not got at least one dose of vaccine will not be allowed to attend offline classes, and that they will have to attend online classes. Some other colleges have decided that unvaccinated students will be made to sit in separate rooms for offline classes as well as examinations. B.V. Ravi Shankar, principal, BMS College of Engineering, said students who are not vaccinated will have to produce negative RT-PCR certificates and attend classes and examinations in different rooms wearing masks and face shields. He said the college began conducting sessions on Saturday, where 15-20% of the students could come to campus to get their doubts clarified by lecturers. M. Prakash, secretary, Karnataka Private Postgraduate Colleges Association, said colleges are insisting on vaccination so that campuses do not become clusters of infection. “We will counsel students to get the jab. If they are not ready, we will ask them to attend online classes from home,” he said. As many as 69.83% of the total 5.28 lakh students and staff in government and aided colleges have been vaccinated so far. Vaccination drives have been held in government as well as private colleges to ensure easy access to the vaccine. However, many student organisations point out that even though students are ready to take the jab, there is shortage of vaccine even at drives conducted in colleges. Amaresh Kadaga, State president, Students Federation of India, said: “Students are returning from college campus drives without getting the jab owing to inadequate vaccines, particularly in rural areas. The State government needs to step up pressure on the Central government and procure more vaccines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-must-to-attend-offline-classes-say-pvt-colleges/article35292428.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to start market borrowings from next month||Following revenue shortfall owing to COVID-induced lockdown during the first quarter of this financial year (2021-22), the State government has proposed to raise Rs. 8,000 crore in loans through market borrowings in the second quarter (July-September). These market borrowings, known as State Development Loans (SDLs), would be raised through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The rate of interest on these loans would be around 7%. The State government would participate in auctions of market borrowings on August 3 and 17 and September 7 and 14, and borrow Rs. 2,000 crore each on the four occasions, the RBI said. Following the shortfall in revenue, market borrowings were inevitable since the government had to fulfil commitments on payment of salaries, pension, and other heads of accounts. It has to ensure availability of financial resources for handling of the pandemic and implementing subsidy schemes for BPL families. The RBI, in consultation with the State governments/Union Territories, confirmed that the quantum of total market borrowings by them for the July-September quarter was expected to be Rs. 1,92,091 crore. Many States, including Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, and Andhra Pradesh, which were impacted by lockdowns in different phases, have already raised huge sums through market borrowings. While Karnataka raised loans in July last year, this year it started to raise loans in August, which indicates an improved financial position for the State. Karnataka’s revenue collections through Goods and Services Tax, sales tax, and excise have recorded improvements this year when compared to 2020-21. No fresh taxes The State was expected to have a revenue shortfall owing to it not levying fresh taxes in the 2021-22 Budget and the lockdown. In March 2021, the State proposed to borrow over Rs. 70,000 crore (4% of the GSDP) during the current financial year. The RBI said it would conduct auctions of SDLs in a non-disruptive manner, taking into account the market conditions and other relevant factors, and distribute the borrowings evenly throughout the quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-start-market-borrowings-from-next-month/article35292450.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wide gap between those vaccinated with 1st dose and those with both||Although Karnataka’s pace of vaccination is better than several other States, the gap between those vaccinated with the first dose and those with both doses is wide. Of the total 2,58,30,507 doses administered till 3.30 p.m. on Monday, 2,10,49,368 are first doses. Only 22.7% (47,81,139) of the people have received both the doses thereby making them fully vaccinated. The wide difference between them is attributed to frequent changes in policy and revision of the prescribed gap between the two doses. Besides, the irregular and short supply of vaccines is also an important reason, experts said. As per the current guidelines, the second dose of Covishield has to be administered 12-16 weeks from the first dose. “Most people who took the first dose after the revised guidelines will have to wait nearly 84 days. Among those who are eligible, not all are coming forward to take it,” said Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Dr. Babu, who is also the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said there will be a huge demand for the doses as many people will become eligible in the coming days. “Also, hundreds of thousands were infected with COVID-19 during the second wave. They will be eligible for the dose only three months later,” he explained. C.N. Manjunath attributed the wide gap mainly to the short supply of vaccine. “With the Centre allowing people above 18 years to get vaccinated, the demand for vaccines has gone up considerably while the supply has been irregular,” he said. “Moreover, the vaccine hesitancy among people in the first few months changed into large-scale acceptance during the second wave. The steep rise in cases and deaths in the second wave prompted the public to reach out for vaccines. This also led to a sudden rise in demand,” Dr. Manjunath said. However, State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra denied that the low percentage of fully vaccinated people is owing to short supply. “It is because of the 12-16 week gap between two doses of Covishield that was introduced in May. As a major chunk of the total vaccinations have happened in the last three months, those who have taken the first dose after that are still not due for the second dose,” he said. Asserting that the State has been prioritising second dose vaccinations, the Commissioner said there will be a huge rush for the second dose in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wide-gap-between-those-vaccinated-with-1st-dose-and-those-with-both/article35292432.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In a first, Karnataka to have ‘scene of crime officers’||In what could infuse greater professionalism into investigation, protection of crime scene and its reconstruction, Karnataka is set to have a separate cadre of ‘scene of crime officers’, a first in the country. The pool will create resources who specialise in identification, collection and preservation of evidence at the scene of crime, and identifying, recording and collecting evidence at the crime scene. The officers will have an equivalent rank of police sub-inspector and will be part of the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will give an official order on Tuesday to recruit 206 officers. At present, it is only in sensational cases that forensic experts from the FSL visit the scene of crime and guide investigating officers. In most cases, the crime scene management is done by the police personnel. “In India, crime scene management has been a neglected area of crime investigation. There is no dedicated manpower with grounding in forensic science,” an internal note said. As part of the reorganisation of FSL, a separate vertical for crime scene management had been created in 2015, and 33 district scientific aid units (DSAUs) in Karnataka were to have a few police personnel trained in handling evidence. But this did not materialise because of various reasons. “Poor handling of evidence by investigating officers has many a time resulted in the destruction of crucial evidence before they are taken up for analysis,” the note said. Furthermore, as experts in sections of firearms and physics are available only at the FSL, Bengaluru, the available resource pool has to travel to crime scenes across Karnataka, and many times may not be able to visit the scene immediately. Once operational with 206 ‘scene of crime’ officers deployed across 33 DSAUs, they will be deployed in cases involving crime against women and children, crimes against weaker sections, and those that merit punishment of more than seven years. In phases Additional Director-General of Police (Crime and Technical Services) R. Hitendra said the officers would be recruited in phases and the recruitment rules were being finalised. “Two or three officers will be deployed in each district in the first phase. It will take about a year for these officers to be deployed after the process of recruitment and training is completed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-first-karnataka-to-have-scene-of-crime-officers/article35292445.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CAB violation: Rs. 16.81 lakh penalty collected in a week||After a slew of relaxations were announced as part of Unlock 3.0 by the State government, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the police, in a coordinated effort, constituted 54 teams to check the enforcement of COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour (CAB). In a week, the teams collected Rs. 16.81 lakh in fines from citizens who failed to wear masks or maintain social distance. According to information provided, the civic body, through the marshals, has thus far (from May 2020 to July 11, 2021) collected Rs. 12.04 crore in fines from citizens for not adhering to CAB. Col. Rajbir Singh (retd), chief marshal, told The Hindu that since July 5, when Unlock 3.0 came into effect, the enforcement teams have been booking an average of 950 cases a day. “We are focussing on educating the citizens on the importance of adhering to CAB. It is only after repeated warnings that cases are booked and fines levied,” he said. Each of the 54 CAB enforcement teams has four marshals, and one home guard or police constable. While the marshals focus on interior areas, parks, markets and malls, the police monitor the main roads and junctions, said Col. Singh. He also said that it has been noticed that most number of violations are being reported from K.R. Market, Russell Market, Yeshwanthpur Market, K.R. Puram market, Pulikeshinagar, Chickpete, Shanthinagar, and Rajarajeshwarinagar. “These areas are densely populated and witness not just heavy traffic, but heavy footfall. There is also a significant number of floating population in these areas. Given that more violations are reported from these areas, more enforcement teams have been deputed here,” he said. The enforcement teams have also been distributing masks to people, especially in areas where those belonging to lower socio-economic groups reside. Col. Singh said that more than 20,000 masks had been distributed in these localities. Though the compliance to mask wearing had improved this year, following the second wave, BBMP officials say that many citizens continued to flout the social distancing norms. “Citizens are yet to understand the importance of social distancing. Despite wearing masks, protection from the virus is foolproof only when distance of at least two yards is maintained. We are focussing on educating citizens, which is why cases booked for violation of social distance is far lesser than that booked for not wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cab-violation-rs-1681-lakh-penalty-collected-in-a-week/article35292422.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Travel operators want IT staff and others to return to office||Travel operators who had contracts with firms in the IT sector and other corporate houses in Bengaluru to ferry employees have approached the State government seeking direction to companies to encourage staff to work from office. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister for IT&BT, the Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association said the work from home option had badly affected their finances. They pointed out that contract workers, such as housekeeping staff, security personnel, caterers, and those in the hospitality industry too had taken a hit with most employees continuing to work from home. Krishnamurthy, who has been running an employee transport service for 25 years in Bengaluru, said that operators like him have invested crores in vehicles to meet the growing demand from the corporate sector. “Prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, over 1.5 lakh vehicles provided transport services to employees in Bengaluru. Today, most of them are without work and income. But even without any revenue, owners are forced to pay tax, insurance premium, and EMIs,” he said. Many operators claim they are no longer in a position to repay loans. “Our drivers and other employees have gone back to their hometowns. They want to come back, but we are not in a position to offer them work. Even if 50% of the workforce returns to offices, it will help many sectors such as ours,” Mr. Krishnamurthy said. Radhakrishna Holla, president of the association, called the situation dire. “Thousands of people have lost their jobs. We want the Karnataka government to come to our aid by directing companies to shift from work-from-home to work-from-office. In the previous guidelines brought out by the government, there was no mention of continuation of work from home option. Our survival is at stake.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/travel-operators-want-it-staff-and-others-to-return-to-office/article35292453.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports another Delta Plus case||Karnataka has reported another Delta Plus — B.1.617.2.1 (AY.1) — case taking the total number to three. The latest to have been infected with this new variant is a 62-year-old woman from Tumakuru district. BBMP West Zone officials said the woman had come to Bengaluru on June 18 to visit her daughter. Some days later, she reported mild symptoms and three from her family were tested. The woman was under home isolation and has recovered. “While all the three tested positive from the family, the 62-year-old woman’s samples tested positive for the Delta Plus variant following genome sequencing on July 2. However, by then she had already gone back to her native place,” officials said, adding that 45 of her contacts have been traced and tested. Their reports are awaited. On June 22, the State had reported the first case of the variant in Mysuru. The next day, another case was detected in Bengaluru. The variant has been formed due to a mutation in the highly contagious Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the second wave. Meanwhile, Karnataka on Monday reported 1,386 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,72,684. Of these, 319 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 61 deaths, the toll rose to 35,896. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 3,204 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 28,01,907. The State now has 34,858 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.26%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 4.40%.As many as 1,09,399 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 90,903 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,60,44,017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-another-delta-plus-case/article35292436.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bombay Saleem found operating from prison||Raids carried by CCB officials at Bengaluru central prison of Parappana Agarahara revealed that notorious gangster Bombay Saleem was operating from the prison unabated. Saleem, who has over 40 criminal cases against him, was arrested by Indiranagar police in 2018 and later by Devanahalli police for allegedly threatening and extorting businessmen in 2020. He is presently lodged in the central prison. He was carrying out his extortion racket and robberies, instructing his gang via his mobile phone, the police said. The CCB officials recovered a huge cache of arms, marijuana, mobile phones, and SIM cards from him. Deepak R., inspector with the Anti-Narcotics wing, who is among the 120 CCB officials conducting raids at the prison, filed a complaint with the Parappana Agrahara police against Saleem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bombay-saleem-found-operating-from-prison/article35292423.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Online applications are invited from candidates who have passed 10+2 with not less than 45% (in the case of SC/ST — 40% and OBC — 42%) of the total marks for admission to the first semester of the five-year BA, LLB (Honours) degree course at University Law College, Bangalore University, for 2021-22. Visit www.bangaloreuniversity.ac.in or www.ulcbangalore.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article35292442.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With eye on his property, gang kidnaps elderly man||The Jnanabharati police in the city are on the lookout for a group of men who allegedly kidnapped a home alone 87-year-old retired railway employee to take over his property. Based on a complaint by the victim, Raghav Rao, a case has been registered and efforts are on to nab the accused, identified as Prabhu S. and four others. A senior police officer said that Mr. Rao was staying alone in an old age home for a while and recently shifted to his house in Bhavaninagar. His children live in Mysuru and he owns a site in Railway Layout. One of the accused, Prabhu, befriended Mr. Rao and after realising that he was alone with property in his name, decided to kidnap and get the property transferred to his name. A few days ago, the accused barged into his house and bundled him in a car. They took him around the city for a while before he was taken to the sub-registrar’s office in Rajajinagar, where the gang forced him to sign on documents to transfer property. Later, he was taken to a bank to withdraw Rs. 20,000 and made to stay in an old age home for a few days. The accused threatened to kill him if he resisted, the police said. Since he is visually challenged, he was not able to approach the police immediately. After discussing with his daughter, he decided to file a case. The police are verifying CCTV footage. Prabhu is absconding. “We have also sought the documents from the sub-registrar’s office,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-eye-on-his-property-gang-kidnaps-elderly-man/article35292443.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Action plans of three bodies approved||The State government on Monday approved the action plans of three bodies — Basavakalyan Development Board, Kaginele Development Authority, and Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Development Authority — for the year 2021-22. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held meetings with the heads of authorities and the Ministers concerned and approved development works to be undertaken this financial year. The Basavakalyan Development Board has taken up 134 development works, of which 76 have to be completed. It has decided to construct Anubhava Mantapa in Basavakalyan in Bidar district on 101 acres, on an estimated to cost Rs. 500 crore. A sum of Rs. 200 crore has been released. A total of 69 acres are left to be acquired for the project. The land owners have been seeking market rate for their land, said an official release. The Chief Minister approved a Rs. 14-crore action plan of Kaginele Development Authority for taking up works in Byadagi taluk of Haveri district. Also approved at the meeting was a Rs. 62-crore action plan of the Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Development Authority. The greet light was given for the payment of pending bills running up to Rs. 22 crore. In total, the authority had prepared a Rs. 279-crore plan. It spent Rs. 159 crore during the last four years. The authority has planned a Sainik School, a rock garden, and exhibition centre, among other construction activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-plans-of-three-bodies-approved/article35292449.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Education Dept. looks into network issues||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education held a discussion with officials on poor Internet connectivity and how it was hampering online classes. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar met the Chief Secretary on the issue. The Minister was told that the Additional Chief Secretary of Information and Technology Department had received positive response from mobile network providers. Mr. Kumar said the Department of Primary and Secondary Education was planning to install TV sets at 5,766 public libraries under GPs for the benefit of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-dept-looks-into-network-issues/article35292429.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sumalatha petitions Nirani||Sumalatha, MP from Mandya, on Monday submitted a petition to Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani seeking a ban on all illegal stone quarrying in and around the Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS). The MP also urged the Minister to conduct a survey through drones to identify areas of illegal quarrying in Srirangapatna and other parts of the district. Illegal quarrying in the district has caused a loss of royalty and fines to the tune of Rs. 1,200 crore, she said, urging the Minister to recover it from the people indulging in illegal stone mining. In a letter to the Minister, she complained of the owners of illegal quarries preventing her and officials from visiting the sites of illegal stone quarrying by blocking their path and staging a protest. Mr. Nirani has promised to take stern action against the erring officials without showing leniency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sumalatha-petitions-nirani/article35292451.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR to restore Doddajala railway station||The South Western Railway (SWR) has taken up restoration of Doddajala railway station as a heritage railway station. In February, the Bengaluru Division of the SWR had signed an agreement for restoration of the station with INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage). On Monday, Ashok Kumar Verma (divisional railway manager) laid the foundation stone for the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-restore-doddajala-railway-station/article35292425.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man claiming to be member of ‘royal family’ arrested||A conman, claiming to be a member of the Mysuru royal family and a ‘software engineer in Microsoft in the U.S.’, was arrested by the Whitefield cyber crime police on Monday for allegedly cheating women on matrimonial websites by promising to marry them. A 7th standard dropout, Siddarth K. alias Siddarth Urs alias Sandy alias Vinay alias Mutthu, 33, learnt to speak Spanish and English fluently with U.S. accent and sent morphed photos of the royal family to gain the trust of the victims and lure them. He is a resident of Bylakuppe in Periyapatna of Mysuru district. The police said the accusedcreated fake profiles on various matrimonial websites. “He sent them morphed pictures of the royal family in which there were children and said he was one of them. After gaining their trust, he told them there was a medical emergency and he needed some money. The gullible victims transferred the money to the bank account numbers given by him,” the police said. He was arrested following a complaint by a woman with the Whitefield police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-claiming-to-be-member-of-royal-family-arrested/article35292424.ece
13 July 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BHEL bags order||Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) has bagged a major order for the supply of 12 steam generators from Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. (NPCIL). BHEL, in a release, said the order, valued at Rs. 1,405 crore, was bagged under the NPCIL’s Fleet Mode procurement programme and mandates the supply of 12 steam generators for India’s highest rated indigenously developed 700 MWe Pressurised Heavy Water Reactors, to be set up at four locations in the country. The steam generators will be manufactured at the Tiruchirapalli plant of BHEL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhel-bags-order/article35292438.ece
13 July 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Masti awards: Books invited||The Dr. Masti Venkatesh Iyengar Trust has invited books for the ‘Masti Katha Puraskar’ and ‘Masti Kadambari Puraskar’. Original works published between January 1 and December 31, 2020, (first print) are eligible. The writer should send four copies of his/her work in Kannadaby August 16, addressed to Mavinakere Ranganathan, president, Masti Venkatesh Iyengar Trust, No. 21, Yellappa Garden, 10th Cross, Malleswaram, Bengaluru–560003. Call 080-23363347 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/masti-awards-books-invited/article35292439.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No decision yet on reopening||The State government is yet to take a call on reopening classes on college campuses. Pradeep P., Commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education, said the department was reviewing the percentage of students and staff who are vaccinated and also consulting with Vice-Chancellors of different universities. “We will take a call shortly,” he said. C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister, had set July 7 as the deadline to complete vaccination for students and staff and had said that colleges would be reopened after a majority got the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-decision-yet-on-reopening/article35292430.ece
13 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Accused still at large’||Punith K.L., who was allegedly forced to drink urine in police custody at Gonibeedu in Mudigere taluk two months ago, has expressed disappointment over the delay in arresting the accused officer. “The accused is at large, while I have been made to move court seeking anticipatory bails over false cases registered against me, following my complaint against the police officer,” he told The Hindu over the phone on Monday. Two cases Following his complaint against PSI Arjun Hoskeri, the Gonibeedu Police registered a complaint against Punith. In both cases, a woman from his village is the complainant. In one case she accused Punith of attempting to molest her, while in the second, she accused Punith and five from his family of assaulting her. “Both are false cases against me and family members. The police got these cases filed against me only to weaken my case and put pressure on me and my family members. I have got bail with regard to both the cases,” he said. PSI suspended Punith of Kiragunda village had filed a case on May 22 alleging that PSI Hosakeri tortured him and forced him to drink urine at the police station on May 10. The officer had taken Punith to his custody following oral complaints by a few villagers that he (Punith) was the cause for the differences between a married couple. The PSI was suspended after Punith filed the plaint. The investigation was handed over to the CID. “The accused officer has not been arrested yet. I have a feeling that the police are supporting him. Would they have let a common man facing such serious charges go free? He is influential and can pressurize witnesses,” he said. Protest staged Dalit organisations staged a protest in Mudigere on July 9 demanding the arrest of the suspended officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-still-at-large/article35292835.ece
13 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Journalist dies of heart attack||Sunil Heggaravalli, 44, a journalist, died following a heart attack at the primary health centre at Gonibeedu in Mudigere taluk on Monday. Mr. Heggaravalli, a native of Heggaravalli near Gonibeedu, has been a journalist for the last two decades. He worked for Hi Bengaluru and a news channel. Recently, he has moved to his native place. He is survived by his wife, son, and parents. The last rites will be held at his native place on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/journalist-dies-of-heart-attack/article35292434.ece
13 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Restrictions eased in Hassan||The lockdown that has been in place in the district for over two months has been relaxed. Shops and business establishments are allowed to function in the daytime on all days. However, there will be a night curfew between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m.. This will be in effect up to July 19. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Monday, informed the media that the public had to follow the restrictions in order to avoid the spread of the infection. Cinema halls and pubs will remain closed. Swimming pools would be open only for sportspersons undergoing training. The gathering of people in the name of political events, cultural programmes or religious events stays prohibited. Marriages can be organised with 100 people. Participants had to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour compulsorily. The number of people at a funeral has been restricted to 20, the DC ordered. Earlier, shops that sold essential items were allowed to open only three days a week. From Monday onwards, shops and establishments can do business on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restrictions-eased-in-hassan/article35292836.ece
13 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man, his sister killed; four injured||A man and his sister were killed and four injured in a road accident involving a brick-laden tipper, a car and a motorcycle near Sharana Sirasagi village in Kalaburagi district on Monday. The deceased were identified as Ajay Rodagi (29) and Prema Praveen (27). The injured were shifted to Kalaburagi District Hospital for further treatment. The siblings died after their motorcycle rammed the brick-laden tipper parked on the roadside. The car driver tried to stop hitting the two-wheeler but ended up ramming the tipper that resulted in all the three vehicles toppling over on a mound of mud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-his-sister-killed-four-injured/article35292642.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sea washes away sand wall, may take road too||As feared by residents, the sand wall built by the administration to protect the fisheries road from sea erosion got completely washed away and it is a matter of hours before the road too gets swallowed by the raging waves of the Arabian Sea at Batpady on Karnataka-Kerala border, South of Mangaluru. Last month, the residents feared that there may be another disconnect as the road was facing a threat from natural elements. Also, the residents had remained cut off from the mainland for almost six months from August last as the road was completely washed away. A temporary road along with sand wall was built in February this year. With monsoon regaining momentum in the last week, high waves have begun to swallow whatever is remaining at the location. Batpady Abdullah, who has been time and again approaching the authorities concerned in connection with the issue, said that instead of wasting lakhs of rupees on the sand wall, the authorities could have built two more horizontal groyens into the sea close to the Kerala border. About 10 groyens have been built from Uchchila till near Batpady end-point leaving about 500 m of beach stretch near the State border, where the sand wall was built, he said. Mr. Abdullah said that the beachfront where groyens and two off-shore reefs have been built are relatively safe while the end-point has taken the brunt of sea erosion. Sand is getting deposited in-between the groyens in this region and this may not have happened, if two more groyens were built at the far-end. The Ports and Inland Waterways Department then erected a sand wall for more than one kilometre from Uchchila till Batpady end-point sourcing sand from dredging the Netravathi-Phalguni river mouth near the Mangaluru Old Port. Now, Usman, whose house is close to the eroded road, is now fearing losing it, along with that of his neighbours too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sea-washes-away-sand-wall-may-take-road-too/article35292819.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police arrest man in Kumta, rescue abducted boy||The Udupi Town Police arrested Parashuram Bhimappa Harijan, 49, for allegedly abducting a two-year-old boy from Udupi on Sunday morning. The boy was produced before the Udupi Child Welfare Committee and then admitted at a childcare centre on Monday. Bharati, mother of 28-month-old Shivaraj, filed a complaint on Sunday morning accusing Parashuram of abducting her son. In her complaint, she said Parashuram had come to the sheds on Karavali Bypass Road, where they are living, and took away her son on the pretext of buying tea and biscuits for the child. CCTV images of Parashuram carrying the child and then, boarding a bus was widely circulated in the social media. The Udupi Police found that Parashuram had boarded a city bus on Karavali Bypass Road and got off it at Santhekatte. From there, he got into a KSRTC bus and reached Bhatkal and further proceeded to Murdeshwar. He then got into a train and reached the Kumta Railway Station. The Udupi Town Police coordinated with their counterparts in Uttara Kannada and arrested Parashuram at the railway station late on Sunday night. Parashuram had planned to catch a bus to Haliyal in Uttara Kannada where his sister resides. The rescued Shivaraj was placed in the childcare centre, while his mother has been kept in a shelter home for women in Udupi. Parashuram, who has epileptic symptoms, was admitted to a hospital in Udupi, the police said.  While probing into the reason for the abduction of Shivaraj, the police are looking whether Parashuram is involved in another case of kidnapping of a boy registered in Kundapur Police Station in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrest-man-in-kumta-rescue-abducted-boy/article35292828.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MP inaugurates medical oxygen plant||MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday inaugurated a medical oxygen generation plant sponsored by Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (MCF) in the city. MCF has sponsored installation of the plant at the ESI Hospital, Kadri, in the city, to meet the increasing demand for medical oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19. MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath, MCF Director Prabhakar Rao, City Corporation councillors Sudhir Shetty Kannur and Naveen D’Souza and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-inaugurates-medical-oxygen-plant/article35292827.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Student development programme organised||The Department of Business Administration of Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management organised an online student development programme on “Decode your future” here recently. As many as 1,100 undergraduates from across the country took part in the programme. In a press release, the college said that three experts addressed the students. Strategic Sales Consultant Ramani Venkat spoke on placements. He made a presentation on skill sets required to get a job. Chief Executive Officer of ISKEW Learning Renjit Keshav said that it is necessary for students to pursue higher education and learn efficient problem solving tactics, before becoming an entrepreneur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-development-programme-organised/article35292824.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Women SHGs to be involved in domestic waste disposal||As part of an exercise to effectively dispose of domestic waste in gram panchayats, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has started entrusting this responsibility to women self-help groups. During the quarterly Karnataka Development Programme review meeting chaired by district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari here on Monday, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said that 220 women self-help groups will be involved in solid waste management in panchayats. They will carry out house-to-house waste collection and undertake steps to dispose it of. The money they earn from this exercise will be credited to their accounts, he said. To start with, Mr. Kumara said, this will be introduced in five gram panchayats in each of the seven taluks of the district. A total of 35 women self-help groups will be involved, he said. Of the 223 gram panchayats, Mr. Kumara said, 154 gram panchayats have earmarked land for solid waste treatment. The panchayats have been told to make use of funds available under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to build the required infrastructure at the earmarked spaces. The panchayats have also been permitted this year to use funds under the 15th Finance Commission to purchase vehicles at a cost of Rs. 6 lakh for door-to-door waste collection. “This has been done to reduce the financial burden on panchayats,” he said. Mr. Kumara said that the panchayats that do not have land can tie up with neighbouring panchayats and make use of latter’s facility for disposal of soild waste. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that it has been made mandatory to accept only segregated waste at the solid waste processing unit in Panchhanady. Ullal MLA U.T. Khader and Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor expressed the need to regulate agencies involved in house-to-house domestic waste collection and stop roadside disposal of such waste. Mr. Poojary directed the officials to involve elected representatives in streamlining the process of domestic waste collection and disposal in panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-shgs-to-be-involved-in-domestic-waste-disposal/article35292821.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE brings out book on healthcare management||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) has brought out a book titled  Transformation Beyond Sight - A Narrative of Experiences and Challenges in Managing Large Hospitals, published by Manipal Universal Press. Speaking after releasing the book, MAHE Pro Vice-Chancellor H.S. Ballal said that healthcare and hospital administration have grown more complex, with increasing pressure on them for providing quality healthcare with humaneness. The Manipal Group is running more than 50 hospitals across the country with over 4,000 doctors and has provided employment to thousands others. Dr. Ballal appreciated author Jibu Thomas for a resourceful book which gives information about working with traditional processes as well as updates on the modern system of hospital management. Introducing the book, Kasturba Hospital Medical Superintendent Avinash Shetty said that the Hospital Management System is generally beyond the sight for a common man and the book makes it almost visible as the author has systematically documented the functioning of the system based on his own experience. Chief Operating Officer, Kasturba Hospital, Manipal and Head of Manipal cluster, C.G. Muthanna  appreciated the author for documenting healthcare and hospital operation experiences which will be useful in managing large hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-brings-out-book-on-healthcare-management/article35292816.ece
13 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mars-Venus conjunction||The Pilikula Regional Science Centre has said that people can witness the conjunction of Mars and Venus from 7.20 p.m. on Tuesday. Amateur astronomers may send in interesting pictures of this conjunction tooutreach@iiap.res.inand good ones will be published online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mars-venus-conjunction/article35292825.ece
13 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Amateurs began documenting Tulu history in 20th century’||It is not true that ancient Tulu history has not been documented. Within limits, the elders have unconventionally documented history, said historian Pundikai Ganapayya Bhat. Speaking as a resource person on “Writings of Tulunadu history-The early footprints”, which was the first session during the webinar lecture series being organised by the Mangalore University, PG Department of History and Archaeology of the University College Mangaluru, in association with MANUSHA (Mangalore University History Teachers Association) here on Saturday, he said that amateur historians began systematic documentation of Tulu history in the early 20th century. He recalled the contribution of legends Polali Sheenappa Hegade, Manjeshwar Ganapathi Rao Aigal and Manjeshwar Govinda Pai. “Most of them stayed in villages, not trained and did not have any facilities for documentation. Despite all odds, they achieved this just because of their passion,” he added. Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya hoped that the webinar series will help people to know more about Tulu culture. College principal Anasuya Rai lauded the innovative endeavour of the department. PG Department of History and Archaeology Coordinator Ganapathi Gowda and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amateurs-began-documenting-tulu-history-in-20th-century/article35292817.ece
13 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru, other districts on alert over spread of ZVD in Kerala||Even as the State has stepped up surveillance in certain districts over the spread of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD), Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajnagar, that share the border with Kerala, are on an alert. Teams already into COVID-19 surveillance at the checkposts on the inter-State border have been alerted to keep vigil on travellers with ZVD symptoms. The workers at the checkposts in the districts had been screening commuters as a part of COVID-19 protocol. With Zika cases reported in Kerala, they have been instructed to strictly follow guidelines on ZVD. With the onset of the monsoon, vector-control measures had been already intensified in districts, including Mysuru. In Chamarajanagar, vector-control measures for malaria and dengue management have been intensified. “Seasonal vector disease control measures also help to prevent the spread of Zika, a vector-borne disease. The measures are already in place besides a general alert is on with the surveillance teams sensitized,” said Chamarajnagar DHO Ravi. In Kodagu, the authorities will collect blood samples in suspected cases and send them to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Bengaluru for confirmation. “Since Kerala has reported Zika cases, those travelling to the State through Kodagu will be subjected to blood tests if they have any of the ZVD symptoms like fever. This is part of our surveillance as recommended at three border checkposts in the district from Tuesday. We will be deploying additional staff at checkposts at Kutta, Makutta and Karike where COVID-19 surveillance is already on,” said Kodagu DHO Mohan. Documents needed RT-PCR negative reports or vaccination certificates are a must to enter the State. If anybody shows symptoms despite getting clearance to travel into the State, their blood samples will be tested, he added. “The government has sent guidelines and accordingly, preventive steps are being taken. Also, those with Kerala travel history are being monitored. Routine surveillance and vector management, including steps to prevent breeding of mosquitoes in rural and urban areas, have been stepped up,” the DHO said. At the Bavali checkpost in Mysuru district, travellers from Kerala have to wait to get clearance to enter the State, after verifying documents including RT-PCR negative reports and vaccination certificates besides proofs of identity, permanent addresses, purpose of visit and the local contact addresses. Other measures Among the precautionary measures usually taken by the Health Department for checking vector-borne diseases like dengue during monsoon includes a survey on Aedes mosquito larvae. The health workers, especially in rural areas, ask residents to check water stored in containers in households and clean them properly and dry them before filling water. They need to be cleaned once in two days to prevent breeding. Integrated vector management, active surveillance, passive surveillance, fever surveillance, contact survey are among other measures taken to check the spread of malaria.  Since Kerala has reported Zika cases, those travelling to the State through Kodagu will be subjected to blood tests if they have any of the ZVD symptoms like fever. This is part of our surveillance as recommended at three border checkposts in the district from Tuesday. We will be deploying additional staff at checkposts at Kutta, Makutta and Karike where COVID-19 surveillance is already on. Mohan Kodagu DHO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-other-districts-on-alert-over-spread-of-zvd-in-kerala/article35292841.ece
13 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Move to establish vending zone near S. Puram pool opposed||The Mysuru City Corporation’s move to establish one of the vending zones in front of the University Swimming Pool in Saraswathipuram has been opposed by the swimmers’ associations here. The MCC has proposed to establish vending zones at different places across Mysuru to help street vendors. The places were identified by zonal commissioners of MCC in their jurisdictions. It had asked the public to submit objections, if any. “It’s not appropriate to set up the vending zone near the pool which attracts swimmers of all age groups from morning till evening. The hygiene in the vicinity may be affected if vendors were allowed to operate. The MCC can choose another place since the identified location is also close to college and school, a park of medicinal plants and a temple,” said M.P. Nabhiraj, former swimming coach of UoM, who is also the Joint Secretary of Karnataka Swimming Association. He said the District Swimming Association and others have opposed the move and will be submitting a memorandum to the MCC Commissioner objecting the proposal, on Tuesday. “We also met the VC, UoM, and urged him to raise objections through the university to the proposal.” The University Swimming Pool, one of the oldest in Mysuru, is also a hub for the State-level swimming competitions. “It’s the only pool with facilities to conduct competitions in Mysuru. The area where the vending zone has been proposed is used as vehicle parking during competitions and events, and the vicinity gets congested causing inconvenience to swimmers,” he felt. He said the Karnataka Swimming Association is also considering writing to the MCC commissioner to drop the move of setting up vending zones near the pool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/move-to-establish-vending-zone-near-s-puram-pool-opposed/article35292840.ece
13 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Quarrying will be halted in the vicinity of KRS, says Minister||Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda, who is also in charge of Mandya district, has called for a complete ban on stone quarrying in Baby Betta and other areas in the vicinity of the Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS). Mr. Gowda, who presided over a meeting of district administration officials in Mandya on Monday in the wake of growing concern over the safety of the nine-decades-old structure from quarrying activities, said he would send a proposal to the State government for completely halting stone quarrying in Baby Betta area and would discuss the matter with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Other precedents Acknowledging the concern expressed by people over the threat to the structure of the KRS from blasts carried out at the quarry sites, Mr. Gowda said there was a provision to ban quarrying in areas surrounding dams. He also said there are examples of such prohibition around dams in different parts of the country. If necessary, he said, efforts would be made to identity suitable alternative sites for miners at Baby Betta, which he said should be promoted as a tourism site instead. Mr. Gowda came down heavily on officials for their failure to visit quarry units and collect information on the quantity of stone being quarried. Though the residents come to know about blasts taking place in quarries in the vicinity of the KRS, the officials have no information about it, he lamented. Lost royalty He also directed the officials to henceforth visit the quarry sites compulsorily and ensure that royalty from the mining activity is paid to the government. Though Mandya has 95 quarries, the royalty collected from miners is less than the amount collected in other districts where the number of units is lower, he said. Mr. Gowda said the district administration should set up a helpline so that members of the public can inform the authorities about quarry blasts taking place in their neighbourhood. The Minister also said a task force comprising officials from the departments of Mines and Geology, Police, Transport, Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, and Forest should constituted to check illegal quarrying in Mandya.   Though Mandya has 95 quarries, the royalty from miners is less than the amount collected in other districts where the number of units is lower K.C. Narayana Gowda, Minister in charge of Mandya district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarrying-will-be-halted-in-the-vicinity-of-krs-says-minister/article35292447.ece
13 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cheating case: Darshan wants ‘unseen’ hand exposed||A day after visiting the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police in Mysuru, actor Darshan on Monday hoped that the police investigation will expose the ‘unseen’ hand that tried to cheat him. The Hebbal Police in Mysuru registered a case of cheating and extortion based on a complaint lodged by Harsha, a hotelier friend of Darshan, against a woman and two others in connection with the attempt to fraudulently obtain a bank loan through the actor’s surety. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Darshan said the accused, who claimed to represent a bank in Bengaluru, had visited his farmhouse on the outskirts of Mysuru on the pretext of an inspection of the property for a bank loan amounting to Rs. 25 crore. The accused had claimed that the inspection was for the bank loan sought Darshan’s friends including the complainant Harsha. Clarifying that his friends had not sought any loans as claimed by the accused, Mr. Darshan said he suspected an ‘unseen’ hand in the case. For, he felt that the accused woman could not have mustered the courage to attempt such a fraud without the backing of the ‘unseen’ hand. He hoped the investigation would expose the same. Mr. Darshan also sought to clarify that he does not suspect film producer Umapathy also in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheating-case-darshan-wants-unseen-hand-exposed/article35292837.ece
13 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Few takers for KSRTC service to Kerala||The first day of resumption of KSRTC services to Kerala did not elicit a good response with barely a third of the seats occupied in the five buses that departed to Kozhikode and Thalaserry from Mysuru. KSRTC regularly operates about 40 schedules to different parts of Kerala daily. But, on Monday only five buses left for Kozhikode and Thalaserry with one third occupancy, said KSRTC’s Mysuru Rural Divisional Controller Srinivas. KSRTC, which had discontinued service to Kerala due to COVID-19, decided to resume operations from Monday. A statement from KSRTC said passengers travelling from Kerala to Karnataka in KSRTC buses have to carry COVID-19 negative test certificate not older than 72 hours or a vaccination certificate of having received at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/few-takers-for-ksrtc-service-to-kerala/article35292838.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC gives green light for holding SSLC exam||On the petitioner’s contention that SSLC students were being discriminated against when II PU students were being promoted without holding an exam, the Bench said the government had no sufficient data to promote SSLC students without the exam. The government, in the case of II PU students, had data of marks scored in Class X and I PU final exams for assessment of students for their promotion sans an exam, the Bench noted. Beneficial to students On the abridged exam format, the Bench orally observed that it was for the parents and their children to decide whether they wanted to take such an exam, in which all six subjects could be completed in two sessions of three hours each having only multiple choice questions, which was easier to answer, or to attend the full version of three hours of exam in each of the six subjects next year in the regular exam format. “The revised format appears to be a boon even for an average student,” the Bench orally observed. On the petitioner’s claim that the government should be held responsible if students and teachers were infected with COVID-19 after attending the SSLC exam, the Bench said the decision to appear for the exam was a “collective decision of parents and children and the government cannot force any student to take exam”. The petitioner could not show arbitrariness either in the decision of the government to hold the exam or in revising its format, the Bench said. The Bench also observed orally that it would be in the interest of students to have a certificate of the board of examinations after duly attending the exam instead of securing a certificate as part of mass promotion. Earlier, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi pointed out that all the students, who appear for the two-day exam, would be declared as promoted even if they fail to secure minimum marks, and the exam was for determining the score of individual students. Pointing out that the COVID-19 technical advisory committee had recommended holding the exam during the third week of July with the necessary safeguards, Mr. Navadgi pointed out that both the High Court and the Supreme Court had upheld the decision of holding SSLC exam in a similar situation during June 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-gives-green-light-for-holding-sslc-exam/article35292444.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Greening the world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/greening-the-world/article35292823.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Monsoon delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monsoon-delight/article35292441.ece
13 July 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||602 persons test positive in Alappuzha||The district logged 602 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It also recorded six COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 11.16%. Of the fresh cases, 575 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 27 others remains unidentified. The 602 cases include 123 reported from Alappuzha, 39 from Cherthala, 27 from Mannar, 22 from Chingoli, and 21 from Krishnapuram. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 8,014. 363 in Kottayam As many as 363 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Monday. All persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district was slightly lower at 8.83%. With 46 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ettumanur , which recorded 22 cases. As many as 506 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 5,197. 202 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 202 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 199 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8%. Aranmula With 16 cases, Aranmula reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamathitta municipality with 10 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed three more lives in the district. With 384 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,104 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/602-persons-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article35292790.ece
13 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Aqua tourism park to be set up at Kuthiravattom Chira||Plans are afoot to set up an aqua tourism park at Kuthiravattom Chira in Venmony grama panchayat in Chengannur. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian who visited the place recently said the project would boost tourism in the area. “A project has been envisaged to construct an aqua tourism park with all facilities on Kuthiravattom Chira. Apart from the park, allied facilities including a cycle track, gymnasium, dormitory, Miyawaki forest, parking space, conference hall, angling club, and boating will be arranged,” Mr. Cherian said. Besides the park, a cage farming unit and a hatchery for fish breeding are planned. Fish retail outlets and restaurants will also be set up. The Minister said that various projects would be implemented with the aim of tapping tourism potential in the Chengannur constituency. The project would come up in one of the highest points in the Alappuzha district. The Chira in the second ward of the grama panchayat was surrounded by freshwater lakes on three sides. Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation managing director Sheikh Pareeth, Fisheries Department joint director Ignatius Munroe, Agency for Development of Aquaculture Kerala joint executive director S. Mahesh, and others accompanied the Minister during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aqua-tourism-park-at-kuthiravattom-chira/article35292788.ece
13 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||3,000 houses built under Punargeham||The second Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has initiated a slew of measures to find solutions to problems faced by the fisher community in the State in five years, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. Mr. Cherian was distributing Mikavu-2020 awards, instituted by the Matsyafed, to students of the fisher community who scored high marks in the last year’s SSLC and Plus Two examinations here on Monday. The Minister said the government was constructing 20,000 houses under the Punargeham project to rehabilitate fisher families living within 50 metres of the coastline in the State. “The construction of 3,000 houses under the project has been completed. The government is committed to providing housing to all fisher families,” he said. The previous LDF government launched the Punargeham project to provide housing for all fisher families residing in areas vulnerable to sea erosion and tidal wave attack in nine coastal districts of the State. Mr. Cherian said the government was implementing projects worth Rs. 12,500 crore for coastal protection. “The completion of the coastal highway project will bring a new wave of development to the coastal areas. Hatcheries will be started in different parts of the State for production of 12 crore fish seeds in three years,” he said. On improving basic infrastructure facilities in schools in coastal areas, he said the construction of buildings for 36 schools was progressing. The Chethi Fishing Harbour in Alappuzha would be realised soon, the Minister said. A total of 318 SSLC students and 104 Plus Two students were given awards comprising a cash prize of Rs. 5,000 and a plaque. P.P. Chitharanjan, MLA, presided. Alappuzha district panchayat president K.G. Rajeswari, Aryad block panchayat president K.D. Maheendran, Mararikulam south gramapanchayat president P.P. Sangeetha, Matsyafed managing director Lawrence Harold, and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3000-houses-under-punargeham-project/article35292726.ece
13 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||No relief yet for Pettimudy landslip kin||The Pettimudy landslip tragedy is turning a year next month yet the next in kin of four persons who were found missing and later included in the list of dead have not received any compensation. The relatives of the missing persons said 10 months had passed since the government decided to include them in the list of the victims and the compensation was still pending. Despite appeals, they had not received the death certificate from the authorities, they said. The major landslip at Pettimudy claimed the lives of 70 members of worker families living in three estate lanes last August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-relief-yet-for-pettimudy-landslip-kin/article35292870.ece
13 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||One held on poaching charge||One person has been taken into custody in connection with the poaching of gaur (Indian bison) at Anpathiyettam mile forest under the Tholpetty range in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. The accused was identified as T.Moidu, 48, of Mundakkutty. The accused was a member of a six-member team of poachers and he was taken into custody while they were hunting a male gaur inside the sanctuary around 2 a.m. on Monday, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-on-poaching-charge/article35292715.ece
13 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||‘Little India Kasaragod’ tourism project launched||The “Little India Kasaragod” tourism project was being implemented to bring the district’s tourism potential to the forefront, said Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyas, on Monday. The Minister was speaking at the inauguration of the project led by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) online at the Bekal Lalit Resort. The Minister said that Kasaragod, rich in multilingual culture and cultural diversity, was a community where all the festivals of India were celebrated equally. No other country could claim such diversity. That was why this project was known as “Little India Kasaragod”. Kasaragod was unique with the people speaking around 30 languages. The project aimed at developing tourism by including local people in a way that blended the unique natural beauty, history and culture of Kasaragod. “We can make tourist destinations attractive. The aim is to make Kasaragod a national and international tourism hub,” the Minister said. The District Tourism Promotion Council aims to promote the tourism potential of the district through the branding of Little India Kasaragod - The Gateway to God's Own Country. The tourism potential of Kasaragod will be spread through social media and in collaboration with expatriate Kasaragod natives in different parts of the world. CH Kunjambu, MLA, presided over the function. Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, was the chief guest. M. Rajagopalan, A.K.M. Ashraf, MLAs; District Panchayat President Baby Balakrishnan; and Kasaragod Municipal Chairman V. M. Muneer, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/little-india-kasaragod-tourism-project-launched/article35292714.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 1,000 drivers enrol with Yatri app||The newly introduced low-fare option, alleged non-revision of fares for five years, and older cars being overlooked for newer ones have led to much consternation among drivers who attached to prominent online taxi aggregator firms, who have been severely hit by the pandemic-induced fall in patronage. “Most of us were eking out a hand-to-mouth existence due to the pandemic situation, coupled with pressure from banks and finance companies to clear loan dues, when a prominent online firm introduced the ‘low-fare’ option, whereby drivers could opt to operate at lower than the rock-bottom fare that was already in vogue. It is simply not possible for most drivers to operate at the lowered fares, especially so since fuel price has skyrocketed and is going up almost every other day,” said Shajimon Thomas, who had attached his car to an online firm. “The low-fare option in turn came with the commission that the firm levied increasing from 26% to 40%. The firm introduced this under the garb of helping drivers get return trips from suburbs. This is in addition to the base fare for many trips being reduced from Rs. 150 to Rs. 118 and levying of charges on drivers under different heads. Online firms know that most drivers do not have another option, since they are caught between the commitment to repay vehicle loans and the low resale value of cars post-COVID,” he added. This has driven a wedge between drivers of diesel / petrol cars and those who operate CNG cars, since only the latter could afford to operate under the ‘low-fare’ option without incurring loss. Online Taxi Drivers’ Union president T.R.S. Kumar said online taxi drivers were staring at a precarious situation. “Many have opted for online food delivery. That online taxi firms are not keen on cars that are older than five years has added to their woes,” he added. Pilot initiative on In such a circumstance, many drivers are flocking to the Yatri app which was launched jointly by the Kerala Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) and Beckn Foundation. Drivers need not pay commission to the promoters of the app. A pilot initiative is under way, while its formal launch is slated for July 23 by Minister for Transport Antony Raju. “Over 1,000 car drivers, mostly members of five trade unions, have attached with the new app in Kochi city. In this, all cars operate as per government-fixed tariff, while there is no surge fare, in which online firms used to levy higher fare during peak hours,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1000-drivers-enrol-with-yatri-app/article35292696.ece
13 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Spiralling fuel price finds an unlikely beneficiary||K.K. Soman, a sexagenarian from Valipadam in Koothattukulam, does not mind a fuel price surge. For, every hike in price increases the demand for his two bullocks and a cart drawn by them to protest against it. And for politicians, they offer the ideal optics for better media coverage. So, it proved the case on Monday when the District Congress Committee (DCC) organised a bullock cart protest against fuel price surging past the century-mark. The two bullocks and the cart were transported to the city on a vehicle with a five-member team to manage them. At the end of the day, it brought Soman, who is mainly into timber business, Rs. 20,000. “Maintaining bullocks is not very feasible, as they cost around Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 a day. I retain them in keeping with a family tradition,” he said. Earlier, when the famed Kakkoor bullock cart race was in vogue, Soman used to field them. Before the pandemic, they were also much in demand for quirky wedding photoshoots that fetched around Rs. 15,000. Two relatively back-to-back protests organised by the Congress party turned out to be the sole engagements for the animals in over a year since the COVID-19 outbreak. The protest rally on Monday from the Kaloor stadium to Gandhi Square, however, left the relatively young bullocks exhausted. Cycle rickshaw The protest also featured a cycle rickshaw, which was one of the two belonging to Balraj V.B., who runs a teashop at Pottakuzhi near Kaloor. It came at a rent of Rs. 2,000 and another Rs. 1,000 for the rider. “I bought them six years ago from Madurai at a collective cost of Rs. 80,000 out of curiosity,” said the 49-year-old who once owned 20-odd front-engine autorickshaws but is now left with two. Before the pandemic, the decorated rickshaws were the favourite photoshoot object for the newly-wed, fetching Balraj around Rs. 3,500. A rag picker from Tamil Nadu and settled here often served as the ‘driver-on-call’ thanks to his experience of riding his three-wheel cycle. “Sometimes, besides a daily wage of Rs. 1,000, those hiring him also gives a dress matching the photoshoot theme,” said Balraj. With the pandemic putting a spoke in demand, Balraj is finding it hard to even raise the maintenance costs. Neither Soman nor Balraj is restrained by political affiliations and rent their services to anyone who can afford to pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spiralling-fuel-price-finds-an-unlikely-beneficiary/article35292734.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||100 e-autos set for launch in Kochi in September||Even as Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has floated tenders to procure 77 e-autos for operating feeder trips of the Kochi metro, the Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Drivers’ Cooperative Society (EJADCS) is set to launch a fleet of 100 e-autos by September. A purchase order will shortly be placed, for which a decision is awaited on whether to opt for e-autos that come with batteries that can be swapped for fully-charged ones as soon as they run out of charge, or those that come with batteries that must be recharged by the driver at frequent intervals, official sources said. Two types One of these e-autos on which swappable batteries can be installed costs around Rs. 2.15 lakh. They come without a battery and performed well in different parameters during test drives. Drivers / owners need not bother about the warranty or lifetime of a battery, since they are assured of a fully-charged battery within a few minutes, on payment of a fee. Most e-autos that come with factory-fitted batteries cost approximately Rs. 3 lakh. This is because battery alone costs over Rs. 1 lakh. They have to be charged for at least four hours if they run out of charge, the sources said. Interestingly, less than half a dozen of the fleet of 16 e-rickshaws that were introduced three years ago for operating feeder trips from prominent metro stations are now in operation. A project to deploy another 150 of them in Kochi ran into rough weather owing to the pandemic. EJADCS representatives are expected to visit manufacturing units of firms in the coming week, to check out other e-auto models, including six-seater ones that are ideal for operation as shared autos. Seed funding German agency GIZ had committed to provide Rs. 45 lakh as seed fund for the venture to EJADCS, routed through the Kochi Corporation. The rest of the funds will be raised as loan by the society. Priority will be accorded to women and financially backward people as drivers of the 100 e-autos. On KMRL inviting tenders to procure e-autos, EJADCS sources said it would bring about undue competition, affecting the driver community. “Rather than operate a parallel fleet, the metro agency must permit all e-autos to recharge from metro stations where the facility is already available. It had agreed to rope in our e-autos to operate feeder trips. We have already trained and kept ready 115 drivers for the purpose,” they added. Meanwhile, sources in KMRL said its tender was to procure, manage and operate a fleet of e-autos. Six metro stations already have recharging facility. This could be extended to more locales, in tandem with the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-e-autos-set-for-launch-in-september/article35292730.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Experts scrutinising draft Coastal Zone Management Plan||As the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Kerala, which will define development activities along the coastal belt, is being finalised, various stakeholder agencies are assessing the impact of the draft plan. While the Fisheries Department has constituted an expert committee to assess the impact of the proposal on the sector, the Tourism Department has engaged a consultant to list its concerns. The draft CZMP, which covers nine coastal districts and Kottayam, is being circulated to elicit views from stakeholder agencies. The Fisheries Department too has constituted an expert committee by including 10 members. The department, while noting that fisherfolk and fish farmers are the major stakeholders in the coastal regulation zone area, feels that inputs for housing and development activities for the sustainable development of coastal areas need to be incorporated in the CZMP. It also plans to come out with an Integrated Fisheries Development Plan, which can be incorporated into the CZMP. The 10-member committee is headed by K.V. Thomas, former head of the Coastal Processes Division of the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS). The Environment Department, on its part, has constituted a three-member committee consisting of the Additional Chief Secretary, environmental consultant P.Z. Thomas, and lawyer P. B. Sahasranamam to study the draft plan. Meanwhile, a section of fishermen has opposed the nomination of members to the committee. Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi (TUCI) State secretary Charles George complained that the committee had been constituted to sabotage the implementation of the CZMP. The organisation demanded that the committee be scrapped. The suggestions put forward by various agencies will be discussed at the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority meeting and forwarded to the NCESS for its consideration. The public will get an opportunity to comment on the draft proposal and suggest modifications during public hearings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-scrutinising-draft-coastal-zone-management-plan/article35292732.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Priority to welfare of students, marginalised’||Priority would be accorded to welfare of students and marginalised sections of society, Jafar Malik, who assumed charge as District Collector of Ernakulam on Monday evening, said. S. Suhas, who was appointed MD of RBDCK, handed over charge of Collector to Mr. Malik. Steps would be taken so that officials of the Health department would work in tandem with Kudumbashree, anganwadi and Asha workers, to help provide educational and other support to students affected by the pandemic. Issues across the district would be redressed by ensuring the cooperation of all government employees. Measures would also be taken for making constructive intervention in the State government’s projects. In addition, land acquisition would be completed in a time-bound manner, Mr. Malik said. The new Collector’s wife, Afsana Parveen, who is based at the collectorate as District Development Commissioner (DDC); District Panchayat President Ullas Thomas; Additional District Magistrate M.S. Shajahan; Sub Collector Haris Rasheed; and Assistant Collector Sachin Yadav were among those present. Mr. Malik spoke of how emphasis would be given to priority projects announced by the State government, including of agencies like RBDCK and CSML. An action plan in this regard would be readied. “I will directly monitor projects to bring people from the transgender community, differently abled people and tribespeople into the mainstream. Attention will also be given to the mental health of children and others who have been forced to confine themselves to their houses due to the pandemic”. He said that confidence-building measures would be initiated in all departments and exhorted employees to work with dedication. Marking attendance and physical presence in the office alone was not sufficient. Those who shirked their responsibility would be taken to task, he said.  I will directly monitor projects to bring people from the transgender community, differently abled people, and tribespeople into the mainstream Jafar Malik District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-to-welfare-of-students-marginalised/article35292739.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sarith has not mentioned name of any leader||P.S. Sarith, an accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, has not mentioned the name of any political party leader in his court statement recorded the other day. At the same time, he submitted that there was pressure on him to name some political leaders from the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the case. There were reports that Sarith had stated before the court that some jail officials had compelled him to name former Leader of the Opposition and Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and BJP leader and Union Minister of State V. Muraleedharan in the gold smuggling case. However, sources privy to the development said that the accused did not mention the names of any political leaders. Instead, he chose to level complaints against two jail officials of Central Prison, Poojappura, where he had been housed, they said. The Opposition Congress and the BJP had alleged that the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] was attempting to falsely implicate the leaders of Opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sarith-has-not-mentioned-name-of-any-leader/article35292744.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Exhibition centre in two years, says Rajeeve||A Rs. 70-crore exhibition-cum-trade centre and a convention venue of international standards that have been envisaged at Kakkanad will be readied in two years, Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve has said. He was speaking after visiting the 15-acre site where the projects are slated to come up. They will help showcase products manufactured by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Kerala and enable them to get national and international attention. It will considerably help the State’s industrial and farming sectors. An annual calendar will be readied so that stakeholders will be able to showcase their produce. Amenities worth Rs. 30 crore will be readied in the first phase in the 15-acre space. They will be modelled on the lines of the exhibition centre of the Indian Trade Promotion Organisation in New Delhi. It will help integrate manufacturers, distributors, and retailers, while being of help to handicraft and handloom manufacturers. It will also augment export of farm and fisheries produce, Mr. Rajeeve said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exhibition-centre-in-two-years-says-rajeeve/article35292699.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sooraj bought land with graft money, HC told||Former PWD secretary and fourth accused in the Palarivattom flyover corruption case, T.O. Sooraj had purchased 17 cents of land on October 1, 2014, for Rs. 1.4 crore for his son subsequent to the release of Rs. 8.25 crore as mobilisation advance without any interest to the contracting company, RDS project Ltd., according to a statement filed by Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Monday in the Kerala High Court. The statement was filed in response to a petition filed by Mr. Sooraj seeking to quash the FIR against him. It said the actual payment in the land transaction was Rs. 3.30 crore. Mr. Sooraj had handed over Rs. 80 lakh in cash on May 22, 2014. He also gave Rs. 20 lakh on August 4, 2014 and Rs. 25 lakh on September 29 the same year as advances. In addition, an HDFC cheque of Rs. 1.4 crore and Rs. 1.1 crore was given. The VACB said Mr. Sooraj had also violated the rules of business by issuing an administrative sanction order for Rs. 72.6 crore for the flyover works. He had abused his official position as a public servant, indulged in corrupt activities and caused financial loss to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sooraj-bought-land-with-graft-money-hc-told/article35292742.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||582 fresh cases in Kochi||The district recorded 582 fresh cases of SARS-CoV2 on Monday. Six of the newly infected were health workers. The test positivity rate on Monday was 6.68%. Mulanthuruthy recorded 22 new cases followed by Payipra 20, Thrikkakara and Nayarambalam 17 each, Njarakkal, Thripunithura, and Mulavukad 16 each and Kadavanthra and Nellikuzhi 15 each. A total of 1,046 patients recovered from the disease. The number of patients under treatment for COVID-19 in the district was 11,341 as on Monday evening. A fresh batch of 8,708 samples were sent for testing on Monday. District control room for pandemic related information can be reached on the following numbers: 0484-2368802, 2368902 and 2368702. For vaccination-related queries, call 9072303861, 9072303927, 9072041171 and 9072041172 (between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m.). For vaccine certificate related information, dial 9072041170 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/582-fresh-cases-in-kochi/article35292737.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4.5 kg of heroin seized at airport||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 4.5 kg of heroin from the Cochin International Airport on Monday. The drugs were seized from Ashraf Mtoro, a Tanzanian native. Mtoro arrived in Kochi from Zanzibar, Tanzania, via Dubai by an international flight. The narcotics substance was found concealed inside his check-in trolley bag. The accused, according to DRI officials, was planning to leave for New Delhi from Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/45-kg-of-heroin-seized-at-airport/article35292731.ece
13 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Palm chopping: HC rejects plea to defer trial||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday turned down the pleas of two accused for deferring the second phase of trial in the palm-chopping case scheduled before the Ernakulam NIA Special Court. The right palm of T.J. Joseph, then a teacher at Newman College, Thodupuzha, was chopped off by assailants on July 4, 2010. Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice Ziyad Rahman A.A. passed the order while dismissing an appeal by Sajil of Muvattupuzha and M.K. Noushad from Aluva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palm-chopping-hc-rejects-plea-to-defer-trial/article35292743.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants vow to open shops across State from Thursday||The face-off between a section of merchants and the police at S.M. Street in Kozhikode on Monday morning, in full view of television cameras, reflected the concerns of traders across the State whose livelihood is hit by the ongoing pandemic-induced restrictions. The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) has now said that its members would open shops from Thursday in line with the protocol across the State. Samithi leaders T. Nazirudeen and Raju Apsara said that even after submitting various representations to the State government, the authorities were not allowing them to run their business. They claimed that traders had not been able to run shops for the past two months and many were on the brink of suicide. Indications of a showdown, however, were evident by Sunday evening. KVVES functionaries had said that traders, whose livelihood was at stake, should not be seen as “violators of law” if they were forced to open their shops. Mr. Raju Apsara had said that the current method of daily test positivity rate-based restrictions was unscientific. “People will come out in large numbers and the infection will spread if shops are closed for more number of days and then opened for a few days. If traders take to the streets, our organisation may not be able to control them,” he had said. The Kozhikode city police, meanwhile, had warned traders against calling upon others to open shops. It was pointed out that the Kozhikode Corporation was in ‘C’ category where the TPR for COVID-19 is between 10% and 15%. Merchants were also told that their trade licences would be cancelled. But, as expected, 25 members of the youth wing of the KVVES, supported by Youth Congress activists, tried to open shops at S.M. Street, a major commercial spot in the city, on Monday morning amid a steady drizzle. When the police promptly took them into custody, they were seen shouting slogans against restrictions and seeking permission to run their business. “When there is no bar on Bevco outlets selling liquor, why are we being stopped,” they wondered. The Town Police said that cases have been registered against 25 people and 18 had been served notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/merchants-vow-to-open-shops-across-state-from-thursday/article35292712.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Despite ‘stop memo’, construction progressing on Connolly Canal bank||The bank of Connolly Canal near Puthiyapalam, where construction of a building is in progress allegedly violating Coastal Regulation Zone rules, witnessed interesting scenes on Monday. Local councillor P.K. Nassar and Corporation Building Inspector Manikandan visited the spot in the evening and asked the building contractor and workers to stop the work immediately. However, construction activities resumed in less than an hour after they left. The local river protection committee said it showed the alleged nexus between river encroachers and corporation officials. “Mr. Manikandan said that the corporation had issued a stop memo on the construction on Sunday. But they went on with the construction even after several warnings and we had to inform the police,” said Faisal Pallikandy, secretary of the Kallai River Protection Committee. Police officials who visited the spot later on the day asked Mr. Manikandan for a copy of the stop memo. But he said the stop memo was only printed, and not issued. “By delaying the paperwork and lying about it, the official was helping encroachers to go ahead with their work,” Mr. Pallikandy said. He said the building under construction is almost on the edge of the canal. There were several other buildings on the same bank, obviously on encroached land, in different stages of construction. “We had called the Additional Tahsildar to pay a visit to the spot in question. She said she was too busy and asked me to contact the surveyor myself if I wanted to check if it was on encroached land,” Mr. Pallikandy added. A building on the land had been demolished in 2019 alleging encroachment. The River Protection Committee had earlier complained that encroachers were trying to mislead the court and the public by approaching the court in groups demanding separate surveys on the same land. “These people claim to be timber merchants, while only a minority of them are timber merchants at present. This is part of an elaborate scheme to grab government land,” Mr. Pallikandy alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-stop-memo-construction-progressing-on-connolly-canal-bank/article35292708.ece
13 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New Collector assumes office||The newly appointed District Collector Narasimhugari Tej Lohit Reddy assumed office on Monday. Mr. Reddy, who was formerly the District Collector of Pathanamthitta, succeeds Seeram Sambasiva Rao who has been posted as the new Director of Survey and Land Records Department. Mr. Reddy was welcomed to the collectorate by Additional District Magistrate C. Mohammed Rafeeque. Mr. Rao was also present to officially hand over charge along with Deputy Collectors N. Ramla, Shamin Sebastian, and Anitha Kumari. Mr. Reddy, a 2013 batch IAS officer from Andhra Pradesh, had held several key posts earlier such as the Director of Civil Supplies Department and the Registrar of the Department of Cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-collector-assumes-office/article35292719.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||INL faces another controversy||Barely a week after the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State leadership admonishing the Indian National League (INL) for a controversy over the Public Service Commission (PSC) membership, a fresh row has erupted within the party over Minister of Ports Ahammed Devarkovil allegedly accepting Rs. 3 lakh from businessman P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, also treasurer of the Indian Union Muslim League, for his election campaign in the Kozhikode South Assembly constituency. The INL leadership has rubbished the allegation, terming it disinformation, and has called it the handiwork of detractors within the party and a section of the media. “This is sheer nonsense spread by our detractors, especially after our party started getting political prominence in the State,” INL general secretary Kassim Irikkur told The Hindu on Monday. The latest controversy was a leaked telephonic conservation involving a former district secretary of the party. Three persons were suspended in connection with circulating the voice clip on social media. Mr. Irrikur said some disgruntled elements in the party, in collusion with a section of the media, had been trying to tarnish the image of the INL ever since Mr. Devarkovil was inducted into the Cabinet. ‘Disciplinary action’ “The State leadership has begun taking disciplinary action against few party activists. The steps include removing them from their posts or placing them under suspension. We are also planning to expel a few for anti-party activities,” Mr. Irikkur said. He said some of them had tried to defeat Mr. Devarkovil in the election.  Party denies allegation, blames it on detractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inl-faces-another-controversy/article35292741.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Forest dept. to build solar fences at Chakkittappara||Following frequent demands by farmers, the Forest Department has agreed to construct solar power fences in some of the most vulnerable areas in Chakkittappara panchayat where wild elephants recently destroyed crops in large acres of agriculture land. In the first phase, solar fences will be erected covering nearly two kilometres along the forestland at Vattakkayam. Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) M. Rajeevan, who held discussions with farmers at Peruvannamoozhi on Monday following a directive from Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran, also promised to submit a fresh proposal to the State government to sanction fund for rope fencing works on other vulnerable stretches. This would be apart from digging trenches and constructing granite walls in other areas, he said. Farmers and their leaders proposed to try bio-fencing as well along forest borders as it was found very effective in many other parts of the country. They said thorny palm saplings could be used for the purpose. “Our suggestion was to plant such saplings on at least a four kilometre stretch so that it could be a permanent solution to the wild animal menace. It would be the most eco-friendly project with minimal expenses to ward off wild elephants,” said Joy Kannachira, chairman of We Farm hillside farmers’ collective. He said sharp thorns of wild palms would discourage many other animals from venturing into agriculture fields. Forest Department officials said the suggestion made by farmers would be seriously considered. The fund for the same could be mobilised through the Social Forestry wing. Local farmers’ support could be sourced for planting and other conservation works, they said. Farmers who took part in Monday’s discussions said they were ready to offer all field-level labour support for the bio-fencing initiative. The only demand they placed before the DFO was to protect the saplings using power fences for at least five years. Land disputes between some of the rural farmers and the Forest Department were also taken up at the meeting. Based on the latest decision, the department would take speedy action for determining the boundary of disputed land on receiving written applications from farmers. Two farmers submitted their applications to the department at the meeting itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-to-build-solar-fences-at-chakkittappara/article35292720.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MPharm graduates wary of practice Bill amendment||The Union government recently gave the go-ahead for having clinical pharmacists, who besides dispensing drugs to patients also optimise their use based on one’s health conditions, in hospitals and medical shops. But, not everyone is happy about it. The government amended Pharmacy Practice Regulations, 2015 and a gazette notification was issued on July 5. However, MPharm Pharmacy Practice graduates have opposed a directive in the amendment to reserve these posts exclusively for Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm D) graduates. K.G. Ravikumar, former Head of the Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, said that both Pharm D and MPharm graduates should be allowed to work as clinical pharmacists. “It would have helped professionalise pharmacy practice in medical shops, most of which now have only diploma or degree holders,” he said. Sources said MPharm Pharmacy Practice graduates becoming ineligible was ironical as they have been training Pharm D graduates in academic institutions and hospitals. MPharm Pharmacy Practice and Pharm D graduates are equally trained in prescription auditing for medication errors, adverse drug reaction monitoring, and patient counselling among others. A Health Department official said the amendment could leave practising MPharm Pharmacy Practice graduates and those who pursue this course in the lurch. It would also challenge the very existence of the course, he said. T here are around 75 colleges offering MPharm course in the country and nearly 1,000 students graduate every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mpharm-graduates-wary-of-practice-bill-amendment/article35292740.ece
13 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Decomposed body recovered from drain||The city police on Monday recovered a decomposed body from the drainage near the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. It was around 12 noon that the decayed body came to the notice of a few labourers in the area. The medical college police said the body was in an unidentifiable state. The support of the Forensic Department would be sought as part of the further investigations, they said. A preliminary investigation was carried out to check whether there were any attempts to dump cadavers used for the anatomy studies at the medical college. Police sources said they were yet to rule out the chance. On getting forensic reports, the recent missing cases would also be cross-checked with it. The police could not even confirm whether it was a male or female. Details of some of the rough sleepers in the area would also be collected as part of the preliminary identification procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decomposed-body-recovered-from-drain/article35292716.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A year on, NIT-Calicut yet to get a director||The Union Ministry of Education has been seemingly sitting on a file for almost a year without taking a decision on the appointment of a new director at the National Institute of Technology Calicut (NIT-C). The post has been lying vacant after the five-year tenure of former director Sivaji Chakravorti ended in mid-August 2020. At present, Deputy Director P.S. Sathidevi has been given charge. Reasons for delaying the appointment were still unclear, sources said. A selection committee appointed by the Ministry of Education had carried out an online interview of shortlisted persons in last September. But the Ministry is yet to recommend a name for the post. Now, after the Cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Ramesh Pokhriyal, who was holding the Education portfolio, was replaced by Dharmendra Pradhan, who was earlier at the helm of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas as well as the Ministry of Steel. Quite interestingly, NIT-Delhi is also facing a similar crisis. The notification inviting applications for the post of director at NIT-Delhi was issued along with NIT-C notification. The post has also not been filled until now. Almost six years ago, before Dr. Chakravorti was appointed as director, the NIT-C went through the same predicament with the post of director lying vacant for more than a year. Two months ago, meanwhile, the Council of National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (NITSER), under the Ministry of Education called for entries for filling up of vacancies to the posts of the Director at the NITs at Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Jalandhar (Punjab), Kurukshetra (Haryana), Rourkela (Odisha), Surat (Gujarat), Tiruchirappali (Tamil Nadu) and Mizoram. Employed persons in government departments, autonomous organisations, public sector undertakings and universities could apply for the post on contract basis. The upper age limit for appointment is 65 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-year-on-nit-c-yet-to-get-a-director/article35292706.ece
13 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Motorist run over by truck||A 48-year-old motorist from Pannikode was run over by a truck at Omassery on Monday. The police identified the victim as A. Shaji, son of Imbichikandan. Eyewitnesses said the man, who tried to skip a water-logged area in haste, fell under the wheels of the truck. He died on the spot. Both the truck and the motorbike were coming from Thamarassery to Omassery. The accident took place around 11.30 a.m. The body of the victim was moved to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Some of the traders in the area said water-logged roads in many stretches were emerging as death traps for small vehicles and pedestrians. Overspeeding by loaded trucks was causing accidents along such routes, they said. A trade union leader from Thamarassery said the potholes in some of the accident prone-stretches in Mukkom were yet to be filled by the laxity of the Public Works Department authorities. He claimed that it was the third such major accident reported from the 5-km stretch within just one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motorist-run-over-by-truck/article35292717.ece
13 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Daily TPR falls to 10.35% in Kozhikode||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 fell to 10.35% when 780 of the 7,707 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, there were 743 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 32 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 159 locally acquired infections. The active caseload from the district is now 15,278.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-falls-to-1035-in-kozhikode/article35292713.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online festival to celebrate playwright Taj||The annual commemoration of playwright P.M. Taj, which had been suspended for a year owing to the pandemic, is back. The P.M. Taj Commemoration Committee is organising a week-long online event in memory of the dramatist, who made a mark in the Malayalam theatre scene. To be held from July 23 to 29, the event will feature programmes on regional and parallel theatre. They include talks by noted personalities from regional theatre, an international workshop for young theatre activists, play reading sessions, staging of plays written by Taj, paintings based on his plays, and a get-together of theatre activists. A workshop will be held from 10 a.m. to noon every day, while talks will be held at 7 p.m. Internationally acclaimed theatre personalities including Sankar Venkateshwaran, Ameeth Parameshwaran, Jijo.K. Mathew, Aliyar Ali, Athul Vijayakumar, and Maneesh Pachiyaru will be the resource persons at the workshops. Shibu S. Kottaram will deliver the P.M. Taj commemoration talk on July 29. Applications are invited from theatre persons of the 20 to 30 age group for the workshops which will be directed by Abheesh Sasidharan. Those interested shall fill a google form before July 17 and register for the workshop. For details, contact Abheesh on 9676145161 or the commemoration committee on 9447276505.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-festival-to-celebrate-playwright-taj/article35292694.ece
13 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Support to differently abled lauded||Being the Chairman of the National Trust LLC, the District Collector is responsible for the welfare of people with intellectual disability in every district. As a result of the efforts of former Kozhikode District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao, the district ranked first in the country for providing the maximum number of legal guardianship certificates and Niramaya insurance cover to intellectually chaintellectually challenged intellectually challenged persons. The district also set a model by providing COVID vaccines to more than 8,000 differently abled persons in a single day. Enabling Kozhikode, a dream project of Mr. Rao, encompassed Early Intervention CDMC, Model Buds School, Skill Training Centre, vocational training, rehabilitation and job placement for the differently abled. ‘Oppam’ adalats were organised for them with the cooperation of local bodies. All the intellectually challenged persons in 14 grama panchayats were provided legal guardianship certificates and Niramaya Insurance, which provides Rs. 1 lakh cover for treatment. Besides, BPL cards were distributed to deserving persons and transportation facilities were arranged in their locality. Several persons were provided homes bringing them under the PMAY-LIFE project, while several others were provided equipment to overcome their disabilities. The adalats also helped them avail of their pensions and scholarships. Mr. Rao was also instrumental in starting the self-employment scheme for mothers of differently abled children. There were cake baking classes and facilities for pisciculture under the scheme. “Kozhikode was the district where the maximum number of differently abled people voted in the last Assembly and panchayat polls. This was made possible through the SWEEP programme,” said P. Sikander, District Coordinator of National Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raos-contributions-to-differently-abled-lauded/article35292698.ece
13 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man ends life after shooting friend dead||A youngster was shot dead by another following a quarrel between them during a drinking session at Thiruvizhamkunnu, Ambalapara, near Mannarkkad, on Sunday night. The shooter, who was found unconscious reportedly after having consumed poison on Monday morning, died in the evening. According to the police, the incident took place at a watchman’s shed in a banana plantation. Sajeer, alias Fakruddin (24), son of Mohammed Paramban from Irattavari, was shot dead with a country rifle. He was shot on the left side of his abdomen. The police found Mahesh Puthanveettil (34) in an unconscious state from a coconut plantation some 300 metres from the crime scene. Mahesh had reportedly called his friend Sadik and told him that he had shot and killed Sajeer. Poison consumed Mahesh was suspected to have consumed pesticide Furadan after shooting Sajeer. The police and rushed him to a private hospital at Mannarkkad, where he died on Monday evening. The police suspected that the shooting took place following a quarrel between them during a drinking session. The rifle used in the murder and a knife were recovered from the plantation. Senior police officers, including District Police Chief Viswanath R., visited the scene. A team of forensic and ballistic experts are lending support to the police in the investigation. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-ends-life-after-shooting-friend-dead/article35292865.ece
13 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man gets life-term for murdering elder sister||A court at Ottappalam near here sentenced a man for life imprisonment on Monday for murdering his sister at Cherpulassery last year. The Additional Sessions Court, Ottapalam, also slapped a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on Prabhakaran Muttiyum Kunnath (46). He was convicted of murdering his elder sister Pankajakshi (65) by hacking and stabbing her with a knife on February 28 last year. Judge P. Saidalavi also said that the government should give compensation to Pankajakshi’s family under the victim compensation scheme. Prabhakaran and Pankajakshi had lived in neighbouring houses. He killed Pankajakshi in vengeance after she had visited another neighbour whom Prabhakaran hated. The court also found that Prabhakaran had harboured a grudge against his sister over a property dispute. Prabhakaran had surrendered before the police after killing his sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-life-term-for-murdering-elder-sister/article35292866.ece
13 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New Collector takes charge in Pathanamthitta||Divya S. Iyer, a 2014 batch IAS officer, on Monday took charge as the 36th District Collector of Pathanamthitta. Ms. Iyer succeeds Narasimhugari Tej Lohit Reddy, who has been appointed as District Collector of Kozhikode. Speaking after taking charge, the official said priority would be accorded to the COVID-19 containment activities, besides welfare of the aged and the downtrodden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-collector-takes-charge-in-pathanamthitta/article35292792.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Academy’s film fest explores facets of isolation||Isolation is something that goes against a collaborative effort like cinema, yet it can be an idea worthy of exploration on screen. As filmmaking, just like every other activity, came to a standstill following the COVID-19 outbreak, the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy made a call for short film scripts woven around the idea of ‘Isolation and Survival’. Myriad scripts, taking off on various tangents from this core idea, came up for consideration, from which the academy chose the 10 best scripts and provided them funding to make films. Over the past two days, the Academy has been showcasing the selected films as a short film festival organised on its YouTube page. From a barber in isolation to the idea of isolation from a motorcycle’s perspective, the lockdown-themed short film festival is garnering viewers online. One of the most popular films of the lot has been Shanoj R. Chandran’s Oru Barbarinte Katha , with Indrans in the lead. With the lockdown in place, a barber is spending his days alone in his house attached to the shop, with the volunteer from the community kitchen bringing him food being the only visitor. Alone and bored, he shapes his own hair and moustache, slowly forming a Hitler-like image, which according to him goes with his own authoritarian nature towards his wife, a sweeper at a government hospital, who has left him. The isolation and loneliness makes his rethink his own past actions. Places of worship The closing down of all places of worship during the lockdown also becomes the subject for two of the short films. Kallante Deivam written by Santosh Kumar and directed by Devi P.V. has a rather cheeky, irreverent take on the subject. The goddess herself appears bored, not just with the lockdown but her own life within the four walls, and strikes up a conversation with a thief who is there to do his job. When the thief is about to leave, still in disbelief at that conversation, the goddess asks him, “Was that your dream or mine? Should be yours, for the dreams of women with four walls would be much short and limited.” Bhayabhathi written by Manoj Puncha and directed by Brijesh Prathap, has a Theyyam performer having a rethink about his art, when he is forced to take a long break due to the lockdown.  David and Goliath written by Father Jose Puthussery and directed by Father Jacob Koroth and Father James Thottiyil, is a delightful story built around two children who invent some creative ways to help their mother isolate after being in contact with a COVID-19 patient. Akam , written and directed by V.S. Jinesh, uses the concept of isolation to explore questions of gender and freedom, with the story of a woman who reluctantly discovers and accepts her sexual orientation during the days spent in lockdown with her friend. Motorcycle Diaries , written by Ajayakumar M. and directed by Jamesh Kottakkal, looks at isolation from the perspective of an old Royal Enfield motorcycle, which is waiting for its young new owner, who had planned a cross-country trip on the bike, but is now in hospital after testing positive for the virus. The films will be available on the Academy’s YouTube page https://www.youtube.com /c/keralastate chalachitraacademy— for free viewing. The last set of films will be available till Wednesday.  The films will be available on the Academy’s YouTube pagehttps://www. youtube.com/c/keralastatechalachitra academy— for free viewing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academys-film-fest-explores-facets-of-isolation/article35292705.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traders vow to open shops on all days||Hardening its stance against the ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, the Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti has said it will reopen all shops and commercial establishments on all days from Thursday onwards, if the State government does not take a favourable stance soon. Ever since the second wave struck two months back, only shops selling essentials and restaurants providing food parcels are being allowed to function on all days. Demand to ease curbs The samiti has been for the past few weeks demanding that the government ease the restrictions so that all commercial establishments are allowed to function on all days. It has also taken a stance against the weekend lockdown, during which almost all establishments stay shuttered. Except the shops for essentials, all other establishments are allowed to function only on three days. In addition, there are several other types of shops, including those selling home appliances, furniture, and other material, which have not yet been allowed to open. The decision was announced after a meeting of the samiti’s State committee on Monday afternoon. COVID protocol A joint statement of samiti president T. Naseeruddin, general secretary Raju Apsara, and treasurer Devasia Mechery said the shops would function on all days by following the COVID-19 protocol. Earlier in the day, the samiti leaders met Minister for Local Self-Government M.V.Govindan and handed over a memorandum of their demands. “The Minister assured us to look at our demands favourably. But it is hard for us to survive without reopening shops in the current situation," said Peringamala Ramachandran, samiti vice president. Recent weeks had witnessed the suicide of a lights and sounds shop owner and a goldsmith after their businesses had run into losses due to the extended lockdown. The samiti had staged protests following the deaths.  The decision was announced after a meeting of the Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti’s State committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-threaten-to-open-shops-on-all-days/article35292794.ece
13 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. moots industrial dispute redressal system||The Industries Department has mooted a Bill that proposes to institute a statutory industrial dispute redressal system at the State and district level to enhance Kerala’s ease of doing business profile globally. The government hopes to introduce the proposed law in the second session of the 15th Assembly beginning July 22. The Law Department is reportedly vetting the proposals. Separately, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has reportedly proposed to do away with overlapping inspections by multiple authorities at factories. Centralised checks Instead, the government hopes to put a centralised inspection mechanism to minimise interruptions to industrial production during mandatory checks. Industrialists had reportedly complained that multiple visits from inspectors of different departments often disrupted business. The inspection reports were often contradictory and overlapped with that of other departments, some had claimed. Sometimes the inspections resulted in factory shutdown, cancellation of licence, and consequent loss of production. For instance, multiple agencies looked into the aspects of industrial pollution and labour welfare. Often the inspectors operated in isolation from others in sister departments. An official said the government would put an end to arbitrary and complaint-based inspections. Instead, Industries, Health, Local Self-Government, Labour, Fire and Rescue, Electrical Inspectorate, Factories and Boilers, and Pollution Control departments would synchronise industrial inspections via the proposed centralised system. Time to comply Surprise checks and intrusive inspections would cease to be the norm. The government would accord industries sufficient time to comply. It might allow self-certification for middle and low-risk sectors to reduce the “compliance burden”. Watchdog agencies would verify complaints before initiating checks. They would keep industries in the loop about inspections and accord them time to rectify anomalies, if any. Ease of doing business The State’s ease of doing business image had arguably come under a cloud after a home-grown garment manufacturer, KITEX, grabbed national attention by “threatening” to move future investment to Telangana to protest against “unsettling” back-to-back inspections at the group’s factory in Kochi. The Telangana government had feted KITEX owner Sabu M. Jacob in Hyderabad last weekend and promised to help him set up shop at an industrial park in Warangal district. Mr. Jacob had accused the Left Democratic Front government of political harassment. He said the current dispensation had sought to punish him for fielding Independent candidates under the banner of 20/20, a political party he floated in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-moots-industrial-dispute-redressal-system/article35292749.ece
13 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State posts 7,798 fresh cases||Kerala reported 7,798 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, when the number of samples tested over the weekend dipped to 85,307. The test positivity rate showed a slight dip at 9.14%. The State’s active case pool and total hospitalisations have been stagnating for weeks now, with over 1 lakh active cases, of which approximately 25,000 are occupying hospital beds. The State’s active case pool had 1,11,093 patients with 11,447 patients recovering on the day. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 14,686 with the State adding 100 recent deaths to the official list on Monday. The number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 1,862 and the total number of patients treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals was 24,785. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in the State was 1,941, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 690. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 30,73,134 cases. Highest in Thrissur Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases with 1,092, Kozhikode 780, Kollam 774, Malappuram 722, Thiruvananthapuram 676, Palakkad 664, Alappuzha 602, Ernakulam 582, Kasaragod 553, Kannur 522, Kottayam 363, Pathanamthitta 202, Wayanad 137 and Idukki 129 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-posts-7798-fresh-cases/article35292756.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caution on exclusionary streak in nationalism||Noted Indian-American socio-cultural anthropologist Arjun Appadurai has cautioned against the cultural subtext within the idea of nationalism that often tend to be exclusionary and majoritarian. Prof. Appadurai, the Goddard Professor in Media, Culture and Communication at New York University, added the problem of minorities was a massive fundamental crisis in democracy. He was delivering the first Prof. Jacob John Kattakayam (JJK) memorial lecture, jointly organised by the Institute for Social Research and Action (ISRA) and JJK Students’ Collective, on ‘The culture of development and the development of culture’ on Monday. Prof. Kattakayam was former Director of the UGC Academic Staff College and Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences in KU. Prof. Appadurai said the idea of minority is a modern, liberal and social concept wherein such persons are viewed as incomplete citizens who had no place in the nation. The concept has led to a situation of greater impunity in the country where any person can commit any crime against those below them in the social strata. He opined development hinged on expanding the ‘aspiring capacity’ of marginalised sections. “Aspiration acts a forward-looking motivation to develop oneself. However, development will never happen when hope is dead among a certain community. Such sections must be enabled to aspire for development by helping them attain experiences gained through mobility, education and others. Policy makers must introspect whether development policies had potential to strengthen the capacity of the poor to aspire,” he said. Influence Transport Minister Antony Raju, who inaugurated the commemoration, credited Prof. Kattakayam for influencing the State’s senior citizen policies, especially while formulating guidelines on road safety, old-age homes and the implementation of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act. T.K. Oommen, Professor Emeritus, JNU, presided over the programme. Antony Palackal, Head of the Sociology Department in Kerala University, also spoke.  Prof. Arjun Appadurai spoke on ‘The culture of development and the development of culture’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-on-exclusionary-streak-in-nationalism/article35292921.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Back-up operations centre to be set up at Secretariat||An ‘Alternate State Emergency Operations Centre’ (SEOC) will be established in the Secretariat here as part of strengthening the State's disaster response mechanism. The Alternate SEOC will complement and serve as a back-up for the main SEOC operational at the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) headquarters at Vellayambalam in the capital. ‘Live entity’ The proposed EOC will function as a 'live collaboration entity' for emergency operations, designed to be easily accessible to the Chief Minister and the Chief Secretary, who are the ex officio chairperson and the chief executive officer respectively of the State Disaster Management Authority, said a senior official of the Disaster Management Department. ''The fundamental requirement of an alternate facility is that it should be able to take over smoothly in a scenario where the main SEOC has ceased to operate for some reason,'' the official said. Handbook The Handbook on Disaster Management (Emergency Operations Centres and Emergency Support Action Plan), Kerala, underscores the importance of a ''fully-capable alternate location,'' that is, an alternate EOC, ''that can be activated and used if the primary (one) is destroyed, damaged or not accessible.'' The SEOC in Kerala was notified in 2013, but it was transformed into a full-fledged entity at the KSDMA building in January 2019, following the devastating floods of August 2018. According to the National Disaster Management guidelines, ''each EOC is designed and developed in such a manner as to normally work in an independent way to fulfil the local requirements.'' Coordination work Once the SEOC gets operationalised during an emergency, Central and State government departments and agencies, including the armed forces, depute their representatives to it to coordinate disaster management exercises. The Disaster Management Department has issued orders forming a Technical and Purchase Committee headed by the principal secretary, general administration, for establishing the Alternate SEOC as a permanent mechanism in the Secretariat to deal with emergencies. The panel will have its first meeting on July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-up-emergency-operations-centre-to-be-set-up-at-secretariat/article35292727.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dialysis facility for COVID patients in Neyyattinkara||To ensure continued dialysis support for kidney patients who have tested COVID-19 positive, the district panchayat has set up a separate dialysis block at the District Hospital in Neyyattinkara. Two dialysis units are available for COVID-19 patients at the separate, isolated block, which will be inaugurated by Assembly Speaker M.B.Rajesh on Wednesday. Along with this, a new effluent treatment plant and a solid waste treatment plant will also be inaugurated at the hospital. According to the hospital Superintendent, the hospital has 24 dialysis units, out of which two units have been set aside separately for COVID-19 patients. “Quite a few older COVID-19 patients are already on dialysis. This has to be continued even when they are undergoing hospitalisation for COVID-19. But they cannot be provided dialysis along with the rest of the patients. So, a separate bay and other arrangements have to be made for the purpose. Over the past few weeks, civil works were carried out and the old building was modified. Separate entry and exit points, nurses station, toilets and other facilities have been arranged,” said the Superintendent. With the setting up of the separate dialysis block for COVID-19 patients here, the hospital can cater to patients in and around Neyyattinkara taluk, most of whom used to depend on the Government Medical College Hospital Thiruvananthapuram, which has made such separate arrangements for dialysis patients. Effluent plant The district panchayat’s projects for an effluent treatment plant as well as a solid waste management park have also been completed, and will be opened along with the dialysis block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dialysis-facility-for-covid-patients-in-neyyattinkara/article35292925.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Appointment of KU lexicon editor sparks controversy||The Kerala University’s appointment of a Sanskrit Professor as Editor of Malayalam Lexicon has run into rough weather. The row also acquired a political tinge with certain quarters alleging nepotism behind the appointment of the teacher, who is the wife of R. Mohanan, the Officer on Special Duty to the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. H. Poornima, a Professor in the Department of Sanskrit General, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, was appointed on deputation as Editor. The move drew backlash with many alleging she lacked scholarship in Malayalam. Kerala Students Union activists protested against the appointment by barging into her office on Monday. Political pressure Save University Campaign Committee, which petitioned the Governor seeking the appointment be quashed, alleged that appointment was influenced by political pressure. Panel chairman R.S. Sasikumar and secretary M. Shajarkhan also accused the university of modifying the criterion for appointment in violation of the university norms to suit the applicant. While those who held Masters degree in Malayalam and research degree of a Doctorate standard used to be considered earlier, the university enabled scholars having PhD degrees in Malayalam or Sanskrit to apply this time. Taught Malayalam too However, Prof. Poornima dismissed the allegations and pointed out that she was appointed on the basis of the thorough selection procedure. She added that she has taught numerous students in Malayalam during the last 25 years and that she has translated Malayalam books. Prof. Poornima also took offence at the critics neglecting their academic qualification and considering her merely as someone’s wife. The university too defended its move by maintaining the prescribed rules were all complied with during the appointment process. Pointing out the appointment was on deputation basis and not permanent, university authorities said the move was aimed at ensuring the smooth conduct of the Malayalam Lexicon and to prevent a faculty member from getting overburdened by helming it through additional charge. While the selection process was conducted by a committee of accomplished Malayalam professors, those proficient in Sanskrit were also allowed to apply for the post as its knowledge was unanimously felt to benefit the Editor of the Malayalam Lexicon. German Besides being proficient in languages such as Sanskrit, English, Hindi, Malayalam and Tamil, the appointee was also found to possess a deep understanding of German, the university stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointment-of-ku-lexicon-editor-sparks-controversy/article35292700.ece
13 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State Police Chief warns officers against rights violations||State Police Chief (SPC) Anil Kant has warned police officers against violating human rights under the pretext of imposing the law. In a circular to law enforcement officers, Mr. Kant said the police were primarily protectors of citizens’ life, property, and dignity. There was no place for third-degree, impolite behaviour or illegal detention in policing, he said. Mr. Kant’s warning comes against the backdrop of a complaint that police officers had roughed up a journalist in Malappuram. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had assured the media that senior officers would investigate the incident. Mr. Kant said SHOs should fully account for persons detained overnight in police stations. They should not detain anybody without entering their name, address and time of arrest in station records. Sub Divisional Officers should mandatorily get a list of detainees in police stations under their jurisdiction early in the evening. SHOs should update the list if necessary. SHOs should ensure those arrested on grievous charges are medically examined and produced in court at the earliest. They cannot detain offenders for long hours at the station. If required, officers could seek their judicial custody later for further investigation. Mr. Kant said SHOs should log every police inspection or action. Suspects handed over to the police should be subjected to a medical examination. SHOs should be present mandatorily when suspects are questioned. They should not relegate the duty to plainclothes officers or anti-crime squads. The police should prioritise complaints from women and children and marginalised and economically disadvantaged sections of society. Their petitions should be processed rapidly. SHOs should issue receipts for complaints received at stations. SHOs should directly hear complaints. They should not act dismissive towards petitioners. Mr. Kant said SHOs should subject inebriated detainees to a medical examination. They should maintain an assignment book. The SPC warned officers against airing their personal opinion on social media. They should not use their official identity, e-mail address or mobile phone number to operate social media accounts. Officers should refrain from making political comments and avoid social media controversies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-warns-police-against-violating-human-rights/article35292702.ece
13 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Industries Minister to meet entrepreneurs||Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve will conduct the ‘Meet the Minister’ programme in the district on Friday. It will be held at Jimmy George Indoor Stadium, Vellayambalam, at 2 p.m. The programme is aimed at meeting directly those who have started industrial enterprises in the district and those interested in launching them and addressing the problems faced by them in the running of the enterprises. The Industries Principal Secretary, Industries-Commerce Director, District Collector, and district-level officials of departments such as Local Self-government, Legal Metrology, Mining and Geology, and Fire and Rescue Services will participate in the programme. Those interested in highlighting complaints or problems can apply beforehand through the District Industries Centre at Vellayambalam directly or e-mailminister tvm2021@ gmail.comormeetthe minister@ gmail.comalong with full address and mobile number, the District Industries Centre general manager said. For details, contact 0471 2326756.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industries-minister-to-meet-entrepreneurs/article35292922.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protect children’s rights during raids, says panel||Investigation agencies including the Police and the Excise Department should take care to protect the rights of children while carrying out inspections and raids, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said on Monday. The Commission has directed the Home Secretary, State Police Chief, and the Excise Commissioner to issue guidelines that should be followed by officials when carrying out inspections on premises where children are present. A Commission division bench consisting of members K. Nazeer Chaliyam and Babitha Balraj issued the order on a complaint filed by C. J. Shibu of Sultan Bathery alleging lapses on the part of the Circle Inspector, Meenangadi, while inspecting an house where only children were present. Officers should ensure the presence of adults known to the children when the inspections are conducted, the Commission noted. Care should be taken to avoid frightening the children. The presence of women officers also should be ensured in the inspection teams in such cases, the Commission said. During prolonged raids, food should be made available to the children. If the parents are taken into custody, close relatives or the legal guardian and the District Child Welfare Committee should be informed, the Commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protect-childrens-rights-during-raids-panel/article35292728.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prevent illegal felling of trees, demands KSSP||The 58th State conference of the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) on Sunday demanded effective measures to prevent the unregulated felling of trees in revenue pattaya land. Procedures The Parishad, in a resolution has also sought more clarity on the procedures for permitting the felling of trees in ecologically important regions of the State. The government order which permitted farmers to fell trees which grew on farm land after title deeds (Pattayam) were issued as per the 1964 Kerala Land Assignment Act had led to corruption and destruction of ecology, the Parishad said. One should not ignore the ecological consequences of tree felling on deeded (Pattaya) land, a major part of which are closely linked to the Western Ghats. Neither should it be forgotten that the protection of the Ghats is a necessity for the entire population of Kerala, the Parishad noted. It urged the State government to ensure the protection of trees through suitable amendments to laws and stringent curbs to prevent the felling of endangered tree species. The Parishad has called for strengthened efforts for ensuring the right to self-determination for women. The Parishad has also called for a new, sustainable approach to coastal conservation, the use of Malayalam also as the medium for engineering education, appointment of aided school and college teachers through PSC and a comprehensive law governing pre-school education. O. M. Sankaran is the new president of the Parishad. P. P. Renjini and Joji Koottummel have been elected vice-presidents and P. Gopakumar, the general secretary. L. Shailaja, K. S. Narayanankutty and P. Ramesh Kumar are the new secretaries and M. Sujith, the treasurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prevent-illegal-felling-of-trees-demands-kssp/article35292697.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘MIMI Fish’ to hit the market soon||Here's some good news for fish lovers who constantly worry about the quality of the fish they get from the market. MIMI Fish, a retail venture of the Fisheries Department, is set to open sales outlets and launch online home delivery services in the State for the supply of fresh fish and value-added products. Traceability Traceability of the product is billed the USP of this initiative. The buyer will be able to track down all relevant information about the fish; where it was caught or harvested, details of the fishers involved in the capture or production and their locations. Partner fishing boats of MIMI are given individual RFID-tagged ice boxes, so that the date, time and place of capture of the fish are accessible to the consumer. The initiative is being implemented by the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation (KSCADC) under its socio-economic initiative ‘Parivarthanam,’ with support from the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR-CIFT). Products immediately on offer include fresh fish, dry fish, fish curry and fish pickles. More value-added products will be added to the list soon. The website of MIMI Fish will be launched by Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian at a function at Kollam shortly. Initially, MIMI Fish will be introduced in Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts. It will be extended to other districts and other parts of the country in subsequent phases, Roy Nagendran, Chief of Operations, Parivarthanam Project, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mimi-fish-to-hit-the-market-soon/article35292920.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Girl chokes to death||A six-year-old girl choked to death while munching on ‘mixture’ snack in her home near Nemom on Sunday. According to the police, the deceased, Niveditha developed uneasiness while consuming the snack in her house in Thrikkannapuram around 3 p.m. Her parents rushed her to the hospital, but her life could not be saved. An autopsy revealed that the snack was stuck in her trachea. Niveditha’s parents said she had the snack while lying on her back. She is survived by her father Rajesh, an auto driver, and mother Kavitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-chokes-to-death/article35292924.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SSLC results tomorrow||The results of the 2021 SSLC examinations will be declared on July 14. Minister V. Sivankutty will announce the results at 2 p.m. The results can be accessed at http://keralapareekshabhavan.in, https://sslcexam.kerala.gov.in, www.results.kite.kerala.gov.in, http://results.kerala.nic.in, www.prd.kerala.gov.in, www.sietkerala.gov.in. The results of the THSLC, THSLC (Hearing Impaired), SSLC (Hearing Impaired), AHSLC examinations also will be declared on the occasion. The SSLC (HI) results will be available on http://sslchiexam.kerala.gov.in. The THSLC (HI) can be accessed on http:/thslchiexam.kerala.gov.in, the THSLC results on http://thslcexam.kerala.gov.in, and the AHSLC results on http://ahslcexam.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-results-to-be-declared-tomorrow/article35292701.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||676 new COVID cases in capital||Showing strong signs of COVID-19 case graph plummeting in the capital district, the daily caseload fell to its lowest since April 14 to record 676 cases on Monday. The test positivity rate slipped to 6.54% when 10,322 people were subjected to tests. While 898 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 9,524. While 595 of the fresh cases were attributed to local transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 79 cases. One health worker also tested positive. The district administration has placed 32,942 people in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/676-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article35292923.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Freak accident||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/freak-accident/article35292710.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Colours of survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colours-of-survival/article35292796.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bleak days||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bleak-days/article35292724.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lone ranger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lone-ranger/article35292693.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Colours by nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colours-by-nature/article35292927.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raising a demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raising-a-demand/article35292929.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking justice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-justice/article35292931.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Burning issue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burning-issue/article35292868.ece
13 July 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP instigating farmers to declare crop holiday’||Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop on Tuesday alleged that the Telugu Desam Party leaders were instigating the Konaseema farmers to declare a crop holiday in kharif. A few weeks ago, the farmers in Inapuram and Mummidivaram mandals reportedly declared a crop holiday citing the government’s failure to address the threat of inundation of crops during the Godavari flood. Accompanied by Mummidivaram MLA P. Sateesh and irrigation officials, Mr. Viswaroop persuaded the farmers in Mummidivaram to withdraw the crop holiday. “The TDP has been instigating the farmers to declare the crop holiday. We are admitting that there is an immediate need to repair the existing irrigation systems to tackle the threat of inundation of crops,” said Mr. Viswaroop. He told the farmers that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to release Rs. 24 crore for the immediate works and Rs. 300 crore for a permanent solution to the crop submergence problem in the Konaseema region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-instigating-farmers-to-declare-crop-holiday/article35292891.ece
13 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector listens to woes of water supply workers||Leaders of the workers’ union of the Neelakantapuram Sriramireddy Water Supply Scheme on Monday met District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan to reiterate their demand of payment of minimum wages of Rs. 21,000 and depositing of full amount of Provident Fund and settling of all pending wage bills for several months. Water supply in the majority of the villages in Anantapur district had come to a halt on Saturday after the union leaders refused to resume duties. Union president G. Obulu said they had held talks with contractors of Comprehensive Piped Water Supply(CPWS) schemes but none of their statutory rights were implemented. In the representation given to the District Collector, the union has demanded immediate scrapping of the contractor system in managing the CPWS schemes. When the Collector asked the Rural Water Supply Superintending Engineer as to why statutory provisions were not implemented, they said the contractors were issued notices for that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-listens-to-woes-of-water-supply-workers/article35292380.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka reports third case of Delta Plus||Karnataka reported another Delta Plus, or B.1.617.2.1 (AY.1) case, taking total infections for the variant to three in the State. The latest patient was a 62-year-old woman from Tumakuru district, who recovered. Bengaluru civic officials said the woman had come to the city on June 18 to visit her daughter, a resident of Nandini Layout in West Zone. A couple of days later, she reported mild symptoms and three members from her family were tested. The woman was under home isolation. “While all the three from the family tested positive, the 62-year-old woman’s samples were confirmed as Delta Plus following genome sequencing on July 2. By then she had already gone back to her native place,” officials said, adding that 45 of her contacts were traced and tested. On June 22, the State reported the first Delta Plus variant case in Mysuru. The next day, another case was detected in Bengaluru. The variant arose due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant. Karnataka on Monday reported 1,386 new cases, taking the total to 28,72,684. Bengaluru Urban added 319. With 61 deaths, the toll rose to 35,896. The day’s test positivity rate (TPR) was 1.26% In Kerala, with weekend testing down to 85,307, there were 7,798 fresh cases on Monday. The TPR was also down, at 9.14%. Active cases were at 1,11,093. Cumulative fatality stood at 14,686. Total cases in Kerala stood at 30,73,134 cases. Thrissur district reported the highest new cases at 1,092, Kozhikode 780, Kollam 774, Malappuram 722, Thiruvananthapuram 676, Palakkad 664, Alappuzha 602, Ernakulam 582, Kasaragod 553, Kannur 522, Kottayam 363, Pathanamthitta 202, Wayanad 137 and Idukki 129. 22 deaths in A.P. Andhra Pradesh reported 22 new deaths and 1,578 infections on Monday. The death toll and cumulative case tally increased to 13,024 and 19,24,421 respectively. The daily TPR was 2.52% and 62,657 samples were tested. Kadapa, Anantapur, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts reported no fresh deaths, while Kurnool and Visakhapatnam reported one each and Srikakulam two. The remaining six districts reported three deaths each. East Godavari reported 305 infections. With 2,652 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, the total number of infections recorded in the State has risen to 25,21,438. In Chennai the number of active cases stood at 1,680. Of the 25,200 who were tested, 171 were positive, indicating a positivity rate of 0.7. As many as 3,79,277 persons were administered vaccines at 2,142 sessions across the State on Monday.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-reports-third-case-of-delta-plus/article35292344.ece
13 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 6.2 crore worth red sanders dump seized||The Chittoor police on Sunday night raided a red sanders dump and seized 8.4 tonnes of logs worth about Rs. 6.2 crore, and arrested a key accused on the outskirts of Bommanapalle village of Hosur taluk of Krishnagiri district. Speaking to the media here on Monday, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that he along with DIG (Anantapur), Kanthi Rana Tata and Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari had formed a special team to undertake a special raid in Tamil Nadu, based on information from a red sanders smuggling accused on Saturday last. The SP said that in the early hours of Saturday, a police team nabbed an accused near Chittoor. During interrogation, it was revealed that one Dasthagiri Imran Khan alias Imran Bhai (29), a resident of Bengaluru, was operating a secret godown in Krishnagiri district, procuring the red sanders logs and transporting them to Mumbai and New Delhi. On Sunday night, a flash raid was conducted at the Tamil Nadu location, leading to the arrest of Dasthagiri Imran Khan, and seizure of the huge dump, which was later shifted to the District Police Office grounds in Chittoor. The accused was booked under various sections of the IPC and was lodged at sub-jail in Chittoor on remand. The SP warned that the operatives who fail to stop their illegal errands would be booked under the PD Act and dealt with sternly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-62-crore-worth-red-sanders-dump-seized-key-accused-nabbed/article35292329.ece
13 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mohan Babu’s gesture to slain jawan’s daughter||In a humanitarian gesture, actor and educationist M. Mohan Babu has announced to provide free education to the daughter of a slain army jawan, at his Sree Vidyanikethan educational institutions(SVET) near Tirupati. Ch. Praveen Kumar, a native of Reddivaripalle of Irala mandal in Chittoor district, was working as Hawaldar in Indian Army when he lost his life in an extremist attack in Srinagar on November 8 last year. After an 18th regiment officer, Colonel O.L.V. Naresh, wrote a letter requesting him to provide free education to the jawan’s daughter, SVET chairman Mohan Babu invited jawan’s wife Rajitha and his daughter Ch. Lohitha to the campus at A. Rangampeta on Saturday last. The actor assured the family that Lohitha would be provided free education from class IV to XII in his institution. Speaking to mediapersons, Dr. Mohan Babu said: “It is the bounden duty of every Indian to support the families of martyrs who laid down their lives for the safety of all of us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mohan-babus-gesture-to-slain-jawans-daughter/article35292385.ece
13 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kathi Mahesh laid to rest at native Yalamanda||Actor, film critic and director Kathi Mahesh (44) was laid to rest at his native village Yalamanda in Yerravaripalem mandal of Chittoor district on Monday, amid mourning by family members, villagers, friends and supporters. Mahesh, who was critically injured in a road accident near Nellore on June 27, was shifted to Apollo Hospitals at Chennai, where he died on Saturday. His body was brought to Yalamanda on Sunday night. He is survived by wife and a son. A student of the AP Residential School at Gyarampalle, Mahesh had maintained cordial relations with a cross-section of people in the district. Though he settled in Hyderabad, Mahesh kept visiting the native place often. MRPS State leader Manda Krishna Madiga was among those took part in the funeral procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kathi-mahesh-laid-to-rest-at-native-yalamanda/article35292849.ece
13 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior TDP leader P.R. Mohan passes away||Senior TDP leader and former chairman of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh P.R. Mohan (72) passed away following a cardiac arrest at his residence at Srikalahasti in Chittoor district. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his wife Bhuvaneshwari paid tributes to the mortal remains of the party leader. Mr Naidu termed Mohan’s demise as a big loss to the party. Recalling his services to the party since 1982, Mr. Naidu said Mohan had played a crucial role in the victory of the party. Mohan was a former Andhra Ranji cricketer who later joined the TDP and rose to become the chairman of the SAAP, besides serving as chairman of Sree Kalahasteeswara Swami Devasthanam Trust board. Later, the family members performed the last rites of Mohan near Bharadwaja Theertham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-tdp-leader-pr-mohan-passes-away/article35292853.ece
13 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP is a family that takes care of its party men: Sajjala||The YSR Congress Party is not just a political party but a large family that would continue to give responsibilities to those who have worked hard for the party, Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said. He was addressing a meeting held to felicitate MLC Lella Appireddy at the Agricultural Market Committee here by the Guntur District Chilli Merchants Association, Cold Storages Association, Chillies Merchants Association and Chillies Powder Mills Association. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Mr. Appireddy was among the few leaders who was willing to work for the party round the clock irrespective of power, and hence, he felt assured when Mr. Appireddy was handling a programme. Calling upon the party cadre to work with enthusiasm and take the welfare programmes to the doorstep of the people, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was working hard to bring smiles on the face of every person in the State. Earlier, Mr. Appireddy was brought in a huge procession to the Chilli Yard. Party Member of Parliament Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao said that the YSR Congress Party was different from the other parties and had been working for the uplift of backward sections. He said that Mr. Appireddy was among the few leaders who had a direct connect with the people, and more so with the working classes. Narsaraopet MP Lavu Srikrishnadevarayulu said that Mr. Appireddy was a role model to many young leaders in the party. MLAs Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy, Maddali Giridhar, Md. Mustafa, AP State Skill Development Corporation chairperson Ch. Madhusudana Reddy and Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-is-a-family-that-takes-care-of-its-party-men-sajjala/article35292856.ece
13 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devi Priya’s stirring verse mirrored reality, swayed minds||It was a befitting honour for humanist, poet and satirist Shaik Khaja Hassan, known by his pen name Devi Priya, when he was awarded the YSR LifeTime Achievement Award posthumously on July 8, marking the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. The award carries Rs. 10 lakh cash prize, a memento and a certificate. Born at Obulesuvaripalem village in Tadikonda mandal on August 15, 1949, he completed his primary education at Tadikonda and Pedaparimi and graduated in Telugu Literature and English Literature from Andhra Christian College, Guntur. His father was a police constable and his mother used to work in chilli farms. It was during his college days that he came under the influence of his teacher Karunasri and even used to imitate his gait in the lofty college corridor. Devi Priya dabbled in journalism, films and worked as a writer under Anisetty Subba Rao. He mastered the art of verse poetry and was part of the Pygambara Verse Poetic Movement during 1969-70. Works win critical acclaim His satire published in the Andhra Prabha daily titled, ‘Running Commentary’, as a column in the year 1982 mirrored the then political situation in Andhra Pradesh. His verse poetry compilation published in 1990, Neeti Putta (Water Hole), was a trendsetter. His publication Toofanu Tummeda (A fly in the storm) took telugu poetry to new heights and won critical acclaim. Devi Priya carved a niche for himself in the world of journalism and media. He was Editor to the publications like Prajavahini, Nirmala, Jyothi and Prajatantra and also worked as Assistant Editor in Andhra Jyothi and Udayam newspapers. His poetic compilation Amma Chettu won the distinguished Freeverse Front Award. He published his verse satirical poems in ‘Samajananda Swamy’, in 1977. His scripts for the movies Rangula Kala , Dasi and Raguluthunna Bharatham won appreciation from everyone. He even directed an English movie, The Music of Battleship , which won critical appreciation at an international film festival. Devi Priya won the distinguished Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award in 2017 besides many other honours like Arasam Kondepudi Srinivasa Rao award in 2001 and Visakha Sahiti Satkaram in 2009. Devi Priya’s poetry was marked by directness, courage and sensitivity, and his stirring verse had an ability to move people and sway their minds. It also mirrored his passion for equality among human beings. His last poem Chivariki Chikkindi Jinka , written on October 12, 2020 reflected his own helplessness in the face of failing health. He died on November 21, 2020 aged 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devi-priyas-stirring-verse-mirrored-reality-swayed-minds/article35292388.ece
13 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to create rift among regions’||Minister for Irrigation and Water Resources Anil Kumar Yadav came down heavily on TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu stating that he was trying to create a rift among the regions for his political gains. Speaking to the media at the party central office here on Monday, the Minister said the TDP leaders of Prakasam district had written a letter to drop the proposal to increase the capacity of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) at Srisailam from 44,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs only to create a divide among the people of different regions. The Minister said the State government had completed the works of Veligonda Tunnel-1 on a war-footing and the works of Tunnel -2 would be completed by 2023 and water would be released to Prakasam district. “What has Mr. Naidu done for the development of the region during his tenure?” he asked. The Minister said TDP leaders were echoing Telangana leaders’ version and Mr. Naidu had been following a dual policy on the Krishna water issue. The Telangana government had constructed illegal irrigation projects during Naidu’s government but he didn’t object to them as a compromise over cash-for-vote case. He said while all the political parties in Telangana came under one roof on the Krishna water issue, Mr. Naidu in Andhra Pradesh had been playing cheap tactics . ‘False propaganda’ The Minister slammed the TDP for propagating false information on laterite mining and asserted that it was laterite and not bauxite mining. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had not allowed bauxite mining after coming to power, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-create-rift-among-regions/article35292854.ece
13 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC warns of action against Amara Raja Batteries||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has said reports from the Pollution Control Board and the Environment Protection Training and Research Institute of India had indicated that dangerous levels of lead were present in Amara Raja batteries and warned that it would take a decision if the company does not take corrective measures. The High Court said that it gave interim orders due to the COVID-19 situation and the problems faced by workers. After hearing the arguments by the petitioner over the direction of the Pollution Control Board to close down the factory following reports indicating a dangerous level of lead in the batteries, Justice Joymalya Bagchi cited the reports of the PCB and the EPTRI and said that it could not agree to the contention of the petitioner that the reports were baseless. The High Court also made it clear that dangerous levels of lead in air, water and earth posed a hazard to humanity. The examination of blood samples of the workers in the factory had also indicated that dangerous levels of lead were present, the court said and asked the management to take remedial action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-warns-of-action-against-amara-raja-batteries/article35292948.ece
13 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food banks will help the needy: Sajjala||The concept of food banks will address the needs of many in hunger and poverty in urban and rural areas, said Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy on Monday inaugurated YSR Food Bank set up opposite Guntur Municipal Corporation. He said that in Guntur, a large number of people came to work, and the food bank would provide for their needs. “I appreciate the hard work done by Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu and the Commissioner C. Anuradha and corporators in setting up food banks. The idea is good and we will think of replicating it across the State,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. MP Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao, MLAs Maddali Giridhar Rao, Md.Mustafa and MLC Lella Appireddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/food-banks-will-help-the-needy-sajjala/article35292389.ece
13 July 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chikkamagaluru residents receive a ‘trunk’ call||People of Chikkamagaluru were in for a shock early on Monday as a wild tusker, separated from its herd, was spotted bang in the midde of the town. It crossed the busy Kadur-Mudigere Road and entered into the premises of the global unit of Coffee Day. Morning walkers and those who came out of their house to buy milk and vegetables were in shock as they saw the pachyderm moving right in the middle of the road. The tusker, aged about 15 to 20, was spotted early in the morning at Erehalli. Jagadish, a farmer, who was in the field, saw the animal that moved at a short distance from him. He ran to the village and informed people. After a few minutes, the tusker moved towards the city crossing Undedasarahalli and Nellur Kere. The residents of Chikkamagaluru town spotted the elephant later crossing Kadur-Mudigere Road near the office of Coffee Day Global. Even as people were watching its movements, it entered the premises of the company. By then, the Forest Department officials had information about its movement and rushed to the spot. They burst crackers an drove the elephant to Mattavara forest area, away from residential localities. Deputy Conservator of Forests N.H.Jagannath told The Hindu that the animal had been traced to Mattavara. “Our staff members have surrounded the place. As it gets dark, we will drive the animal back to the place from where it came. Around 50 staff members are involved in the operation,” the officer said. Chikkamagaluru residents are still in a state of shock. D. Prasad, a resident of the city, said it crossed the road even as many people moving around. “This was the first time I saw a wild animal in the city. Like me, many were in shock. Fortunately, it did not attack any person. I wish the Forest Department ensures such incidents do not repeat,” he said. A video clip showing the elephant’s movement recorded by a resident of the city has gone viral. G. Veeresh, honorary wildlife warden, recalled that two elephants were spotted in a farm field on the outskirts of town in 2012. “This time, people were panic a few hours in the morning as they spotted the tusker on the busy road. Residents of Nallur and other villages nearby were in shock. They were the first to notice its movements early in the day,” he said. The officers suspected that the animal must have come from Belur of Hassan, where elephants are in huge numbers. More than 60 elephants split into three to four herds have been roaming around parts of Sakleshpur, Alur, and Belur taluks. The local people and farmers have urged the State government to capture all elephants and rehabilitate them. People of Chikkamagaluru were in for a shock early on Monday as a wild tusker, separated from its herd, was spotted bang in the midde of the town. It crossed the busy Kadur-Mudigere Road and entered into the premises of the global unit of Coffee Day. Morning walkers and those who came out of their house to buy milk and vegetables were in shock as they saw the pachyderm moving right in the middle of the road. The tusker, aged about 15 to 20, was spotted early in the morning at Erehalli. Jagadish, a farmer, who was in the field, saw the animal that moved at a short distance from him. He ran to the village and informed people. After a few minutes, the tusker moved towards the city crossing Undedasarahalli and Nellur Kere. The residents of Chikkamagaluru town spotted the elephant later crossing Kadur-Mudigere Road near the office of Coffee Day Global. Even as people were watching its movements, it entered the premises of the company. By then, the Forest Department officials had information about its movement and rushed to the spot. They burst crackers an drove the elephant to Mattavara forest area, away from residential localities. Deputy Conservator of Forests N.H.Jagannath told The Hindu that the animal had been traced to Mattavara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chikkamagaluru-residents-receive-a-trunk-call/article35292327.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amid high drama, Telangana Cong. expels Kaushik Reddy||On a day of interesting developments in the Congress, its Huzurabad constituency in-charge Padi Kaushik Reddy resigned from the party after being served a show-cause notice when his audio conversation with a TRS worker went viral, with the claims that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi had confirmed him the ticket for the ensuing bypoll. While the drama was unfolding since Monday morning, Mr. Kaushik Reddy held a press conference in the evening announcing his resignation from the party. By that time he was expelled from the party. However, he made serious allegations against TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy that he had paid Rs. 50 crore to AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore to secure the top post. Reacting to the allegations Mr. Revanth said ‘a thief defends the loudest when caught’ and that coverts and covert operations would not be spared any more, hinting that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was behind it. He said he would expose Mr. Kaushik Reddy and his deals. Former TPCC president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy who is the cousin of Mr. Kaushik Reddy, condemned the latter’s allegations against Revanth Reddy and Manickam Tagore and said the TRS was behind this episode. “Mr. Kaushik Reddy doesn’t have the stature to criticise the party that made him the leader. He became a leader because the Congress gave him the Huzurabad ticket in 2018,” he said in a statement from Benguluru where he is admitted in a nature cure hospital. At the press conference Mr. Kaushik Reddy refused to discuss on the audio call saying it was not of any importance and whether he would join the TRS party. He, however, said that he wants to be part of “Telangana development.” Earlier, in the day, an audio purportedly of Kaushik Reddy claiming that the Huzurabad byelection ticket was confirmed to him by the TRS went viral. He was heard telling the TRS activist to bring all the youth in Madannapet village into the TRS. “Pay them Rs. 3,000, 4,000 or 5,000 and bring them into the party. I will take care of you,” he was heard saying. Mr. Kaushik Reddy unsuccessfully contested against former Health Minister, Eatala Rajender in the 2018 Assembly elections. Mr. Rajender was dismissed from the Cabinet over allegations of land grabbing. He, however, dismissed it as a political witch-hunt by KCR and joined the BJP later. He is likely to be the BJP candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amid-high-drama-telangana-cong-expels-kaushik-reddy/article35292332.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT to hear contempt plea on RLIS works on July 23||A contempt petition which was supposed to be taken up by Chennai bench of National Green Tribunal on Monday against “works on Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) by the Andhra Pradesh government in violation of the tribunal orders” did not materialise as the counsel for Andhra Pradesh government did not turn up. The petition of Gavinolla Srinivas of Narayanpet district was posted for Monday on June 25. According to information reaching here, Additional Advocate General of Telangana J. Ramachandra Rao submitted to the tribunal that the State government too had filed its own contempt petition in the matter. Krishna River Management Board and Ministry of Environment and Forests were supposed to file their reports on the issue but they too could not do so as the Andhra Pradesh government did not facilitate the visit of a team of the river board to the worksite of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme. The contempt petitions of Gavinolla Srinivas and Telangana government are now listed to be heard on July 23. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are currently in a face-off over sharing of waters of river Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-to-hear-contempt-plea-on-rlis-works/article35292657.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another 5MW solar plant at RGIA||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. (GHIAL) has crossed another green milestone with the commissioning of its second phase 5 MW solar power plant, taking the total solar power capacity to 10 MW. In 2015, the first solar power plant of 5 MW capacity was commissioned. Both plants cover of 45 acres and have over 30,000 solar panels with advanced ABB central inverters and poly crystalline PV panels, which are far efficient than mono crystalline solar PV panels. This enables the airport to reduce dependency on power from TS power utilities by 12 million units per year or 50%, saving around Rs. 90 lakh per month. There will be a reduction in carbon footprint by about 28 lakh kg carbon dioxide, equivalent to saving of 1.4 lakh full grown trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-5mw-solar-plant-at-rgia/article35292847.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police told to release pregnant woman detained under PD Act||Observing that police or State cannot obstruct the rights of an unborn child, Telangana High Court on Monday said a pregnant woman lodged behind the bars by Nalgonda police under the PD Act shall be set free. Nalgonda district police invoked provisions of PD Act against 33-year-old Akula Swathi who was accused of involvement in cheating cases. The woman had a child and was pregnant when she was arrested under the special Act. Her mother G. Sailaja moved the HC by filing a writ petition and sought a direction to police to release her daughter since the latter was pregnant. The plea came up for hearing before a division bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and Shameem Akther. On being informed by the petitioner’s lawyer that the detenue was pregnant, the bench wondered if the State had powers to obstruct the rights of an unborn child. The bench said that the woman must be set free ‘without going into the merits of the case’ since she was pregnant. In the eyes of the law and under Article 21 of the Constitution, an unborn child has rights. On that ground and without going into the merits of the PD Act invoked against the woman, the latter should be set free, the bench said. The Justices observed that the bench had earlier ruled that a pregnant woman cannot be detained and the unborn child had rights after hearing a writ petition. The bench suggested to Government Pleader for Home Srikanth Reddy to peruse the judgement delivered by it. Akula Swathi, along with another woman Parvathi, was arrested on May 13 by Nalgonda police under PD Act. The women were accused of duping some people in financial matters. The writ petition was posted after a week for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-told-to-release-pregnant-woman-detained-under-pd-act/article35292326.ece
13 July 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Losses forced closure of dairy farms, Lakshadweep tells HC||The Lakshadweep administration has told the Kerala High Court that after a detailed analysis, it was felt imprudent to continue the dairy farms, suffering a huge loss of more than Rs. 90 lakh per year. The decision to shut them had no relation to the proposed Animal Preservation Regulation, the administration informed the court in an affidavit. The affidavit was filed in response to a public interest litigation petition challenging the decision to shut the dairy farms on the islands. The new regulations proposed by the Lakshadweep Administrator had evoked criticism from various quarters. In the affidavit, the administration said it had decided to increase shipping operations from Mangaluru as the port is closer to several islands of Lakshadweep compared to Beypore in Kerala. The Mangaluru port had better facilities as well. The affidavit denied the allegation of the petitioner that the ban on liquor had been lifted. In fact, the Lakshadweep Prohibition Regulation provides for granting of licences for consumption and sale of alcohol. Recently, licences were issued to the Tourism Promotion Society under the administration to serve liquor to non-islanders at three of its resorts on three islands. This was done to cater to the needs of tourists. The affidavit said the decision to disengage excess casual employees from various establishments was to prevent loss to the exchequer. As for removing non-vegetarian food from the midday meal, the administration said meat was part of the regular menu in almost all families, but consumption of fruits and dry fruits was very less among them. Hence their inclusion was perfectly in tune with the objective of the mid-day meal scheme. The draft regulations had been forwarded to the Home Ministry with the feedback received, the affidavit added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakshadweep-justifies-move-to-close-down-dairy-farms/article35292334.ece
13 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A night when ‘Three Lions’ failed to roar||Hours before the Euro Cup final kicked off at the historic Wembley stadium in faraway London, Adithya Prasad, a young house surgeon here, downloaded a mobile app. Anticipating an English victory against the Italians, he had planned a video with the English manager Gareth Southgate holding aloft the trophy. But that video proved stillborn, as the Three Lions were kicked out by the Azzurri in a contest that went right down the wire. “Just a waste of mobile data,” said Adithya, sardonically. For English fans, the number of whom keeps on soaring in the State, thanks in large measure to the popularity of the English Premier League, there was no bigger heartbreak in recent times. Losers’ tag “For years we were mocked as the perennial losers who turn up with high hopes only to return home defeated. This was the first final featuring England for my generation, and we truly believed that it was coming home this time,” rued a diehard English fan Sandeep K.V., who tuned into the match from Bahrain where he is working. Just as the final whistle was blown in Wembley in the early morning hours of Monday, a heated debate began on social media among English fans about what went wrong. As passions boiled over, some turned acerbic and attributed the defeat to “clownish” management by Southgate. “He wasted brilliant attacking talents on the bench and then assigned youngsters with little experience for taking the penalty kicks in a pressure cauldron,” said Firaz Muhammed Zakariya, a mechanical engineer from Kozhikode. Abhish Puthussery, another fan, however, called for reasoning. “We need to respect a manager who led us to a World Cup semi in 2018 and then did one step better in the Euro,” he argued. Changed focus Then as news emerged of English fans going berserk at the stadium and engaging in racial abuse on social media against the young players who missed the penalty kicks, the debate turned towards the hooliganism of fans. “I wanted England to win the final, but having seen the havoc wreaked by their fans on visiting fans at Leicester Square and outside Wembley, I no longer rue that they lost,” said Alan Bince, a student of Model Engineering College, Kochi. Naveen James, a young law professional and a fanatic English fan, however, felt that every fanbase has its share of hoodlums. As this back-and-forth was going on between English fans, the neutrals and Italian fans were busy churning out memes and “It’s coming home”, from the song ‘Three Lions’ released ahead of the 1996 Euro Cup and has since then become the de facto anthem of English fans, was their target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-night-when-three-lions-failed-to-roar/article35292336.ece
13 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Head of Orthodox Church passes away||Baselios Marthoma Paulose II, Catholicos of the East and supreme head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, passed away early Monday after a prolonged illness. He was 74. According to the Church authorities, the Malankara Metropolitan breathed his last at 2.35 a.m. at a private hospital in Pathanamthitta. The Catholicos, who had been undergoing treatment for lung cancer since December 2019, was diagnosed with COVID-19 in February this year. Though he recovered from the infection, the post-COVID lung complications worsened his health condition, the hospital authorities said. At Parumala church The mortal remains of the Metropolitan were kept for the public to pay homage at the Parumala church till 7 p.m. on Monday, and was taken to the Church headquarters at Devalokam, Kottayam, later. The funeral service is slated to begin by 3 p.m. on Tuesday. Born on August 30, 1946 as K.I. Paul to Kollannur K.I. Iype and Pulikottil Kunjeetta in Kunnamkulam, the Catholicos pursued his postgraduation from CMS College in Kottayam. He was ordained deacon in 1972 and was awarded the episcopal title of Paulose Mar Milithios on May 15, 1985. He was appointed as the Metropolitan of the Kunnamkulam diocese in August 1985 and elected as Catholicos-designate in October 2006. He was enthroned as the Metropolitan on November 1, 2010, as a successor to Baselius Marthoma Didymus I, who relinquished the post at the age of 90. With this, he became the eighth Catholicos of the East in Malankara and the 91st primate on the Apostolic Throne of St. Thomas. Based on a suggestion of the Catholicos, an episcopal synod of the Orthodox Church convened in April had recommended proceedings to select a successor to him. The Malankara Association, an apex body comprising priests and laity representatives from all parishes under the Orthodox Church, is slated to meet at Parumala on October 14 to ratify the nomination of the next head of the Church. The President, Prime Minister and the Chief Minister were among those who condoled the death of the Metropolitan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/head-of-orthodox-church-passes-away/article35292338.ece
13 July 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rice mill owners booked||The Krishna district police registered a case against the owners of a private rice mill, who allegedly cheated about 300 farmers in A.P. and Telangana. Following a complaint that the rice mill owners owed about Rs. 50 crore to some farmers in Krishna, Khammam, Nalgonda and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts for the produce collected from them, the police took up the case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rice-mill-owners-booked/article35292947.ece
13 July 2021||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood level in Godavari increasing||Flood level has been rising in the Godavari following downpour in the upstream areas in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. Heavy rainfall alert has been given in West Godavari, Krishna and East Godavari districts. Many rivulets are in spate in Telangana and Agency areas. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) officials, flood level at Bhadrachalam was 10 feet, and it may rise by Tuesday morning. Road communication remained cut off to many tribal habitations above and downstream of Polavaram project as the backwaters increased. Officials arranged a boat from Pochamma Gandhi temple to the inaccessible villages in West Godavari district, the police said. At Polavaram project, irrigation authorities released 50,000 cusecs to the downstream from all the gates. Water level at the cofferdam was about 27.250 metres by Monday evening, the officials said. The K.R. Puram ITDA, Revenue and Medical and Health departments’ officials have been supplying essentials to the villagers through boats. Seven rescued In Krishna district, the NDRF 10th Battalion, AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services and police rescued seven persons stranded in Munneru Vagu. Additional SP Mallika Garg said two shepherds and 100 sheep stranded in Munneru were rescued. “Four persons stranded in a stream at Alamuru and three at Penuganchiprolu were rescued,” Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-level-in-godavari-increasing/article35292850.ece
13 July 2021||TALLAPUDI (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, two children drown in Godavari||A 29-year-man reportedly jumped into Godavari river at Vegeswarapuram village, along with his two children, in the district. Police, with the help of swimmers, are searching for the bodies, and one body was retrieved on Monday. The victims were identified as, K. Satyanarayana Murthy, Manasa (6) and Karthik (4). A native of Alamuru village in East Godavari district, Satyanarayana and his wife, Pochamma (25) were eking out their livelihood by doing some petty business. Satyanarayana reportedly spent sometime with his children before resorting to the extreme step and left the bike on the river bank, the villagers said. Pochamma died due to ill-health four days ago. The police registered a case. Persons in distress may ‘Dial 1092’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-two-children-drown-in-godavari/article35292381.ece
13 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AICTE letter seeking online exams sparks confusion||A letter written by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) in Kerala has sparked confusion on the conduct of the university’s examinations. While the ‘advisory’ recommended online examinations in light of the COVID-19 situation, the university is going ahead with the pending odd-semester exams that began in the offline mode on July 9. Acting on a letter by Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, to the Union Education Minister, the AICTE exhorted the KTU to revoke its decision to conduct offline examinations and explore an alternative option “owing to the COVID crisis in Kerala”. The statutory body observed that many B.Tech. students had objected to offline examinations. Many students were yet to be vaccinated and for quite a few, the prospect of reaching exam centres from containment zones was difficult. ‘Injustice to students’ The AICTE felt that it would be “an injustice to subject the students to offline examinations”, since the State faced an extraordinary threat through the second COVID-19 wave. The letter also highlighted the woes of students from Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh (admitted under the Prime Minister Special Scholarship Scheme) who have been unable to reach the State. They should be provided the alternatives of taking their examinations online or appearing for offline examinations at a later stage, it was proposed. V-C clarifies With the letter issued on July 8 surfacing on Monday, the KTU clarified that undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will continue as per schedule. KTU Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree said exams were being held in offline mode as in many universities in other parts of the country under stringent COVID-19 norms. Students unable to attend them may appear for a special examination that would be considered their first regular attempt, she said. University officials said postponement of exams could disrupt the academic calender and jeopardise the prospects of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aicte-letter-seeking-online-exams-sparks-confusion/article35292339.ece
13 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala capital reports 1 more Zika case, taking tally to 19||Zika virus (ZIKV) infection was confirmed in one more person in Thiruvananthapuram, taking the total number of cases reported so far in the State to 19. All lab-confirmed cases are from the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits, though an alert has been sounded across the State. The latest case was confirmed in a 73-year-old woman, a resident of Puthenthopu in the capital, who had come to the private hospital from where the first case of ZIKV was confirmed. Almost all of the lab-confirmed cases of ZIKV so far are epidemiologically linked to this private hospital and a chunk of the cases were reported amongst the hospital staff themselves. Members of the Central team on Monday visited the hospital and premises as part of their investigations. “A lot of construction activity is going on in the area. Water stagnation and heavy breeding of mosquitoes were detected in many spots. Since the hospital caters to a lot of people from outside the State and country, it is possible that someone with the virus had come to the hospital and the infection was then spread in-house by the Aedes mosquitoes,” one official who accompanied the Central team said. People who came to the hospital with infants for immunisation and who were in the waiting area are among those who got infected. Plan of action “The immediate plan of action suggested is to launch immediate and total vector control measures within a 3-km radius of the hospital. Aedes mosquitoes are omnipresent in the city and hence containment measures will have to be launched in those areas where the infected hospital staff are staying. Apart from routine screening of all pregnant women with any fever symptoms, a serological surveillance study is also being planned,” he said. Going by the reports of district health officials, fever with rashes, arthalgia and red eye were being reported from several wards in the Corporation in the past four or five months. None had taken it beyond establishing that it was neither dengue nor chikungunya. “How long has the virus been circulating here and the extent of its geographical spread are crucial variables, to which we have no clear answers. Systematic vector surveillance should be launched in all districts, now that we have one more flavivirus to watch out for, one which can affect the next generation,” a public health expert said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-capital-reports-1-more-zika-case-taking-tally-to-19/article35292341.ece
13 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records lowest daily toll in 98 days||The State reported 22 new COVID deaths and 1,578 infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The death toll and cumulative tally increased to 13,024 and 19,24,421 respectively. The single-day tally was the lowest in the past 98 days and the daily test positivity rate at 2.52% was the lowest in the past 107 days. Only 62,657 samples were tested in the past day, which was the lowest in the past 28 days. The number of recoveries and recovery rate slightly increased to 18,84,202 and 97.91% respectively as 3,041 patients recovered in the past day. There were 27,195 active cases in the State. The overall positivity rate of 2.30 crore samples tested remains at 8.35%. The last 10 lakh samples were tested in just 12 days with a positivity rate of 3.30%. New deaths and cases Four districts of Kadapa, Anantapur, Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported no death in the past day, while Kurnool and Visakhapatnam reported one each and Srikakulam reported two deaths. The remaining six districts reported three deaths each. East Godavari reported 305 new infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (257), Nellore (179), Prakasam (173), West Godavari (152), Kadapa (117), Guntur (97), Krishna (92), Visakhapatnam (68), Anantapur (37), Kurnool (35), Vizianagaram (35) and Srikakulam (31). Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam's COVID infection tally crossed 1.5 lakh mark. The overall district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,70,282 cases), Chittoor (2,24,842), West Godavari (1,65,806 cases), Guntur (1,64,928 cases), Anantapur (1,55,125 cases), Visakhapatnam (1,50,082 cases), Nellore (1,29,986 cases), Prakasam (1,24,838 cases), Kurnool (1,22,662), Srikakulam (1,19,519), Kadapa (1,08,296 cases), Krishna (1,04,302) and Vizianagaram (80,858 cases).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-logs-lowest-daily-toll-in-98-days/article35292383.ece
13 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stamps and Registration Dept. to use servers at Pi Data Centre||The Pi Data Centre at Mangalagiri near here will host the servers for the Sub-Registrar offices across the State. The Stamps and Registration Department has begun testing the functioning of the server on Monday. A few minor hiccups surfaced during the testing, and were rectified immediately. So far, the server for Sub-Registrar Offices (SROs) was in Hyderabad in Telangana. According to information, the State government has decided to shift the database from Hyderabad server to the Pi Data Centre, following technical snags which were hampering the registration processes. The IT&C Department was entrusted with the job of shifting the database, which was completed a few days ago. Shifting database Inspector General Stamps and Registration M. V. Seshagiri Babu said that the testing was going on and it would take 24 to 36 hours for stabilisation of the process. “Hopefully, the testing would be completed as per the schedule. For smooth function, it was decided to decouple with the server in Hyderabad and shift the database to Pi Data Centre at Mangalagiri. The ball was set rolling about a month ago, and four teams were formed to shift the database,” he said. There are 294 SROs in the State, and 70 types of registrations are done by the department. Around 4 lakh documents are processed per month across the State. Of this, 70% are related to registration of sales. Even after the State bifurcation in 2014, the Stamps and Registration Department continued to share the servers in Hyderabad with the neighbouring State. The capacity of the servers in Hyderabad was not matching the requirements. Due to heavy loads, the servers used to crash or function slowly. The database was divided in coordination with the Telangana officials. For 20 days, people faced hardships in getting their documents registered due to snags. It impacted the registrations. The applicants faced hardships in getting encumbrance certificates (ECs). The registrations were put on hold on Friday to completely shift the database, and the testing began on Monday, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stamps-and-registration-dept-to-use-servers-at-pi-data-centre/article35292858.ece
13 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. ties up with 14 entities to encourage women entrepreneurs||The State government has entered into an MoU with 14 companies to provide marketing facilities, training and skill development in business. The MoUs were signed in the presence of a Group of Ministers comprising Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu, and Animal Husbandry Minister Sidiri Appalaraju, on Monday. Mahenra, Irma, Basics, Entrepreneur Development Institute of India, FDRVC, AP Food Processing Society, National Institute of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Rythu Sadhikara Samstha are among the organisations that the government has tied up with. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the government was committed to encouraging women entrepreneurship. It was extending a financial benefit of Rs. 75,000 in four phases to women belonging to SC/ST/OBC/minority communities. The women who plan to start own businesses would get bank loans, and the companies would help them in marketing their products, he said. Mr. Satyanarayana said the government would encourage women to start small-scale businesses. A bank loan would also be sanctioned in addition to the Rs. 75,000 being given by the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-ties-up-with-14-entities-to-encourage-women-entrepreneurs/article35292859.ece
13 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC suspends G.O. on transfer of panchayat secretaries’ functions||A single judge bench of the High Court comprising Justice B. Devanand issued an interim order placing G.O. Ms. No. 2 under suspension and posted the matter for next hearing after four weeks. Through the G.O. the government sought to transfer certain executive and administrative functions of the panchayat secretaries to village revenue officers (VROs). Justice Devanand said the court was of the prima facie consideration that the impugned G.O. is against the intent of the ‘institution of self-government’ enshrined in Article 243 of the Constitution and that sarpanches would become puppets in the hands of the government as the G.O. leaves them with no powers. The G.O. is also against the Directive Principles contained in Article 40, the judge observed, while insisting that the proposed transfer of powers to VROs amounts to government’s interference in the village administration, which is against the spirit of Gram Swaraj . Advocate-General S. Sriram said the government was directed to file a counter affidavit after four weeks and pointed out that the main contention of the petitioner was that the government cannot delegate the cheque (drawing and disbursement) power from the panchayat secretaries to VROs. The A-G has earlier argued that the Government Order in question was the policy space of the government and it should be allowed to learn and evolve based on its experiences without the court’s involvement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-suspends-go-on-transfer-of-panchayat-secretaries-functions/article35292384.ece
13 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. must give top priority to Polavaram R&R package: Somu||A BJP delegation led by its State president Somu Veerraju on Monday visited the Polavaram project and enquired with the people from LND Peta village about the implementation of the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package. Speaking to the media, Mr. Veerraju said though the project was important, the plight of the families facing displacement could not be ignored and demanded that the State government must come up with a clear action plan on rehabilitating them and paying the compensation as per rules. He alleged that both the YSRCP government and the previous TDP lacked the commitment to do justice to the Project Displaced Families (PDFs), and advised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to convince the Central government about the need to provide adequate funds for implementing the R&R package. Mr. Veerraju said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given assurance to the public when he was in the opposition to construct the project with the State government’s funds and to come to the rescue of thousands of evacuees. “However, he (Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy) reneged on his promise after coming to power,” said Mr. Veerraju. He suggested that the State government should ask the Centre to sanction two to three lakh houses for the evacuees and to extend financial assistance .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-must-give-top-priority-to-polavaram-rr-package-somu/article35292851.ece
13 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties express solidarity||A roundtable on the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) orgsanised by the Communist Party of Inqdia (CPI) here on Monday extended its solidarity to the two-day ‘Chalo Parliament’ being planned by Visakha Ukku Porata Parirakshana Samithi on August 2 and 3. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the State government should not wash off its hands by merely passing a resolution against the privatisation move in the Assembly. “The YSRCP should lead an all-party delegation to Delhi to mount pressure on the Central government to drop the move,” he said. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and former Minister Kollu Ravindra said the party MPs would raise their voice against the privation in the Parliament and the YSRCP MPs should also do the same. CPI (M) leader V. Umamheswara Rao said that the Narendra Modi government was determined to sell away the VSP at throwaway prices to private parties. Parirakshna Vedika convener G. Obulesu moved the resolution. AICC member Naraharisetti Narasimha Rao, Aam Admi Party State convener Pothina Venkata Rama Rao, CPI (ML) New Democracy leader K. Polari, ACUCI leader Amarnath, CPIML Liberation leader D. Harinath, MCPI(U) Khadar Basha, Muslim League leader Sheik Kajawali, Amaravati Parirakshana Dalita JAC leder Kotikalapudi Srinivas, A.P. Mahila Samakhya State general secretary P. Durga Bhavani and others spoke .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-parties-express-solidarity/article35292860.ece
13 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banking exam coaching for SC, ST and BC students||The Social Welfare department has invited applications from eligible candidates for undergoing training in banking examinations.Social Welfare Krishna district Deputy Director K. Saraswati, in a statement on Monday, said that the coaching would be given for the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) - 2021 to SC, ST, BC and other candidates at the Tirupati Study Circle branch.Candidates whose family’s annual income is not more than Rs. 6 lakh are eligible. The aspirants would have to submit their applications by logging onto website www.jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in. The last date for submission of applications is july 22. Pre-qualifying examination would be conducted on August 1, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banking-exam-coaching-for-sc-st-and-bc-students/article35292949.ece
13 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Respond to contempt of court cases in time: CS||Chief Secretary Adityanath Das has asked officials to respond to contempt of court cases promptly to take the government’s views on various matters to the courts’ notice in the right perspective and that guidelines thereof would be issued soon. In a review meeting , Mr. Das said there were instances where the courts pulled up the government due to the failure in filing ‘Vakalats’ in time . Such situations should be avoided as they were an embarrassment to the government. He asked V. Sunitha, Secretary, Legal and Legislative Affairs and Justice, to meet the Advocate-General and government pleaders on how to deal with the cases . Ms. Sunitha said there were about 8,000 such cases pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respond-to-contempt-of-court-cases-in-time-cs/article35292852.ece
13 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF retrieves bodies from quarry||A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion on Monday retrieved the bodies of four persons, who accidentally fell into a quarry pit at Parvathipuram in Guntur district. The deceased were identified as B. Sai Shankar (22), L. Vamshi (21), Shankar Reddy (22) and S. Venkatesh (23), all natives of Prathipadu in Guntur district, said Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan. The team led by NDRF inspector Mukesh Kumar completed the operation in six hours. The deceased were all petty vendors. Six persons went near the quarry pit on Sunday evening, of which four persons accidentally fell in the pit and two survived, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-retrieves-bodies-from-quarry-pit/article35292340.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chalo Parliament’ on Aug. 2, 3 to ‘save’ VSP||The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee has called upon the steel plant workers to make the ‘Chalo Parliament’, which is being organised on August 2 and 3 against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), a success. Addressing the media at the CITU office at Ukkunagaram on Monday, committee chairmen Ch. Narasinga Raosaid that the Centre had recently issued tenders for appointment of ‘transaction adviser’ and ‘legal adviser’ as part of its decision on the strategic sale of the VSP. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has already written two letters and sent the unanimous resolution adopted by the Assembly against the privatisation move to the Centre. “The Centre also ignored the protests by MPs against privatisation of the VSP during the last Parliament sessions. Under these circumstances, there is no option left other than resorting to direct action. A protest will be organised by all trade unions opposite the Parliament building in New Delhi on August 2 and 3,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao and appealed to MPs of all political parties to oppose the decision on the privatisation of VSP in the Parliament. Committee convener J. Ayodhya Ram said that letters had been sent to the Parliamentary leaders of all political parties, seeking support in view of the ‘injustice meted out to the steel plant’ by the Centre. Representatives of the committee would leave for Delhi on July 20 to explain the situation to the Parliamentary party leaders and elicit their support . They described the privatisation move as a measure to ‘play with the self respect of the people of Andhra’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chalo-parliament-on-aug-2-3-to-save-vsp/article35292862.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mass inoculation key to checking COVID-19: experts||Amid the prediction that the third wave of coronavirus pandemic can set in any time after mid-August, experts have reiterated that the only way to beat the virus is by scaling up the mass vaccination programme. “The third wave looks imminent. There can be no end to such waves if the majority of the population is not vaccinated. The only possible safeguard is to ensure that more people are vaccinated,” said Dr. Paul Kelly, consultant infectious diseases and medical director at Bronx Care Centre for Travel Medicine, New York. He was speaking about the Sars CoV-2 variants of the virus and vaccine efficacy at a webinar organised by the Andhra Medical College (AMC). “The virus is mutating quickly and this has become a concern for the medical and research fraternity. So, the vaccination should happen fast and in bulk,” he said. Multiple mutations The pandemic began in China with the D614 mother variant in the early 2020. It mutated to G614 while it was Alpha B1.1.7 in the U.K. and then it was Beta B.1.351. The Brazil Gamma P.1 and Epsilon California variants combined to form the B.1.617.2, which is known as the Delta variant which caused havoc in India during the second wave, he explained. “The Delta variant is at least 100 to 110 times more powerful and infectious than the mother variant of D614,” said Dr. Kelly. AMC principal P.V. Sudhakar said the virus was mutating faster than expected. “Multiple mutations make it difficult to know critical aspects of the virus such as rate of transmission, severity of illness and efficacy of vaccines. We need to stop the mutation and vaccination of the entire population is the key,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Dr. Sridhar Chilimuri, physician in chief and chairman of Department of Medicine of Bronx Care Hospital Centre, New York, said two vaccine doses are safe as of now. But in the future, booster doses might have to be taken to keep the virus at bay. “The delay in vaccination increases the chances of the virus undergoing mutation which means possibilities of multiple waves,” he said. Referring to the vaccination drive, Dr. Sudhakar said almost 95% of population in the 45 plus age category (12 to 13 lakh) in Visakhapatnam district have been vaccinated with two doses while 90% of the health care workers have been inoculated. “Given a population of more than 40 lakh, it is still a long way to go. The focus should now be on 18 to 45 age category, which accounts for bulk of the population. The earlier it is done, the safer people are,” said Dr. Sudhakar. The wave pattern, he said, depends on three factors – agent, host and environment. “With the relaxation of restrictions, the possibility of spread is more. So people must not let the guard down. Wearing mask, sanitising hands regularly and keeping away of crowd are must irrespective of vaccination status,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mass-inoculation-key-to-checking-covid-19-experts/article35292864.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spiritual discourse||Vedanta Institute, Visakhapatnam, a registered charitable trust, will organise Guru Purnima Yajna discourse on at 6.30 p.m. on July 18. The topic is on ‘Live by choice, not by chance’ by Swami Parthasarathy, a renowned philosopher. At 95, Mr. Parthsarathy is active, dynamic and helping people develop a strong intellect to face the challenges of life, especially during this pandemic, said executive trustee S.V. Satyanarayana. For details, call Mr. Satyanarayana on 9948150911 or emailinfo.vedanta institute@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spiritual-discourse/article35292954.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth cautioned against fake appointment letters||Fake appointment letters are being issued by unscrupulous individuals and organisations for taking up works under the National Rural Urban Mission of the Government of India in Peda Labudu of Araku Valley mandal and Smart Village Programme Project of the Government of A.P., in Bheemunipatnam, according to a statement issued by the Zilla Parishad CEO, here, on Monday. The fake appointment letters are being issued in the name of CEO, Vijayawada, and District Regional Manager and prospective candidates have been asked to be wary of such unscrupulous persons and organisations. The authorities have clarified that no recruitment is being made for the two projects and candidates and their parents have been asked not to fall prey to such elements. Commissioner, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development, has asked officials not to appoint any candidate who comes with such a fake appointment order. Information on the culprits should be gathered from the candidates bringing such fake letters. Candidates can also lodge complaints with the Visakhapatnam City Police Commissioner or the Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) against those issuing such orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-cautioned-against-fake-appointment-letters/article35292956.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gana Babu seeks more time to submit objections to VMRDA||Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu (Gana Babu) has appealed to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana to extend the time for submission of objections to the proposed master plan of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) and to schedule a separate meeting with public representatives and RWAs on the issue. In a letter to the Minister on Monday, Mr. Naidu expressed his concern over the short period of time given for submission of suggestions and objections on the master plan. The last date for objections is July 15 but the document was unavailable to a majority of the people, he said, urging that the document be translated into Telugu and made accessible at the zonal offices of GVMC/mandal parishad office. He sought that the last date for filing of objections should be extended till the end of the month. He noted that the fourth iteration of the master plan is contradictory to the previous plans in land usage issues. Many works pending from the previous plans had never materialised. The VMRDA should inform the public whether those works pending from the previous plans would be continued or otherwise. The MLA also sought information on the mobilisation of resources for the master plan and suggested creation of sufficient land bank so that individuals who lose land could be adequately compensated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gana-babu-seeks-more-time-to-submit-objections-to-vmrda/article35292958.ece
13 July 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweet India’s new branch||Confectionery maker Sweet India has opened its third branch in Visakhapatnam near Lions Club at Ramnagar on Monday. Having started its business at Vizianagaram in 1971, the first branch in Visakhapatnam city was opened at Siripuram in 2001 and the second at Dabagardens in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweet-indias-new-branch/article35292959.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Only mass struggles can make Centre change mind’||Relay hunger strikes being organised at Gandhi Statue by trade unions and people’s organisations opposing the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant entered the 102nd day on Monday. Workers in the unorganised sector of Arilova and Madhurawada zones and AIDWA leaders participated in the relay hunger strike. CITU Madhurawada zone president D. Appalaraju said that only mass struggles can help in halting the privatisation plan of the Centre. He said that the Centre was bent on handing over public sector banks, insurance companies, ports, airports, HPCL, BPCL, airlines and railways to corporate groups on a platter. He said it was due to the public sector organisations that workers in the unorganised sector were able to earn their livelihood. The agitation would go on till the Centre revoked its decision on the privatisation of VSP and other PSUs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-mass-struggles-can-make-centre-change-mind/article35292955.ece
13 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kishen Reddy’s help sought in renovating old temples||Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham Uttaradhikari Sri Swatmanandendra Saraswati Swamy met Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and Development of North Eastern Region G. Kishen Reddy at his residence in Delhi on Monday. The seer apprised the Minister that the rules of the Archaeology Department were coming in the way of development of several temples in the Telugu States. While the monitoring of the ancient temples by the Archaeology Department was of vital importance, their protection and development was equally important. The 1,000-pillar temple in Telangana and the ‘Pancharama Kshetrams’ in Andhra Pradesh were not being developed due to the rigid rules of the department, the seer told the Minister. The seer informed the Union Minister of the ‘Chaturmasya Deeksha’ to be organised by Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham in Visakhapatnam from July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kishen-reddys-help-sought-in-renovating-old-temples/article35292957.ece
13 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Priority to women’s safety’||Deepika M.Patil, who assumed charge as Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police on Monday, said she would give utmost priority for women safety and justice to common people. She took charge in the presence of out-going SP B. Rajakjumari who was promoted as DIG and posted as Disha affairs. Speaking to the media, Ms. Patil said she had thorough knowledge about the geography and movements of Maoists as she had worked as Parvatipuram Additional SP. “I will ensure absolute respect for people who visit police stations over their grievances,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priority-to-womens-safety/article35292893.ece
13 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagannath temple wears festive look in fort city||Hundreds of devotees offered special prayers on Monday at the historic Jagannath Swamy temple at Santapeta of G.T. Road here on the occasion of Ratha Yatra. Although the procession of Ratha Yatra was cancelled, the temple authorities made arrangements for the darshan of Lord Jagannath and his sibilings Balabhadra and Subhadra. The temple authorities ensured COVID-9 safety protocols on the temple premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagannath-temple-wears-festive-look-in-fort-city/article35292892.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uniform relaxation in curfew in all districts from today||Besides, it had been decided to order the closure of shops and establishments for two to three days as a punishment for flouting the norms. Mr. Jagan instructed the officials to set up a WhatsApp number for sending photos of people violating the rules and to strictly enforce the prohibitory orders under Section.144 to contain the spread of the pandemic. Testing Mr. Jagan ordered that only those suffering from fever and other symptoms should be tested, and the establishment of oxygen generation plants be completed at the earliest to deal with the likely resurgence of the pandemic. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to focus on vaccination of both government and private school teachers depending on the availability of vaccines, and to complete it before the reopening of schools. He cautioned against being complacent about the prevalence of non-COVID diseases, like dengue and other viral fevers, during the monsoon season especially in the Agency areas. COVID cases Officials told the Chief Minisetr that there were 28,680 active cases at present and 5,695 patients were being treated in hospitals and 4,976 people in COVID Care Centres. The recovery rate increased to 97.83% and positivity rate decreased to 2.91%. The positivity rate was less than 3% in seven districts. A total of 3,876 black fungus cases were registered till date, out of which 324 persons died and 2,500 were discharged. As regards vaccination, 1,31,43,873 people had been vaccinated so far (96,83,544 got a single dose and 34,60,329 took two doses).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uniform-relaxation-in-curfew-in-all-districts-from-today/article35292895.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-mood/article35292961.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Team work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/team-work/article35292392.ece
13 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tribal woman performs mother’s funeral rites||Volunteers of Bhadrachalam-based Bandaru Chandar Rao (BCR) Trust helped a 22-year-old tribal woman perform the last rites of her mother, who died of COVID-19 in Bhadrachalam on Monday, after the latter’s close relatives refused to conduct the funeral rites. Sources said that the 55-year-old COVID-19 victim, a widow, hailed from Bayyaram village in Pinapaka mandal. She succumbed to coronavirus infection while undergoing treatment at the government area hospital in Bhadrachalam on Monday morning. Her 22-year-old younger daughter sought the help of her close relatives to perform the last rites of her mother. However, they reportedly did not heed to her request fearing contracting the virus infection, sources added. Volunteers of the BCR Trust rushed to her help and shifted the body of her mother in an ambulance to the cremation ground amid heavy rain. The grieving daughter of the COVID-19 victim lit the funeral pyre and performed the last rites of her mother with the help of the BCR Trust organisers A J Ramesh, the CPI (M) State committee member, and Gaddam Swamy, the CPI (M) Bhadrachalam town committee secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribal-woman-performs-mothers-funeral-rites/article35292685.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two in five complain of long COVID: survey||Much of India is trying to move past the COVID-19 pandemic, but many people, who have recovered from the infectious disease, are still unable to do so. An online survey conducted by AIG Hospitals shows that over 40% of 2,038 persons continue to suffer from health issues post-recovery with most of them complaining of weakness or fatigue. Hospital chairman D. Nageshwar Reddy, who presented the survey findings at a virtual press conference on Monday, estimated that over 1 crore of the country’s population who recovered from COVID might still have certain symptoms. The survey was conducted through multiple social media platforms. A pre-print paper with the findings was sent to an international journal for publication. Of the 5,347 persons who received the link, 2,038 responded. Steroid therapy One of the important conclusions was that post-COVID symptoms — or long COVID as it is being referred to due to the lingering effects — are more often noted in patients who received steroid therapy. Dr Nageshwar Reddy added that oxygen requirement during treatment might not be criteria for post-COVID syndrome, and that patients with all forms of severity — mild, moderate and severe — have complained of health issues even after recovery. The AIG chairman said that COVID- recovered patients who were as young as 30 have consulted them for sudden heart attack. Some others suffered from brain stroke leading to paralysis, lung health, liver injuries and digestive issues, four to six weeks after recovery. Psychological and psychiatric problems, too, were observed. “Gastrointestinal bacteria changed completely in some people leading to indigestion, or diarrhoea. Similarly, they have developed auto-immune disease. Japanese scientists have calculated 83 types of autoantibodies develop after COVID,” he said at the press conference. The researchers found that of the 770 hospitalised patients, 264 required oxygen therapy during hospital stay, and 575 received steroid therapy. Citing international guidelines which state that steroids have to be given to people who require oxygen, he pointed out while only one-third of the respondents needed oxygen, two-thirds received steroids. S. Narsing Rao, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, launched the AIG Hospitals’ Post-COVID Care Clinic as part of the press conference. Dr Nageswar Reddy said they will continue to conduct research into the complications reported by post-COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-in-five-complain-of-long-covid-survey/article35292666.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MA&UD to spend Rs. 2,000 crore for civic works in municipalities||This year, the Department of Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD) has earmarked about Rs. 2,000 crore for improving infrastructure in the 141 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) for drinking water supply, sewerage, roads, markets, etc.. With 10% of the total budget allotted for development of greenery, it plans to develop 1,067 tree parks and multi-layered avenue plantations along the 400 km of the roads in the municipal corporations and municipalities, other than GHMC. Fourth annual report of the department released by the Minister concerned K.T. Rama Rao in the presence of Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar and and others, recently, indicated that water supply schemes in 130 ULBs will be completed during this year at a total cost of Rs. 1,433 crore with funds sourced under various heads. Integrated vegetable and non-veg markets as well as modern crematoria are to be completed at a cost of Rs. 700 crore with Gadwal, Siddipet and Sircilla already having these. Novel bio-mining of the accumulated municipal waste to make organic compost is to be given an impetus with the first plant in Warangal likely to be commissioned soon. About 35.50 lakh metric tonnes of garbage is to be tackled in this manner in 130 ULBs while Faecal Sludge Treatment Plants (FSTPs) are in the line to be ready in 47 municipalities, with tenders to be called for 68 new ones. All these are among works to be taken up outside the capital region as per the action plan. Other highlights are: Seven FSTPs are working and tenders for 71 plus another 68 are under progress for 5, 10 and 15 kilolitres per day plants. Drinking water schemes for 61 ULBs are being executed by public health department, 25 ULBs within ORR by the HMWSSB and the balance 55 ULBs by the Rural Water Supply & Sanitation department. With just 15% of municipal area having underground drainage outside of GHMC, 11 drain projects were taken up in Vikarabad, Karimnagar and Nizamabad and works completed at Rs. 447.45 crore, plus Siddipet at Rs. 266.32 crore. Nalgonda and Miryalguda works are to become operational at Rs. 168.30 crore. Khammam, Suryapet, Nagarkurnool, Gajwel-Pragynapur and Deverkonda works were being taken up at Rs. 353.61 crore. Property mapping of 20.80 lakh dwellings is to be done with help of National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) through the Bhuvan portal and 4.5 lakh properties were mapped thus far. During the COVID times, 225 labour camps were set up in 45 ULBs with 44,759 people provided with food, masks and sanitisers. Plus, 22 new shelters for urban homeless were sanctioned for Rs. 13.50 crore. About 1,106 self-help groups in 114 municipalities have made 8,09,242 masks while 19 SHGs in three municipalities are involved in making sanitisers and 15,540 bottles. Building clearances Much vaunted TS-bPASS introduced last year giving speedy online building clearance has got 25,196 applications approved within Directorate of Town & Country Planning (DTCP) for ULBs totalling 13,292. These include 2,843 instant registrations for permissions up to 75 sq.yards, 10,070 instant approvals and 379 for above 600 sq.yards and all non-residential buildings Overall, with the earlier prevailing Development Permission Management System (DPMS) 25,872 permissions were given by DTCP for construction of built up area of 71.88 million sq.ft as against the 47,595 permissions for 254 million sq.ft including GHMC & HMDA permissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maud-to-spend-rs-2000-crore-for-civic-works/article35292670.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth faults Centre, State govts. for high petrol prices||The Congress party staged protests across the State against steep increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas on Monday, in response to a call given by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) with the newly-appointed Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) A. Revanth Reddy leading it at Nirmal. Bike rallies, symbolic rides on bullock carts and processions marked the protests held at all district headquarters in the State. Senior leaders of the party held the protests in different districts. At Nirmal, Mr. Revanth Reddy along with former legislator A. Maheshwar Reddy and DCC president Ramarao Patel participated in a two-hour protest procession from the outskirts of the town. Speaking at the protest meet, the TPCC president said the Centre had increased petrol and diesel prices 24 times this year itself. Alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao were exploiting people with taxes that had overtaken the actual cost of petrol and diesel by about over 150%. Despite claiming the country and State as rich repeatedly, the two governments had been levying exorbitant taxes to take the prices of petrol and diesel to an unprecedented high, he said. “When poor neighbouring countries such as Burma, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Afghanistan and others could give petrol and diesel at much lesser cost, why is it not possible in India”, he sought to know. The rate of petrol in the State was about Rs. 60 per litre when BJP came into power in 2014 and it had reached over Rs. 105 per litre now, he said. He pointed out that it was due to the high State (Rs. 32) and Central taxes (Rs. 33) per litre the actual cost of petrol (Rs. 40) had crossed Rs. 105. Similarly, on diesel, the State and Central governments are levying Rs. 28 and Rs. 30 per litre, respectively on the actual cost of diesel (Rs. 30). The rate of domestic cooking gas cylinder has gone up by over 100% as it was available at Rs. 410 against Rs. 861 now. Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that the Central government had fleeced Rs. 36 lakh crore from people in the name of taxes on petrol and diesel during the last seven years, while the State government exploited Rs. 12 lakh crore. He said there was no need to show any sympathy for KCR and TRS now as promises like double-bedroom houses, 3 acres land to dalits, a government job to every family, hike in tribal and minorities reservation and others remain writings on water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-faults-centre-state-govts-for-high-petrol-prices/article35292678.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SHG women enter Guinness World Records for rolling seed balls||Women of a self-help group (SHG) in Mahabubnagar have entered the Guinness World Records for their feat of rolling 8 crore seed balls, made for improving greenery in the district, in 10 days and making the longest sentence with seed balls on Monday. Representative of the Guinness World Records Rishinath watched the formation of longest sentence with the seed balls virtually, and presented the certificate. The women formed the sentence ‘Two crore seed balls made and planted by SHG Women, Transform Mahabubnagar into Hetero Green Belt’ with 73,918 seed balls between 10.40 a.m. and 12.35 p.m. to enter the Guinness World Records. Minister for Excise and Tourism V. Srinivas Goud and District Collector S. Venkata Rao complimented the women and said the record set by them would be dedicated to the ‘Green India Challenge’. The seed balls were being broadcast in difficult and hilly terrains and other government and forest lands to improve the green cover in the district as part of the Haritha Haaram programme. According to officials, the SHG women of rural areas were given the task last year and they rolled 1.18 crore seed balls in 10 days. The district administration has, however, involved the SHG women in urban areas, too, this time and given them the task of making 2 crore seed balls in 10 days with 1.70 crore target given to the rural SHGs and the remaining 30 lakh to urban SHGs. District Project Manager of DRDA A. Naga Mallika told The Hindu that a total of 10,560 women SHGs in the rural areas with a membership of 1,28,560 women were involved in the exercise this year. Accordingly, a day’s training was given to the mahila samkhya leaders on July 1 and seed ball making was taken up from the next day with the women sourcing suitable soil and cattle dung locally and seed supply from DRDA. “We have procured some seed locally and some quantity was sourced from traders in combined Adilabad district,” she said, explaining that neem, tamarind, custard apple, banyan, juvvi (ficus virens), raavi (sacred fig), babool (acacia arabica), medi (cluster fig) and few other varieties were sourced to make seed balls as they withstand moisture stress.  We have procured some seed locally and some quantity was sourced from traders in combined Adilabad district. A. Naga Mallika, District Project Manager, DRDA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shg-women-enter-guinness-records-for-rolling-seed-balls/article35292663.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Depts. submit reports on 50,000 vacancies||The State government has identified around 50,000 vacant posts in different government departments after the two-day exercise conducted by the Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao. But it apparently has to go a long way in identifying the total vacancies going by the status of human resources projected in the Pay Revision Commission report submitted earlier this year. The PRC said, in its report, that the sanctioned strength of the employees across the departments is 4,91,034 against which about 3,00,178 are working. This leaves vacancies in excess of 1.9 lakh. The highest number of employees 1.37 lakh are sanctioned to the School Education Department against which 1.13 lakh are presently working. The Home Department stands second in the sanctioned cadre strength at 98,394 where only 61,212 are working. Health Department with a sanctioned cadre strength of 52,906 (22,336 working) stands next followed by the Revenue Department with sanctioned strength of 27,786 (19,825 working) and Panchayat Raj Department 26,201 (13,573 working), according to the PRC report. The PRC said the sanctioned strength of employees in the five departments is 3,42,938 against which 2,30,799 are working, leaving vacancies of 1.12 lakh. The share of these five departments comes to 69.80% of the total cadre strength sanctioned for the State. The number of employees working in these departments was 2,30,799 which accounts for 76.88% of the total working strength. The Pay Revision Commission headed by retired bureaucrat C.R. Biswal also made an elaborate study on the population, workforce ratio and it concluded that only 61% of the sanctioned strength is working. The sanctioned strength of 4.91 lakh employees was in the ratio of 1.4 per cent which worked out to 14 posts sanctioned for every 1,000 population. “But the ratio of employees actually available for 1,000 persons is 8.5 going by the vacancies,” the PRC said. Senior officials said the present exercise is focused on identification of direct recruitment posts and this will be followed by similar exercise to ascertain the vacancies created on account of promotions given to the employees in different cadres. Steps in this direction are likely to be initiated after the commencement of the process for filling direct recruitment vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/depts-submit-reports-on-50000-vacancies/article35292682.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Leave Congress soon, Revanth tells ‘coverts’||TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy warned ‘coverts’ in the party to leave within a month and that such people would not be spared. His comments came in the backdrop of Congress leader (now resigned) Padi Kaushik Reddy’s phone conversation with a TRS activist went viral in which he claimed that the TRS ticket for the Huzurabad bypoll was confirmed to him. The TPCC chief said the ‘coverts’ in the party should leave within a month and he would go to any length to protect the genuine workers and strengthen the party. He also warned the officials harassing the Congress workers on the directions of the TRS leaders. Allegations, counter-allegations and warnings marked the day after Mr. Kaushik Reddy’s phone call went viral. The Congress disciplinary action committee headed by M. Kodanda Reddy issued a show-cause notice for anti-party activities to him. Instead, Kaushik Reddy chose to resign but not before making serious allegations on the party. At a press conference in the evening, Mr. Kaushik Reddy questioned the appointment of Revanth Reddy ignoring the seniors in the party. He also alleged that Rs. 50 crore was paid to AICC incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore to secure the top post. He said the party was strong when Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy was the president and many would leave it within six months. Mr. Kaushik Reddy went onto allege that Mr Revanth Reddy was discreetly supporting dismissed Minister Eatala Rajender who has joined the BJP and is likely to be its Huzurabad candidate in the ensuing bypoll. He said Mr. Revanth’s reported comments that Mr. Rajender was a strong candidate had demoralised the Congress cadre. Meanwhile, senior Congress leaders attributed the day’s developments to the ‘script’ from Pragathi Bhavan hinting at Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao’s role. Former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajnarsimha said it had all the markings of Mr. Rao and his dubious political moves. He said the covert operations were uncovered two months ago, and the audio was just an extension. AICC secretary, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy termed him as a ‘traitor’ and asked whether he had paid money to get ticket in the 2018 Assembly elections. “Did you also pay for appointment as PCC secretary,” he asked. TPCC working presidents J. Geetha Reddy and Mahesh Kumar Goud also alleged that Kaushik Reddy was reading the script sent from Pragathi Bhavan. Ms. Geeta Reddy termed the allegations as ridiculous and said the leaders are chosen based on feedback from the party workers.  Kaushik Reddy is reading the script sent from Pragathi Bhavan. The allegations are ridiculous as party leaders are chosen based on feedback sent by the cadre. J. Geetha Reddy, TPCC working president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leave-congress-soon-tpcc-chief-tells-coverts/article35292683.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khammam surpasses GHMC in daily case count||For the first time in almost four-months, the number of COVID-19 cases in a rural district of Telangana surpassed the tally of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region. Khammam recorded 82 fresh infections on Monday, 68 were recorded in GHMC. It was on March 16 this year that cases in a rural district were more than those recorded in the municipal corporation limits — Mancherial posted 45 cases compared to 29 in GHMC area. Big jump The 82 cases in Khammam on Monday also marks another spike in the district as it is the highest in the past five days. It is among the districts that a high-level team from the State Health department has visited to assess reasons for wide prevalence of coronavirus. They will submit a report to the Cabinet soon. Overall, 696 cases were detected in Telangana on the day and six more patients died, taking the case tally to 6,32,379 and death toll to 3,735. Other districts that contributed a high number of cases were Nalgonda (49), Pedapalli and Warangal Urban (48 each), and 45 from Karimnagar. As of Monday evening, the State had 10,148 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-surpasses-ghmc-in-daily-case-count/article35292667.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three, including receiver held in automobile theft case||Two youngsters who stole eight high-end bikes were arrested by Asifnagar police here on Monday. They also arrested a 28-year-old receiver of stolen two-wheelers Golla Madhu from Narasaraopeta in Guntur of AP. The accused — 18-year-old Sivaratri Chandu and 22-year-old Chinthagunta Siva Naga Teja, private employees who hail from Piduguralla in Guntur — committed offences at Asifnagar, S.R Nagar of Hyderabad, Cyberabad, Nalgonda district and Guntur district. “They are addicted to vices due to bad companions, as a result the duo decided to steal costly bikes parked on streets or in front of houses,” Joint Commissioner of Police (West) AR Srinivas said. Sivaratri Chandu breaks the lock and starts the vehicle by inserting a safety pin into the bike fuse, the technique which he learned by watching YouTube videos. Later they keep stolen vehicles with Madhu at Narasaraopeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-including-receiver-held-in-automobile-theft-case/article35292908.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress leaders taken into custody at Dharna Chowk||Several Congress leaders were taken into custody by the police here on Monday for staging a protest against continuous increase in the petrol and diesel prices. Working presidents of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) Dr. J. Geetha Reddy and M. Anjan Kumar Yadav, former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah and former MLC A. Ramulu Naik and others were taken into custody by the police at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park and were shifted to Chikkadpalli police station. Speaking at the protest site earlier, Mr. Lakshmaiah said poor and middle class people are suffering badly with the regular increase of petrol and diesel prices. He criticised the BJP government at the Centre for promising to reduce petrol and diesel prices within 100 days of coming to power in 2014 and but it was simply forgotten. Mr. Ponnala said 53.35 crore people have been burdened with rising fuel taxes since Modi took over and these include farmers, vehicle users and housewives using cooking gas. He said during the UPA government in 2014, tax on per litre of diesel was Rs. 3.46 while it is increased to Rs. 31.80 per litre, which is 820% more. This is severely affecting farmers who use motors for agriculture. Similarly, tax on petrol was Rs. 9.48 in 2014 while it is Rs. 32.98 now. This is affecting 26 crores middle class people who own two-wheelers. He said 26.3 crore housewives have been burdened with 100% increase in cooking gas prices. Former working president of TPCC Ponnam Prabhakar and DCC president K. Satyanarayana led a bicycle and bullock-cart procession as part of the protest in Karimnagar. Mr. Prabhakar said increase in diesel prices is burdening the farming community badly with increased cultivation costs. In Nizamabad, former Ministers P. Sudarshan Reddy and Md. Ali Shabbir participated in protest programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-taken-into-custody-at-dharna-chowk/article35292680.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ramappa inscription as World Heritage Site runs into rough weather||The decision to examine Ramappa Temple for a World Heritage Site inscription has been deferred by the World Heritage Committee, according to the provisional agenda accessed by The Hindu . The World Heritage Committee’s Extended 44th meeting is scheduled to be held online hosted in Fuzhou in China between July 16 and 31. “The nomination is in its final stages. We have sent a lot of documentation asked by UNESCO. We even sent videos in Arabic, Spanish, Chinese, French, Russian and English. We are sure the Ramappa Temple will get the world heritage site tag during the forthcoming meeting,” said M. Panduranga Rao of Kakatiya Heritage Trust, which has done groundwork for the Ramappa Temple nomination. Reasons listed Setting out reasons for deferring the decision, the committee has asked for nine additional steps to improve the case for inscription. It has also asked for improving the conservation methods adopted at the site. The Glorious Kakatiya Temples and Gateways were added to the tentative list of World Heritage Sites in 2014 and included three serial sites: Remnants of Swayambhu temple and Keerthi Thoranas, Warangal fort; Thousand Pillar Temple, Hanamkonda and Ramappa Temple, Palampet. “Subsequently, this nomination was modified to only the ‘Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple’ as we realised that creating a 100-metre prohibited zone is not possible in the other sites,” said Mr. Rao. Incidentally, the provisional agenda reveals that Dholavira in Gujarat, which has Harappan relics, is set to get the World Heritage Site inscription. Both Dholavira and the Kakatiya heritage sites were added to the tentative list in 2014. A team of officials from UNESCO had visited the Ramappa Temple site in September 2019 and had asked for a few clarifications. Now, the world body has asked India to take advice from ICOMOS to redefine the nomination approach. “Redefine the nomination approach to include the wider context of Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple and accordingly enlarge the boundaries and buffer zone of the nominated property to include the architectural and engineering structures as well as natural features which form the historic dharmic context as well as the economic and functional basis of the temple,” says the recommendation paper. Comparative analysis The world body also asked for a comparative analysis, expand the conservation approach to the Ramappa Lake, water channels and smaller temples as well as undertake a Heritage Impact Assessment of development projects near the Ramappa Lake. The world body has also asked for a “schedule and detailed methodology for the reassembly and conservation of Kameshwara Temple.” The ruined Kameshwara temple on the right side of the Ramappa Temple was dismantled by the Archaeological Survey of India but has not yet been restored. Provisional agenda While the WHC usually sticks to the provisional agenda due to the nature of documentation involved, it remains to be seen what decision it takes on the ninth item in the order of presentation at the extended 44th session. Will Ramappa be a World Heritage Site in 2021 nearly 808 years after it was built?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramappa-inscription-as-world-heritage-site-runs-into-rough-weather/article35292687.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prospects of higher inflows into projects rise||The prospects of major reservoirs in the Krishna and Godavari Basins in the State have improved with the south-west monsoon getting active over the catchment areas in the upper and middle basins of the two rivers in Karnataka and Maharashtra and lower basins in Telangana with the support of low pressure area and the associated cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal. Inflows, which have been mostly moderate, into most of the reservoirs have been fluctuating during the six-week monsoon season so far. However, they are likely to be stabilised and improved over the coming weeks with the monsoon getting active and the catchment areas getting rains. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) officials, over 12.6 cm rain was recorded in Agumbe, the major catchment of Tungabhadra river, and over 6.5 cm in Krishna Agraharam in Jogulamba-Gadwal district during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. Similarly, in the Godavari Basin, Khanapur recorded 13 cm rain followed by 10 cm in Burgampadu, 9 cm each in Huzurabad and Aswapuram, 8 cm each in Thimmapur, Kondapak, Kaddam, Chigurumamidi and 7 cm each in Kothagudem, Dummugudem, Bayyaram and Tekulapalle in Telangana. The engineers at Sriramsagar stated that Vishupuri project across Godavari in Nanded district (Maharashtra) was 97% full and a discharge of nearly 17,000 cusecs started on Sunday night with increasing level there and it was likely to start reaching SRSP from Monday evening. On Sunday evening, the inflows were around 4,200 cusecs.  Authorities of SRSP along with local elected representatives released water to the Laxmi Canal of Sriramsagar Project (SRSP) for the kharif season on Sunday morning by operating the shutters of the regulator after performing ‘pooja’. The water release began with 300 cusecs in the morning but was reduced to 250 cusecs in the evening. Water release to A.R. Gutpa lift and Kakatiya Main Canal from SRSP has already commenced earlier this month. Release of water to the ayacut has also been started under Nizamsagar last week. Sriramsagar has received about 18.5 tmc ft water so far this season with the storage reaching 34.4 tmc ft against capacity of 90.31 tmc ft on Sunday evening. Water release to canal and lift systems based on Jurala has been going on for the last four weeks as the project has received over 31.7 tmc ft water so far this season. Meanwhile, the authorities of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project have started discharging heavy flood of 1.02 lakh cusecs at Medigadda (Laxmi) barrage by lifting 24 gates as the inflows were nearly 81,400 cusecs with a rising trend.  Brimming reservoirs Water storage in projects as on July 11 Project Capacity Present Storage Present Inflows Water Reached Almatti 129.72 94.52 10000 93.5 Narayanpur 37.64 33.04 15000 31.5 Jurala 9.66 5.90 1100 31.7 Tungabhadra 100.86 36.00 2119 28.8 Singur 29.91 17.68 2465 2.6 Nizamsagar 17.80 6.38 0 0.18 Sriramsagar 90.31 34.40 4180 18.5  (Capacity/Storage/Water Reached – in tmc ft; Inflows – in cusecs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prospects-of-higher-inflows-into-projects-rise/article35292918.ece
13 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held for duping gold finance firm||Five persons of an inter-State gang involved in online doorstep gold loan fraud were arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crime police from Bhubaneswar of Odisha. The accused are Aditya Narayan Mohapatra (22), Laxmidhar Murmu (21), Pramod Nayak (23), all private employees, and two students — Soumia Ranjan Patnaik (21) and Debasish Ojha (20) from Bhubaneswar. Police froze Rs. 10 lakh in their bank accounts, seized six mobile phones, a debit card and bank passbook from their possession. In June, Manappuram Finance Limited, Himayathnagar branch head approached Cyber Crime police stating that some fraudsters phoned their branch impersonating their staff from head-office and obtained the credentials of two employees. “By using the credentials, the culprits approved a gold loan in the name of Manappuram Doorstep Gold Loan scheme and transferred Rs. 30 lakh into their bank accounts without gold ornaments pledged and cheated the company,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered and police launched a probe. According to Mr. Mohanty the main culprit is Aditya Narayan, who worked at Manappuram office in Bhubaneswar. Cheating case Hyderabad police arrested the CEO and MD of Sambandh Finserve Private Limited, Rourkela, Odisha, in connection with a cheating case. Deepak Kindo (43) was apprehended at Rajgangpur, Odisha and was brought here on Monday. In June, Chief Financial Officer of Nabsamruddhi Finance Ltd., a subsidiary unit of NABARD Hyderabad, approached Central Crime Station police alleging that Kindo availed credit facilities of Rs. 5 crore from their firm against security of book debts and personal guarantee for onward lending to microfinance activities at Odisha and Chhattisgarh States. “They promised to repay the amount in eight instalments in two years of availing loan from March 1, 2019, but Kindo transferred the loan into his own business entities instead of investing in microfinance activities and thereby defaulted in repayments of about Rs. 2 crore as on March 21,” Mr Mohanty said. Kindo also took credit facilities of Rs. 200 crore from several banks and NBFCs, and defaulted on further repayment, he said, adding, “Several criminal cases are registered against him in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5-held-for-duping-gold-finance-firm/article35292671.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Believers mourn demise of Orthodox Church head||Members of the Malankara Orthodox Church in Hyderabad have condoled the untimely demise of their supreme head, His Holiness Moran Mar Baselios Marthoma Paulose II Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan. He was 74. The churches — St. Gregorios Orthodox Cathedral, Gandhinagar; St Andrew’s Valiapally, Secunderabad; St Mary’s Church, RC Puram and St George Church, Jeedimetla — held special prayers in his memory. The Holy Father has been ailing for more than a year with lung cancer at St Gregorios International Cancer Centre at Parumala which was established on his initiative. His condition worsened a few days before and the end came on Monday morning. Reigning on the Throne of St Thomas for the past more than 10 years, the Catholicos has been very popular among all sections of people irrespective of caste, creed and religion. He was instrumental in implementing many a welfare and charity projects by the church. The church had introduced widow pension and housing for the poor. His funeral will be held on Tuesday evening at Catholicate Palace premises at Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/believers-mourn-demise-of-orthodox-church-head/article35292668.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor takes vaccination among tribals to dispel fears||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday took her second dose of COVID vaccine among tribals at a remote village in Maheswaram mandal of Rangareddy district to remove misbeliefs among them about vaccination. She took the initiative concerned over vaccine hesitancy among tribals, a Raj Bhavan release said. Accompanied by her husband Dr. Soundararajan and secretary K. Surendra Mohan, the Governor offered prayers at a temple and took vaccine sitting among tribals at K.C. Thanda. Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy, police officials and health staff were present. After her turn, the tribal women were motivated to take the jab in a large number. Ms. Soundararajan distributed sweet boxes in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-takes-jab-among-tribals-to-dispel-fears/article35292660.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramana takes membership of TRS||Former president of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in Telangana L. Ramana took the membership of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) formally on Monday, four days after meeting Chief Minister and TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Primary membership of the party was given to Mr. Ramana by working president of TRS and Minister for Municipal Administration, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao. Mr. Ramana is expected to join the party publicly at a meeting to be held on July 16 in the presence of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Ramana is a two-time MLA from Jagitial and one time MP from Karimnagar and was a member of the N. Chandrababu Naidu Cabinet during 1994-96 in combined Andhra Pradesh. He was given the portfolio of Handlooms and Textiles and also worked as the Chairman of AP Khadi Village Industries Board. He was elected to Lok Sabha in 1996 and was elected to Assembly for the second time in 2009. Later, Mr. Ramana had an hour-long meeting with Ministers K. Eshwar, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Rajya Sabha member B. Lingaiah Yadav, MLAs K. Vidyasagar Rao and Dr. M. Sanjay and others at Ministers’ Quarters. Four corporators of Congress of Jawaharnagar Municipal Corporation, councillors of Thumukunta Municipality (2) and Ghatkesar Municipality (1) and 3 MPTC members of Shamirpet mandal also joined TRS. Meanwhile, the Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) also suffered a set back with one of its key leaders and a close associate of party president M. Kodandaram, P. Srisail Reddy, quit the party and is likely to join TRS soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramana-takes-membership-of-trs/article35292681.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSCAB is best State coop bank||The Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) was chosen as the best State cooperative bank in the country and the Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank as the best DCCB in south India by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The awards were announced at the 40th foundation day celebrations of NABARD on Monday. A webinar on “Resilience of Indian agriculture amidst pandemic” was organised on the occasion. The programme was attended by Union Minister Narendra Singh Thomar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tscab-is-best-state-coop-bank/article35292919.ece
13 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Fever survey under way as infections spike||As several villages, mainly in border mandals, continue to report sporadic cases of COVID-19, the district health authorities on Monday pressed into action special teams of field health functionaries to conduct another round of household fever survey to rein in the spread of coronavirus infection and also check seasonal diseases in the district. Border mandals The move comes amid reports that the second wave of the pandemic still persists in several mandals of Khammam district, sharing a long border with Andhra Pradesh. Reports suggest that Khammam was one among the 73 districts in the country that continued to witness a surge in coronavirus cases despite a gradual downward trend in new COVID-19 cases in most parts of the country. These 73 districts reportedly recorded over 10% positivity rate over a week ago. However, district health authorities did not respond to calls for a comment in this regard. Sources said as many as 27 COVID cases were reported from Aregudem village in Nelakondapally mandal last week. Rajeswarapuram, Shankaragiri Thanda in the same mandal recorded quite a few infections in the past week. The border mandal reported more than 4% positivity rate last week, sources added. Unconfirmed reports said that the district on an average recorded a little over 300 COVID cases daily from July 5 to 10. On Monday, Khammam district recorded the highest number of cases (82) in the State, exceeding even GHMC region’s count. Multiple reasons Sources said that a combination of factors, including casual approach towards the safety precautions, increased movement of vehicles across the inter-State borders consequent to lifting of the lockdown, and alleged operation of belt shops in several border villages, contributed to a spike in cases in border mandals. The health authorities have decided to undertake another round of household fever survey in the district at a review meeting chaired by Principal Secretary, Health Medical and Family Welfare Department, Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, in the town on Sunday night. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, OSD in the Chief Minister’s Office Gangadhar and Collector R.V. Karnan attended the meeting. Scaling up testing Mr Rizvi issued a set of instructions to scale up COVID-19 testing, treatment, tracing, surveillance and vaccination to effectively curb the spread of the infection. He wanted the district health authorities to ensure about 300 COVID-19 tests per day in each PHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fever-survey-under-way-as-infections-spike/article35292904.ece
13 July 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Medak Collector acts tough against officials for laxity||Collector S. Harish acted tough against those negligent on duties and not implementing Palle Pragathi guidelines. He has issued notices to 45 sarpanches and village secretaries. Mr. Harish said in a release here on Monday that notices were issued to two mandal panchayat development officers in this regard, stating that these programmes can be successful with active involvement of public representatives and people. “There are qualitative changes in villages after taking up Palle Pragathi programme. Officials were directed to complete the pending works in the next four to five days. As part of the programme, 13,695 roads and 10,583 drains were cleaned. Bio-fencing was established around 469 Vaikuntha Dhamams and dump yards,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medak-collector-acts-tough-against-officials-for-laxity/article35292914.ece
13 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Congress protests hike in fuel prices||Opposing the increase in price of petroleum products frequently, the Congress leaders held a protest here on Monday led by District Congress Committee (DCC) president T. Nirmala Jayaprakash Reddy. A rally was held from old bus stand to new bus stand with bullock carts. Slogans were raised against State and Central governments during the rally, which moved for about 2 kms. “The prices were hiked several times. Excise duty is 32.9 per cent. Though the prices were reduced in the international market it has not been reflected in the country. We will continue out fight till the prices are brought down,” said the Congress leaders during the rally. At Zheerabad, Congress senior leader Narottam Reddy held the protest. Former deputy chief minister C. Damodar Rajanarasimha, who had participated in the protest at Medak fell down from the cart after the programme was over as he lost balance. However, he was not injured. Mallu leads protest Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka along with a host of senior Congress leaders rode a bullock cart in Khammam . Dozens of Congress cadres took part in the rally riding bicycles, giving vent to their anger against skyrocketing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG (cooking gas). The demonstrators displayed placards denouncing the record high fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-protests-hike-in-fuel-prices/article35292913.ece
13 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||50 bright, young techies on a common platform||The Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad (IIT-H) organised the 15th National Frontiers of Engineering (NatFoE) symposium virtually on July 9-10. It is the annual flagship event of Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) that aims at bringing together young engineers from academic institutes, R&D labs, and industry on a single platform to deliberate on emerging trends of research and cutting-edge technologies. Fifty young engineers discussed, deliberated, and brainstormed the state of the art and highlighted the opportunities and challenges in the four major areas — Artificial intelligence and machine learning, advanced materials and manufacturing technologies, infrastructure and unconventional energy, and rural technology and entrepreneurship. Tessy Thomas, Director General (Aeronautical Systems), DRDO, presented a detailed overview of the advances in aerospace materials and manufacturing technologies and highlighted their importance in India’s successful space program. Debashish Bhattacharjee, Vice President (New Materials Business), Tata Steel, in another keynote address, presented some of the breakthrough technologies and innovations in the area of high strength, lightweight materials for the automotive sector. ‘Goal achieved’ IIT-H director B. S. Murty said: “Despite the organisation of the meeting on a virtual platform due to COVID-19 pandemic, NatFoE2021 has achieved its goal in fostering new collaborations and exchanging new ideas among the brightest minds”. INAE president Indranil Manna said, “INAE has taken appropriate steps in the implementation of the important recommendations and action items in the four themed areas as a final outcome of this symposium”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/50-bright-young-techies-on-a-common-platform/article35292901.ece
13 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Family of three mauled by fate||Some times, fate plays a cruel game. There might be no exceptions. Sangai Mamatha was married to Devender on May 13, 2015. She was then still in her teens. Now she is 23. They have two children — Krishna and Aravind, 4 and 2 respectively. They are residents of Lingarajupally in Daultabad mandal. They are residing in a hut and not having any farm land. On November 1, 2020, Devender drowned in a tank, leaving behind wife and children. There was also a debt of Rs. 2 lakh. It being rainy season, their hut has become a place for snakes and other creatures. Only her daily wage earning makes the family survive. “My life turned upside down with my husband’s sudden death. There are days when I have to skip food to feed my children,” said Mamatha, trying to control tears. “This horrible condition of Mamatha was witnessed in the village, which is very near to Hyderabad. Request some kind-hearted person to come to the rescue of the family,” said Puli Raju, a teacher, who visited the family on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-of-three-mauled-by-fate/article35292900.ece
13 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Forest cover increased by 4%: Minister||Minister for Forests Allola Indrakaran Reddy on Monday said that the forest cover in the State has increased by 4% and expressed the hope that soon Telangana would achieve the 33% target as per the country’s forest policy. The Minister attributed the rise in forest cover in the State to Haritha Haram, the government’s afforestation programme, and the person behind it Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as reasons. Target “The 33% target will be achieved in the coming two or three years. Greenery and plantation drives have been given utmost priorities to achieve the target,” he said. On Monday, along with Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy toured various mandals in the district and inaugurated a slew of facilities. In Bhongir town, he inaugurated the newly constructed forest range officer’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/forest-cover-increased-by-4-minister/article35292676.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||The pull of devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/the-pull-of-devotion/article35292916.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||CBI unearths racket in allotment of DDA plots||The CBI has unearthed a major racket in unauthorised allotment of Delhi Development Authority (DDA) plots in Madanpur Khadar by its officials in connivance with touts and brokers. The agency has so far detected 85 unauthorised entries of plots in the land-management records. Among those named as accused are then DDA Land Management Branch’s Assistant Director, Sudhanshu Ranjan, then Senior Secretariat Assistant, Ajeet Kumar Bhardwaj, and former security guard Darwan Singh, besides Iqbal Hussain, Sunil Kumar Meena, Sapan Kumar, Jamaluddin, Rajwant Singh and Shakuntla Devi. In August last year, the agency had arrested Mr. Ranjan and the other two DDA officials for allegedly receiving Rs. 1 lakh in bribe from a person buying a plot. The latest case is an outcome of the probe into the earlier one. It is alleged that Mr. Ranjan and the other DDA employees under scrutiny took bribes from brokers and touts to show allotment of plots in Madanpur Khadar in the office records. A private person named Sapan Kumar was roped in to make the entries in the land-management registers. He would also put his thumb impression, projecting himself as an allottee.  The agency has extracted a recorded conversation from Mr. Ranjan’s mobile phone in which he, while talking to a DDA data entry operator on May 6, 2020, allegedly confessed to having committed the offence. The bribe amount would be decided by him and at his instance, the other two accused DDA employees would receive it. In order to evade detection and any liability in the future, the accused officials would create backdated records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cbi-unearths-racket-in-allotment-of-dda-plots/article35292556.ece
13 July 2021||Mumbai,||NIA court nixes Teltumbde’s bail plea||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday rejected the bail plea filed by professor Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. After rejecting Mr. Teltumbde’s default bail on July 13, 2020, special NIA judge D.E. Kothalikar rejected his regular bail plea. Mr. Teltumbde surrendered before the NIA office in Mumbai on April 14, 2020, after the Supreme Court denied him relief. He was initially remanded in NIA custody and is now lodged at Taloja jail. He has been charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nia-court-nixes-teltumbdes-bail-plea/article35292567.ece
13 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Murud taluka in Raigad records year’s highest single-day rainfall||Murud taluka on Sunday recorded this year’s highest single-day rainfall of 348 mm in Raigad district, prompting the evacuation of 550 residents of six villages. The rain also triggered landslides at Rajpuri in Murud and Kelghar in Roha, damaging hutments and roads. Traffic was diverted on Alibag-Murud route via Supegaon after a motorcyclist was killed and six occupants of a car were injured when the slab of an arch drain collapsed at 8.30 p.m. The deceased was identified as Vijay Chavan (50), a resident of Ekdara village, while the injured were Sagar Bhayde (40), wife Shobha Bhayde (38), their children Shree (9) and Neel (4); and friends Ujita Piple (38) and Pushpa Sakpal (38). They were heading from Murud to Panvel. The occupants broke the rear window with a headrest and escaped. They then alerted the control room. On Monday, high tide and heavy rainfall led to flooding in Supegaon and diversion of traffic from Agardanad to Tala. “The arch drain was constructed by the PWD. It is small in size and should ideally be under the Zilla Parishad. We have sought details from the PWD of the year of construction and funds used,” said District Collector Nidhi Choudhari. She said a proposal has been submitted to the State government to provide compensation to the victim’s kin. She said similar single-day rainfall was recorded in 2019 at Matheran and Pen. “Around 550 villagers from six villages were evacuated in two buses. One of the buses got stranded and we had to shift people. With a red alert being issued for the district, we have sought the help of an NDRF team. Extremely heavy rain is forecast till July 15,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/murud-taluka-in-raigad-records-years-highest-single-day-rainfall/article35292565.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Third accused held from M.P. in Kitty murder case||The police on Sunday arrested the third accused in Kitty Kumaramangalam murder case and recovered jewellery worth Rs. 50 lakh from the accused, said officials on Monday. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused — Suraj Budhe (36), a resident of Mahipalpur — has been arrested from Madhya Pradesh’s (M.P.) Tikamgarh. Technical surveillance was mounted on the mobile phone that Suraj was using and its last location was found to be in Jaipur after which the device was switched off, said an officer. Under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police Rakesh Dixit, a team reached Jaipur. “The area was full of hotels and all of them were examined. One hotel informed that Suraj and his family had checked in but had left. CCTV footage was examined and a taxi driver was found along with Suraj,” said the officer. Accused buys new phone The police then tracked the driver who said Suraj had bought a new mobile phone. Details of the phone were then obtained, and technical surveillance was mounted on it, the officer said. Initially, there was no movement on the phone, but it was eventually used and immediately tracked to M.P. A team then rushed to Tikamgarh and with the help of M.P. Police, they raided the suspected hideout and found Suraj with his wife and children at his brother-in-law Chhotu Adiwasi’s house. There were arguments with locals when police tried to make the arrest, but the M.P. Police soon helped pacify the situation. Mr. Singh said 520g gold with diamonds, 400g silver, Rs. 9,020 cash and a phone have been recovered from his possession. “The accused said they had thought that house help Mithila had been killed before they fled. When questioned separately, they are all blaming each other,” Mr. Singh said. Kitty was found dead at her residence on the night of July 6 when she and Mithila were at home. On Mithila’s statement, the police registered a case and arrested Kitty’s washerman Raju and his accomplice Rakesh Raj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/third-accused-held-from-mp-in-kitty-murder-case/article35292559.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man found dead on rail tracks, family claims custodial death||A 50-year-old man was found dead at railway tracks after he was picked up for questioning in south-east Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar, the police said on Monday. His family has alleged custodial death. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said Yogesh Gupta from Madangir was “asked to join investigation” in a complaint lodged against him. A man named Neeraj Pahadia complained that Gupta was running a committee in which he invested Rs. 12.23 lakh. But now Gupta closed the committee without returning the money to members, Pahadia complained. ‘Settle the matter’ The police said the inquiry was entrusted to an officer. During inquiry, the complainant and the accused had assured to settle the matter amicably. “On July 11, the complainant and the accused joined the enquiry again at the police station. After enquiry, Gupta left the police station at 8 p.m.,” Mr. Thakur said. The police said Gupta’s family approached the police station at 10.30 p.m., saying that he had not reached home after which a missing report was registered on Monday. The police then started a search launch following which they were informed by GRP Faridabad that Gupta had allegedly taken his life by jumping in front of a train at Old Faridabad Railway Station. Gupta’s son Shivam said his father was picked up by a Sub-Inspector on Sunday afternoon. “My father was a heart patient. We kept waiting from afternoon to evening at the police station, asking for our father but we were not allowed to meet him. In the evening, we were told to leave. They said he would return home in half an hour. When he did not, the officers told us that he had left the station two hours ago,” he said. Shivam said his father was killed inside the police station and then thrown at the tracks. “The SI had picked up my father without a warrant and he had been troubling him for a month now,” the son alleged. Mr. Thakur said: “Enquiry into the matter is ongoing.”  The SI had picked up my father without a warrant and he had been troubling him for a month now Shivam Victim’s son||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-found-dead-on-rail-tracks-family-claims-custodial-death/article35292563.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||78 girls found living in cramped, dirty rooms||A private shelter home where 78 girls live was found having “very small” and overcrowded rooms, the Delhi government said on Monday, adding that COVID-19 protocols were also not being followed. “The home was closed from all sides giving it the appearance of a jail. The superintendent said several children and employees had been infected with COVID-19 and some had to be hospitalised. Most of the children and workers were not wearing masks and social distancing was not being maintained,” an official statement said. The issue came to light during an inspection by Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and DCW chief Swati Maliwal at the shelter home in Kamla Nagar. No coolers “The coolers were not working, forcing the children to sit in scorching heat. The rooms were also dirty and there were no sanitation workers due to which the children were made to clean their own rooms. There is no space for children to play outdoors within the shelter home and the children are not allowed to go out forcing them to stay indoors all the time in a suffocating environment,” the statement read. The kitchen was also “very dirty”. The home also did not have enough computers and phones for children to attend online classes. “I have ordered the officials to ensure the children get good facilities and their education does not suffer due,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/78-girls-found-living-in-cramped-dirty-rooms/article35292560.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||6 men held for duping people by promising ‘negative COVID report’||Six men have been arrested in Central Delhi for allegedly robbing labourers coming from Gulf countries on the pretext of providing them with COVID-19 negative reports, the police said on Monday. The accused — Vijay Bhan Pandey, Deepak, Sanjeev Kumar, Harish Singh, Raju Shah and Sunder — told the victims that to travel by train, they need a COVID negative report and the one provided by the Delhi airport was invalid. Complainant Mohammad Wahi Vasi, a labourer in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on Friday had returned to India to visit his hometown in West Bengal (W.B.) along with four others. After landing at Delhi airport, they headed towards New Delhi Railway Station. At the station, they were approached by a man who told them that to travel by train, they require a negative COVID report. To this, Mr. Vasi told them that they already had the one provided at the Delhi airport. The accused then told him that the airport report was not valid for train travel. The victims were then taken to an office in Paharganj where they were informed that their reports will be ready by next day. They were also told that their train to Kolkata will depart at 12.30 p.m. and they can collect their reports by 11.30 a.m. from the office. The accused had also arranged night accommodation for them. On Saturday at 11.30 a.m., the victims reached the office where six persons were present. They were shown their reports and asked to pay 897 Saudi Riyal. When they refused to pay, one of the accused took out a countrymade pistol while another took out a knife. The complainants were made hostages and beaten up. The accused robbed them of their 3,500 Saudi Riyal and Rs. 17,970 along with other valuables. The accused later threatened the complainants with dire consequences and snatching of their passports if they approach the police. It was revealed that the accused had robbed hundreds of people coming from the Gulf with similar modus operandi in the past year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6-men-held-for-duping-people-by-promising-negative-covid-report/article35292562.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Extend scheme to all BCD members: HC||The Delhi High Court has ruled that the Chief Minister’s Advocates’ Welfare Scheme shall be extended to all advocates registered with the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), whose names and credentials are verified, without insistence of ID showing residence in Delhi. The scheme has already enabled insurances for thousands of advocates in Delhi, Justice Justice Prathiba M. Singh said. “However, the condition in the scheme that it would be applicable only to residents of Delhi with voter IDs is held to be discriminatory and arbitrary as the sub-classification from amongst the advocates enrolled with the BCD, has no rational nexus with the object to be achieved,” it remarked. “The unique nature of Delhi-NCR is that several advocates primarily practising in Delhi’s courts and tribunals and are also voters in Bar Associations may reside in and around Delhi,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/extend-scheme-to-all-bcd-members-hc/article35292551.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Respond to plea against malicious content on religious conversion: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) to respond to a petition claiming publication of malicious content over a 32-year-old woman from Uttar Pradesh converting from Hinduism to Islam. Justice Rekha Palli also sought response from Zee Media and Navbharat Times on the petition. The court also took on record the assurance provided by Delhi Police that protection would be extended to the woman, currently residing in Delhi, following her apprehension of being taken away to U.P. by its agencies by force or coercion. Advocate Tanya Agarwal, representing the woman, said that she had converted to Islam on her own free will and without any inducement, threat or coercion and has been practising the same since then. After she received her conversion certificate and published an advertisement in newspapers regarding change of name and religion, she started receiving threats. Media reports were also published revealing her name and identity, Ms. Agarwal said. Her petition stated that “several news reports appeared in the small ti me newspapers and news portals in U.P. with regard to the conversion of the petitioner, giving completely absurd and imaginary details”. The plea sought that the reports be taken down immediately for the protection of her privacy and dignity. The court, however, clarified thatit was not inclined to issue notice to the U.P. govt. and its police at this stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/faith-conversion-petition-seeks-privacy-for-woman/article35292552.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Church built on govt. land demolished||A church, which was built on government land in Chattarpur in south Delhi, was demolished on Monday, authorities said. “The land belongs to the government. However, it was encroached by some people by installing religious structures. Overtime, the encroached area started increasing in the garb of the expansion of the religious structure. Therefore, BDO office tried to undertake the demolition of the unauthorised structures,” said District Magistrate (South), Ankita Chakravarty. “However, the encroachers approached National Human Rights Commission from where the matter was transferred to the religious committee. Thereafter, a letter was received from the Home Police-II Department dated 03/03/2021 where they cited the High Court order of 2015 in WPC no 5234/2011 wherein it was directed to demolish the entire construction above the ground floor as well as portions of the ground where idols are not installed or placed without waiting for the decision of the religious committee,” the District Magistrate said. She said that the demolition drive was taken up in pursuance of the letter and notices were duly served to the encroachers and the demolition was successfully carried out on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/church-built-on-govt-land-demolished/article35292561.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Is it wrong to have political affiliation, asks Ishrat Jahan||Former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan — arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) — on Monday sought bail in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, asking before a court here whether it was wrong to have a political affiliation. “There is no evidence. Is it wrong to have a political affiliation? What wrong have I committed? Stifling voices were the reason behind imposing UAPA. UAPA must be scrutinised,” said advocate Pradeep Teotia, appearing for Ishrat Jahan before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. Ms. Jahan has served as Congress councillor from 2012-17 and has been a member of the AICC, according to her sister Sarwer Jahan. Mr. Teotia argued bail plea for her on the grounds that there is no evidence to show her connection with the co-accused and that the witnesses are planted. During the course of proceedings, the advocate objected to the prosecution’s allegations that Ishrat Jahan helped in financing the protest and violence, saying that they have just weaved a story and that there was no change in the pattern of her expenditure before and during the violence. Meanwhile, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad asked for the supply of the video relied upon by the counsels of the accused. Next hearing on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/is-it-wrong-to-have-political-affiliation-asks-ishrat-jahan/article35292554.ece
13 July 2021||New delhi,||Two accused of damaging Red Fort granted bail||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to two men arrested in a case filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) alleging their complicity in damaging Red Fort during the Republic Day violence this year. Accused Boota Singh and Gurjot Singh were arrested on July 8. The arrest was made on the day Boota was granted bail in another matter related to the violence. Gurjot was admitted on bail in the same matter a day after his arrest in the ASI case. While granting relief, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Gajender Singh Nagar said the duo has been made accused in both cases on the basis of the same act and no specific role is attributed to them. Deep Sidhu Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was also arrested in this case moments after being released from jail in another case related to the incident. He and several other accused appeared before CMM Nagar via video conferencing on Monday. The CMM directed the police to supply chargesheet to all the accused and listed the matter for further hearing on July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-accused-of-damaging-red-fort-granted-bail/article35292555.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dog dies after being shot with airgun||A dog died after it was allegedly shot at with an airgun in south-east Delhi’s Nizamuddin, the police said on Monday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said a case has been registered under Section 428 (whoever commits mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming, or rendering useless any animal) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of Cruelty to Animal Act. “Post-mortem of the dog has been conducted and further investigation is under way,” Mr. Meena said. A senior officer said they received a complaint about the incident from one Shobha Malholtra — animal welfare volunteer. The incident happened 10 days ago. “Three lead pellets were found in the dog, Brownie’s spine, stomach and chest area,” the complainant told police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dog-dies-after-being-shot-with-airgun/article35292557.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP-ruled civic body sealing shops: AAP||The AAP on Monday alleged that the BJP-ruled municipal corporation is sealing shops despite the pandemic. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said that an official committee found that five out of 200 units in Karawal Nagar were causing pollution and sealed. He alleged that market association members have told him that BJP leaders are saying that they will be allowed to open only if they give them money. “There are about 200 units [doing commercial activities] and the civic body is demanding Rs. 2 lakh per unit. This means that the seal will be removed only when all these traders give money to the leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-ruled-civic-body-sealing-shops-aap/article35292781.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for posing as IRS officer||A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating a woman by posing as an IRS officer, the police said on Monday. The accused — Subhodip Banerjee — belongs from Howrah in West Bengal. During probe, Banerjee was held from Taj Palace Hotel. He had told the woman that he was posted at Nizam Place, Kolkata as Assistant Director in CBI. After this, the woman married but and later got to know that he works in a private firm and filed a complaint. Next, two policemen from Howrah came to Chanakyapuri police station in search of the accused. The accused has been remanded for transit remand to take him to Howrah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-arrested-for-posing-as-irs-officer/article35292782.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teen critical after being hit with axe||A day prior to her birthday, a 16-year-old girl was attacked with an axe on Monday near south Moti Bagh jhuggi in the city, the police said. They received a PCR call at South Campus police station regarding the incident at 1.20 p.m. The police found that the teenager was hit by a man named Praveen alias Pradeep with an axe. Pradeep, who is in his early 20s, is a resident of the same area. The girl, who had injuries on her eyebrows, was rushed to Safdarjung hospital where she is undergoing treatment. “Her condition is serious, “ said an officer. A case under the relevant section has been registered and a manhunt is on for the accused. The victim is a student of Class XI. Her father works as a security guard, the officer said, adding that it appears to be one-sided love affair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/teen-critical-after-being-hit-with-axe/article35292564.ece
13 July 2021||Pune,||Over 15,000 recoveries in Maharashtra||With 15,227 recoveries on Monday as against 7,603 new COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra’s active case tally, which had seen a rise in the past few days, dipped to 1,08,343. However, the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours was low — just 1.76 lakh as opposed to the daily average of 2.30 lakh. A total of 146 deaths were to the progressive death toll, of which 42 occurred during the last 48 hours and 11 during the past week. A further 93 fatalities have been added as per the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, said the State Health Department. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,26,024, with the case fatality rate at 2.04%. The total cases have reached 61,65,402, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 59,27,756, with the recovery rate at 96.15%. Pune reported more than 800 new cases, taking its total cases to 10,69,220. Five deaths were reported as the toll rose to 17,526. As per district authorities, the active case tally stood at 10,600, while the total death toll has crossed 18,100. Mumbai reported 558 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,28,190, with active cases at 11,106. Fifteen fatalities took the city’s toll to 15,636. Kolhapur reported more than 1,900 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,75,964, of whom 11,794 are active. Eight deaths saw the cumulative death toll rise to 5,067.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-15000-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article35292784.ece
13 July 2021||Pune,||‘Repeal UAPA, free accused in Bhima-Koregaon case’||A number of progressive outfits under the umbrella of the Bhima-Koregaon Shouryadin Prerna Abhiyan staged a protest near the Pune District Collectorate on Monday against the Narendra Modi-led BJP government over the ‘institutional murder’ of tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy. The protestors demanded that all activists and intellectuals arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case be released immediately. The protesters also demanded that the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) be repealed and the ‘real’ perpetrators behind the Bhima-Koregaon clashes — Hindutva leaders Milind Ekbote and Sambhaji Bhide ‘Guruji’ — be prosecuted. “It is a cruel and bitter irony that Malegaon blast accused Pragya Singh Thakur, who is known for her divisive remarks, had no difficulty in getting bail from the Bombay High Court, while Father Swamy, the 84-year-old tribal social worker, who had given his entire life fighting constitutional battles for the upliftment and protection of tribals, was given a hard time by the courts in obtaining a straw as he had difficulty holding his glass owing to his ill health… his death is a shameful blot on the tenure of the BJP government,” said Anjum Inamdar, founder, Mulnivasi Muslim Manch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/repeal-uapa-free-accused-in-bhima-koregaon-case/article35292566.ece
13 July 2021||Kabul,||Top U.S. General in Afghanistan Scott Miller relinquishes post||The top U.S. commander in Afghanistan relinquished his position at a ceremony in the capital Kabul on Monday, taking the U.S. a step closer to ending its 20-year war. The move came as Taliban insurgents continue to gain territory across the country. Another four-star general will assume authority from his U.S.-based post to conduct possible airstrikes in defence of Afghan government forces, at least until the U.S. withdrawal concludes by August 31. Gen. Scott Miller has served as America’s top commander in Afghanistan since 2018. He handed over command of what has become known as America’s “forever war” in its waning days to Marine Gen. Frank McKenzie, the head of U.S. Central Command. McKenzie will operate from Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Florida. The handover took place in the heavily fortified Resolute Support headquarters in the heart of Kabul at a time of rapid territorial gains by Taliban insurgents across Afghanistan. In a flag-passing ceremony, Gen. Miller remembered the U.S. and NATO troops killed in the nearly 20-year war as well as the thousands of Afghans who lost their lives. He warned that relentless violence across Afghanistan is making a political settlement increasingly difficult. The outgoing commander said he has told Taliban insurgents “it’s important that the military sides set the conditions for a peaceful and political settlement in Afghanistan... But we know that with that violence, it would be very difficult to achieve a political settlement.” The Afghanistan National Defense and Security Forces, mostly funded by the U.S. and NATO, have put up resistance in some parts of the country, but overwhelmingly Afghan government troops appear to have abandoned the fight. Strategic districts In recent weeks, the Taliban have gained several strategic districts, particularly along the borders with Iran, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Afghanistan’s National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib, who attended the handover, said the U.S. and NATO withdrawal has left a vacuum that resulted in Afghanistan’s national security forces stranded on the battlefield without resupplies, sometimes running out of food and ammunition. In comments after the ceremony, Mr. Mohib said the greatest impact of the withdrawal is a lack of aircraft to resupply troops. Currently, the government is regrouping to retake strategic areas and defend its cities against Taliban advances. The Taliban control more than one-third of Afghanistan’s 421 districts and district centers. A Taliban claim that they control 85% of the districts is widely seen as exaggerated. After Gen. Miller’s departure, a two-star admiral based at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul will oversee the U.S. military’s role in securing the American diplomatic presence in Kabul, including defending the Kabul airport. Gen. Miller’s departure does not reduce the scope of the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan, since Gen. McKenzie will assume the authorities now held by Gen. Miller to conduct airstrikes in defence of Afghan government forces under certain circumstances. The conditions under which such strikes might be used are not clear, nor is it known for how long Gen. McKenzie will keep the strike authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/top-us-general-in-afghanistan-scott-miller-relinquishes-post/article35292272.ece
13 July 2021||Moscow/Mexico City,||Russia, Mexico warn against ‘outside interference’ in Cuba||Russia and Mexico on Monday warned against any “outside interference” in Cuba after thousands took part in rare protests against the Communist government on the island nation. “We consider it unacceptable for there to be outside interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state or any destructive actions that would encourage the destabilisation of the situation on the island,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said in a statement. She did not explain who might be trying to interfere in Cuba, but the warning appeared directed at the U.S., which has urged Cuba not to target protesters and where thousands of Cuban-Americans have taken to the streets to support the demonstrations. “We are closely following the development of the situation in and around Cuba,” Ms. Zakharova said. “We are convinced that Cuban authorities are taking all necessary measures to restore public order in the interests of the country's citizens and within the framework of the Constitution.” Cuba was an important Cold War ally of the Soviet Union and Moscow has continued to have good diplomatic relations with Havana since the 1991 collapse of the USSR.  Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador warned against an “interventionist” approach to the protests, and offered to send aid to the communist island. Mexico could “help with medicines, with (coronavirus) vaccines, with what is needed and with food because health and food are fundamental rights” that do not require “interventionist political management," he said He also said the U.S. economic embargo of Cuba should be ended to help its people. ‘Suspend blockade’ “The truth is that if one wanted to help Cuba, the first thing that should be done is to suspend the blockade of Cuba as the majority of countries in the world are asking,” Mr. Lopez Obrador told a news conference. “That would be a truly humanitarian gesture,” he added. “No country in the world should be fenced in, blockaded.” Thousands of Cubans on Sunday joined demonstrations from Havana to Santiago calling for President Miguel Diaz-Canel to step down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-mexico-warn-against-outside-interference-in-cuba/article35292100.ece
13 July 2021||Amman,||Two former Jordan officials handed 15-year jail terms||A Jordanian court on Monday sentenced two former officials to 15 years in jail after finding them guilty of a coup plot that sparked a rare crisis in a kingdom seen as a pillar of stability in the region. Former royal court chief Bassem Awadallah and an ex-envoy to Saudi Arabia, Sharif Hassan bin Zaid, had been convicted of conspiring to topple King Abdullah II in favour of his half-brother Prince Hamzah. The former Crown Prince himself was not charged in the trial, but the charge sheet said he was "determined to fulfil his personal ambition to rule, in violation of the Hashemite constitution and customs". The trial took place behind closed doors at the State Security Court, a military tribunal that also includes civilian judges. But on Monday, journalists were allowed to watch footage of the ruling via video link from a tent set up outside the court. Delivering the ruling, Judge Muwaffaq al-Masaid noted the men had been friends for 20 years and were close to Prince Hamzah. ‘Hostile ideas’ He said they had tried to put into action “ideas that are hostile to the existing political system in the kingdom and his majesty King Abdullah”. The men had tried “to create chaos, sedition and divisions within Jordanian society and spread hateful discourse towards the political system, threatening the safety and security” of the kingdom, he said. Awadallah and Bin Zaid, who both have close ties to neighbouring Saudi Arabia, were found guilty of “incitement against the ruling system” and “acts that could threaten society and create sedition”. Awadallah, who holds Saudi nationality, had been on trial alongside Bin Zaid, a relative of King Abdullah, since June 21. Images released by authorities showed the two men, wearing light blue prison uniforms, being escorted in handcuffs into the court, under heavy guard. Their lawyers did not comment on the ruling apart from saying they would appeal. Bin Zaid was also found guilty on two drugs charges which would have carried prison terms, but the court did not extend his incarceration. Regional powerhouse Saudi Arabia has fervently denied any involvement in the alleged plot. The unprecedented palace crisis erupted in April. Eighteen suspects were arrested after authorities announced they had foiled a bid to destabilise the pro-Western kingdom, but 16 were later released. A former crown prince who was sidelined as heir to the throne by the King in 2004, Prince Hamzah accused Jordan's rulers of corruption and ineptitude in a video message posted by the BBC on April 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jordan-ex-officials-handed-jail-terms/article35292105.ece
13 July 2021||Los Angeles,||Wildfires rage as heat wave stifles western U.S., Canada||The western United States and Canada was suffering under scorching temperatures to start the week, with heat warnings still in place Monday and authorities struggling to reign in wildfires in both countries. Sweltering conditions hit much of the Pacific seaboard and as far inland as the western edge of the Rocky Mountains on Saturday and Sunday, in a dramatic, prolonged heat wave experts attribute directly to climate change. The U.S. National Weather Service (NWS) had warned the dangerous temperatures will continue in the region for the early part of the week, forecasting highs of up to 115 degrees Fahrenheit (46 Celsius) in southern California, and issued a heat advisory for the Los Angeles area until Monday evening. The NWS said temperatures would dip slightly from Monday, but added, “This small relative cool down is of little relief to areas that have seen long-term oppressive and above normal temperatures.” Canadian meteorologists predicted highs approaching 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 Celsius) — well above seasonal norms — would continue in parts of western Canada on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wildfires-rage-as-heat-wave-stifles-western-us-canada/article35292102.ece
13 July 2021||London,||U.K.’s PM to confirm lifting of COVID-19 curbs next week||Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set Monday to confirm “Freedom Day” next week with the lifting of most pandemic curbs in England, but will urge caution with experts worried the government is moving too fast. Mr. Johnson was due to hold an afternoon news conference confirming that the government’s tests have been met to allow a full reopening of the economy on July 19, doing away with the final measures of a months-old lockdown. But with Britain now averaging more than 30,000 daily cases of the fast-spreading Delta coronavirus variant, scientists are fretting that the ending of measures such as mandatory mask-wearing spells trouble. And the government’s decision to allow more than 60,000 football fans to attend Sunday’s European Championship final has added to fears, after near-total flouting of distancing rules. Mr. Johnson, however, insists the time is right to move from legally enforced rules to personal responsibility, and use the summer months to prepare for a potentially more damaging wave of COVID-19 in the winter. “We are tantalisingly close to the final milestone in our roadmap out of lockdown, but the plan to restore our freedoms must come with a warning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uks-pm-to-confirm-lifting-of-covid-19-curbs-next-week/article35292107.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepali Congress hails Supreme Court verdict||The verdict of the Supreme Court of Nepal to remove Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has revitalised the Nepali Congress and the constitutional democracy of Nepal, vice-president of the party Bimlendra Nidhi told The Hindu on Monday. Following the Supreme Court’s verdict, Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba will be sworn in as the new Prime Minister by Tuesday evening, Mr. Nidhi said. “We welcome the verdict of the Honourable Supreme Court as it has given a clear political alternative before the people of Nepal ending the rule of PM Oli. It also shows that President Bidhya Devi Bhandari had erred by denying the opportunity of a floor test to the claim of Shri Deuba to form the government earlier after the reinstatement of the lower house of Parliament,” Mr. Nidhi said, speaking over the phone from Kathmandu. ‘New direction’ Nepali politics, said Mr. Nidhi, had been stuck with the rule of Mr. Oli but now the clear verdict of the Supreme Court has given a new direction to the country. Following the verdict, Mr. Deuba will have to be sworn in as the Prime Minister of Nepal within a day. “Within 30 days, Mr. Deuba will have to prove the majority of his government in Parliament,” Mr. Nidhi said. The verdict was particularly critical of PM Oli and President Bhandari and held both of them guilty of violating constitutional norms while dealing with the political crisis that began last December 20 when President Bhandari dissolved the lower house of the Nepalese Parliament after being advised by PM Oli-led Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepali-congress-hails-supreme-court-verdict/article35292360.ece
13 July 2021||Moscow,||Sudan to review Navy base deal: FM||Sudan’s Foreign Minister Mariam al-Mahdi said during a visit to Moscow on Monday that lawmakers in the African country would consider an agreement brokered by its ousted leader to establish a Russian naval base there. Russian President Vladimir Putin held talks with Sudan’s former president Omar al-Bashir in 2017 on building a naval base in Port Sudan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-to-review-navy-base-deal-fm/article35292106.ece
13 July 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Six dead in riots over Zuma’s arrest||Six people have been killed and 219 arrested amid escalating violence during rioting that broke out following the imprisonment of South Africa’s former President Jacob Zuma, police said Monday. Army soldiers will be deployed to help police quell the violence, the South African National Defence Force said. Police said shops and businesses have been looted and vandalised. Traffic has been disrupted by rioters barricading major roads with burning tires, and cars have been attacked. The violence was triggered last week when Zuma began serving a 15-month sentence for contempt of court. He had defied a court order to testify before a state-backed inquiry probing allegations of corruption during his term as president from 2009 to 2018. The Constitutional Court will hear Zuma’s appeal against the sentence on Monday. The rioting started in Zuma’s home region of KwaZulu-Natal province last week and over the weekend it spread to Gauteng province, which includes Johannesburg, South Africa’s largest city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/six-dead-in-riots-over-zumas-arrest/article35292108.ece
13 July 2021||PORT-AU-PRINCE,||Haitian man held in Moïse’s assassination||The head of Haiti’s national police announced Sunday that officers arrested a Haitian man accused of flying into the country on a private jet and working with the masterminds and alleged assassins behind the killing of President Jovenel Moïse. Police Chief Léon Charles identified the suspect as Christian Emmanuel Sanon, without giving any personal information about him, though it appears he has been living in Florida. The chief also gave no information on the purported masterminds. Mr. Charles said the alleged killers were protecting Mr. Sanon as the supposed president of Haiti, adding that officers found several items at his house, including a hat emblazoned with the logo of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, 20 boxes of bullets, gun parts, four automobile license plates from the Dominican Republic, two cars and correspondence with unidentified people. “We continue to make strides,” Mr. Charles said of police efforts to solve the attack at Moïse’s home that killed the president and seriously wounded his wife, Martine Moïse, who was flown to Miami and remains hospitalised. Charles said a total of 26 Colombians are suspected in the killing of the president. Eighteen of them have been arrested, along with three Haitians. Five suspects are still at large and at least three have been killed. “They are dangerous individuals,” he said. “I’m talking commando, specialised commando.” The chief said police are working with high-ranking Colombian officials to identify details of the alleged plot, including when the suspects left Colombia and who paid for their tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/haitian-police-arrest-assassination-suspect/article35292109.ece
13 July 2021||Kathmandu,||Nepal gets 1.5 million J&J doses from U.S.||A shipment of 1.5 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccine donated by the United States arrived in Nepal on Monday, which is struggling to inoculate its population. “Today’s delivery of the single-dose vaccine means that this single donation is enough to protect over 1.5 million people in Nepal,” U.S. Ambassador Randy Berry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-gets-15-million-jj-doses-from-us/article35292110.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracing the decline of U.S. power||In A New Cold War: Henry Kissinger and the Rise of China , edited by Sanjaya Baru and Rahul Sharma, academic and diplomat Kishore Mahbubani explains America’s place in the world in his essay ‘Evil Liberalism versus Moral Pragmatism’. He asserts that by abandoning Kissinger’s realist pragmatism, the U.S. has become “severely weakened both domestically and externally”. An excerpt:  The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of Henry Kissinger’s famous visit to China in July 1971. It also marks, more or less, the 30th anniversary of the end of the Cold War. With some risk of being accused of over-simplification, one can say in the 20 years after Kissinger’s visit to China, U.S. foreign policy was guided by the philosophy of realist pragmatism. By contrast, in the 30 years after the end of the Cold War, it was guided by the philosophy of liberal idealism. The results are clear. Realist pragmatism delivered the greatest victory of American foreign policy: a victory over the mighty Soviet Union without the U.S. firing a shot at Soviet armed forces. By contrast, the past 30 years have generated a lot of evil. Collateral damage Between 2004 and 2019, the U.S. Air Force dropped 175,842 bombs on several countries, according to the U.S. Air Forces Central Command. Bombs dropped from the air are often not accurate. Hence, many innocent people were killed. The Brown University Watsons Institute’s Cost of War Project estimates the total casualties from all post-9/11 wars at 770,000 to 801,000 casualties. The results are clear: when ethical do-gooders take over the U.S. foreign policy, evil is generated: $5.1 trillion wasted; almost 800,000 lives lost. Yet, the biggest damage done by the abandonment of Kissingerian realist pragmatism is that the U.S. has become severely weakened both domestically and externally. Internally, the 30-year period of liberal-idealist domination of the U.S. foreign policy has coincided with a 30-year period of stagnation of working class incomes. Externally, the U.S. literally fell asleep at the wheel while China rose dramatically. In 1980, in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms, China’s gross national product (GNP) was 10% of that of the U.S. By 2014, it had become bigger. Now there is no doubt that the biggest foreign policy challenge the U.S. faces in the next three decades is China. So, how should the U.S. manage China? The main argument of this essay is that the U.S. needs to engage in deep reflection on what went drastically wrong. The U.S. made a major mistake in abandoning realist pragmatism and switching to liberal idealism. A return to Kissingerian realist pragmatism would be the best way to manage a rising China. Kissinger’s celebrated ‘secret’ visit to Beijing in July 1971 is widely and justifiably regarded as a major move that swung the ‘correlation of forces’ in America’s favour and led to the ultimate victory over the Soviet Union. What was remarkable about the widespread applause that this visit received, including from The New York Times and The Washington Post , is that so few Americans mentioned that the U.S. was embracing a regime in China led by Mao Zedong, which had only recently created havoc in the country, leading to enormous human pain and suffering through the disastrous policies of the Great Leap Forward (1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76). In short, human rights were a secondary consideration when realist pragmatism reigned. Indeed, at the International Conference on Kampuchea of July 13-17,1981, the U.S. delegation, led by Alexander Haig, actually supported China against the ASEAN countries, when China said that the Khmer Rouge should be allowed to return to power in Phnom Penh after the Vietnamese withdrawal. I was personally present and shocked when this happened. Yet the same Reagan administration, in a more ‘liberal’ move, supported the removal of the dictator [Ferdinand] Marcos from the Philippines. In short, even in the realist-pragmatic era, there were liberal elements. Kissinger wasn’t the only major figure advocating realist pragmatism. Other major thinkers of that era did so, including George Kennan and Zbigniew Brzezinski. While Kennan is often associated with the harsh policy of ‘containment’ of the Soviet Union, John Mearsheimer reminds us that Kennan was a shrewd and sophisticated thinker. Firstly, he emphasised that the outcome of the Cold War would not be determined by the size of their respective armed forces. Instead, it would depend on the ‘spiritual vitality’ of their domestic societies. This is what he had said: ‘It is rather a question of the degree to which the U.S. can create among the peoples of the world generally the impression of a country which knows what it wants, which is coping successfully with the problems of its internal life and with the responsibilities of a World Power, and which has a spiritual vitality capable of holding its own among the major ideological currents of the time.’ He also called for ‘greater humility in our national outlook.’ According to Mearsheimer, his call for humility was in response to a strong claim made by then Secretary of State Madeleine Albright in February 1998, when she had said, ‘If we have to use force, it is because we are America; we are the indispensable nation. We stand tall and we see further than other countries into the future, and we see the danger here to all of us.’ Kennan lived to the ripe old age of 101 and died in 2005. Hence, he lived through the first 15 years of the post-Cold War era. Significantly, he also disapproved of the many key moves when the U.S. switched from realist pragmatism to liberal idealism. He disapproved of the expansion of NATO into the former Soviet bloc. Kennan also disapproved of the invasion of Iraq. ‘Delusions of superiority’ Dick Cheney confidently asserted that U.S. troops would be welcomed in Iraq. He said, ‘I really do believe that we will be greeted as liberators.’ Mearsheimer observes that in contrast to such beliefs that the U.S. was morally superior, Kennan did not believe that the U.S. was more virtuous in any meaningful way. Indeed, Kennan observed that Americans were suffering from ‘delusions of superiority’. Kennan strongly argued against the U.S. taking a ‘paternalistic responsibility to anyone, be it even in the form of military occupation’. Many of the points raised here will be disputed. Yet, there is no doubt that the policies of restraint and pragmatism, advocated by people like Kissinger and Kennan in the Cold War era, contrast significantly with the liberal idealism of the post-Cold War era, as demonstrated by the statement of Democrats like Albright and Republicans like George W. Bush. These contrasting approaches also explain American success of the Cold War era and the failures of the post-Cold War era. Excerpted with permission from HarperCollins||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tracing-the-decline-of-us-power/article35292095.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Decoding the political battle for Uttar Pradesh||Any analysis of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, in 2022, needs to begin with a note of humility. In all the last three elections in the State (2017, 2012, 2007), most reporters and analysts were incorrect in predicting a tantalisingly close fight. The results, on the other hand, revealed a clear single-party majority each time, including the biggest wave in almost four decades in the last election. At the outset, we must account for this repeated failure to foresee emerging trends in Uttar Pradesh politics. A large part of the blame can be laid on the obsessive focus on caste arithmetic, heuristic categories frozen from the 1990s, that often blurs the larger picture. The big lesson from the last 15 years is that the State of Uttar Pradesh has moved from a rigid identity politics of caste and community to a focus on identity plus governance. A large floating voter population has gradually emerged, spanning across demography, which is fiercely calculative, and driven by aspirations for a better life. State’s transition This has powered the transition of Uttar Pradesh, from the messy fragmentation of the coalition era of the 1990s and early 2000s, to the era of stable, single party majorities. Although caste and community identities remain important, Uttar Pradesh voters, like elsewhere, have little patience for misgovernance — they have thrown out every incumbent government since 1989. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has reasons to be confident of bucking the trend. The sheer scale of its victory in 2017 provides it with a formidable cushion. It received a vote share of almost 40% in the last election, with an average constituency-level winning margin of an incredible 15%. It is quite conceivable for the party to lose a significant chunk of its vote in the next elections, and still emerge with a majority. In comparison, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) received a majority, with 30% and 29% of the vote share, respectively. Factors behind the mandates There are two ways of reading the massive 2017 mandate of the BJP. The first is to read it as a historical break where the BJP’s ideological triumph fundamentally re-configured the caste-community voting patterns of the State. The second is to read it in the context of the last 15 years, where a large floating voter population, frustrated with the incumbent, flocked behind the clearest alternative. In this framework, just as the 2007 and 2012 majorities did not reflect a long-term realignment in favour of Bahujan (or ‘sarvajan’) politics or Lohiaite socialism, the enormous mandate received by the BJP in 2017 was also not exclusively a function of Hindutva. In all three cases, the success of the social engineering or ideological messaging crafted by the eventual winner was contingent on their party becoming the vehicle for the electorate’s accumulated resentments and aspirations, shaped by the specific failures of the incumbent. Under the rubric of Hindu identity, and the leadership of Narendra Modi, the BJP became the vehicle for an electorate angry with the crime, corruption and Yadav favouritism under the Samajwadi Party government. The backdrop of communal riots and the increased presence of Muslims in the local power elite, added to this glue of this Hindu consolidation. However, as the ascension of BJP from 1991-98 in the State, and the subsequent decline for two decades demonstrated, Hindu consolidation in a State like Uttar Pradesh could be an ephemeral phenomenon. Incumbent and prospects If the underpinnings of the BJP mandate of 2017 were indeed contextual rather than absolute, the BJP can indeed be dislodged from power in the State, provided there are two conditions: one, the presence of strong anti-incumbency; and two, the emergence of a clear alternative that transforms the election from a multi-polar to a largely bi-polar contest. Let us come to the first question: is there a high level of anti-incumbency against the Yogi Adityanath government that can hurt its prospects? In choosing Mr. Adityanath, a relative lightweight outside of his bastion in Gorakhpur, to lead the State government, the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah team made two bets, informed by the party’s previous experience in the State. First, only hardline Hindutva could contain caste contradictions and lead to a durable Hindu coalition. In the wake of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, the BJP had assembled a powerful coalition of upper castes, upwardly mobile castes such as Jats and Gujjars, and Other Backward Classes (OBC) such as Kurmis and Lodhs. This Hindutva coalition, however, soon came apart from internal strife between the upper caste and the OBC factions, culminating in the expulsion of the OBC Kalyan Singh from the party in 1999. Second, only an authoritative style of leadership could maintain Hindu unity and also create a governance constituency. The largely collective leadership of the 1990s and early 2000s — in which the BJP installed three different Chief Ministers — had provided a confused and disunited front, and consequently failed to compete with Mayawati and Mulayam Singh Yadav. Both of these bets, have, arguably, not paid off for the BJP. One, as a political outsider to Lucknow, the first thing Mr. Adityanath did was build his own political support base on his Thakur identity. Much like previous leaders, Mr. Adityanath filled State institutions, be it zilla parishads, civil servants or station house officers, with his own caste men to wield direct power over the administration. The frequent allegations of ‘Thakur vaad ’ or Thakur domination against his administration suggests that Mr. Adityanath has not so far proved to be a leader with a pan-Hindu appeal in the mould of Mr. Modi. Two, the authoritative style of governance has provided indifferent results. While Mr. Adityanath does possess some governance appeal — having a relatively clean and ‘tough on crime’ image — he has largely been unable to associate himself with either a social welfare constituency or marquee developmental projects. On top of it, the novel coronavirus pandemic has severely diminished his governance credentials; any improvement in the ease of business index pales in comparison to images of bodies floating in the Ganga. The dramatic State failure during the second wave of the pandemic also threatens to become a coalescing point for all the material anxieties persisting under the surface, such as unemployment, sluggish growth and farmer distress. The aspirations of the floating voters who deserted Ms. Mayawati in 2012, and Akhilesh Yadav in 2017, has, arguably, remained unfulfilled under Mr. Adityanath’s regime. Where the Opposition stands This brings us to the second question: is there a clear alternative that transforms the election from a multi-polar to a largely bi-polar contest? A quick scan of the Opposition ranks indicates that only the SP presently possesses the strength to challenge the BJP. The BSP under Ms. Mayawati has been in constant decline in the State from 2012. The party has lost touch with its roots in political activism for a long time now, and its organisation has withered away under an insular leadership. The steady desertion of leaders gives further evidence of a party in a death spiral. Similarly, there are little signs of a Congress revival, the latest indications being its disastrous returns in the panchayat elections. All of this plays well into the SP’s strategy of making this electoral contest into a largely bipolar race. A perception of a straight fight between the SP and the BJP might well consolidate local elites, and a disgruntled electorate, behind the party symbol. But there are reasonable grounds to doubt whether the SP can defeat the BJP in a bipolar race. For one, the party has never crossed the 30% vote share mark in State elections. In order to defeat the BJP, the SP party would need to go well beyond plebeian caste consolidation and minority insecurity, and court floating voters with a broad-based, positive message of development. In this regard, Akhilesh Yadav can borrow from his own template of 2012, where he ran a successful campaign focused on employment, electricity and education. The choice of Mr. Adityanath was essentially informed more through the lenses of ideologically cementing the Hindu vote rather than the fulfilment of the governance aspirations of the floating voter. If the BJP manages to fritter away its enormous mandate, it would derive from the same source of hubris that felled previous incumbents: overly reading into the mandate its own ingenious social engineering or sweeping ideological triumph rather than the contextual aspirations and resentments that underlay it. Asim Ali is a Research Associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/decoding-the-political-battle-for-uttar-pradesh/article35292087.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Prioritising school reopening on the road to recovery||Most schools in India have been closed since the national lockdown started in March 2020. What are the costs of keeping schools closed? How do these costs compare against the risks of school reopening? We delve into these questions, as concerned parents with school-age children, as experienced teachers, and also as practising scientists who have followed data and publications on this topic over the last 15 months. Interestingly, various regions around the world which have been worse hit by the novel coronavirus pandemic than India, have kept their schools, especially primary schools, mostly open. This includes various European countries such as Portugal, France, the Netherlands, etc. The State of Florida (United States) opened schools for in-person classes in late September 2020, and they stayed open through their second wave. On the other hand in India, schools have mostly been shut even as other businesses have opened. Impact of school closure The costs of school closure are immense. People make considerable investments in their childrens’ education, as a way toward a better future and a better living standard. Even prior to the pandemic, there was a huge attainment gap across students, especially in higher grades. The bottom half of children passing Class 10 are about two years behind in terms of skills. Prolonged school closure has already widened this gap. What will this do to their future? Does it not push the next generation deeper into poverty? Ironically, the poorest families living in dense urban slums, who bore the brunt of the first wave, and are now largely immune from the virus itself (as shown by serosurveys), are the ones suffering the most from school closures. A survey (https://bit.ly/3xzZ7mx) across 10 States in India in November 2020 estimated that nearly two-thirds of children in rural India may drop out of school, a staggering statistic which is likely to have worsened with continuing closure. Haryana has reported (https://bit.ly/3r64dV5) a 42% drop in student enrolment in private schools. Prolonged school shutdown has severely set back India’s fight against ills such as child labour (https://bit.ly/3e9H7HE) and child marriage (https://bit.ly/36AevTK). Due to the shutdown of schools, mid-day meal schemes have been disrupted; even as early as June 2020, it was estimated (https://bit.ly/3r2AfkG) that about 800,000 additional children would face underweight and wasting. Health, well-being concerns Even in well-off urban India and in developed nations, extended school closure is having a severe impact on children’s mental health. In Las Vegas, U.S., a surge of student suicides (https://nyti.ms/2UIjYpb) forced schools to reopen in January 2021. The United Kingdom reported (https://bit.ly/3r2Ftx3) a 40% rise in the number of children taking antidepressants. Surely, life is more important than education. But as examples above show, schools are not merely about education. Given the costs of prolonged school shutdown, we must probe deeper into the risks of opening schools in the context of COVID-19. Assessing the risk factor First, we must realise, and be grateful that the risk of COVID-19 for children is much lower than for adults, and is also much lower than other (already small) risks children face in daily life anyway. Based on a study of 137 million school-age children in the U.S. and Europe, Prof. Raj S. Bhopal (University of Edinburgh, U.K.) has observed ((https://bit.ly/3wzt3h6) that COVID-19 in this age group is less than half as risky as seasonal influenza, and over 20 times less risky than death by “unintentional injury”. A study (https://bit.ly/2Vq94oa) among the nearly two million children in Sweden (where schools have been open throughout), found that there was not a single child death due to COVID-19. As per Mumbai’s dashboard data, the COVID-19 IFR (Infection Fatality Rate) for under-19 is minuscule: about 0.003% . In comparison, the infant mortality rate in India is about 3% (1,000 times greater) and the infant mortality rate in Japan (one of the lowest) is 0.18% (60 times greater). In other words, school-age children are at a negligibly lower risk from COVID-19 when compared to other threats which we consider normal. There has been a concern that a possible third wave involving newer variants could affect children. But a careful look at the data (https://bit.ly/3xEm73Q) tells that the age-profiles of those affected in the second and first waves are similar. There is no scientific basis for this fear. Further, Public Health England’s June 2021 report (https://bit.ly/3B3ALnp) shows that the newer variant Delta is much less dangerous (case fatality rate 0.1%) than the original (case fatality rate 1.9%), which is the expected evolutionary path of a virus. Teachers as ‘essential’ staff The next question is: are teachers and parents at higher risk of catching COVID-19 if schools reopen? Over the last year there have been several careful scientific studies (https://bit.ly/3kdibTA) across various regions in Europe/U.S., measuring the role of in-person classes in COVID-19 spread. The overwhelming conclusion is that the risk of COVID-19 spread in schools is minimal compared to other locations. To further reduce the concern among teachers, the Government must treat them on a par with essential workers, and offer them prioritised vaccination. Despite this, it is likely that a “one-size-fits-all” approach may not be suitable, as each individual’s risk-benefit analysis could be different. For children who lack the resources, whose parents have to go out to work every day, in-person schooling is paramount. Parents who can afford to work from home have sufficient resources for their children and may choose to continue with partially or fully online classes for a few more months. It is high time to implement such differentiated options. Vaccines for children There has recently been talk about tying school reopening to vaccines for children. Any medical intervention, especially for children, must be based on a careful risk-benefit analysis. It is pertinent to note that there are growing concerns (https://cnn.it/3r8MnAH) in the U.S. of a potential link between heart inflammation and the mRNA vaccine, among adolescents. Further, scientists writing in The British Medical Journal (May 2021) note (https://bit.ly/36xCpPP): “the rarity of severe Covid-19 outcomes for children means that trials cannot demonstrate that the balance of the benefits of vaccination against the potential adverse effects are favourable...”. It will likely take several years to establish such a balance. We cannot let our children suffer for that long, by further prolonging school closures. More than the virus, fear stands between our children and their education and normal life. Policymakers must make evidence-based decisions toward school reopening. This is the least the working class and the children of India deserve. Bhaskaran Raman and Om Damani are faculty members at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Bombay. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prioritising-school-reopening-on-the-road-to-recovery/article35292090.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Dialogue over discord||There have been a lot of deliberations on Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s speech on July 5 during a book launch function in Ghaziabad. The speech carries many firsts and sends a message to both Hindus and Muslims. Discussions in the media and in social and political groups may be taking place on the content of the speech, but there is no denying that it has ushered in a ray of hope for harmony. A bold speech Mr. Bhagwat stressed on two major issues, peaceful coexistence and initiating a dialogue for a composite culture, to be attained by safeguarding and following our own religious practices, cultures, and attire. Nothing is left for a tussle when the two communities share a motherland, culture, and ancestors. Mr. Bhagwat’s speech has to be viewed in its entirety. The time has come for a new beginning. His bold outreach needs to be reciprocated. There may be issues, concerns, and even irritants during this journey but we have to overcome all this. Treading a peaceful path is the need of the hour. There are many points in Mr. Bhagwat’s speech which we have to agree with without discussion. India is the motherland for both the communities. He has shunned the apprehension regarding his remarks — there is no need for confrontation. The fact that such a statement comes from the RSS chief itself denotes that Muslims should not live with any fear psychosis. When Mr. Bhagwat said that the DNA of Hindus and Muslims is the same and they have the same ancestors, it shows that proving one’s Muslim identity does not hold much ground. It is true that incidents of mob lynching of Muslims are a matter of concern as they have endangered the life and security of the community. Mr. Bhagwat categorically condemned all such lynching incidents. He said that those who indulge in lynching are against Hindutva. The law should take its own course against such people without any partiality. Mr. Bhagwat said Muslims should not live in a cycle of fear. This could instill confidence in the community. It is a fact that there is fear and apprehension in the community. There is no space for firebrand sloganeering that Islam is in danger, Muslims will be evicted, etc. Mr. Bhagwat himself candidly admitted that he can become popular with such rhetoric speeches but Hindus will themselves not support him. The message from Mr. Bhagwat’s speech is also for the majority community. The fringe elements need to learn lessons from it. The sensationalisation of statements, such as ‘no Muslims will live here’, may get space in the media, but the majority community does not approve of such an attitude. The RSS chief has highlighted the fact that there may have been some mistakes and excesses in the past, but we have to move forward. He has also drawn a line for the political situation in the country. Unity emanates from camaraderie, not from politics. It will come from the continuous efforts of enlightened people, not through politics. Emphasising unity Not long before Mr. Bhagwat’s speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered an important speech to the Muslim community at the centenary celebrations of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in 2020. His speech was appreciated in India and abroad for emphasising unity while achieving common national goals such as Aatmanirbharta, women’s education, preservation of cultural heritage and equality of opportunity, while de-emphasising political and ideological differences. It is within this framework that the speeches of both Mr. Modi and Mr. Bhagwat have to be appreciated. These are genuine attempts to engage with the community. More importantly, it is crucial that this be reciprocated by the Muslim community through dialogue. AMU can play an important role in facilitating this dialogue. Section 5(2)(b) of the AMU Act confers the university with the mission to promote the study of the religions, culture and civilisation of India. Towards this, the AMU, in its centenary year, established the Dara Shikoh Centre for Interfaith Dialogue. Dara Shikoh, a Mughal prince, was the founder of the academic movement for Hindu-Muslim dialogue. For centuries, the two communities have lived in unity sharing a motherland, culture, and ancestors. Throughout the course of history, our rulers were different, but the country has remained one. This is what makes our Bharat unique. This is the message from this ancient land to the entire world. Any dialogue must take lessons from the past, live in the present and chart a peaceful path for the future. Let us move ahead with open hearts and minds. Tariq Mansoor is Vice-Chancellor, Aligarh Muslim University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dialogue-over-discord/article35292097.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Ethiopia’s political tug of war||Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed believes he is a man of destiny. As a child, his mother had prophesied that her son would become a great ruler one day. The Prosperity Party the former intelligence officer launched, disbanding the multi-party coalition that brought him to power, is said to derive its name from an evangelical faith. Whatever his predilections, the Ethiopian leader has, since being catapulted to premiership in April 2018, stumbled from one crisis to another, imperilling the country’s recent economic record. Use of force When Mr. Abiy commanded a military offensive in November in retaliation against a Tigray rebel attack on federal army barracks, his reputation as a reformer and peacemaker already lay in ruins. He dismissed opposition to the use of force, insisting that the law-and-order operation would be wound up within weeks. For months, he denied the involvement of neighbouring Eritrean forces in the conflict. In March, Mr. Abiy likened Tigrayan fighters to “flour dispersed by the wind.” But events on the ground tell another story. Thousands of civilians have been killed by Ethiopian and Eritrean forces and Tigrayan militias. Addis Ababa stands accused by the United Nations and Amnesty International of war crimes, ethnic cleansing and the resort to rape and hunger as weapons of war. The unilateral ceasefire Mr. Abiy declared on June 28, purportedly on humanitarian grounds, carries little credibility, as Tigray continues to remain crippled by a blockade of essential supplies and communication and electricity blackouts. The U.S., Ethiopia’s long-standing military ally, has imposed sanctions on several top officials and the European Union has suspended millions of dollars in aid. Meanwhile, after recapturing the regional capital Mekelle in late June, the rebel Tigray Defense Forces have taken thousands of Ethiopian troops as prisoners of war. They have demanded the withdrawal of all federal forces loyal to Mr. Abiy, besides an independent investigation into Ethiopian and Eritrean atrocities. The Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the dominant party in the Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF)’s autocratic rule until 2018, is resurgent. The organisation, which Mr. Abiy has dubbed a “criminal clique,” has stayed outside his Prosperity Party. Debretsion Gebremichael, the President of TPLF, has raised the spectre of the territory asserting its right to self-determination under the 1995 constitution in view of its deepening distrust with Addis Ababa. Mr. Debretsion has also not ruled out TPLF retaliation against Eritrean atrocities in the ongoing conflict. Eritrea’s strongman President Isaias Afwerki, who signed the landmark 2018 peace deal with Mr. Abiy, has now allied with him, possibly to avenge his country’s bloody defeat against a TPLF-led Ethiopian government in the 1998-2000 border war. Growing resentment The volatile atmosphere is a far cry from the euphoria in 2018 when Mr. Abiy released political prisoners, lifted the ban on opposition parties and welcomed exiles home. An Oromo, the ethnic community that constitutes more than a third of Ethiopia’s population, Mr. Abiy ’s elevation symbolised the redressal of the country’s political imbalance. Tigrayans, who form less than 10% of the populace, had wielded power disproportionate to their strength for 28 years under the EPRDF coalition. In the event, the Oromos’ enthusiasm to assert their new-found freedom proved unsustainable and the Tigrayans began to resent the erosion of political influence. Matters reached a head when Tigray held provincial polls in September 2020, defying Addis Ababa’s decision to defer general elections nationally in view of the pandemic. The ballot was eventually held on June 21, but not in at least 100 constituencies. Although Mr. Abiy has predictably won the election, the second most populated nation in Africa is at a crossroads. Garimella Subramaniam is Director - Strategic Initiatives, AgnoShin Tecchnologies Pvt Ltd||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ethiopias-political-tug-of-war/article35292098.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Tie at the top||Using Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal as measuring sticks to assess one’s tennis credentials is a harsh and, ultimately, a futile exercise. That Novak Djokovic comes through this most searing of examinations with flying colours is a testament to his genius. On Sunday, the Serb laid down the most definitive marker yet of his dazzling brilliance by pulling level with the celebrated duo on 20 Grand Slam singles titles. A tense four-set victory over Italy’s Matteo Berrettini also gave Djokovic his third straight title at the All England club (sixth overall) and helped complete the French Open-Wimbledon double, one of sport’s toughest achievements. Djokovic’s record-equalling feat had seemed improbable as recently as the summer of 2018. As a 31-year-old, he entered that year’s Wimbledon as the 12th seed after having spent two years on the fringes. Federer and Nadal, gaining second winds, had swept the previous six Slams and were already on 20 and 17 respectively. But Djokovic rediscovered his mojo and has since won eight of 12 Majors, the most dominant streak of his career. He has conquered Federer on grass and Nadal on clay, and snuffed out rebellions from the game’s ‘Next Gen’ of Dominic Thiem, Daniil Medvedev, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Berrettini, beating them for his last four Slam trophies. So much so that he now feels the “most complete” he has ever been as a player. The accomplishments have inevitably reignited the debate on who the greatest men’s player of all time is. While comparisons between eras are often limited and come with caveats — think the great Pancho Gonzales being denied chances to compete in Majors in the 1950s because he had turned professional — Djokovic is without doubt the best of his generation. This week will be his record 329th as World No.1 and he is the only man to have won all four Slams, all nine ATP Masters 1000s and the year-ending ATP Finals, twice. No other statistic better represents his relentless pursuit of excellence, across surfaces, continents and seasons. At the US Open starting next month, he has a shot at sporting immortality, as he can become the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to win all four Majors in a single year. Ashleigh Barty may be a long way from such monumental successes, but like Djokovic, she has proved adept at mastering the game’s natural surfaces by adding the Wimbledon crown to the French title she won in 2019. The 25-year-old Aussie’s craft and guile was fully on display as she felled opponents as chalk and cheese as Angelique Kerber (counter-puncher) and Karolina Pliskova (all-out attacker). With modesty in her bones, she oozes an enviably understated elegance, something the tennis world is sure to see more and more of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tie-at-the-top/article35292081.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The power of scrutiny||The Supreme Court of India’s verdict last week, upholding the authority of a committee of the Delhi Assembly to summon a senior official of Facebook, is an extremely nuanced recognition of the extent of powers of State Assemblies in matters regulated by an Act of Parliament. The question mark about the powers arose in the first place because Facebook, whose India vice-president Ajit Mohan was repeatedly summoned by Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony on the subject of the Delhi riots of 2020, argued before the Supreme Court that this was a case of overreach; and that Delhi’s law and order came under the central government. This was also the position taken by the central government, which argued that the Delhi Assembly had no jurisdiction in this matter. The social media platform also pointed out that it was governed by the IT Act of Parliament, and this is not therefore something that any State government can be concerned with. The Court, in upholding the summons, did not go merely by the legislative powers of a House. It rightly said, “The Assembly does not only perform the function of legislating; there are many other aspects of governance which can form part of the essential functions of the Legislative Assembly and consequently the committee.” Its point was that the “inquisitorial” and “recommendatory” powers of a House can be used for better governance. But it also cautioned the committee from “transgressing into any fields reserved for the Union Government”. Significantly, the verdict comes amid a long phase of discordance over legislative turf between the central government and the Delhi government, something that the Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul did note amid discussions about the spirit of federalism. Not just that. It also comes at a time when social media intermediaries are legally fighting some aspects of the new IT rules that govern them. Their responsibility toward the many legislatures will only become more heightened because of this verdict. The Court refused to buy the argument that social media intermediaries are “merely a platform for exchange of ideas without performing any significant role themselves”. It then linked what happens in these platforms to the real world. Misinformation on social media, the Court said, has had “a direct impact on vast areas of subject matter which ultimately affect the governance of States”. Given the constraints of the powers of the Delhi Assembly vis-à-vis law and order, the very fact that the Court found that its committee still could summon the Facebook India official without encroaching upon the turf of the Centre now opens the gates for scrutiny of social media platforms by other States, which however have significantly more powers with respect to law and order. The stage is set for more scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-power-of-scrutiny/article35292082.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Concern over U.S. arms for Pak.||The Defence and External Affairs Ministers to-day [New Delhi, July 12] spoke reassuringly in Parliament about India’s preparedness on both the western and eastern fronts to meet any Pakistani threat, while deploring strongly the continued supply of U.S. arms to the military rulers of Pakistan. The Defence Minister, Mr. Jagjivan Ram, assured the Lok Sabha, in the course of his reply to the seven-hour debate on the budget demands for the defence forces, that despite Pakistan’s frantic efforts to augment its military strength, India still retained a decisive edge in almost every sphere. In his reply to the calling attention motion of the supply of American arms to Pakistan, the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, disclosed that in addition to numerous verbal representations made at the highest level, India had also protested in writing on June 27 to the U.S. Government against the dangerous implications of this action. He told the Lok Sabha that the Government of India felt that the “the supply of arms to Pakistan by any country in the present context amounts to condonation of the genocide in Bangla Desh and encouragement to the continuation of the atrocities by the Military rulers of Pakistan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/concern-over-us-arms-for-pak/article35292091.ece
13 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Liquidity buffer at NBFCs cushions fall in Q1 collections’||Higher liquidity cover at NBFCs enabled them to service debt in the near term, and cushioned the impact of lower collections during the second wave of COVID-19, Crisil Ratings said in a study of entities rated by the agency. “That is a change from last year, when asset quality and liquidity fears multiplied after a moratorium on repayments and stringent lockdowns affected collections. This time around, the build-up in liquidity has been a crucial offset,” the ratings agency said, adding that collections had again been affected in the current fiscal by the second wave. In the wake of the second wave, Crisil conducted the study considering two stress-case scenarios. In the first scenario, in view of the collection challenges in the first quarter of FY22, it assumed collections over the next quarter at 70% of the levels in the past couple of quarters. In the second scenario, collections were assumed to halve. In scenario 1, 96% of NBFCs were found to have liquidity cover for three months’ worth of debt repayments. In Scenario 2, the number was only marginally lower at 95%. Based on scenario 1, only 4% of NBFCs had low cover (less than one time), compared with 8% in June 2020, and 23% in April 2020. “We find three factors have supported liquidity: fund-raising through special government schemes, improving collections in the second half of fiscal 2021, and limited disbursements,” the agency said. It pointed out that a number of NBFCs had increased provisioning levels in the past two fiscal years, and had thus enhanced buffers for asset-side risks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/liquidity-buffer-at-nbfcs-cushions-fall-in-q1-collections/article35292071.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,||IT, BFSI generous paymasters: TeamLease||Technology and sales jobs are witnessing a significant rise in salaries, with the average increments at 8.55% and 9.82% respectively, TeamLease said. Super-specialised jobs have also commanded a salary increment of more than 11%, while all COVID-proof jobs [sectors that are doing well during the pandemic] were rewarded handsomely, according to the TeamLease Jobs & Salaries Primer Report 2021. Sectors such as banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI), healthcare and allied industries, and information technology and knowledge services proved to be generous paymasters with an average salary increment of 10%, the report, which tracked 2,63,000 temp profiles across 17 industries in nine cities, said. From a geographic perspective, the top paying cities (increments of 12% and above) were Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Kolkata. Hiring on the rise Demand for professionals in software, hardware and telecom functions rose 35% (average) year-on-year (y-o-y) on account of acceleration in digitisation, said Monster.com, a Quess company. ‘Remarkable growth’ The telecom/Internet service provider (ISP) industry witnessed remarkable y-o-y growth (39%), alongside information technology (IT) — hardware, software (32%), and logistics, courier/freight/transportation (29%) industries that followed close behind. Bengaluru reported a considerable uptick in demand (50%) for talent in June across sectors compared with the year earlier. Among other cities, Pune reported a hiring increase of 28%, Hyderabad 22%, Chennai 22%, Mumbai 7%, and Delhi 4%, according to Monster Employment Index.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-bfsi-generous-paymasters-teamlease/article35292069.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||BSNL union asks DoT to clear dues running to Rs. 30,000 cr.||The BSNL employees’ union has urged the newly-appointed Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to ensure that the Department of Telecom clears its due of Rs. 30,000 crore to the telco in order to provide some aid to the stressed public sector unit (PSU). “The DoT on its part has been casting a Nelson’s eye towards BSNL,” the Bharatiya Telecom Employees Union (BSNL), an affiliate of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, said in a letter. “The DoT owes the BSNL around Rs. 30,000 crore...we shall be highly obliged... if you could see that this amount is refunded to the BSNL at the earliest to enable the company to perform with more vigour and also take care of its employees’ needs,” it added. As per the letter dated July 10, the dues include about Rs. 13,789 crore in viability gap funding for rural telephony, a total of about Rs. 8,300 for surrendered Wimax and CDMA spectrum, and Rs. 1,051 crore for the government’s BharatNet project. The union also said that poor marketing methods not in line with contemporary techniques plague BSNL, resulting in loss of revenue and market share. To help revive two loss-making telecom PSUs — BSNL and MTNL — the Cabinet had in 2019 given an approval for their merger, with a revival package worth almost Rs. 70,000 crore. As part of the package, the two PSUs were to be merged and also allotted 4G spectrum, which is yet to be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bsnl-union-asks-dot-to-clear-dues-running-to-rs-30000-cr/article35292075.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC slashes iron ore prices by Rs. 200 per tonne||Mining major NMDC has reduced iron ore prices by Rs. 200 per tonne with effect from July 10. Following the revision, the price of Lump ore is Rs. 7,450 per tonne, while that for the same quantity of Fines Rs. 6,360, the company said in a filing on Monday. India’s largest iron ore producer, NMDC has, with this, changed the prices four times in the fiscal, including twice in April. The latest revision is the first instance of the prices being reduced this fiscal. Changes in the ore prices are a pointer of the demand for steel. From Rs. 5,850 for Lump ore and Rs. 4,560 for Fines on April 3, the prices moved up to Rs. 7,650 and Rs. 6,560 respectively, following two more revisions, including the last on May 12. In June, the firm had maintained the prices. NMDC is keen on ramping up production to 44 million tonnes (MT) this fiscal. A senior official had recently said prices were ‘looking good’ and that there was good demand in the country. In FY21, NDMC had produced 34.15 MT and had sold 33.25 MT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-slashes-iron-ore-prices-by-rs-200-per-tonne/article35292064.ece
13 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Sundram Fasteners cut net debt by 35% in FY21||Sundram Fasteners Ltd. (SFL) lowered net debt by 35% to Rs. 443 crore during fiscal 2021, a year in which the auto sector was badly hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The auto components maker, which is part of the TVS group, had a net debt of Rs. 681 crore a year earlier. In fiscal 2021, it incurred capital expenditure of Rs. 140 crore on existing and new projects in tandem with the production plans of key customers, SFL said in its latest annual report. ‘Sector set for growth’ SFL said that after two years of sluggishness, India’s automobile sector is set to post double-digit growth next fiscal on improving economic activity and personal incomes. Consumption data such as sales in the fast-moving consumer goods and automotives, and Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections indicated recovery in demand. The government allocating Rs. 5 trillion for capital expenditure in the latest Budget is expected to pave the way for faster growth in the automotive segment, it added. Government policies to promote self-reliance in the defence and the aerospace sectors have centred on the implementation of advanced technologies. It improves the potential for domestic manufacturing and provides more opportunities for SFL, the company pointed out.  Consumption data such as FMCG and auto sales, and GST collections hinted at recovery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundram-fasteners-cut-net-debt-by-35-in-fy21/article35292073.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Banks mull invoking guarantees by promoters’||Banks may invoke personal guarantees of tycoons to recover unpaid loans from their delinquent firms, sources said Monday. This follows a Supreme Court order in May which held that the November 15, 2019 government notification allowing creditors to move against personal guarantors under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code was ‘legal and valid’. ‘Estimate of Rs. 1.6 lakh cr.’ According to an estimate, the top 10 personal guarantors have guaranteed debt of more than Rs. 1.6 lakh crore. Former promoters of Bhushan Steel and Power Sanjay Singhal and his wife Aarti Singhal had furnished personal guarantees up to Rs. 24,550 crore to take loans from a consortium of bank led by State Bank of India. Erstwhile promoter Kapil Wadhawan stands guarantee to loans taken by DHFL, with debt of about Rs. 90,000 crore. Venugopal Dhoot has given personal guarantee to a portion of the Rs. 22,000-crore loan to Videocon. A senior bank official said banks were assessing the involvement of directors who had pledged their personal guarantee. Then, another banker said, banks would move the National Company Law Tribunal for invoking personal guarantee as part of the recovery process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banks-mull-invoking-guarantees-by-promoters/article35292076.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||FM-led panel to decide on LIC stake sale||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved an initial public offering (IPO) of India’s largest insurer LIC, the modalities of which, such as issue size, pricing and timing would be decided by a panel headed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management had in January appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to assess the embedded value of LIC ahead of the IPO, touted to be the biggest public issue in Indian corporate history. The government expects to come out with the IPO by the end of FY22, a senior official said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-led-panel-to-decide-on-lic-stake-sale/article35292359.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Zambian court halts sale of Vedanta assets||A Zambian court has stayed the hearing by a state-appointed provisional liquidator for splitting up Vedanta Resources’ Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) unit and selling the assets. The stay on the KCM liquidation proceedings has been granted to allow Vedanta and the Zambian government to proceed to arbitration, Vedanta said in a filing with the Singapore Stock Exchange. Vedanta has been locked in a dispute with the Zambian government since May 2019, when the Zambian government handed control of the mine to a liquidator. Legal arguments over the case have been heard in both Zambia and South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zambian-court-halts-sale-of-vedanta-assets/article35292080.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||RBI updates court on plans for PMC Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it had given in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services for setting up a small finance bank to take over the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. This, RBI said, would ease troubles faced by depositors unable to withdraw funds. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh then asked the RBI to submit an affidavit while posting the case for further hearing on August 20. The court was hearing a plea to direct RBI to further ease withdrawal norms for PMC bank’s depositors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-updates-court-on-plans-for-pmc-bank/article35292062.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Flipkart valued at $37.6 bn after $3.6-bn funding||Flipkart Group on Monday said it had raised $3.6 billion to fund its digital commerce activities in India. The new investment values Flipkart Group at $37.6 billion. The funding was led by financial investors GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPP Investments), SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and Walmart, along with investments from sovereign funds DisruptAD and Qatar Investment Authority, Khazanah Nasional Berhad. Tencent, Willoughby Capital, Antara Capital, Franklin Templeton and Tiger Global were also part of the funding, Flipkart said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-valued-at-376-bn-after-36-bn-funding/article35292065.ece
13 July 2021||MUMBAI,||G-secs: RBI unveils retail direct scheme||The RBI on Monday announced the unveiling of a scheme under which retail investors will be allowed to open retail direct gilt accounts (RDG) directly with the central bank. This account can be opened through a dedicated online portal, which will provide registered users access to primary issuance of government securities and to NDS-OM. “The date of commencement of the scheme will be announced at a later date,” the RBI said in a circular. The scheme is a one-stop solution to facilitate investment in government securities (G-secs) by individual investors, the regulator said. The facility was announced in the Statement of Developmental and Regulatory Policies dated February 5, RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/g-secs-rbi-unveils-retail-direct-scheme/article35292072.ece
13 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Ola Electric raises $100 million long term debt||Ola Electric and Bank of Baroda on Monday signed the largest long-term debt financing agreement in the Indian EV industry on Monday. Ola said it would use this 10-year debt of $100 million to complete Phase 1 of its Futurefactory, a global manufacturing hub for electric two-wheelers, coming up at Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu at an investment of Rs. 2,400 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ola-electric-raises-100-million-long-term-debt/article35292067.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||MobiKwik files draft papers for Rs 1,900 crore IPO||Digital payments start-up One MobiKwik Systems on Monday filed preliminary papers with markets regulator SEBI to raise Rs. 1,900 crore through an initial share sale. The initial public offer (IPO) comprises fresh issuance of equity shares worth Rs. 1,500 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs. 400 crore by promoters and existing shareholders, according to the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP). The issue also includes a reservation for the company’s employees.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mobikwik-files-draft-papers-for-rs-1900-crore-ipo/article35292077.ece
13 July 2021||London,||Tenacious Italy wrecks England’s party, paints the Euro blue||Italy inflicted more penalty heartache on England to win Sunday’s Euro 2020 final 3-2 in a shootout, Bukayo Saka missing the decisive kick to deny the hosts after the game at Wembley had ended in a draining 1-1 draw through extra-time. Saka’s kick was repelled by Gianluigi Donnarumma to give Italy the Henri Delaunay Trophy for the second time, completing a remarkable turnaround for a team that failed to even qualify for the 2018 World Cup. Italy’s triumph came at the end of a shootout in which England scored its first two penalties but then saw Marcus Rashford and Jadon Sancho also fail. Jorginho could have won it for Italy only for his penalty to be saved by Jordan Pickford, giving renewed hope to England. The nerve-shredding climax seemed unlikely given the way the match began, with Luke Shaw scoring for Gareth Southgate’s England after just one minute and 56 seconds, the fastest goal ever in a European Championship final, and stunning a team which arrived here on a record 33-match unbeaten run. Italy was shell-shocked and struggled to recover in a stadium where the official attendance was 67,173 but more England fans clearly managed to enter after disgraceful scenes when supporters without tickets stormed the gates. Italy, though, had most of the possession after falling behind and deserved its equaliser when it came midway through the second half through Leonardo Bonucci. Questionable decision With no further scoring, this was the first European Championship final to be decided on penalties since 1976 and the decision to let the 19-year-old Saka step up when he did was a questionable one. While England’s 55-year wait to win another major international title goes on, Italy’s own particular half-century of hurt is over. The Azzurri have won four World Cups but their sole European Championship triumph before this dated back to 1968. They had lost two Euro finals in a little over two decades. However, they have been the outstanding team in this competition, beating Belgium and Spain on their way to the final.  The result:   Final: Italy 1 (Bonucci 67) drew with England 1 (Shaw 2) ( After extra-time, Italy won 3-2 on penalties) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tenacious-italy-wrecks-englands-party-paints-the-euro-blue/article35292358.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Full focus on Olympic medal: Sai Praneeth||“I am aware that I need to cause one or two major upsets to be able to realise my dream of an Olympic medal,” says World championship bronze medallist B. Sai Praneeth. “When the focus is on winning a medal at the Olympics, everything else gets blurred. Once you enter a major event, the focus has to be on doing well backed by the right preparations,” he told The Hindu . He is happy with his fitness level going into the Olympics. “I am the kind of player who can play my natural game straight away if I feel I am fit,” he said. He has prepared for Tokyo the same as he would for any big event. The emphasis was on all-round improvement, he said. Video analyses of his recent matches and those of likely opponents formed part of the preparations. Also coaches Agus Dwi Santoso and P. Gopi Chand had been providing “invaluable” inputs, he said. On lack of tournaments before the Games, Sai Praneeth felt it would be the same for everyone and the preparations were planned accordingly. The pandemic restrictions were a bigger torture, he said. “You can easily sort out anything related to your game on the court. But, these restrictions and tests can be a real challenge,” he said. On this being his first Olympics, the 28-year-old shuttler said it did play on his mind but that he was trying to avoid any pressure. On training at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium for the last one month, Sai Praneeth said it was a good move. “The conditions should be similar in Tokyo and hence it was really good to train there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/full-focus-on-olympic-medal-sai-praneeth/article35292412.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bopanna keeping his fingers crossed||Rohan Bopanna is back home after Wimbledon to be with his family before he gets a possible call for the Olympics in Tokyo. The suspense about the Olympic doubles entry for the Asian Games gold medallists Bopanna and Divij Sharan continues, and there is no clarity even about where they figure in the waiting list. Change “Doubles entry was supposed to be purely on the basis of singles or doubles rank. But there has been some change. “The two players from Portugal Joao Sousa and Pedro Sousa got singles wild cards. And they also got doubles entry despite their best combined rank being over 200,” said Bopanna.  Bopanna, the former World No. 3 said that he visited the ATP office during Wimbledon every day to get some clarity about the Olympic entries, but nobody had any list that would make the picture clear. He also pointed at the second Spanish team of Pablo Andujar and Roberto Carballes Baena whose best combined rank was around 170. Bopanna (38) and Divij had a combined rank of 113 on the entry cut-off date of June 14. “Not only us, some good teams have also not got their entry yet. Matwe Middelkoop and Robin Haase, with a combined rank of 73, could not get in,” Bopanna said. “I have been playing every week from the third week of April and decided to take a week off. If we get entry for the Olympics, I will go to Tokyo from here. Otherwise, after a two-week break, I will be playing in the US circuit’’, said Bopanna. He was happy with the way he had played Wimbledon, especially the mixed doubles with Sania Mirza. “I was happy with the way I served. Maybe, all the yoga that I am doing regularly is helping me. Sania played well, but lacked the match exposure,” said Bopanna. The Indian pair had lost 9-11 in the third set against Jean-Julien Rojer and Andreja Klepac in the pre-quarterfinals, after not having dropped a set in the first two rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-keeping-his-fingers-crossed/article35292408.ece
13 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Jyoti gets a bipartite quota place for P aralympics||The International Paralympic Committee (IPC) on Monday gave a bipartite quota place to compound archer Jyoti for the Paralympics, said an Archery Association of India (AAI) source. Jyoti’s inclusion will enhance India’s medal chances in archery as the country can have representation in compound women’s open individual event as well mixed team event. Four already qualified Earlier, four Indians — Rakesh Kumar and Shyam Sundar in compound men’s open and Vivek Chikara and Harbinder Singh in recurve men’s open — qualified for the Paralympics, to be held in Tokyo from August 24 to September 5. Since some of the Indians could not participate in a qualifying event in Czech Republic earlier this month due to Covid-induced restrictions and visa issues, the AAI requested the IPC to grant a bipartite quota place to Uttar Pradesh girl Jyoti. Jyoti has won several international medals, including silver in individual and mixed team events in the Fazza world-ranking tournament in Dubai and mixed team silver in the Asian para-archery championships in Bangkok in 2019.  AAI had requested the IPC to grant a quota place to the Uttar Pradesh girl Jyoti has won medals in top international events||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyoti-gets-a-bipartite-quota-place-for-p-aralympics/article35292394.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Pressure brings out the best in Deepti||India was down and nearly out when Deepti Sharma came on to bowl the 14th over of the second T20I at Hove on Sunday. Chasing 149, England was 105 for two with two set batters at the crease in Tammy Beaumont and captain Heather Knight, but off-spinning all-rounder Deepti turned things around in that over. She had Beaumont lbw and off the next ball Knight was run out thanks to Deepti’s fielding off her own bowling. At a virtual press conference later, she spoke of how crucial the over was in India’s stunning eight-run victory that levelled the three-match series. “Beaumont’s wicket was crucial for us,” she said. “I was confident that the ball was hitting the stumps (England went for the DRS). And after that run-out (Knight), we pulled back.” Deepti had done her bit with the bat too, after India was put in. She made an unbeaten 24 off 27 balls. “We had a good start and we thought we could even get to 160, but our final score wasn’t that bad, as we knew our bowlers could defend it,” she said. “While batting I found the ball was holding up a bit. The wicket was on the slower side and batting was a bit difficult.”Deepti said she enjoyed playing under pressure. “I like to play in pressure situations,” she said. “As an all-rounder I always try to contribute as much as I can in any department.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pressure-brings-out-the-best-in-deepti/article35292395.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Last 14 rounds of blitz... I was ecstatic: Anand||Viswanathan Anand turned the clock back in some style in Croatia. The 51-year-old outplayed several younger, stronger rivals to finish runner-up at the Croatia Grand Chess Tour, which concluded at Zagreb on Sunday. And this was his first tournament in 16 months. After doing fairly well in the rapid section, the blitz games saw some vintage Anand. The five-time World champion was delighted with the way he finished. “The last 14 rounds of blitz... I was ecstatic,” Anand told The Hindu over phone from Zagreb on Monday. “I could have easily had another two extra points at least.” Among his wins, he said he particularly liked the one against Anton Korobov of Ukraine in the blitz. “I also enjoyed my win with white pieces against Garry Kasparov,” he said. His old rival though had a disastrous outing. The 58-year-old Russian, who has been out of active chess after retiring in 2005, could score just 2.5 points from 18 rounds. “We were all astonished by Kasparov’s show,” Anand said. “We understood he was rusty; so he was four years ago (at the St. Louis Grand Chess Tour) but then he posted quite a good performance. I think this would motivate him to come back for one big tournament. I feel Garry will not want his last tournament to be like this.” Next stop Anand’s next stop on his comeback trail — COVID-19 has kept him off the chessboard since February last year — is Dortmund where he will meet another old Russian rival, Vladmir Kramnik. The 14th and 15th World champions will play a match of No-Castling Chess from Wednesday. As the name suggests, the format will not allow the players to castle, in an attempt to take the game away from opening theory. “I think these kinds of variants are entertaining,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/last-14-rounds-of-blitz-i-was-ecstatic-anand/article35292397.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking tactics: breaking the final down||The script was all too familiar for England from its 2018 World Cup semifinal defeat to Croatia — take the early lead, sit back, invite pressure, cede control in midfield and get punished. Gareth Southgate set England up in a 3-4-3 formation, while Roberto Mancini’s Italy lined up in a 4-3-3, with contrasting styles on display in a hard-fought contest. England was a goal up through Luke Shaw after 117 seconds of play, capitalising on Italy’s shape being pulled apart after an unsuccessful corner. England executed its game-plan for the best part of the first 30 minutes with high-intensity pressing all around the pitch, making it difficult for Italy to settle. But as the game wore on, Italy’s three-man midfield of Marco Verratti, Jorginho and Nicolo Barella shaded the battle in the centre of the pitch against England’s Kalvin Phillips and Declan Rice. The second period started in the same vein, with England pinned in its half by Italian pressure, both on and off the ball. While England conceded a sloppy set-piece goal, the opportunity arose because of Italy’s sustained dominance.  Mancini brought on Dominico Berardi early in the second half and his off-the-ball movement, along with Lorenzo Insigne and Federico Chiesa, troubled England’s defenders. The full-backs and central midfielders created repetitive overloads on both flanks. In between the 65th and 66th minute, Italy strung together a sequence of 24 successive passes, before Chiesa’s cross was headed behind for the corner that led to the equaliser. Losing verve Chiesa’s injury and subsequent exit in the 86th minute effectively blunted Italy’s attack, and the final lost its verve. Southgate’s late introduction of Jack Grealish, Marcus Rashford and Jadon Sancho in extra-time didn’t seem to alter the contest, which went to penalties. Although England took the lead again in the shoot-out, Gianluigi Donnarumma stood tall in goal and Italy emerged triumphant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/talking-tactics-breaking-the-final-down/article35292346.ece
13 July 2021||London,||Another Gianluigi trumps for Italy in shootout||From Gigi to Gigio, Italy still has a safe pair of hands in goal. Fifteen years after Gianluigi Buffon was under the bar for Italy in the World Cup final win via a penalty shootout, Gianluigi Donnarumma did the same on Sunday against England. “Despite the goal right at the beginning we always commanded the game and then with penalties there’s Gigio,” Italy captain Giorgio Chiellini said. “We’ve gone from Gigi to Gigio.” The 22-year-old Donnarumma was sobbing on the shoulder of an Italy team staff member after saving the final penalty kick. Incredible night “It’s an incredible night,” Donnarumma said. “If I am the best player of the tournament, it is also thanks to (Leonardo) Bonucci and Chiellini. We were extraordinary, we are very happy.” “We didn’t give an inch. We are a fantastic squad and we deserve all this,” Donnarumma said. Donnarumma also saved a penalty from Alvaro Morata in the penalty shootout victory over Spain in the semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/another-gianluigi-trumps-for-italy-in-shootout/article35292349.ece
13 July 2021||London,||English players face online racism||Black players in the England football team have been subjected to a storm of online racist abuse after their defeat in the final of Euro 2020. Marcus Rashford, 23, Jadon Sancho, 21, and Bukayo Saka, 19, were the targets of the abuse after they missed their spot-kicks. The comments have prompted a police investigation and wide condemnation. “For some of them to be abused is unforgivable,” Southgate told a news conference. “Some of it has come from abroad (we have been told this), but some of it is from this country.” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson condemned the abuse while Prince William, who is president of the Football Association, said he was “sickened”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/english-players-face-online-racism/article35292351.ece
13 July 2021||London,||Southgate’s plan backfires||Gareth Southgate could feel Bukayo Saka’s anguish. Having a decisive penalty saved in a European Championship match can be such a lonely experience. It still follows Southgate 25 years after his missed spot kick in the semifinals against Germany. Now he had to accept responsibility, having selected Saka to take what would be the last kick of Euro 2020. The focus will turn to Southgate’s decision-making. Should he have asked a 19-year-old to step up for such a pressure-packed moment? Raheem Sterling wasn’t even included among the five penalty takers. Late substitutes Marcus Rashford and Jadon Sancho were brought in the 120th minute just in time to take penalties. Liverpool’s Premier League and Champions League winner, Jordan Henderson, was deemed less suitable for a penalty than Sancho. “It’s down to me,” Southgate said. “I decided on the penalty takers based on what we’ve done in training. Nobody is on their own. It totally rests on me.” Southgate was also solidly behind the players. “They were the best takers we had left on the pitch,” he said. “We win and lose together.”   The penalty jinx continues   1990 World Cup semis: Lost 4-3 to Germany after a 1-1 draw  1996 Euro semis: Germany won 6-5 after a 1-1 draw  1998 World Cup last-16: Lost 4-3 to Argentina after a 2-2 draw  2004 Euro quarters: Portugal won 6-5 after a 2-2 draw  2006 World Cup quarters: Lost 3-1 to Portugal after 0-0 draw  2012 Euro quarters: Italy won 4-2 after a goalless draw||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/southgates-plan-backfires/article35292352.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||CAS rejects Uzbek appeal||The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) has turned down the Uzbekistan Swimming Federation’s appeal against world body FINA’s decision to invalidate results of an Olympic qualifying tournament after Indian swimmer Likith Selvaraj complained of manipulation in the event. “FINA acknowledges the award of the Court of Arbitration for Sport rejecting the Uzbekistan Swimming Federation’s appeal against the FINA Executive’s decision not to recognise certain results from the Uzbekistan Open Swimming Cup, held between 24-29 November 2020 and the Uzbekistan Open Swimming Championships, held between 13-17 April 2021,” said a statement from the governing body. The FINA Executive’s decision was made after receiving “evidence establishing that certain results from these two events had been manipulated by the Uzbekistan Swimming Federation in an attempt to qualify Uzbek swimmers for the Tokyo Olympic Games.” FINA said that its Ethics Panel will now investigate whether further sanctions should be imposed on the Uzbekistan Swimming Federation and any other implicated party. Selvaraj’s charge In a video uploaded on YouTube in April, Selvaraj had alleged that the timings were “manipulated” to ensure qualification of Uzbek swimmers from the April 13-17 event in Tashkent. He had alleged that organisers of the tournament even tried to bribe him when he protested. “FINA will not stand for any forms of cheating or event manipulation,” the body stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cas-rejects-uzbek-appeal/article35292406.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Mohan passes away||P.R. Mohan, former Andhra Ranji cricketer and chairman of combined Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh, passed away due to cardiac arrest at Srikalahasti on Monday. He was 72 and survived by wife, son and a daughter. Mohan was also in the ACA selection panel and instrumental in streamlining the functioning of many state sports associations. He always took up the cause of deserving sportspersons across the state. N. Chandrababu Naidu was among the first to express condolences to the family members. He visited Mohan’s residence in Srikalahasti. Former Chief Secretary to AP Government, L.V. Subrahmanyam, said: “I always appreciated his sincere desire to promote sports and welfare of sportspersons, unhesitatingly taking up the case of genuine athletes in various fora. He took up strongly in the courts of law against fake sports certificates and admissions obtained with such certificates.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohan-passes-away/article35292653.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||A ring that measures quality of meditation||The Indian Olympic Association (IOA) announced a partnership with Dhyana, the start-up behind the smart ring that measures the quality of meditation, and developed by chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand and the Oxford University alumni and biomedical technology entrepreneur Bhairav Shankar. The IOA has acquired smart Dhyana rings and Dhyana’s health management services for the Indian contingent headed for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and is working together to prioritise mental wellness and improve focus of the players amidst the ongoing pandemic, said Rajiv Mehta, general-secretary of IOA. Dhyana thus becomes the first official meditation device to be used at the Olympics. The smart Dhyana ring is capable of measuring ‘mindful minutes’, or the amount of time any person is actually focusing while in a meditation session, Bhairav Shankar said. “The Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games is going to be extremely challenging owing to the exceptional circumstances it is being held in. I am confident that data-driven meditation with the help of Dhyana will greatly benefit the Indian contingent to prepare better and help them unlock their full potential,” said the national coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-ring-that-measures-quality-of-meditation/article35292400.ece
13 July 2021||MILWAUKEE:,||Bucks grab a crucial win||Giannis Antetokounmpo powered Milwaukee Bucks to a 120-100 victory over Phoenix Suns on Sunday in the NBA Finals. The 26-year-old Greek scored 41 points and grabbed 13 rebounds to spark the Bucks, who pulled to 2-1 in the best-of-seven championship series. The two-time NBA Most Valuable Player, who had 42 points and 12 rebounds in a game two loss, joined Shaquille O’Neal in 2000 and LeBron James in 2016 as the only NBA Finals players with back-to-back 40-point, 10-rebound performances. Holiday chips in Jrue Holiday added 21 points and nine assists while Khris Middleton had 18 points, seven rebounds and six assists. The Bucks, hosting their first NBA Finals game in 47 years, improved to an NBA-best 8-1 at home in the playoffs. The Suns have a playoffs-best 6-2 on the road. Suns guard Chris Paul, in the first NBA Finals of his 16-year career at age 36, led the Suns with 19 points while Deandre Ayton and Jae Crowder each added 18.  The result: Milwaukee Bucks 120 bt Phoenix Suns 100 (Suns lead series 2-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bucks-grab-a-crucial-win/article35292405.ece
13 July 2021||HAMBURG,||Nagal loses, but gets lucky||Sumit Nagal was beaten 4-6, 2-6 by Zhizhen Zhang of China in the second and final qualifying round, but made the main draw as a lucky loser in the €1,168,220 ATP tennis tournament in Hamburg.   The results:   €1,168,220 ATP, Hamburg, Germany: Qualifying singles (second and final round): Zhizhen Zhang (Chn) bt Sumit Nagal 6-4, 6-2; First round: Nagal bt Lewie Lane (Ger) 6-3, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Filip Krajinovic & Dusan Lajovic (Srb) bt Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji 6-3, 6-2.   $535,535 ATP, Newport, US: Qualifying singles (first round): Ruben Bemelmans (Bel) bt Sasikumar Mukund 7-5, 6-4; Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Darian King (Bar) 6-3, 6-4 .   $250,000 WTA, Prague, Czech Republic: Qualifying singles (first round): Isabella Shinikova (Bul) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 7-5.   €44,820 Challenger, Amersfoort, Netherlands: Qualifying singles (first round): Jeremy Jahn (Ger) bt Arjun Kadhe 6-2, 6-7(0), 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-loses-but-gets-lucky/article35292409.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Iniyan shocks Bogner||P. Iniyan stunned Switzerland's Sebastian Bogner while B. Adhiban, Aravindh Chithambaram and R. Praggnanandhaa performed as expected to make a winning start to their World Cup campaigns in the first game in Sochi on Monday. In the women’s section, Bhakti Kulkarni, who received a walkover from Russia’s Anastasya Paramzina, will face 17th-seeded Russian Natalia Pogonina. Padmini Rout proved superior to Azerbaijan’s Uliviyya Fataliyeva in 36 moves. She needs to stay undefeated on Tuesday to advance.  Indian results (Round 1, Game 1): Men: Chiletso Chipanga (Mwi) lost to B. Adhiban; Aravindh Chithambaram bt Michael Concio Jr. (Phi); Paulo Bersamina (Phi) lost to R. Praggnanandhaa; P. Iniyan bt Sebastian Bogner (Swi).   Women: Padmini Rout bt Ulviyya Fataliyeva (Aze); Bhakti Kulkarni w.o. Anastasya Paramzina (Rus).   Games in progress: Men: Nihal Sarin vs Arthur Ssegwanyi (Uga); Pawel Teclaf (Pol) vs D. Gukesh; Women: R. Vaishali vs Zhou Qiyu (Can).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iniyan-shocks-bogner/article35292345.ece
13 July 2021||Wimbledon,||Novak’s 20||Even with a chance to complete a ‘Golden Slam’, Novak Djokovic isn’t sure he’ll be playing at the Tokyo Olympics. The lack of fans and the tight coronavirus restrictions in Tokyo means Djokovic remains on the fence about travelling to Japan. “I’ll have to think about it,” Djokovic said after winning Wimbledon on Sunday. “My plan was always to go to the Olympic Games. But right now I’m a little bit divided. It’s kind of 50-50 because of what I heard in the last couple days.” That includes the news that there won’t be fans in the stands. And that the tight restrictions will mean he can only bring a limited number of people as part of his personal team. “That was really disappointing to hear,” Djokovic said. Rafael Nadal has already said he will not be playing in Tokyo, while Roger Federer has not yet made a decision. The top-ranked Djokovic beat Matteo Berrettini in four sets to earn his third straight Grand Slam title after the Australian Open and French Open — and record-equalling 20th in total. If he wins in Tokyo and at the U.S. Open, he would be the first male tennis player to complete a ‘Golden Slam’ — all four Grand Slam tournaments and the Olympics in the same calendar year. Steffi Graf is the only woman to have done it, in 1988. Rod Laver was the last man to win all four Grand Slams in the same calendar year, in 1969. Goran Ivanisevic, who is on Djokovic’s coaching team, would like to see the Serb add his name to the list. “If somebody can win a Golden Slam, that’s him,” Ivanisevic said. “First time in his career, winning three in a row in the same year, having chance to win four. I mean, that would be unbelievable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/novaks-20/article35292347.ece
13 July 2021||Rome,||Grand welcome home for Azzurri||Italy’s team returned home in triumph on Monday. Giorgio Chiellini, the 36-year-old Italy captain, and coach Roberto Mancini lifted the gleaming trophy aloft after the team’s plane touched down in Rome just hours after the victory in London on Sunday night. There was elation among a group who got up early — or never went to bed — to greet the Azzurri as they arrived back in the Italian capital, chanting “We’re the champions of Europe!” fronted by Chiellini wearing a crown. Fans spilled on to the streets from Milan to Palermo to celebrate their side’s triumph, pushing aside thoughts of the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped the nation. An overjoyed Mancini said: “The lads were wonderful, I don’t know what more to say.” He added: “We did well. We conceded a goal straight away and struggled, but then we dominated the game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grand-welcome-home-for-azzurri/article35292350.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Why not passes, ask the Kiwis||Losing the 2019 cricket ODI World Cup due to the boundary-countback rule still hurts New Zealand cricketers and this was again on show as Scott Styris and James Neesham took an indirect dig at the Three Lions after they lost the Euro 2020 final against Italy on penalties. More corners Styris and Neesham suggested that England could have been declared the winners as they had more ‘corners’ in the match or because of ‘more passes’ in the game. “Why is it a penalty shootout and not just whoever made the most passes wins? #joking,” tweeted Neesham. Taking to Twitter, Styris wrote: “I don’t understand... England had more corners .... they are the champions! #Stillsalty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/why-not-passes-ask-the-kiwis/article35292353.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Naveen, Alexander score half-centuries||Half-centuries from S. Naveen Kumar and R. Alexander helped Medavakkam CC beat Mamallapuram CC by five wickets in the CDCA second division league recently.  The scores:   II div.: Reddy 167/8 in 30 overs (P. Praveen Kumar 48, S. Stephen 4/38) bt Madhuranthagam 106/9 in 25.5 overs (R. Yogender Sharma 4/21, R. Ahillan 3/24).   Mamallapuram 154 in 29.5 overs (V. Raja 48 n.o., Ponmari Muthu 3/48, R. Mathan Raj 3/32) lost to Medavakkam CC 157/5 in 29.1 overs (S. Naveen Kumar 63, R. Alexander 56, V. Vijay Krishna 3/27).    Udhay (5/11) bowled Vinayaka Packaging to a 59-run win over KVS & Co in the all- India YSCA Trophy match on Saturday.  The scores: Apollo Tyres 79 in 17.4 overs (Jagadeesh 3/14, Raja Ravi Varma 4/39) lost to Little Hearts CA 80/1 in 9.3 overs (Roop Prasad 39, Babu 31 n.o.).   Nungambakkam 84 in 20.5 overs (M. Sanjay Sri 4/23, Vigneshwaran 3/26) lost to Sri Vaishnavi-B 86/5 in 25.1 overs (Bharath 26).   Vinayaka Packaging 109 in 29.2 overs (Sampath Kumar 32) bt KVS & Co. 50 in 21.2 overs (Udhay 5/11, Kishore 4/14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naveen-alexander-score-half-centuries/article35292455.ece
13 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||HFC signs ‘Edu’ Garcia||Hyderabad FC (HFC) signed Spanish player Eduardo ‘Edu’ Garcia on Monday. The experienced offensive midfielder, who can operate in multiple roles, joins Manolo Marquez’s side from last-season’s runner-up ATK Mohun Bagan. “I am very excited to start my journey with Hyderabad FC. I promise to give my best and help the club grow,” said Garcia after penning a one-year deal. He scored 47 goals in the 47 ISL appearances. “He will certainly help the youngsters in the squad,” said Manolo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-signs-edu-garcia/article35292651.ece
13 July 2021||Dubai,||Ecclestone, Conway are June winners||England spinner Sophie Ecclestone edged out India’s Shafali Verma and Sneh Rana to become the ICC Player-of-the-Month for June, while New Zealand opener Devon Conway bagged the honour in the men's category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ecclestone-conway-are-june-winners/article35292403.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Fulfilling His promise||In Srimad Bhagavatam, sage Suka gives a wonderful description of the newborn Krishna, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Krishna had lotus-like eyes, and four hands, which held His weapons. He had on His chest the characteristic mole known as Srivatsa. Lakshmi was seen on His chest. He was adorned with the Kaustubha gem. His diamond and gem studded crown and earrings dazzled. The child had a beautiful black hue, like rain-bearing clouds. He had thick hair. He was further adorned with a waist belt, bracelets and armbands. No child had ever looked like this. He was an adbhutam balakam — a most unusual and unique child. And Vasudeva saw his amazing son, says Suka. Devaki was alarmed, for Kamsa was sure to kill such a child. Why did Krishna take this form? Devaki was responsible for this. When Brahma created many couples, asking them to procreate, one couple was more inclined towards attaining moksha. They were Prisni and her husband Sutapas. They, therefore, did penance, and Lord Narayana appeared before them. Considering their desire for moksha, that is what they should have asked for. But the Lord’s plans for them were different. So, when they saw the Lord, Prisni said she wanted a child like Him, and she said this three times. The Lord agreed to grant her what she wanted. But how could He find someone like Him? There is none equal to or superior to Him. The only option was for Him to be born as her child. And since her prayer had been made three times, He had to do this thrice. The first time, He was born to her as Prisnigarbha, the second time as Vamana. Now as Krishna, He had come revealing His form as Narayana, thus fulfilling His promise to Prisni, for it was Prisni who was born as Devaki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/fulfilling-his-promise/article35292308.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 09:26 IST,||Sudoku — July 13, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-13-2021/article35293232.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Sheirgill, back in cop land||Since 1996, when he played the eponymous Jimmy in Gulzar’s Maachis , Jimmy Sheirgill has had something many of his contemporaries could only aspire for — the audience’s love. They have the actor’s back and root for him at every step. YouTube comments on songs featuring him and his films are proof of that. That is something Sheirgill, whose action series Collar Bomb dropped on July 9, is humbled by. “Somewhere, it is validation of the body of work I’ve done, of the films I’ve chosen — Haasil , Yahaan , Tanu Weds Manu , Mohabattein. Through it all, you know that the love showered is not due to a mass factor but it’s something you’ve earned. I’m delighted they call me underrated; it is better than being overrated,” says the 50-year-old. Khaki connect Sheirgill is one of the few actors who has done multiple films where he’s in uniform — from Yahaan and A Wednesday to Special 26 and Madaari . He’s looked distinctly different in each one of them, something he manages again in Collar Bomb . “That is the attempt — to try and make it a little different from before. I’ve done cop roles earlier, but this is a thriller and there’s not much scope to add scenes to the character. Here, I am a cop with a backstory who is also the father of a 13-year-old. There’s a fair bit of grey. It is a race against time, but there is also a story unfolding simultaneously,” he says, about the film on a cop rushing to save a group of people being threatened by a suicide bomber. Years after their release, some of his films continue to remain relevant and a few like Yahaan have achieved cult status after tepid starts. Does that validate the choices he’s made? “Yes. These films still have a following and I think that is a big thing. It was a lonely path I was walking on, but it was a conscious choice. Today, seeing Yahaan [a 2005 film about an Army officer falling in love with a girl from Jammu and Kashmir, whose brother is a terrorist], and getting all this love, makes the struggle worth it,” says Sheirgill, adding, “The team took so many risks — we shot in Kashmir, guerrilla style, I grew a moustache at a time when leading men were expected to be clean-shaven. In fact, Shoojit [director Sircar] kept asking if I was okay to grow one! I’ll accept that there were nights when I’d lie back and think if I was doing the right thing. Today, I’m glad I did what I did.” Notes from the hinterland The artiste laughs as he recalls a time when creators would come to him when no one else would take up a subject. How does he react to the constant referencing of his earlier films? “I like to look at the future, but I accept it with humility when someone speaks about my early work. Many from the Army background have loved Yahaan , and that feels good.” Sheirgill is from small-town India — he grew up in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab — and you can see snatches of his lived experience in his performances set in the hinterland. For instance, in the Tanu weds Manu franchise, he plays the role of Raja, a goon who has his kind moments, and in Saheb Biwi Aur Gangster , wherein his character is an ex-royal from a small town who has fallen on bad times. “It is easier for me to relate to those characters and work on those looks. If the writer is good and picks up the dialect well, it is easier for the actor. I try to recall people I’ve met and, with those visuals in mind, I work on the character,” he says. The OTT maze For an actor who has carved his own path in Hindi films, it is natural that he is among the early Bollywood adopters of OTT too. Collar Bomb is an OTT film, but shot the way it deserves to be shot, says Sheirgill, who has already done Rangbaaz , Rangbaaz Phir Se and Your Honour , for Zee5 and SonyLIV, respectively. “The main thing is the story. If that satisfies me as an actor, I’m interested. Irrespective of theatre or OTT, the effort is the same, the filming is the same. Collar Bomb is like any big film. It was never a case of whether this hard work was needed for OTT,” says Sheirgill. So, has OTT changed the game for performers like him? “A lot. At some stage, OTT will get corrupted and you’ll have people ready to make a film in any manner, but as long as you have creative people true to their art, they will hold the future in a big way,” concludes the actor. Collar Bomb is now streaming on Disney+Hotstar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sheirgill-back-in-cop-land/article35292765.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s not wait till it’s too late||One of the most disturbing news to emerge in recent times is the continuing discovery in Canada of unmarked graves used to bury the bodies of indigenous children. More than 1,000 graves have been unearthed at the sites of residential schools run in the 1800s, mostly by the Canadian government and Christian missions, to forcibly “assimilate” the children of indigenous Canadians — Indians, Inuit and Métis. What does ‘assimilation’ mean? It means that tens of thousands of children belonging to Canada’s original inhabitants were taken away from their homes and families and locked up in boarding schools, where they were coerced and brainwashed into becoming part of the ‘mainstream’ — this meant making them forget their native language, customs, dress, and religion, and forcing them to adopt the white man’s culture. Survivors narrate heart-breaking stories of systematically being told they were ‘savage’, taught to hate themselves, fed soap if they spoke in their tongue. Although the Canadian government officially apologised in 2008, the Roman Catholic church, which ran 70% of these schools, is yet to do so. As Canada erupts in sorrow and anger as the murderous extent of this genocidal chapter in its history becomes shamefully apparent, Catholic churches are being defaced and burnt, and statues of monarchs Victoria and Elizabeth II toppled. The news should alert us to something unfolding quietly in our own country. Last week, a video was uploaded by YouTuber Sambhavna Seth, where she and her husband mock their Adivasi house-help’s language. The employee is from Jharkhand, home to at least 32 tribes, including the Santhal, Munda, Oraon, etc. Over the last decade, men and women from the tribal belts of Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh have poured into Mumbai and Delhi to seek domestic work, often exposing themselves to city-bred ignorance, ridicule and ill-treatment. The video reveals that Seth hasn’t even heard of Simdega, her employee’s home, nor knows the relationship between tribal people and the forest, yet she brazenly belittles her. Her confidence stems from the fond belief that majoritarian culture — a Hindi, Hindu, mall-going, Bollywood-watching,sangeet-organising, paneer-eating amalgam — is above all else. It’s a sense of superiority that replicates colonial prejudices and practices, and manifests itself in far more insidious ways, of which this video is only a tiny instance. In fact, it begins at school. The Virginius Xaxa Committee, set up in 2013 to study the educational, health and socio-economic conditions of tribal communities in India and recommend schemes and proposals for improving their status, noted in its 2014 Report that “the State is actually pursuing assimilation rather than integration”. It pointed out that classrooms are not free of social prejudice against tribal people. It recommended local teachers and classes in tribal tongues that are “in tune with tribal culture”. Most importantly, the Xaxa Report noted the move to set up large, centrally-located residential tribal schools, a project that began in the 1950s and intensified in the 90s. Children are brought from distant villages to these schools. The Report listed the state-run Ashram School, Eklavya Model School, and Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya and alluded to their names coming up in stories of corruption, bad facilities, and sexual exploitation. Mega residential schools, such as Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences, recently established by private entities, are also now being questioned. Uprooting children from their homes and villages and erasing their mother tongues results in dissociating tribal children from their community and culture, an aggression that is reinforced by brutal disciplinary methods, replacing Adivasi names with mainstream ones, enforcing short hair, or mocking tribal dress, ornaments and customs. The cultural racism and violence inherent in such schools echo the harrowing experience that Canada’s indigenous people had with residential schools, which too had the backing of religious and social leaders, and whose fallout continues to haunt us till today. Several activists and educationists have spoken up against the residential schools in India’s tribal areas that are silently destroying entire cultures; many small, alternate schools have come up that approach this field with sensitivity and humility. Yet, despite Canada’s experience, despite testimonies from former students in India, and despite a hard-won 21st-century consciousness of social justice, we remain oblivious to the extent of cultural racism being perpetuated in our backyard. Let at least the spectre of future reproach make us mend the present. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lets-not-wait-till-its-too-late/article35292771.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||DJB asks SC to initiate contempt proceedings against Haryana||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has asked the Supreme Court to initiate contempt proceedings against Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan and the Additional Chief Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Devender Singh, for ‘wilfully’ disobeying a February 1996 order of the court to maintain the water level at the Wazirabad reservoir at full capacity to serve the drinking water needs of the Capital. “Due to non-supply of adequate water by Haryana, the water level in the Wazirabad reservoir is only 31% full. This has a possibility of triggering a severe water crisis in Delhi. The petitioner has already had to curtail water for several areas in Delhi, including the President’s Estate, the Parliament House and other institutional and diplomatic buildings as well as many residential areas,” the DJB submitted. Seeking an urgent hearing, it said Haryana was acting in clear violation of the court order in the Delhi Water Supply and Sewage Disposal Undertaking versus State of Haryana case. “This court had directed that the water level at Wazirabad reservoir has to be kept full to its capacity by Haryana in order to meet the drinking water needs of Delhi,” it stated. Discharge of pollutants The DJB had approached the court to “immediately stop” Haryana from discharging pollutants into the Yamuna. The increased ammonia levels had impaired functioning of water treatment plants, and drinking water and health crises loomed large in Delhi, it noted. The DJB had also, in that case, accused Haryana of not releasing the full quantity of water entitled to Delhi at Wazirabad. In a petition in that case, it alleged that the actions/inactions constituted a violation of the principle of cooperative federalism. It amounted to an upper riparian State taking undue advantage of a shared river for irrigation and industrial purposes while effectively not allowing a lower riparian State to access water for drinking”. Haryana had denied the charges. An offshoot of the case had been the decision of the court to examine the issue of river pollution, starting with the Yamuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/djb-asks-sc-to-initiate-contempt-proceedings-against-haryana/article35292550.ece
13 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘BJP misusing varsity campuses’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint coalition of farmer unions, strongly condemned the “misuse” of university campuses in Haryana for political activities by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana, on Monday. Speaking at the Tikri border, Mr. Singh said the BJP had found a safe resort in various university campuses for party meetings after having boycotted by the people. He called upon the entire university community to raise its voice against the attempts of the BJP to “take over and saffronise centres of higher education”. “On Saturday, it was the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar, while they held a party district executive meeting at Chaudhary Devi Lal University campus at Sirsa on Sunday, where they had to face stiff resistance from protesting farmers,” said Mr. Singh. He also condemned in strongest terms the criminal conduct of a man allegedly making obscene gestures towards protesting women farmers at the GJU Hisar Gate number 3 from a car allegedly occupied by Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana and former Minister Manish Grover. “However, no case under relevant sections of indecent and obscene gestures has been so far registered by Hisar police despite a written complaint filed by farmers,” said Mr. Singh. ‘Abuse of institutions’ He said that the SKM wanted to make it clear that it would not allow university campuses to be transformed into party fiefdom of the BJP and organise peaceful protests to stop them from going on with this ‘abuse’ of academic institutions. He added that the SKM had also taken serious note of Haryana being converted into a police state to suppress the farmers movement while the law and order situation is turning from bad to worse every passing day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-misusing-varsity-campuses/article35292531.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind First Nights||Those who managed to watch Santoshh KK and Jack Prabhu’s First Nights , a Tamil anthology that had its international premiere at the New York Indian Film Festival recently, possibly had a big smile on their faces after the end credits rolled. Without any fuss, two young filmmakers from Chennai made a slice-of-life film and took it to the festival circuit (thanks to a collaboration with Canada-based Viewfinder Film Company). The film deals with something everyone speaks about in hushed whispers, or turns pink discussing — the uniquely Indian concept of ‘the first night’ (when the newlyweds are often also newly acquainted) — but the fact is that everyone has a story to tell, say the directors. The idea stemmed from a casual conversation among the team. “Usually, the first night in a film is about song and dance, love-making; it’s more about action than the emotions involved. We wanted to see if we could do something about the entire range of emotions different couples go through,” says Santoshh, who is also a part of Prabhu’s (who produced First Nights ) Raging Bull Actors Studio. “If you travel abroad, you realise that people want to know of a country’s culture and practices — they are not looking just for poverty porn. The concept of the first night is so alien to them, and, therefore, fascinating,” says Prabhu. Of passion projects How do they hope to monetise their effort? “We shot it with our money and now are doing the festival circuit till the end of the year. After that, we hope to join hands with producers and distributors to release the film on OTT platforms by December,” he adds.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/behind-first-nights/article35292760.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||A city dependent on its neighbours for water||Delhi is a landlocked city and receives raw water from neighbouring States. The water is treated at various water treatment plants (WTPs) before being supplied to the residents of the Capital.    Delhi receives water from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Haryana. The largest share of water comes from Haryana via the Yamuna through three different channels.    When there is a fall in the amount of raw water Delhi gets from these three States, it affects the water supply in the national capital.     What is the problem? Since Delhi gets the largest share of water from the Yamuna, it has been a contentious issue for a long time between Delhi and Haryana.    The Yamuna originates in Yamunotri glacier in the Himalayas and travels through Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi before its confluence with the Ganga. The stretch of the river from its origin to Okhla in Delhi is called the “Upper Yamuna”. In 1994, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by the five basin States of the Yamuna, including Delhi and Haryana, for sharing of water of upper Yamuna.    In 1995, the Centre formed the Upper Yamuna River Board (UYRB) to regulate allocation of Yamuna water which flows through these States.    However, Delhi and Haryana have been at loggerheads over the allocation of Yamuna water — especially during summers — with Delhi complaining that it is getting less water from Haryana and the latter denying it most times.    Current issue During the past one week, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), which manages water supply in Delhi, has been complaining that it has been getting about 120 Million Gallons per Day (MGD) less raw water from Haryana for the past many days. DJB Vice Chairperson Raghav Chadha claimed the water released by Haryana is so less that water levels at Wazirabad Barrage, a point along the flow of the Yamuna in Delhi, is the lowest since 1965.    As per the DJB, due to shortage of water, the capacity of Chandrawal WTP has come down to 55 MGD from 90 MGD; Wazirabad WTP to 80 MGD from 135 MGD; and Okhla WTP to 12 MGD from 20 MGD.    What now?   The issue is expected to be settled shortly as Haryana has released about 1800 cusecs of water for 24 hours on Sunday, as per DJB officials.   It takes about two to three days for this water to reach Delhi and it is expected to solve the current water issue. On Sunday, Haryana released more water and the shortfall in Delhi’s share has dropped to 65 MGD from 120 MGD, as per DJB officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-city-dependent-on-its-neighbours-for-water/article35292548.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Clear stand on CHRI getting foreign funds: HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to clarify whether it would allow the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) to receive foreign contributions in spite of suspension of its registration and consequent freezing of bank account. “Get instructions. Otherwise, I’ll pass an order,” Justice Rekha Palli said while asking the Centre whether it would allow the organisation to utilise its existing funds for payment of salaries and meeting other expenses. Justice Palli remarked that people cannot be allowed to suffer during the time of pandemic. The High Court will hear the case again on July 19. CHRI had moved the court challenging a June 7 order passed by the Home Ministry, suspending its registration for 180 days. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing CHRI, said the suspension of NGO’s registration was disproportionate to the alleged violations of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act of 2010 (FCRA Act). CHRI has said that the suspension order was “unreasonable, manifestly arbitrary, excessive and disproportionate, on the face of it being based on wholly incorrect facts and for violating basic principles of natural justice”. It said the suspension order has “completely paralysed” its functioning, “threatens the livelihood of its employees and casts a stigma on its reputation”. Drastic measure “A 180-day suspension is a drastic measure that threatens the very existence of the petitioner (CHRI), apart from causing great harm to its reputation built painstakingly over three decades. The consequent freezing of petitioner’s receipt and utilisation bank accounts have severely restricted its planned programme activities,” its petition said. CHRI said it was not in a position to pay salaries to its 40 staff members and consultants, whose livelihoods depend on it, especially in these difficult times precipitated by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clear-stand-on-chri-getting-foreign-funds-hc-to-centre/article35292536.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal’s water connection will be cut if crisis not resolved: BJP||Several BJP cadres on Monday staged a protest outside the residence of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) president Satyendar Jain where they announced that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s water connection would be cut if the water crisis in the Capital did nothing end in 48 hours. Protesting BJP workers accused the Aam Aadmi Party government of earning money by selling water and demanded the resignations of Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Jain. The police lathicharged the protesters and tried to disperse them with water cannons in which several BJP workers, including State BJP Yuva Morcha president Vasu Rukhad sustained injuries, the party stated. “The BJP will cut the water connection of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house if the water system in Delhi is not corrected in the next 48 hours,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Playing blame game “According to the agreement reached with Haryana, it is to provide 500 MGD of water every month, but even though the Haryana government is providing 640 MGD of water per month, Raghav Chadha and [Mr.] Kejriwal are blaming the Haryana government in order to hide their shortcomings,” he alleged. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged that due to the “wrong and corrupt” policies of the Kejriwal government, the DJB, which was once running in profit of Rs. 800 crore, had been brought to the brink of pauperisation. “The Delhi government has given Rs. 57,000 crore to the board in the last years, but out of this, no account of Rs. 26,000 crore is available. Not only this, the board is running at a loss of Rs. 2,000 crore every year,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwals-water-connection-will-be-cut-if-crisis-not-resolved-bjp/article35292539.ece
13 July 2021||Jaipur,||11 killed in Jaipur lightning strike||Eleven persons perched on a watch tower near the Amber Fort in Jaipur amid the rains were among the 20 killed in incidents related to lightning strikes reported from various places across Rajasthan on Sunday. Twenty-one persons, including six children, were also injured in the incidents which took place in Kota, Jhalawar, Baran and Dholpur districts, besides Jaipur. A large number of people, including tourists and city residents, were present on the watch tower built on a hill at the ramparts of the historic Amber Fort, when the lightning struck during the first spell of monsoon rains in the evening. Many of them were injured as they jumped off the watch tower in panic. Teams of the State Disaster Response Force rushed to the spot and sent the injured people lying unconscious to the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here. The police personnel also joined the search in the hilly terrain in the darkness to look for the injured and the dead. Elsewhere in the State, four persons died on the spot in Kota’s Garda village after lightning struck a tree under which they had taken shelter with their cattle. Ten goats and a cow were also killed in the incident. A shepherd was killed in a similar incident in Jhalawar's Lalgaon village and one person died in Baran's Bahroi village. Three children were killed after the lightning struck them in Dholpur district's Kudinna village. CM announces ex gratia Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the deaths and announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled the deaths in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/11-killed-in-jaipur-lightning-strike/article35292526.ece
13 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Drive for growing medicinal plants at home||A drive for growing medicinal plants at home amid the COVID-19 pandemic has been launched in Rajasthan, with the task forces appointed for distributing saplings to all households along with the message for increasing natural immunity to the fight the infection. The medicinal plants of tulsi, giloy, ashwagandha and kalmegh, prepared by the State government’s Forest Department, would enable the people to develop “natural strength”, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Development) Deep Narayan Pandey said here on Monday. ‘Experts consulted’ Mr. Pandey said the ‘Ghar Ghar Aushadhi’ (medicine in each household) scheme had been started after the getting the opinion of experts based on research in traditional medicine. He said the children would be encouraged to plant the saplings and take care of their growth, while spreading awareness about the significance of immunity. The task forces will identify the places for distribution of saplings and remain in touch with the Panchayati Raj functionaries, elected representatives and corporate houses to generate awareness about the utility of medicinal plants. Each household will be supplied with eight medicinal plants free of cost and they will also be available at the nurseries of Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/drive-for-growing-medicinal-plants-at-home/article35292529.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI probe into mysterious deposit||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has initiated a probe into an case in which a Haryana villager last year discovered that Rs. 5 lakh had been transferred to his Kisan Credit Card (KCC) account from an unknown source. The account holder, who sought the probe, was later found lodged in a Hisar jail in another case instituted by the local police. In his complaint, Ajaib Singh — a resident of Musa Khera village in Haryana's Fatehabad — said that the amount was credited to his KCC account with the Tohana branch of Allahabad Bank (now merged with the Indian Bank) on August 25, 2020. Six days later, he withdrew Rs. 4.90 lakh. As alleged, a person then turned up at Ajaib Singh’s residence on September 8, 2020, and told him that the amount was credited to his account at the instance of the branch manager, Amit Sharma, and that he should return it. Complaint lodged Subsequently, according to Ajaib Singh, the manager lodged a complaint against him with the Jakhal police station and pressured him to give back the money. Ajaib Singh alleged that he was threatened with a legal case and made to pay Rs. 3.50 lakh to the manager at the police station on September 8, and he had to hand over Rs. 75,000 more in December last year. The complainant requested the agency to determine the source of the money illegally transferred to his account and take action against those involved. The complaint was handed over to a CBI Sub-Inspector for verification. The CBI officer tried to contact Ajaib Singh, but his mobile phone was switched off. Therefore, the agency reached out to his relatives. The complainant's brother informed the officer that Ajaib Singh was lodged in Hisar Jail in a case registered at the Jakhal police station under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cbi-probe-into-mysterious-deposit/article35292527.ece
13 July 2021||Patna,||Bihar educational institutions open||Educational institutions in Bihar opened on Monday and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar attended ‘janata durbar’ (people’s court) after five years, adhering to COVID-19 guidelines and protocols. All necessary arrangements for opening colleges, universities and schools for Class XI and XII were made on Sunday across the State with 50% strength. Earlier on July 6, the State Education Department allowed the reopening of educational institutions phase-wise from July 12 following COVID-19 guidelines and safety protocols. All educational institutions were closed since April 5 this year due to the lockdown imposed to curb the pandemic. “Following COVID-19 SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures), colleges and varsities premises were completely sanitised and we have also requested the central dispensary for setting up a vaccination camp for inoculating students above 18 years. A majority of the staff has already been vaccinated at a camp set up last month,” said Anil Kumar, dean of Patna University students’ welfare. Principal of Baldwin Academy School Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said, “both online and offline classes were held today for Class XI and XII following COVID-19 guidelines”. Some schools in State capital Patna had conducted a mock drill on Saturday for the reopening. However, all the missionary schools in the capital are likely to reopen from next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-educational-institutions-open/article35292524.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Lutyens’ Delhi may face water crisis as Haryana not releasing fair share’||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Monday said that areas underthe New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), which houses the Prime Minister’s residence, the Supreme Court, the High Court, and many embassies, will also face water crisis as Haryana was allegedly not releasing the share of water to Delhi. “This move of the Haryana government is on the verge of causing havoc in Delhi. Even the Central Delhi and NDMC areas of Delhi which house the PM residence, the Supreme Court, the High Court, the international embassies — all will face this crisis. The entire Central Delhi, NDMC, Lutyens areas may see a water crisis soon,” Mr. Chadha said. He claimed that Haryana has withheld at least 120 MGD (million gallons per day) of water that belongs to Delhi and this has caused a “huge water crisis” in Delhi. “Today, the Haryana government has impeded the rights of the people of Delhi, it has hindered the rightful water supply of the citizens of Delhi. They are not giving us our rightful share of water. They have stopped the water in such a manner that since 1965, this is the first time that water levels have been so low at the Wazirabad barrage,” Mr. Chadha said. After inspecting the Wazirabad pond, the DJB V-C said, “At the Wazirabad water treatment plant, intake of water is managed by taking water directly from the Yamuna, this water is released by Haryana towards the Wazirabad barrage. The water is then treated and supplied to the homes of the people of Delhi. Normally, this river is completely full. Today we can see the river has dried up, it looks like a field.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lutyens-delhi-may-face-water-crisis-as-haryana-not-releasing-fair-share/article35292543.ece
13 July 2021||Srinagar,||Three IS members held in Kashmir, says NIA||Three members of the IS were arrested in the Kashmir valley, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Monday. “Preliminary examination of the seized material and examination of the accused persons revealed that they are active cadres of the IS and have been using the cyberspace to propagate inciting material by the online magazine, Voice of Hind (VOH),” a NIA spokesman said. At least seven locations were raided in the Valley on Sunday in a case pertaining to “the conspiracy of the IS to radicalise and recruit impressionable youth to wage violent jihad against the Indian state”. The arrested youth were identified as Umar Nisar from Magray Mohalla, Tanveer Ahmad Bhat from Gori Mohalla and Rameez Ahmad Lone from Chak Achabal (all in Anantnag). ‘Materials seized’ “Examination of the arrested accused led to searches on July 12 at two more locations in Anantnag district, in which a number of digital devices and other materials have been seized. Investigation continues,” the spokesman said. The NIA on Sunday claimed it recovered a large number of incriminating documents, digital devices and T-shirts with IS logo during the raids in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-is-members-held-in-kashmir-says-nia/article35292522.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC to hear pleas against annual school fee order||The Delhi High Court on Monday posted the pleas challenging its order allowing private unaided schools to collect annual and development charges from students for the period after the lockdown ended in the Capital last year to July 14. The HC Bench asked the Delhi government and other parties concerned to give their respective response on the issue. On June 7, the court had sought responses of the Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools, which represents over 450 schools, on the appeals of Delhi government, students and NGO, ‘Justice for All’, challenging the court’s May 31 order. The court had earlier declined to put on hold the May 31 order allowing private unaided schools to collect annual and development charges from students for the period after the lockdown ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-to-hear-pleas-against-annual-school-fee-order/article35292537.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘L-G committee points to grave lapses in DTC deal’||The BJP on Monday wrote to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal demanding a CBI inquiry into the alleged DTC bus scam, worth Rs. 5,000 crore, highlighting some of the “grave observations” made by a committee formed to assess it. BJP Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta, who filed the complaint, said the committee had recommended scrapping the tender of the AMC of buses pointing to a “criminal conspiracy” and “connivance between the bus suppliers and the transport minister” in the tendering process. “The committee detected a fraud in eligibility conditions of this tender and noted that it is apparent that splitting the tender between purchase of buses and purchase of AMC of the buses did not make any difference to the number of players applying to the tender for the AMC contract,” he stated. The tender for the AMC was done by the DTC itself to “commit a fraud of Rs. 3,500 crores” and it did not appoint a consultant. The panel finding in this issue is proof of criminal conspiracy which can be unearthed by the CBI only, Mr. Gupta stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-committee-points-to-grave-lapses-in-dtc-deal/article35292538.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress for thorough probe into DTC contract||The Delhi Congress on Monday said that it would approach the Central Vigilance Commission or the Central Bureau of Investigation if the Central government does not order a thorough probe into the purchase of 1,000 buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation and awarding of the maintenance contract for them. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the party will approach the investigating agencies with relevant papers so that a thorough probe could be conducted. He added that on the basis of the findings of a three-member probe panel constituted by the L-G, FIRs should be filed against those found guilty. “The three-member probe committee, constituted by l-G Anil Baijal, had recommended that the 12-year Annual Maintenance Contract [AMC], worth Rs. 3,413 crore, for the proposed 1,000 low-floor buses awarded by the Delhi Transport Corporation be scrapped. In its 11-page report, the committee observed that the evaluation criteria adopted by the DTC seems to be flawed,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-for-thorough-probe-into-dtc-contract/article35292540.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||DJB fined for inaction against Kondli sewage plant||The National Green Tribunal has imposed a cost of Rs. 5 lakh per month on the Delhi Jal Board, from June 1 till the date of compliance, for failing to take remedial action against a deficient sewage treatment plant in Kondli. Shirking responsibility A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that the DJB was “shirking its responsibility” to control the “bad odour” emanating from the STP. “We do not understand why the DJB is now shirking its responsibility and taking a contra stand that small steps taken are enough and no odour control system is required. This stand is against public interest and non-compliance of order of this tribunal,” it said. The Bench observed, “It is clear that the DJB has failed to perform its obligation of preventing odour at the STP and only superficial steps have been taken to claim that odour has been controlled. The problem has been persisting for long but plea of pandemic is being taken to justify inaction. Contrary to earlier commitment of installing an effective system, it is now stated that the odour has been controlled by spray...” Stating that the DJB was liable to pay a cost of Rs. 5 lakh per month, from June 1 till compliance of orders, the tribunal specified that DJB CEO would be personally responsible for compliance. The directions came when the panel was hearing a plea moved by a residents’ welfare association which alleged that a foul smell was emanating from the STP, as it was not being operated in accordance to norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/djb-fined-for-inaction-against-kondli-sewage-plant/article35292544.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fair-game/article35292533.ece
13 July 2021||Chandigarh,||BJP leaders ‘released’ after HC order||Around a dozen BJP leaders ‘detained’ for nearly 12 hours by protesting farmers at a house in Patiala’s Rajpura were released early Monday following a Punjab and Haryana High Court order, officials said. Scores of protesting farmers had on Sunday laid siege to a BJP worker’s house where several party leaders, including Punjab unit general secretary Subhash Sharma and Patiala in-charge Bhupesh Aggarwal, were also present. The BJP leaders petitioned the Punjab and Haryana High Court, saying they were illegally ‘detained’ by a mob at a house in Rajpura. The court directed the police to ensure the petitioners are provided a safe exit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-leaders-released-after-hc-order/article35292534.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sky gazers in for a celestial treat today||Sky gazers are in for a celestial treat as mars, venus and the moon are set to line up for a “triple conjunction” that can be viewed with the naked eye today. Nehru Planetarium will be organising a talk on its YouTube channel starting at 6.30 p.m.on Tuesday for students and space enthusiasts to join a discussion and understand the science behind this phenomenon. “This rare celestial treat will give a chance to all sky gazers to watch these planets with naked eyes after the sunset in the western sky. Mars and venus will appear to be just 0.5º from each other from earth,” the planetarium said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sky-gazers-in-for-a-celestial-treat-today/article35292546.ece
13 July 2021||Agartala,||Malaria camps in Tripura after spurt in cases||The health department and the National Health Mission have started setting up camps in remote areas of the State to detect malaria. The authorities swung into action after deaths, especially of children, in Khowai and Dhalai districts in recent weeks. A large part of the tribal population in the interiors have inadequate access to health care. A health department official said on Monday that the camps are being set up where the disease poses a threat. He said a malaria detection camp was recently organised at Nirajan Para in Mungiakami of Khowai district. Screening of 47 people were done and six of them were diagnosed with malaria. A similar screening camp was held at Mashdhar Para in Dhalai district of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/malaria-camps-in-tripura-after-spurt-in-cases/article35292521.ece
13 July 2021||New Delhi,||Authorities briefly close Janpath Market||The Janpath Market was briefly closed on Sunday evening for not following social distancing measures. It was allowed to reopen on Monday after a review meeting. Meanwhile, the Capital reported 45 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,35,128 on Monday. Three fatalities were also reported, pushing the death toll to 25,018. A total of 55,019 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.08%. Of the total cases, 14,09,417 people have recovered and there are only 693 active cases. A total of 10,852 doses of vaccines were administered in the city on Sunday and the vaccine stock will last for less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin by the Delhi government. On April 20, the city had reported a record 28,395 cases. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/authorities-briefly-close-janpath-market/article35292541.ece
13 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Universities should charge only tuition fee’||The National Students’ Union of India on Monday demanded that universities should charge only tuition fees from students as they continue to function in online mode. It demanded a reduction to provide relief to students during the pandemic. NSUI national secretary Nitish Gaur said that several universities are asking to pay undue funds which is nothing but exploitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/universities-should-charge-only-tuition-fee/article35292545.ece
13 July 2021||July 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Period-proof your workout||Not many know that during adolescence one in four girls drop out of sports owing to their period. When the team at sporting major Adidas learned of this fact two years ago, they decided to venture into the period activewear space. With the Stay In Play period leggings launched in June, the brand joins a list of several others who have been working on performance enhancement apparel for women. While period-proof underwear has dominated the market for a few years — thanks to homegrown brands like SochGreen and Lavos — not much has been spoken about performance activewear. Ahead of the India launch of Adidas’ range, we take a look at it and other brands working in the segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/period-proof-your-workout/article35292770.ece
