14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccination declines by 60% as States say they have no doses||The weekly pace of vaccination has declined to nearly 60% of what was seen in the week after June 21, when the Centre entirely took over vaccine procurement from the States. The slackening has resulted in several States complaining of a shortage and an inability to cater to demand. On June 21, the first day of the new policy, nearly 91 lakh doses were administered and until June 27, about 4 crore were administered. While the week after didn’t match up, the period from July 5-11 has seen only 2.3 crore doses dispensed. So far, about 38 crore vaccines have been administered since the drive commenced in January. Behind target In the week since June 21, six lakh vaccines a day were the norm. However, the last time India crossed that daily figure was July 3. In order to meet the Centre’s commitment to fully vaccinate all Indian adults by the year-end, at least eight lakh doses have to be administered every day. Several States have reported having to shut down vaccination centres due to unavailability of stocks. “We have 3,96,750 doses left in hand. So, the total coverage will reach 1.7 lakh. This is definitely not enough... We need nearly 11.5 crore doses but have received 1.67 crore doses. We require 10 crore more doses. The government is continuing its efforts to get more vaccines,” said Ma. Subramanian, Tamil Nadu Minister for Medical and Family Welfare. On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, in a letter to the Prime Minister, pointed out the imbalance in the allocation for Tamil Nadu and sought special allocation of one crore doses. Vaccination centres remaining closed or people queuing up for vaccines for long hours have become a common sight in many places. Tamil Nadu has so far received 1.67 crore doses of the two vaccines, while 1.66 crore have been administered. Maharashtra has administered 3.7 crore doses thus far. The State government has claimed it has the capacity to administer 15 lakh doses a day. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said 70 lakh doses had arrived last week but they were exhausted in just three days. The State Assembly had recently passed a resolution demanding 3 crore doses per month from the Centre for the next three months. Till date, around 47% of Mumbai’s populace above 18 years has been administered the first dose while more than 25% has been given both doses. A total 60 lakh people (both first and second doses) have taken the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-declines-by-60-as-states-say-they-have-no-doses/article35313706.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM rejigs Cabinet panels; NDA allies largely ignored||After a largescale rejig of his Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi effected some changes in Cabinet committees to reflect the changes with the inclusion of new and elevation of certain older Ministers (in terms of tenure) in these crucial committees, according to a notification by the Cabinet secretariat. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani, Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav, Rural Development Minister Giriraj Singh, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Shipping Minister Sarbananda Sonowal have been included in the all important Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs (CCPA). Allies like the Janata Dal (U) and the Lok Janshakti Party have been given a miss, although R.C.P. Singh of the JD(U) has been included in the Cabinet Committee on Employment and Skill Development. CCEA reduced The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), too, does not have representation from the NDA alliance partners, and has been reduced in size from 11 members to eight, including Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. Ministers Virendra Kumar and Anurag Thakur have been included in the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan are special invitees in this committee. The Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth, headed by the Prime Minister, has seen the inclusion of Ministers Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Ashwini Vaishnaw, while the Cabinet Committee on Employ- ment and Skill Development has new members in Bhupendra Yadav and G. Kishen Reddy, along with Railway Minister Mr. Vaishnaw. The crucial Cabinet Committee on Security has been left untouched with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the helm, along with Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Cabinet Committee on Appointments, which decides on appointments from the Joint Secretary level and above, also remains untouched with Prime Minister Modi heading it, and Mr. Shah as member. Cabinet Committees are basically sub-committees within the Union Cabinet to look at specific remits and deliberate on various issues, including security, the economy, and even deciding on dates for Parliament sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-rejigs-cabinet-panels-nda-allies-largely-ignored/article35313709.ece
14 July 2021||DINDIGUL,||Rape case: Dindigul police rush to Kerala||A special team from Dindigul district led by Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police (ADSP) has gone to Kannur district in Kerala to probe the allegation of a 40-year-old woman that she was gang-raped in Palani on June 19, said DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) B. Vijayakumari in Palani on Tuesday. Addressing mediapersons, accompanied by Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya, the DIG said that since the woman had submitted her petition to the Kerala DGP, which was forwarded to Tamil Nadu DGP, the police here had registered a case based on her complaint. The woman had stated that she came to Palani on June 19 and stayed in a lodge with a man. The following day, they were asked to vacate the room. While she was walking on the road, some persons forcibly took her to a place and raped her, she alleged. Answering a volley of questions, Ms. Vijayakumari said that a preliminary probe indicated that the couple had possibly consumed liquor in the room during their stay and had an altercation. After the lodge staff complained to the owner about it, they were told to vacate on June 20. Though the officers in Palani Town police station claimed that they had not received any complaint from the woman about the gang rape, she had claimed in her petition to the Kerala DGP that the local police treated them in an inhumane manner and demanded action against the police and the accused. Responding to a query, the DIG said that the woman, who was examined by a team of doctors at the Kannur GH, did not have injuries and that she was “normal.” Meanwhile, the lodge owner in Palani told reporters that he received calls from Kerala threatening him to give money to the woman. Besides, a caller, claiming to be a police officer, directed him to appear before the Thalaserry police station in Kannur district, Kerala, with the CCTV footage, the log book of visitors for two years and other records. The lodge owner said that he had given his statement to the police and sought protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rape-case-police-go-to-kerala/article35313884.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM warns traders against breaking COVID-19 curbs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged traders not to rebel against COVID-19 regulations. The Kerala Vyapara Vyavasa Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) dared the government to stop traders from opening for business on all days from Thursday. Retail, as per current COVID-19 regulations, is allowed only on alternate weekdays. The sector has remained closed since May 8, causing severe loss of business and lengthy workforce lay-offs. The KVVES has called for Statewide protests against the “stifling” pandemic regulations on July 14. Mr. Vijayan said the second wave has not abated. The third one was possibly knocking at Kerala’s doors. The government could ill-afford to allow any relaxation that would potentially jeopardise the State’s fragile pandemic situation. “We have empathy for traders and can understand their worry. But, if they start on a different path, the government will be constrained to confront them. It is better they (KVVES) realised the gravity of the situation and acted maturely,” Mr. Vijayan said. Talks with traders Mr. Vijayan ordered District Collectors and District Police Chiefs to talk to traders to prevent matters from coming to a head. He said the current restrictions would continue undiluted till July 20. Extended time The government has extended shopping time till 8 p.m. in localities where the average TPR is below 15%. The retail sector can only open on alternate days. However, banks can admit customers on all weekdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mr. Vijayan said the government would allow electronic shops to open on all days. The weekend lockdown and other allied curbs would remain in place. (An official said Mr. Vijayan might take a call on July 14 whether to allow textile, furniture, home appliances, jewellery, electronic and vehicle showrooms to open on alternate weekdays. The government is also under pressure from various religious groups, including the Samastha Kerala Jamiat-ul-Ulema, to permit more people into places of worship.) TPR over 10% Mr. Vijayan said it was worrying that the average TPR hovered unrelentingly over 10%. In around 75 local bodies, the TPR has dipped to less than 5%. However, it remains between 5% and 10% in 391 local bodies, between 10% to 15% in 364 local bodies and over 15% in 204 local bodies. Mr. Vijayan said the government has imposed triple lockdown and ordered micro-containment measures in places with a more than 15% TPR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-warns-traders-against-breaking-covid-19-curbs/article35313987.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Decision on revision of land values likely today||The State Cabinet has not taken a final decision on hiking registration rates and upward revision of land values during the meeting convened on Tuesday. The meeting of the Cabinet will continue on Wednesday and officials are confident that a decision on the enhancement of registration values and revision of land values will be arrived at on Wednesday. The Cabinet, according to sources, discussed at length the proposals submitted by the Registration and Stamps wing of the Revenue department for enhancing the registration values which remained constant since the formation of the State. The registration charges are proposed to be increased to 7.5 % in place of the existing 6 % of the value of the property. The Finance department too mooted the proposal as registration charges remained constant in Telangana when other States, including neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, revised them several times in the past few years. Andhra Pradesh, for instance, revised land registration rates seven times in the past eight years and the registration charges had been fixed at 7.5 % during the latest revision. Registration values in Maharashtra too were hiked periodically taking it to 7.5 % at present. But the charges were however not revised in the State since its formation as the government was against imposing any kind of burden on the prospective buyers. But the government had taken cognizance of the officials’ report that there was huge variation in the land prices fixed by the government and the actual market value. As a result, registration of properties was being recorded as per government value, but the actual value of the registered property was much higher thereby impacting the government’s revenues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-revision-of-land-values-likely-today/article35313933.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Now, loans taken by farmers from licensed moneylenders come under relief scheme||Now, legal heirs of even those farmers who ended their lives on being unable to repay loans taken from licensed private moneylenders are eligible to get compensation, the State government on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka. A submission in this regard was made before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj during the hearing of a PIL petition filed in 2019 by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha of Shahapur taluk in Yadgir district.The government has issued a modified scheme for compensation for the kin of farmers after the High Court in April questioned the earlier scheme of paying compensation to the legal heirs of only those farmers who had taken loan from banks and credit societies.However, the government’s modified scheme states that legal heirs of farmers who have committed suicide on being unable to pay the loan obtained from unlicensed private moneylenders are not eligible for compensation. The government pays a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the legal heirs of farmers who end their life owing to the burden of farm loan. Following this, the Bench directed the government to consider afresh applications, made by the family members of 20 farmers from Shahpur taluk, which were rejected earlier as the farmers had taken loan from private moneylenders. Meanwhile, the Bench allowed the petitioner to question the decision of the government not to extend the compensation to family of farmers who had taken loans from unlicensed private moneylenders.The court had earlier observed that “ prima facie , it is very difficult to accept that the classification made by the State government will stand the test of Article 14 of the Constitution of India...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scheme-to-provide-relief-to-farmers-kin-modified/article35313714.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Buggana rubbishes TDP allegations||In a strong rebuttal, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has made light of the allegations of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman Payyavula Keshav that large sums in excess of Rs. 41,000 crore remained unaccounted for, dismissing the allegations as “innocent comments”. Seeking to turn the tables, he blamed the Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS) introduced during the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) rule in the State for the misconceptions. The Opposition party was expected to know the facts before they level any allegations, he said. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, the Finance Minister asserted that every rupee spent was accounted for. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) merely asked for a clarification. Basically, it was about reconciliation. The government was submitting necessary reports. But, the PAC chairman was provoking unnecessary doubts over the State's financial situation. It was ridiculous that Mr. Keshav was demanding an audit by the CAG based on a letter by the CAG. Stating that Mr. Keshav should have asked the government if he had any doubts, Mr. Rajendranath wondered why the TDP leader preferred to write letters to the Governor or Delhi. “I don't understand the logic behind it. If he were true, why is Yanamala Ramakrishnudu (former Finance minister) silent in this regard?” he asked. The Minister said that one should remember that the TDP government appointed a private person as head of CFMS. Payments were nerve centre. How could a private person be head of that? Also, instead of developing its own software, the previous government spent Rs. 300 crore on SAP. Efforts were on to rectify the lapses in CMFS, he said. Mr. Rajendranath asserted that there was nothing wrong in availing loans. Every State did it. The government, with the borrowings, was continuing the welfare schemes, and clearing the dues in various schemes during the TDP rule. Despite this, the debt growth since 2019 had come down to 16%. The debt growth was 18.36% during 2014-19, he pointed out. Visibly incensed with the comments on debts and borrowings, he asked how could Andhra Pradesh go for borrowings in the name of neighbouring States? The Opposition was making hue and cry that Rs. 17,000 crore loan was additional. The fact remains that Rs. 16,000 crore loan was availed during the TDP rule itself, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buggana-rubbishes-tdp-allegations/article35313704.ece
14 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||VCK, CPI in Puducherry seek all-party meet on Mekedatu dam||The Viduthalai Chiruthigal Katchi and Communist Party of India have urged the All India N R Congress-led National Democratic Alliance government to convene an all-party meeting to pass a resolution opposing the move by Karnataka to construct a dam at Mekedatu. VCK general secretary and Member of Parliament D. Ravikumar in a memorandum to Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminàrayanan on Tuesday said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had convened an all-party meeting and unanimously passed three resolutions on the Cauvery issue. The Tamil Nadu government was taking all legal steps to prevent Karnataka from constructing the Mekedatu dam. The Puducherry government should also take similar steps to protect its right to get Cauvery water. The Cauvery Tribunal had awarded 7 tmc of water for the Karaikal region. The Union Territory has to draw the water from Tamil Nadu, so the construction of a dam would impact the flow of water to Tamil Nadu and hence would adversely impact the region, Mr. Ravikumar said in the memorandum.  Secretary of CPI A. M. Saleem in a press conference said the move by Karnataka government would be disastrous for both Karaikal and Puducherry regions. While Karnataka’s move to construct the dam would affect the farmers of the delta region of Karaikal, the construction of a dam across Thenpennai river, which originates in Karnataka and flows through the neighbouring districts of Tamil Nadu before reaching Bay of Bengal, would destroy the farming sector in Bahour area. The construction of dam would destroy the farming sector and impact ground water level in both the regions. The Puducherry government should emulate Tamil Nadu in convening an all-party meeting to pass a resolution against construction of dams by Karnataka. To press for the all-party meeting and the demand for providing Rs. 6000 per month and food items for six months to people as a relief from pandemic-induced financial crisis, CPI had decided to hold demonstrations in 100 places in the Union Territory on July 15, Mr. Saleem said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vck-cpi-in-puducherry-seek-all-party-meet-on-mekedatu-dam/article35313853.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,||BJP leader’s case against NEET panel dismissed||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation petition filed by Bharatiya Janata Party State secretary K. Nagarajan, which sought to quash an order issued by the Tamil Nadu government to constitute a high-level committee headed by Justice A.K. Rajan to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical aspirants. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy held that the constitution of the committee “does not amount to subverting any process of admission, far less an act of defiance to any order passed by the Supreme Court” or pose even the remotest challenge to the exclusive authority of the Union to enact a law setting standards for higher education. Terms of reference The judges pointed out that the terms of reference of the committee were to study whether the NEET-based admission process had affected socially backward students in the past few years and if so, study the issues involved and suggest alternative admission procedures which would benefit all the students. The committee would also study the feasibility of implementing such alternative admission procedures and the legal steps required to implement such fair and equitable methods. Therefore, “the setting up of the commission can, by no stretch of imagination, be seen to be contrary to any Supreme Court order, whether in letter or in spirit, or as a counter to any legislative action taken by the Union or process put in place. For all we know, the Commission may come up with some material that the State government may use to persuade the Union to search for an alternative or modify the process to make it more inclusive for students belonging to the socially backward and economically weaker sections to participate therein with a better chance of success,” the Bench said. The judges said there was also the other possibility of raising the standards of education in the State to enable the students to compete in NEET. They said it was a question of policy whether the bar had to be raised at the school level or lowered at the medical college admission level. “Such matters of policy are resolved by discussion, and any attempt at mature resolution begins with lending an ear and being receptive to the other point of view,” the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leaders-case-against-neet-panel-dismissed/article35313758.ece
14 July 2021||Kolkata,||Sunderbans puts high hopes on salt tolerant paddy varieties||The devastation caused by cyclone Yaas that battered coastal West Bengal in the last week of May was not in terms of loss of life but the huge ingress of saline water which affected thousands of acres of agricultural land. In the past six weeks other than distributing relief and compensating people the West Bengal government has been distributing salt tolerant varities of paddy to farmers. “We have distributed six such paddy varieties — 1,200 metric tonnes — which are tolerant to high levels of salinity,” said Sampad Ranjan Patra, Director of Agriculture. The ingress of saline water not only kills standing crops but increases salinity of the soil and makes the cultivation of regular high-yielding varieties almost impossible for the next few years. This may result in food crisis in the region which suffers natural disasters at an increased frequency. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in her various cyclone review meetings emphasised on the distribution of saline tolerant rice varieties. The people of Sunderbans in certain patches however have been trying alternative varieties for quite some time. In Kultali, one of the backward regions there, farmers have been experimenting with several indigenous varieties and are growing Tangrashal and Dudhershor, at a considerable scale now. Ashok Halder, farmer from Kultali, said the advent of the high-yielding varieties of paddy resulted in the loss of traditional knowledge of indigenous varieties that were more conducive to the region. Farmers like Mr. Halder said growing indigenous varieties with low input cost gives them the same margin as the high yielding varieties. This transformation in certain communities has come about owing to the research intervention of TAPESTRY (Transformation as Praxis), a collective of social and environmental scientists, historians and NGOs that has been facilitating the farmers of the ecologically fragile region in trying alternative approaches to agriculture. Several universities in India, Britain, Norway and Japan are part of the consortium. “So far most of the interventions in the Sunderbans were community based. It can only be transformative and yield results in future when we embrace interventions which are community led and distributed equitably,” Upasona Ghosh, Lead Researcher, TAPESTRY Indian Sundarbans, said. She pointed out that because of the intervention of TAPESTRY, farmers who are facing the impact of increasing climate change are better prepared and more resilient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sunderbans-puts-high-hopes-on-salt-tolerant-paddy-varieties/article35314051.ece
14 July 2021||Thrissur,||India’s first COVID patient tests positive again||A medical student at Wuhan University, China, who was the first Indian COVID-19 patient in the country, has tested positive for the virus again. District Medical Officer K.J. Reena confirmed here on Tuedsay that the student, hailing from Mathilakam, near Kodungalloor, tested positive on Monday. The student did the screening test for travelling to Delhi for academic purposes.  Asymptomatic “Her RT-PCR test is positive. As the student is asymptomatic, she is under observation at home,” the DMO said. She has not taken COVID-19 vaccine. The third-year medical student in Wuhan university tested positive on January 30, 2020, becoming the first COVID-19 case in the country, when she returned for holidays. She was discharged from hospital on February 20, 2020 after she tested negative. The student was continuing her studies online at Wuhan University when she was tested positive again. Nobody else in her family has tested positive so far, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-first-covid-patient-tests-positive-again/article35313698.ece
14 July 2021||MANGALURU,||13 additional check-posts||As many as 13 additional check-posts have come up in Dakshina Kannada to conduct random screening of people coming from Kerala where the number of COVID-19 cases is high. With this, the government has set up a total of 18 check-posts to screen people coming from Kerala. The additional check-posts have been set up following a virtual meeting which Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai held on Monday evening with Inspectors-General of Police, Deputy Commissioners, District Health and Family Welfare Officers and Deputy Commissioners of Police from areas bordering Maharashtra and Kerala. The police were asked to set up additional check-posts in association with health care staff. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that apart from Talapady, additional check-posts have been set up at Nethilapadavu, Thoudugoli, Nandhara Padapu, Narya Cross and Mudungarukatte. These five additional check-posts on the interior roads connecting Kasaragod started functioning on Tuesday and they fall under Ullal and Konaje police limits of Mangaluru City Police. A check-post each have also been set up at the Mangaluru Central and Mangaluru Junction railway stations, he said. While round-the-clock screening is being carried out at Talapady and at the two railway stations, screening is being taken up only during the day time at the five check-posts on interior roads. People coming from Kerala will be checked for RT-PCR negative report or certificate of vaccination, Mr. Shankar said. Similarly, Dakshina Kannada Police have set up check-posts at Saradka, Salethur and Kankayana under Vitla Police limits, Menala, Swarga and Sullia Padavu in Puttur Rural Police limits and Mooruru, Mandekolu, Baddadka and Kannadithodu in Sullia Police limits. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that while four check-posts were already functioning, six new check-posts started working on Tuesday. Mr. Shankar said that as the Supreme Court has barred restrictions on inter-State movement, the district administration is using the available personnel to randomly screen people. Screening will continue for another fortnight. He said that the district administration is considering issuing passes to regular travellers between Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts for a period of 14 days from the day the traveller gets his RT-PCR negative certificate. Regular travellers have been told to get COVID-19 negative certificate every fortnight. Mr. Shankar said that screening will not cause inconvenience to the 400 Class 10 students from Kerala who will write the SSLC examination in centres in Dakshina Kannada on July 19 and 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-additional-check-posts/article35314090.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,||Ring well with design found at Keeladi||Every season of excavation at Keeladi archaeological site has unearthed ring wells, an indicator of the advanced water conservation technology that existed more than 2,000 years ago. But the recovery of a terracotta ring well with thumb impressions creatively carved on a band around its surface, ushered in a wave of excitement among the staff at work. “So far we have excavated a dozen plain ring wells and this is the first one with an intricate design,” said M. Ramesh, one of the four Archaeological Officers (AO), who has been assigned to the Keeladi site from round one. The ring well was traced at a depth of 126 cm in one of the eight pits dug for the seventh phase of excavation that resumed last month after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. On Tuesday, three layers of the ring well were exposed. The height of the first ring is 44 cm with a diameter of 77 cm. The overall height of the ring well with a 2.5 cm thick rim is 79 cm. Deputy Director of Archaeology and the director of Keeladi excavations R. Sivanandam said that the ring well with designs is a new find, indicating the aesthetic sense of people living in those times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ring-well-with-design-found-at-keeladi/article35314206.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,||G.O. issued on methodology for Class 12 results||The School Education Department has issued a government order detailing the methodology to be adopted to calculate the marks for Class 12 students of State board schools due to the cancellation of their board exams earlier this year. The G.O. issued by School Education Secretary Kakarla Usha said the report submitted by an expert committee had stated that the methodology to arrive at the subject-wise marks of the candidates should rest on two sets of guiding principles. Under the first — transparency, non-arbitrariness and objectivity — the committee called for consistent past performances to set the benchmark upon which any extrapolation method is based, adding that there should be no subjectivity as far as the benchmarks are concerned. Secondly, calling for fairness and equity, the committee said the opportunity structure that would have been available to students in pre-COVID times should guide the scoring methodology. Schools have also been asked to factor in the parity between candidates studying in various streams. The G.O. details the methodology for calculating marks for regular candidates who have subjects with practical components; regular candidates who are part of streams with non-practical subjects; and vocational groups having vocational practical subjects. For private candidates, exams will be conducted by the DGE as and when the conditions become conducive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/methodology-for-class-12-results/article35313799.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In the name of the gods||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-the-name-of-the-gods/article35314046.ece
14 July 2021||Belagavi,||Heavy rain increases inflow into the Krishna||Heavy rain in parts of Belagavi district and adjoining Maharashtra increased the inflow into the Krishna and other rivers in the region. But there were no reports of damage to property or injury to life from anywhere. Three bridge-cum-barrages in Chikkodi went under water, but villagers used alternative routes. Belagavi city suffered traffic jams in some places when it rained in the morning. The inflow and outflow at Kallol Barrage, at the border of Karnataka and Maharashtra, was measured at around 22,023 cusecs. The measuring point in Rajapur Barrage recorded an inflow and outflow at a rate of 16,375 cusecs. Hippari Barrage was receiving water at a rate of over 10,500 cusecs, while the outflow was at a rate of 9,500 cusecs. The Lal Bahadur Shastri Reservoir on the Krishna in Alamatti in Bagalkot district received an inflow at a rate of 6,173 cuses and the outflow was at a rate of 10,792 cusecs. However, the inflow into the Narayanpur Dam was at a rate of over 11,667 cusecs, while the outflow was at a rate of 1,000 cusecs. The outflow from Maharashtra, however, was just at a rate of around 2,554 cusecs, though the inflow into the 20 reservoirs on the Krishna was at a rate of around 11,478 cusecs. The dam at Koyna, the biggest on the Krishna, had 41% water of its full capacity. Outflow from the Renuka Sagar Dam on the Malaprabha was at a rate of around 194 cuses, though the inflow was at a rate of 3,284 cusecs. The current storage is 15 tmcft as against the gross storage of 37.73 tmcft, officers said. Outflow from the Raja Lakhamagouda Dam on the Ghataprabha was at a rate of 127 cuses as against an inflow at a rate of 2,489 cusecs. The water level stood at 25.67 tmcft as against the 51 tmcft of gross storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-increases-inflow-into-the-krishna/article35313913.ece
14 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Taliperu reservoir brimming||With a surge in inflows from Taliperu’s catchment areas spread in neighbouring Chhattisgarh owing to incessant rains, the water level in the Taliperu reservoir in Charla mandal has almost reached its brim on Tuesday evening. Three crest gates of the reservoir were lifted to a height of one feet and surplus water was discharged into the Godavari after the water level shot up to 73.17 metres as against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 74 metres at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, sources said. Taliperuhas an ayauct of little over 24,000 acres .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliperu-reservoir-brimming/article35314179.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sputnik V to be made in India by SII||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will be producing at least 300 million doses of Sputnik V a year, according to an announcement from Russia’s sovereign wealth fund RDIF on Tuesday. The first batch of the Russian vaccine from its facility is likely to be rolled out in September. “We have reached a partnership agreement with Serum Institute of India to manufacture Sputnik V,” Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev said in a media briefing from Moscow. The process of technology transfer to SII was underway for the last three months, and the firm is expected to release the first batch in September. As part of the technical transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from Gamaleya Center, the developer of Sputnik vaccine. “With their import approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the cultivation process has begun,” RDIF said in a statement. SerumInstitute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said, “We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in September. With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world.” India is set to emerge as a leading production hub for Sputnik vaccine. RDIF’s partnership with Serum follows similar agreements it has entered into with a clutch of other vaccine makers in India,, to manufacture around 850 million doses a year of the vaccine. Many of the companies have either started manufacturing or will do so in the next 1-2 months, Mr. Dmitriev said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sputnik-v-to-be-made-in-india-by-sii/article35313707.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Uttarakhand suspends Kanwar Yatra||Uttarakhand has decided to suspend this year’s Kanwar Yatra in view of the COVID-19 situation, “giving top priority to the protection of human life”. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, following a meeting with senior State officials on Tuesday evening. “A detailed discussion was held on the occurrence of the Delta Plus variant of COVID-19, the possibility of a third wave and its effects on the country and abroad. The opinion of experts was also considered,” said an official statement. Mr. Dhami directed that officials of neighbouring States also be requested to coordinate and take action to stop the pandemic.  The announcement came hours after Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath reiterated that the traditional yatra would be held following COVID protocol, suggesting that a negative RT-PCR test report could be made mandatory for out-of-State participants. A senior official in the Uttarakhand CM's office said the decision to suspend the yatra had been taken after consultations with the Central government, as well as with Chief Ministers of the surrounding States from where the pilgrims or Kanwariyas come towards Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-suspends-kanwar-yatra/article35313710.ece
14 July 2021||Thrissur,||First patient tests positive again||A medical student at Wuhan University, China, who was the first Indian COVID-19 patient in the country, has tested positive for the virus again. District Medical Officer K.J. Reena confirmed here on Tuedsay that the student, hailing from Mathilakam, near Kodungalloor, tested positive on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-patient-tests-positive-again/article35313822.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Mekedatu: Centre has promised help, says BSY||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had promised help to the State in resolving all pending irrigation projects, including Mekedatu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mekedatu-centre-has-promised-help-says-bsy/article35313715.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Jayadeva to study need for booster dose||A study to assess the need for a booster dose of the vaccine is set to begin at Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences. Institute Director C.N. Manjaunath said 200 healthcare workers at the institute would be tested for the robustness and longevity of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayadeva-to-study-need-for-booster-dose/article35313717.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||SSLC OMR sheets to be pre-printed, colour-coded||SSLC students, who will appear for their final examination next week, will get OMR sheets with their names and register number printed on it. It will also have a photograph of the student, which will be verified by the examination staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-omr-sheets-to-be-pre-printed-colour-coded/article35313718.ece
14 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Mumbai lawyers cannot use local trains for now||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it could not go beyond medical advice and declare lawyers as essential staff to enable them to use local trains to travel to work during the COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing PIL seeking their inclusion in the list of essential staff||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-lawyers-cannot-use-local-trains-for-now/article35314102.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Pankaja Munde says she is not quitting BJP||Former Maharashtra Minister Pankaja Munde said she is not going to quit ‘home’, referring to the BJP, which her father worked hard to build. Reports had emerged that she was upset after her sister and MP Pritam Munde was denied a Cabinet berth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pankaja-munde-says-she-is-not-quitting-bjp/article35314103.ece
14 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Mega dining facility at Kukke Subrahmanya||The government will construct a three-floor building at Kukke Subrahmanya to enable about 3,000 persons dine at a time, according to Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary. Speaking at a meeting on Tuesday to discuss phase III projects to be taken up under the Rs. 300-crore Master Plan, he said that the particular building will have architecture prevalent in the coastal region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mega-dining-facility-at-kukke-subrahmanya/article35314092.ece
14 July 2021||Chennai,||‘Decision on schools to depend on COVID-19’||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said a decision on reopening schools would be taken only after taking the COVID-19 situation into consideration and after consultations with various stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-schools-will-depend-on-covid-19/article35313755.ece
14 July 2021||Chennai,||Madras HC comes down hard on actor Vijay||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a writ petition filed by actor Joseph Vijay in 2012, seeking exemption of entry tax for his Rolls Royce Ghost car, imported from England. It also imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on him, to be paid to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madras-hc-comes-down-hard-on-actor-vijay/article35313756.ece
14 July 2021||Chennai,||T.N. reports 2,505 fresh cases, 48 fatalities||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to fall in Tamil Nadu as 2,505 more people tested positive on Tuesday. Thirty-one of the 38 districts reported fewer than 100 cases each. Another 48 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 33,502.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-2505-fresh-cases-48-fatalities/article35313760.ece
14 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Bill bans sale of beef around temples||Prior to tabling the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, in the Assembly on July 12, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said its objective was to check smuggling of cows to Bangladesh. It also seeks to restrict sale of beef within 5-km radius of temples||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-bill-bans-sale-of-beef-around-temples/article35314047.ece
14 July 2021||Kolkata,||Mukul Roy appointment: Eight BJP MLAs resign from WB Assembly panels||Eight BJP MLAs resigned on Tuesday as heads of various panels of the West Bengal Assembly to protest Mukul Roy’s appointment as chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Speaker Biman Banerjee said he will look into the resignations. Mr. Roy, who won the Assembly polls on the BJP ticket and joined the Trinamool Congress, was appointed to the post on July 9. Mihir Goswami, Manoj Tigga, Krishna Kalyani, Anandmoy Barman were among those who resigned. During the day, a number of BJP MLAs led by Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and submitted a memorandum alleging irregularities in the appointment of the PAC chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mukul-roy-appointment-eight-bjp-mlas-resign-from-wb-assembly-panels/article35314049.ece
14 July 2021||BELAGAVI,||Tahsildar assaulted||Some people, including relatives of a widow, assaulted a Tahsildar for his alleged obscene behaviour with the woman in Chikkodi on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tahsildar-assaulted/article35313914.ece
14 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Tungabhadra canals to get water from July 18||Tungabhadra Irrigation Consultative Committee that met at the conference hall of the Tungabhadra Command Area Development Authority in Munirabad, Koppal district, on Monday, decided to release water into different canals from July 18 for agricultural purposes. The 115th meeting of the ICC was chaired by Minister B.S. Anand Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tungabhadra-canals-to-get-water-from-july-18/article35313915.ece
14 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Plan soon to make use of MSIL land in Hubballi||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that very soon an appropriate plan will be chalked out to utilise the land owned by MSIL (Mysore Sales International Limited) in Hubballi and make it a centre for MSIL activities in North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plan-soon-to-make-use-of-msil-land-in-hubballi/article35313918.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Haryana has released Delhi’s share of water’||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said the water shortage in the city will be over soon as the Haryana government has released 16,000 cusecs of water. “Delhi’s legitimate water share has been released,” said Mr. Chadha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-has-released-delhis-share-of-water/article35313824.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra unveils new electric vehicle policy||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday unveiled its new electric vehicle (EV) policy with plans to attract EV manufacturing companies and allied businesses by offering incentives to industries and consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-unveils-new-electric-vehicle-policy/article35314104.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Mekedatu: Centre has promised help, says BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday said that Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had assured help to Karnataka in resolving all pending irrigation projects, including Mekedatu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mekedatu-centre-has-promised-help-says-bsy/article35314107.ece
14 July 2021||Dharamsala,||Landslip destroys houses in H.P.||Rescue operations are under way in the Boh valley in Kangra district after a landslip, in which one person died and nine are feared trapped beneath the debris. A team of the National Disaster Response Force rescued four people on Monday, and efforts are on to pull others out of the rubble, an official said on Tuesday. Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said a woman died and nine were still feared trapped under the debris after their houses collapsed in the landslip triggered by heavy rain. CM promises houses Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, during his visit to the valley on Tuesday, said the State government would give new houses to those whose buildings were destroyed in flash floods or landslips in the valley. He thanked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for immediately sending the NDRF team to the Boh valley for carrying out relief and rescue operations. “A village in Boh was severely hit during heavy rain on Monday. I am sad to hear that a woman has lost her life in this landslip. Nine people are still trapped under the debris. We are trying our best to rescue them,” he told presspersons at the Gaggal airport. Mr. Thakur said eight houses were completely destroyed in the flash floods and landslip. Being monitored Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Monday that the situation caused by heavy rain in Himachal Pradesh was being closely monitored, with Central authorities working in coordination with the officers of the State government. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal and Mr. Ranjan visited the remote hill area of Boh on Monday to take stock of the relief work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/landslip-destroys-houses-in-hp/article35313606.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Kishor meets Rahul, Priyanka||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Tuesday called on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi amid speculation that he was involved in finalising a truce deal between Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his arch rival, Navjot Singh Sidhu. Mr. Gandhi’s meeting with Mr. Kishor, who is an adviser to the Punjab Chief Minister, came on a day when Mr. Sidhu had left everyone guessing about his next move by tweeting that Aam Admi Party (AAP) in Punjab understands his “vision and Punjab model’. “It is clear they know — who is really fighting for Punjab,” Mr. Sidhu had tweeted. But the presence of the Congress general secretary for Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, also conveyed a sense that the meeting could be about other poll bound States like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand that go to the polls along with Punjab early next year. On June 16, Ms. Vadra will be making a trip to Lucknow and spend three days for an on-the-ground assessment of the Congress’s organisation ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll in Uttar Pradesh. The presence of former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat, who also is the Congress in-charge for Punjab, at Mr. Gandhi’s house along with general secretary (organisation), K.C. Venugopal, added to the speculation that the party could be using Mr. Kishor’s services in all these poll bound States. Mr. Kishor has worked with the Congress previously in all these three States. “In the next three-four days, there will be good news for Punjab Congress,” Mr. Rawat later told reporters outside Mr. Gandhi’s house, adding, however, that Mr. Kishor had not discussed Punjab politics nor had Mr. Rawat joined the Gandhi-Kishor meeting. “Rahul ji is a national leader. So many people meet him to discuss important issues,” added Mr. Rawat. The timing of Mr. Kishor’s visit is significant on several counts. His meeting with the Congress high command comes as Captain Amarinder is giving final shape to proposed changes in his cabinet. Simultaneously, the Congress high command plans to carry out organisational reshuffle in the Punjab unit. Mr. Kishor’s meeting with the Gandhi siblings also comes just weeks after he met Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar twice regarding forming an opposition block to take on the Modi government. When reports emerged that regional Opposition could be attempting to isolate the Congress before the 2024 elections, Mr. Kishor had commented that no Opposition front without the Congress can be effective against the Narendra Modi-led BJP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kishor-meets-rahul-priyanka/article35313620.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI/ GUWAHATI,||Modi alerts northeast States||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged the Chief Ministers of eight northeastern States to ramp up vaccination rates, set up temporary hospitals and form micro containment zones with aggressive cluster testing and tracking to control the COVID-19 situation. Mr. Modi addressed the Chief Ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Mizoram and Manipur via videoconferencing, as according to the Union Health Ministry, 80% of cases were from 90 districts, of which 14 were in the northeast. It was also the first such interaction where new Health Minister Mansukhbhai Mandaviya was present. Crowds at hill stations Mr. Modi expressed concern over the teeming crowds of holiday-makers at hill stations, saying that while trade and tourism were important, “the main question in everyone’s mind should be on how to prevent a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic”. The Union government’s Rs. 23,000 crore package for COVID-19 infrastructure was for ramping up testing laboratories, setting up oxygen units in hospitals and paediatric intensive care units, he pointed out. “Looking at the specific challenges thrown up by the terrain in the northeastern States, I would urge that temporary hospitals be set up with oxygen facilities and very importantly, training of manpower be done to handle oxygen related care and ICU duties,” he said. Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu said his State was ensuring zero wastage of vaccine but raised the point about poor Internet connectivity. “Our data is being uploaded after four days, resulting in wrong conclusions by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), whose portal says Arunachal’s positivity rate today is 16.2%. But our data show the average of last one week is 8%,” he said. The State had about 1,000 oxygen beds ready and the occupancy rate was only 8% as of now, he said. Meghalaya situation Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma said the positivity rate in his State had not declined at the expected rate because of the scattered population, and two districts with a positivity rate of more than 10% were the biggest worries. He admitted that the vaccination drive had been slow because of initial reluctance but the pace had picked up over the last couple of days because of the involvement of MLAs, MDCs (members of district council) and civil society groups. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said his State had ensured medical oxygen production, ICU beds, oxygen beds and isolation wards. He requested the Prime Minister to increase the allotment of vaccines to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-alerts-northeast-states/article35313638.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Have enough vaccines, says Bhutanese PM||Bhutan has received enough vaccines to complete the inoculation of its adult population, said its Prime Minister Lotay Tshering on Tuesday. He announced that the country would have more than a million doses by the year-end, including, in a first, donations from the United States and China, two nations Bhutan does not have diplomatic relations with. As The Hindu had reported, the Himalayan nation, with a population of about 5,50,000 eligible for vaccination, is receiving its second dose of Astra Zeneca vaccines from the European Union, after India failed to fulfil its promises due to the second wave of the pandemic. “With more countries coming forward with similar commitments, Bhutan has informed them of the vaccine sufficiency for now…However, the request for the need for future booster doses has been conveyed,” Mr. Tshering said in a statement released by the Royal Government of Bhutan’s PMO. The statement thanked Bhutan’s partners, including multilateral agencies such as the U.N. and specifically U.S., European Union, India and China, for “demonstrating unconditional support and playing an important part in the lives of all Bhutanese.” 17 nations contacted Worried about the non-availability of vaccines for the second dose due in mid-July, Bhutan’s Health Minister had told The Hindu that the government had reached out to 17 countries worldwide to complete its full vaccination schedule. According to the PMO, Bhutan has now received, or is receiving, 5,00,000 doses of Moderna vaccines from the U.S., 3,50,000 doses of Astra Zeneca from European countries, including Denmark, Croatia and Bulgaria, 50,000 doses of Sinopharm from the Chinese government and 5,850 through the international COVAX alliance facility. In addition, Bhutan has placed commercial orders for 2,00,000 doses of Pfizer, which will arrive in a few months. Vaccine Maitri initiative India had provided Bhutan with 5,50,000 doses of Covishield (Astra Zeneca) under its Vaccine Maitri programme for its first round of vaccinations in March 2021, of which about 62,000 are still being administered, as Bhutan has crossed a record 93% of first-dose vaccinations. “For the second dose, His Majesty [King Jigme Khesar Namgyal Wangchuk] had advised the government that sourcing vaccines from India once more would be inconsiderate given the shortage of vaccines and surge of cases in the country at the time.” New Delhi has suspended the Vaccine Maitri initiative since April, and the Ministry of External Affairs has repeatedly said that domestic production of vaccines would be used for “domestic vaccinations” for the present, with about 4 million being administered daily. In his statement, Mr. Tshering disclosed that India had conveyed that it would “step in despite all the challenges” if Bhutan failed to get vaccines from elsewhere. While Bhutan has close development partnerships with India and the EU, the government’s decision to accept 2,50,000 doses of Moderna from Washington and 50,000 doses of Sinopharm from China is seen as a departure from the past, given that Bhutan prefers not to maintain direct diplomatic relations with permanent members of the UNSC or P-5 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/have-enough-vaccines-says-bhutanese-pm/article35313646.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Crackdown on Bangladeshi immigrants in T.N.||The presence of a large number of Bangladeshi immigrants in different parts of Tamil Nadu has emerged as a “serious threat” to internal security, forcing the State police to launch an intensive crackdown to weed them out. According to police sources, thousands of Bangladeshi nationals illegally entered India through the land borders in recent years and many families moved to Tamil Nadu posing as natives of West Bengal. With the help of some agents, they not only got employment in industries but also managed to get Aadhaar cards. Preliminary enquiries revealed that a large number of immigrants were settled in Tiruppur, Chengalpattu, Erode, Cuddalore and Kancheepuram districts posing as Indians who migrated from West Bengal for the purpose of employment. Even as the industry shut and a majority of the workforce returned to their respective home States during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Bangladeshi immigrants stayed on. Drug peddling “It is during this period that many of them indulged in illegal activities such as drug peddling, immoral trafficking etc. Though they do not have any valid documents, the immigrants have Aadhaar cards. It is not clear whether they furnished fake documents or availed the norm that even foreign nationals who continuously reside in India for over 182 days are entitled to get an Aadhaar card,” a senior police official told The Hindu . Using the Aadhaar card, the Bangladeshi immigrants got other documents which certify proof of identity or address which is required for opening a bank account, getting rental accommodation and applying for jobs. “Even if they are intercepted during vehicle checks or surprise raids at vulnerable locations, they produce original documents relating to proof of identity or address and hence leaving no scope for any suspicion,” the official who preferred not to be quoted said. The case was similar to Sri Lankan Tamil refugees who sailed to Tamil Nadu shores in boats years ago and settled in different districts. Their familiarity with the local language, culture and traditions made it easy for them to survive in the guise of local Tamils, the official said. Foreigners’ Act However, early this month five Bangladeshi immigrants were arrested in Reddychavadi police station limits in Cuddalore district under the provisions of the Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act, the Foreigners’ Act and other Sections of the IPC. In June last week, three Bangladeshis were arrested in Tiruppur district and booked under the Foreigners’ Act. Similar arrests were made in the western districts where the foreigners were alleged to have indulged in drug peddling. Some of them were also accused of acting as agents who brought in more Bangladeshi immigrants and got them jobs in the hosiery industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crackdown-on-bangladeshi-immigrants-in-tn/article35313601.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||India to display relics of St. Ketevan||Almost 400 years after she was murdered in present day Iran, relics of St. Queen Ketevan that were found in Goa in 2005 are likely to be put on display in India as well as her native Georgia, according to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials. On July 10, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar handed over one part of the relics to Georgia as a gift from India. According to senior ASI officials with knowledge of the matter, parts of the bone of the right arm were found at St. Augustine Church in Old Goa in 2005. Queen Ketevan was killed in 1624 in Shiraz for not converting to Islam and parts of her remains were brought to Goa by Augustinian monks. Revered as a martyr, her relics remained lost till 2005 as the St. Augustine Church collapsed in 1842, another official said. A DNA analysis by the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, confirmed their authenticity in 2013. The official said the larger part of the relic remained with the ASI in Goa and would be publicly displayed for the first time. The smaller part had been handed over to Georgia, where it was likely to be displayed publicly with the citation that it was a “gift from people of India to people of Georgia”. The larger part of the relic had been sent to Georgia for an exhibition for six months in 2017. Shared past When reached for his comment, Father Loiola Pereira, secretary to the Archbishop of Goa, said: “The relics of the martyred Queen Ketevan were found by the ASI in 2005 in the ruins of the Church of St. Augustine and have ever since been in the possession of the government. We are happy that at least ‘part of the relics’ were handed over by our government to the people of Georgia. St. Queen Ketevan belonged to Georgia and Georgia is where her relics should be.” In Georgia, Mr. Jaishankar said: “One part of the holy relic still remains in India as a reminder of our shared past.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-display-relics-of-st-ketevan/article35313611.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Anti-terror law must not be misused to harass people’||Anti-terror law should not be misused to quell dissent or harass citizens, Supreme Court judge Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said in an address on Indo-U.S. legal ties. “Criminal law, including anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or harassment to citizens,” he stated on Monday in a speech on the ‘Role of the Supreme Court in protecting the fundamental rights in challenging times’. The judiciary must remain the first line of defence against any move to deprive citizens of their liberty. “Our courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of citizens. Deprivation of liberty for even a single day is one too many. We must always be mindful of the deeper systemic issues of our decisions,” he observed. Justice Chandrachud said that some may dub the role of the court as “judicial activism” or “judicial overreach”. “The Supreme Court is a counter-majoritarian institution sworn to protect the rights of socio-economic minorities,” he highlighted. “The actions of the government had far-reaching effects on the constitutional rights of people, which involved right to affordable healthcare, including vaccination; rights of labourers, including migrant labourers and factory workers; right to livelihood; and rights of prisoners. Many such cases of constitutional violations found their way to the Supreme Court,” he pointed out. As the “guardian of the Constitution”, the Supreme Court had to put a break where executive or legislative actions infringed fundamental human rights, he asserted. He detailed the court’s suo motu actions to ensure vaccination, improve COVID-19 management and decongestion of prisons to prevent the spread of the virus.    Our courts must ensure that they remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of citizens Justice D.Y. Chandrachud Supreme Court Judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-terror-law-must-not-be-misused-to-harass-people/article35313625.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crackdown on GST evaders continues||The Centre continues to tighten the noose around GST evaders, though its crackdown on fake invoices slowed down in recent months due to the COVID-19 resurgence, the Finance Ministry said on Tuesday. Citing the misuse of Input Tax Credit (ITC) provisions as the most common modus of tax evasion under the Goods and Services Tax regime, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) and Central GST (CGST) formations also detected other tax fraud means such as evasion involving “misclassification, undervaluation and clandestine supplies of goods and services”. About 8,000 cases involving fake Input Tax Credit of over Rs. 35,000 crore were detected during 2020-21, leading to the arrest of 426 persons, which included 14 professionals, such as chartered accountants and lawyers. “Masterminds, beneficiaries and directors” were also arrested under an ongoing nationwide special drive against fake GST invoices since November 2020. In 2021-22 so far, the DGGI and CGST Zones under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) have detected more than 500 cases involving 1,200 entities. Twenty-four persons have been arrested since April this year, with the Ministry stating that the arrests made by the CBIC officers are “one of the highest in recent times”.  “CBIC officers are using the latest IT tools, digital evidence and also collecting information from other government departments to catch the fraudsters. Along with legislative and procedural changes in the law, the nationwide drive has contributed to better compliance and revenue collection. During the drive, cases of fake ITC availment against some well-known companies were also booked,” said a statement. “The enforcement drive against the fake invoice fraudsters and other GST evaders is likely to intensify with an objective to catch and book unscrupulous elements engaged in illegal activities to defraud the government exchequer,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crackdown-on-gst-evaders-continues/article35313631.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Be vigilant to prevent a third wave: NITI Aayog member||A third wave of COVID-19 is being witnessed across the world and it is time to be very vigilant, NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said on Tuesday. “India needs to be responsible and not allow the COVID numbers to rise. The world is witnessing the third wave of COVID cases and we have to join hands to ensure that the third wave doesn’t hit India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday clearly said that we should focus on keeping the third wave at bay instead of discussing when it could come in India,” Dr. Paul said at the Health Ministry press conference. He cautioned that irresponsible behaviour could cause the COVID-19 numbers to rise again in India. Giving details of the COVID-19 cases in India, Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agrawal noted that 50% of the new cases were being reported from Kerala and Maharashtra. Central teams in 11 States “We would request everyone to take the COVID-19 surge across the world seriously. When we talk about the third wave, we are talking about it as a weather update and not understanding its seriousness and our responsibilities associated with it,” the official said. He added that the Centre had deputed teams to 11 States to help them. “Besides northeastern States, the teams have been sent to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Odisha, as they were reflecting a growth trajectory,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/be-vigilant-to-prevent-a-third-wave-niti-aayog-member/article35313640.ece
14 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal officials trek nine hours to vaccinate 16 grazers||Away from home grazing their yaks, 16 residents of Luguthang village in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang district could not make it to a COVID-19 vaccination camp organised on May 19 at Domstang, about a five-hour trek away. However, the vaccines reached the homes of the grazers at 14,000 ft above mean sea level on July 12, brought in by a team that trekked for more than nine hours from the nearest motorable road at a place called Thingbu Hydel. One of the farthest villages in Tawang district, Luguthang is close to the border with Tibet and is aerially 30 km from Tawang. All 10 families, comprising 65 people, in the village are yak grazers. The district authorities organised a vaccination camp on May 19 at Domtsang, a village midway between Luguthang and Thingbu Hydel. The camp catered to Luguthang and other villages in the area. Officials said 33 residents of Luguthang in the eligible age groups got vaccinated on May 19. Message relayed “This is the time when grazers move out with their livestock to far-flung areas. We sent special messages through trekkers for 16 such grazers, who were left out of the camp, to return home within a specific time for vaccination,” District Information Officer Nawang Chotta told The Hindu . Incessant rain threatened to delay the trip of the vaccination team. But Deputy Commissioner Sang Phuntsok  was determined to keep the date with the 16 “left out” grazers. He and six others, including zilla parishad chairman Leki Gombu and health officials, started the trek from Thingbu Hydel at 7.15 a.m. on July 11. They reached Luguthang by 4.30 p.m. that evening after crossing two of the toughest peaks in the district — Nyukteng and Nahchhot. Tough terrain The route cut through dense forests, swampy stretches and the Luguthang river, a tributary of Tawang Chu, several times. The team held a short meeting with the villagers the next morning after a night’s stay, before the 16 grazers were inoculated by district reproductive and child health officer Rinchin Neema. Senior veterinary officer Thutan Tashi gave free medicines for diarrhoea, deworming and other ailments for the livestock. “Apart from COVID-19 vaccination, 19 patients were treated for different ailments,” Mr. Phuntsok said after the team returned to Thingbu Hydel on July 13. “The trip was worth it as all the eligible villagers have received their first dose of the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-officials-trek-nine-hours-to-vaccinate-16-grazers/article35313642.ece
14 July 2021||Thrissur,||India’s first COVID patient tests positive for virus again||A medical student at Wuhan University, China, who was the first Indian COVID-19 patient in the country, has tested positive for the virus again. District Medical Officer K.J. Reena confirmed here on Tuedsay that the student, hailing from Mathilakam, near Kodungalloor, tested positive on Monday. The student did the screening test for travelling to Delhi for academic purposes. “Her RT-PCR test is positive. As the student is asymptomatic, she is under observation at home,” the DMO said. She has not taken COVID-19 vaccine. The third year medical student in Wuhan university tested positive on January 30, 2020, becoming the first COVID-19 case in the country, when she returned for holidays. She was discharged from hospital on February 20, 2020, after she tested negative. The student was continuing her studies online at Wuhan University when she tested positive again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-first-covid-patient-tests-positive-for-virus-again/article35313826.ece
14 July 2021||Srinagar,||J&K parties barred from paying tributes||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) political parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Tuesday alleged that they were denied permission to pay tributes at the graveyard in Srinagar’s Naqsband Sahib of 22 Kashmiris, who died during an anti-monarchy rebellion on July 13, 1931. Meanwhile, a shutdown affected life in the Valley. “In view of the government-imposed restrictions, party functionaries, led by its president Dr. Farooq Abdullah, paid glowing tributes and offered ‘fateh’ [prayers] to the July 13 martyrs at the party office, Nawa-e-Subah, this morning,” NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said. In a statement, Dr. Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah described the 1931 episode, which took place during the Dogra regime, as “a landmark in the history of J&K”. The 1931 episode had seen the rise of the NC and its patron Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah on the political horizon of Jammu and Kashmir. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said, “Today on the occasion of ‘Martyrs Day’, the gates leading to their graveyards have been locked up. Attempts to distort and rewrite Kashmir’s history is being done only to create a sense of defeat and helplessness amongst Kashmiris...” Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference and J&K Apni Party also paid tributes to the anti-Dogra protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-parties-barred-from-paying-tributes/article35313627.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Petitioner seeks strict laws to protect doctors from assault||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it will pass an order on a plea seeking stricter laws and regulations to protect doctors from being attacked and assaulted by family members of patients. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dr. Rajeev Joshi, seeking orders from the court to protect doctors from being attacked. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that complaints by doctors could be registered under the Indian Penal Code and complaints of medical negligence and professional misconduct against doctors could be registered by the expert cell constituted to protect doctors from unverified complaints. In the last hearing, Mr. Kumbhakoni had said there was an expert committee consisting of experts from the medical field, senior police officers, and stakeholders at the district level. He also said that the original law would be repealed, and a fresh law would be enacted. “ We should not have multiple committees for the purpose of filing a FIR. There can be a preliminary inquiry before registering the FIR,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petitioner-seeks-strict-laws-to-protect-doctors-from-assault/article35313644.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Sputnik V to be made in India by SII||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will be producing at least 300 million doses of Sputnik V a year, according to an announcement from Russia’s sovereign wealth fund RDIF on Tuesday. The first batch of the Russian vaccine from its facility is likely to be rolled out in September. “We have reached a partnership agreement with Serum Institute of India to manufacture Sputnik V,” Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev said in a media briefing from Moscow. The process of technology transfer to SII was underway for the last three months, and the firm is expected to release the first batch in September. As part of the technical transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from Gamaleya Center, the developer of Sputnik vaccine. “With their import approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, the cultivation process has begun,” an RDIF statement said. Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said, “We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in September. With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world.” India is set to emerge as a leading production hub for Sputnik vaccine. RDIF’s partnership with Serum follows similar agreements it has entered into with a clutch of other vaccine makers in India, including Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen, to manufacture around 850 million doses a year of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sputnik-v-to-be-made-in-india-by-sii/article35314186.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Uttarakhand suspends Kanwar Yatra||Uttarakhand has decided to suspend this year’s Kanwar Yatra in view of the COVID-19 situation, “giving top priority to the protection of human life”. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, following a meeting with senior State officials on Tuesday evening. “A detailed discussion was held on the occurrence of the Delta Plus variant of COVID-19, the possibility of a third wave and its effects on the country and abroad. The opinion of experts was also considered,” said an official statement. Mr. Dhami directed that officials of neighbouring States also be requested to coordinate and take action to stop the pandemic. The announcement came hours after Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath reiterated that the traditional yatra would be held following COVID protocol, suggesting that a negative RT-PCR test report could be made mandatory for out-of-State participants. A senior official in the Uttarakhand CM’s office said the decision to suspend the yatra had been taken after consultations with the Central government, as well as with Chief Ministers of the surrounding States from where the pilgrims or Kanwariyas come towards Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-suspends-kanwar-yatra/article35314187.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Official booked for issuing passports to Sri Lankans||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against an official of the Ministry of External Affairs on charges of issuing Indian passports to Sri Lankan nationals after allegedly taking bribes from travel agents. In one case, which the investigation agency has stated in the First Information Report, Rs. 45,000 was deposited into the official’s bank account in three instalments by a travel agent. The CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch received specific information that V. Veeraputhiran, Senior Superintendent of Regional Passport Office, Madurai, had entered into a criminal conspiracy with travel agents for fraudulently issuing Indian passports to Sri Lankans and others who were actually not eligible. The accused official, who knew that the applicants brought by the travel agents were not entitled to the issue of Indian passports, took money and cleared the applications. In one instance while serving as Granting Officer, Passport Seva Kendra, Tirunelveli, in June-September 2019, he demanded Rs. 45,000 from one travel agent S. Ramesh which was deposited into his bank account in Madurai in three instalments. PC Act invoked After obtaining sanction from the Ministry of External Affairs to register a case and investigate against the official, the CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch, Madurai, booked Mr. Veeraputhiran, Mr. Ramesh and unknown others on charges of criminal conspiracy and invoked provisions under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against them. It is not clear how many such passports were fraudulently issued to foreign nationals and whether the beneficiaries are still living in Tamil Nadu or left the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/official-booked-for-issuing-passports-to-sri-lankans/article35313602.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||SII to make Russian Sputnik V vaccine||As part of the technical transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from Gamaleya Center, the developer of Sputnik vaccine. “With their import approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the cultivation process has begun,” RDIF said in a statement. Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said, “We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in September. With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world.” India is set to emerge as a leading production hub for Sputnik vaccine. RDIF’s partnership with Serum follows similar agreements it has entered into with a clutch of other vaccine makers in India, including Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen, to manufacture around 850 million doses a year of the vaccine. Many of the companies have either started manufacturing or will do so in the next 1-2 months, Mr. Dmitriev said, without specifying the timeline for commercial launch of Sputnik V in India. Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, the marketing partner of RDIF in India, had announced a soft pilot launch of the two-dose Sputnik V in May from Hyderabad. On Tuesday, Dr. Reddy’s said “neither the ongoing soft commercial launch nor work towards its ramp-up in India have been put on hold.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-to-make-russian-sputnik-v-vaccine/article35313607.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccination falls by 60% as States cite shortage||The BMC officials have said while they have the capacity to administer 1,00,000 doses daily, the civic body is unable to fulfil even 50% of that quota due to paucity of vaccines. In Karnataka the gap between those vaccinated only with the first and those fully vaccinated has widened with the latter around 23%. State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra attributed the low percentage of fully vaccinated people to the 12-16 week gap between two doses of Covishield that was introduced in May. As a major chunk of vaccinations happened in the last three months, those who have taken the first dose after that are not yet due for the second, he said. The demand is expected to go up in the coming days, as those falling into the eligible category will go up, he reasoned. Shortage in Telangana Several Telangana government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVC) have ran out of Covaxin doses. The shortage is being experienced from the past few days. Sources in the State Health Department told The Hindu that Covaxin doses were not given at GCVCs in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. “Until a few weeks ago, we used to mobilise people for COVID vaccination. We are not doing it currently since the stock is not in abundance. And we don’t know when we will get huge stock,” sources said. Huge supply-demand mismatch continues to be an issue in Kerala, said officials. The State has assigned priority status to specific groups in the population, like NRIs or students who are preparing to go abroad and college students between 18-23 years of age, but there is not enough vaccines to be distributed to all. Health officials say though the supply is regular, the consignments are quite small for a State which has the capacity to deliver 2.5-3 lakh doses per day. This has seriously reduced the pace of vaccination, despite the huge demand for the same. Kerala has administered the first dose to 44% of its population above 18 years and the second to 16 %. The State’s vaccine requirement for July is 60 lakh doses, with 25 lakhs doses required for delivering second doses to those who are due for it. Dwindling in Delhi Delhi’s vaccine stock is expected to last for only two more days, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. But many centres were shut on Tuesday as the city had stock for less than a day as on Monday evening and the centres were yet to get fresh stock. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said 500 centres were closed due to the shortage. Due to the lack of sufficient doses of the vaccines, Andhra Pradesh has now prioritised giving the second dose to the beneficiaries due to receive it by limiting the administration of the first dose to eligible beneficiaries aged above 45, mothers of children aged below 5 years and people required to travel abroad. According to officials, the Central government promised 50 lakh doses in July. However, there are over 30 lakh beneficiaries due to receive the second dose in July and so far only about six lakh of them received it, according to the Cowin portal.  (With inputs from Serena Josephine, K Shiv Shanker, Shoumojit Banerjee, Tharun Boda, Nikhil Babu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-falls-by-60-as-states-cite-shortage/article35313614.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttarakhand suspends Kanwar Yatra||The announcement came hours after Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath reiterated that the traditional yatra would be held following COVID protocol, suggesting that a negative RT-PCR test report could be made mandatory for out-of-State participants. A senior official in the Uttarakhand CM's office said the decision to suspend the yatra had been taken after consultations with the Central government, as well as with Chief Ministers of the surrounding States from where the pilgrims or Kanwariyas come towards Uttarakhand. “For all other States, the Kanwar Yatra is simply a movement of people who are passing through, and they are not congregating at a central point in their respective states. But from our point of view, from all four directions, people congregate at a particular city within Uttarakhand and that too within an area of a few square kilometres,” said the senior official, noting that up to two crore Kanwariyas pour into Haridwar, whose usual population was only four lakh. “For us, the dynamics of the Kanwar Yatra are very different, and the public health implications are very different for us compared to other States.” The official said other States were free to allow people to congregate at other points on the Ganga where it flowed through their States. Even within Uttarakhand, the prohibition was only against the congregation of Kanwariyas in Haridwar, he said. IMA appeal The Uttarakhand chapter of the Indian Medical Association had also sent a letter to the CM, as well as the Prime Minister’s Office, urging the cancellation of the yatra and saying that lessons should be learnt from “previous failures” and the “gross negligence” during the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-suspends-kanwar-yatra/article35313616.ece
14 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Bill bans sale of beef around temples||Prior to tabling the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, in the 126-member Assembly on July 12, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said its primary objective was to check the smuggling of cows to Bangladesh. It also seeks to restrict the sale of beef in areas dominated by non-beef consuming communities and within a 5-km radius of temples and ‘satras’ (Vaishnav monasteries) formed by the saint-reformer Srimanta Sankaradeva. The Bill seeks to replace the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950, which allows the slaughter of cattle above 14 years of age or those that have become permanently incapacitated due to work, breeding, accident or deformity after local veterinary officers certify that they are fit for slaughter. The Bill retains this provision while intending to regulate the slaughter, consumption and illegal transportation of cattle across Assam. It says the certified cattle can be slaughtered only in licensed and recognised slaughterhouses. “The State government may exempt certain places of worship, or certain occasions from the slaughter of cattle other than cow, heifer or calf, for religious purposes,” it says. The Bill says no one will be allowed to sell beef in any form except at places permitted by the government. Beef will not be allowed to be sold in areas predominantly inhabited by Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and other non-beef-eating communities or within a radius of 5 km of any temple, ‘satra’ “or other religious institutions belonging to Hindu religion or any other institution or area as may be prescribed by the competent authority”. The Bill seeks to regulate the sale of cattle in the recognised animal markets. It also bans the transportation of cattle to and from Assam as well as within the State unless competent authorities issue permits for movement of the animal for “bona fide or animal husbandry purposes while following rules laid down by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960”. However, no permission would be required to carry cattle to grazing fields or for agricultural or animal husbandry purposes within a district. Violation of the provisions of the Bill would entail imprisonment for three to eight years and fines between Rs. 3 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh.   The Bill is likely to choke supply to Christian-majority States in the Northeast. Nagaland and Mizoram have not reacted to it yet, but Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma said he would take up the issue with the Centre if it affected the supply of cattle to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-bill-bans-sale-of-beef-around-temples/article35313622.ece
14 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Mumbai lawyers cannot use local trains for now||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it could not go beyond medical advice and declare lawyers as essential staff to enable them to use local trains to travel to work during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a couple of public interest litigation petitions seeking their inclusion in the list of essential staff and to permit them to travel by the special suburban/local trains being run during the pandemic. ‘Let pandemic abate’ On July 1, the court asked the State government to take a call on permitting judicial clerks to use the train service. The State, however, said it could not permit lawyers to use the trains till the COVID-19 situation improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-lawyers-cannot-use-local-trains-for-now/article35313643.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||PM rejigs Cabinet panels; NDA allies largely ignored||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, too, does not have representation from the NDA partners, and has been reduced from 11 members to eight, including Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. Ministers Virendra Kumar and Anurag Thakur have been included in the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan are special invitees in this committee. The Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth, headed by the PM, has seen the inclusion of Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Ashwini Vaishnaw, while the Cabinet Committee on Employment and Skill Development has new members in Mr. Yadav and G. Kishen Reddy, along with Railway Minister Mr. Vaishnaw. The crucial Cabinet Committee on Security has been left untouched with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the helm. The Cabinet Committee on Appointments also remains untouched with the PM heading it, and Mr. Shah as member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-rejigs-cabinet-panels-nda-allies-largely-ignored/article35313825.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||PM rejigs Cabinet panels; NDA allies largely ignored||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, too, does not have representation from the NDA partners, and has been reduced from 11 members to eight, including Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. Ministers Virendra Kumar and Anurag Thakur have been included in the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan are special invitees. The Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth, headed by the Prime Minister, has seen the inclusion of Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Ashwini Vaishnaw, while the Cabinet Committee on Employment and Skill Development has new members in Bhupendra Yadav and G. Kishen Reddy, along with Railway Minister Mr. Vaishnaw. The crucial Cabinet Committee on Security has been left untouched with the PM at the helm and Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-rejigs-cabinet-panels-nda-allies-largely-ignored/article35314123.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI to probe deaths of aunt, nephew from Nagaland||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has requested the CBI to inquire into the deaths of a woman from Nagaland in a Gurugram hospital and her nephew at a rented room in Delhi last month. Rosy Sangma, an air hostess, and her nephew Samuel lived in Delhi’s Bijwasan. They were from Dimapur. Their relatives have alleged that she died due to negligence on the part of the hospital and also that there was a foul play in Mr. Samuel’s death by the hospital personnel. The Nagaland government has also sought an expeditious probe. The MHA has received several petitions in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-to-probe-deaths-of-aunt-nephew-from-nagaland/article35314057.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED makes arrestin fertilizer scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested a Delhi-based chartered accountant in connection with the fertiliser import scam involving Indian Farmers Fertiliser Co-operative Limited (IFFCO) managing director U.S. Awasthi and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-makes-arrest-in-fertiliser-scam/article35314056.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35313609.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC orders removal of tweets||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed freelance journalist Saket Gokhale to immediately take down all his alleged defamatory tweets related to Union Minister Hardeep Puri’s wife and former Indian diplomat Lakshmi Puri. Mr. Gokhale had, in a series of tweets, questioned how Ms. Puri could have bought a house for 1.6 million Swiss Franc in Geneva in 2006 with her then income. Justice C. Hari Shankar restrained Mr. Gokhale from “posting any defamatory or scandalous or factually incorrect” tweets. If he refused to do so within 24 hours, Twitter must take them down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-orders-removal-of-tweets/article35313612.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Monsoon covers entire country’||The southwest monsoon has covered the entire country, the India Meteorological Department said in a statement on Tuesday. The normal date for it is July 8. However, with the unusually prolonged advance into northwest India, there were concerns that it might be delayed. The normal date for the monsoon’s arrival over Delhi is June 27. But the monsoon officially set in here only on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-covers-entire-country/article35313613.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Mehul Choksi will return to Dominica when fit’||Diamantaire Mehul Choksi will “only” return to Dominica to face trial for illegal entry into that country when a doctor “certifies” that he is fit to stand trial, the media there reported citing conditions laid down by the Dominica High Court while granting him bail. In a major setback to Indian efforts to bring him from the Caribbean country, Dominica High Court Judge Bernie Stephenson allowed the businessman to return to Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been living as a citizen since 2018 after leaving India, to seek medical advice from neurologist Hayden Osborne at the Mount St. John’s Medical Centre, Dominica News Online reported. ‘Clot in brain’ Mr. Choksi has a clot in the brain besides other health issues such as diabetes and hypertension, his legal team submitted. The court also ordered that Mr. Choksi must intimate it in the case of any change of specialist and his address in Antigua where he was going to stay. The judge said Mr. Choksi will only return to Dominica when a doctor certifies that he is fit to stand trial, the website reported. Mr. Choksi has sought a judicial review of case of illegal entry into Dominica. The matter has now been deferred till January 26, 2022. His trial for illegal entry before a magistrate has also been stayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mehul-choksi-will-return-to-dominica-when-fit/article35313617.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Pankaja says she is not quitting BJP||Former Maharashtra Minister Pankaja Munde said she is not going to quit ‘home’, referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which her father worked hard to build. Reports had emerged that she was upset after her sister and Lok Sabha MP Pritam Munde was denied a Cabinet berth. Taking an apparent dig at the State leadership, particularly Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, Ms. Munde said her only leaders are Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. “Time changes for all and time is the only solution. But this is not the time to take any extreme decision. Why should we quit the home that we worked so hard to build?” she asked while addressing supporters in Mumbai. She said her father Gopinath Munde too suffered setbacks but decided to walk the path. The BJP chose Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Baghwat Karad, another OBC leader, as Minister of State. Reacting to a slew of resignations from her supporters, Ms. Munde said that she would be rejecting the resignations. “I remember what party gives me, my workers remember what my party does not give me,” she said. Targetting Mr. Fadnavis, she said, “I never wanted to become CM, but people wished for it and I was pushed to the wall. Then what about those who openly say that they want to become Prime Minister?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pankaja-says-she-is-not-quitting-bjp/article35313623.ece
14 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Akhilesh is demoralising police, ATS’||The ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh criticised Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav for his comments that he did not trust the State police over the arrest of two men on charges of plotting terror attacks. The Anti-Terrorism Squad arrested the two persons on the suspicion that they were planning to carry out attacks in parts of east U.P. and Lucknow ahead of Independence Day. Government spokesperson and Cabinet Minister Sidharth Nath Singh accused Mr. Yadav of promoting “minority appeasement” and demoralising the police and the ATS. “It is clear that Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party and the Opposition are engaged in politics of appeasement,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-is-demoralising-police-ats/article35313626.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre is responsible for price rise’||Hitting out at the Narendra Modi government over price rise, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Tuesday that the “wrong policies of the Modi government and its inept management of the economy” are to be blamed for inflation. Addressing a press conference at the All India Congress Committee headquarters, Mr. Chidambaram demanded that the price of petrol, diesel and LPG be brought down immediately, import duties reviewed and GST rates reduced on goods of mass consumption. “We hold the Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi directly responsible for the high inflation,” he said. “Let me caution the government: the issue of high inflation will not go away if you pretend it does not exist.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-is-responsible-for-price-rise/article35313628.ece
14 July 2021||Kolkata,||NHRC submits report on West Bengal violence||A committee of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) probing allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal on Tuesday submitted five sets of reports before the Calcutta High Court. On June 18, the court had directed the NHRC to probe allegations of violence. The NHRC had submitted an interim report earlier. Senior Advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing on behalf of the West Bengal government sought a copy of the interim report and said they should be allowed to file a reply on the report. The court said a second post-mortem of Abhijit Sarkar, vice-president of Bharatiya Mazdoor Trade Union Council, has been carried out at the Command Hospital here as per its earlier direction and that the report was being prepared. Sarkar was allegedly killed in post-poll violence in Kolkata and his family demanded a second autopsy, which was not acceded to by the police and the administration. Additional Solicitor General Y.J. Dastoor said the brother of the deceased leader had said the family could not identify the body. During the previous hearing, the court issued a show cause notice against the Deputy Commissioner of Police, South Kolkata, for failing to prevent obstruction to the NHRC team that visited Jadavpur. The court directed the affidavit filed by the DCP should be sent to the petitioners. The matter will next be heard on July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-submits-its-report-on-bengal-violence/article35313629.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Raw materials for test kits get duty waiver||The government has granted basic customs duty exemption on import of raw materials used to make COVID-19 test kits till September 30, and on import of certain active pharmaceutical ingredients used to manufacture Amphotericin-B, used to treat mucormycosis, till August 31. Imports of high-purity cholesterol and egg lecithin, critical ingredients used in the pharmaceutical sector, have also been exempted from basic customs duty till August 31, as per a notification issued by the Customs Department on Monday. “This is a well-considered exemption being granted by the government to fight the COVID-19 crisis and is a step to make the domestic industry self-reliant in fighting the pandemic,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raw-materials-for-test-kits-get-duty-waiver/article35313633.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maha: Currency notes valued Rs 5 lakh stolen from Nashik press||Currency notes worth Rs. 5 lakh were stolen from the Currency Note Press at Nashik in Maharashtra over the last five months by unidentified persons, the police said on Tuesday. The Nashik press prints high quality banknotes for the Government of India. Unidentified persons had stolen currency notes worth Rs. 5 lakh of Rs. 500 denomination between February 12 and July 12, 2021, a police official said quoting the FIR lodged by the manager of the India Security Press. “The management of the press had initiated an internal inquiry when they realised the currency notes went missing in the last five,” he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maha-currency-notes-valued-rs-5-lakh-stolen-from-nashik-press/article35314053.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. rejects plea of Bhima-Koregaon accused||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that the plea of Rona Wilson, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, to quash his chargesheet is not maintainable. Mr. Wilson is lodged at Taloja Central Jail and relies upon a report by a digital forensic analyst, Arsenal Consultancy, in the U.S. that has debunked all the electronic evidence gathered by the NIA and said the attacker planted malware in Mr. Wilson’s computer and that it was compromised. On February 10, 2021, he moved the high court mentioning the report by Arsenal Consulting which was consulted by the American Bar Association to examine the clone copy of the hard disc of Mr. Wilson’s computer. The report stated that a hacker controlled his computer for a period of 22 months through malware to plant documents, which led to an investigation that supposedly unravelled a conspiracy to eliminate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shrinivas Ghadge, DCP Crime, Pune City, filed an affidavit in the matter and raised preliminary objections regarding its maintainability. The affidavit said, “Arsenal report does not form a part of the chargesheet which was filed by the Pune police and NIA. It is a settled position of law that documents which are not relied upon in the chargesheet cannot be relied upon by the petitioner. There is no question of looking into the report of Arsenal Consulting and the petition deserves to be rejected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-govt-rejects-plea-of-bhima-koregaon-accused/article35313604.ece
14 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan BJP MLA sent to jail in forgery case||A judicial magistrate in Udaipur district’s Sarada town sent BJP MLA from Salumber, Amrit Lal Meena, to jail after he surrendered in the court in connection with a case of alleged forgery. Mr. Meena has been accused of forging his wife’s Class V marksheet to enable her to contest the panchayat election in 2015. The court remanded Mr. Meena in judicial custody till July 23 on Monday. His wife Shanta Devi, also an accused, is out on bail. She had contested and won the polls for sarpanch in Semri village. One of her opponents, Sugna Devi, had filed a complaint against her, after which the CB-CID of the State police investigated the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-bjp-mla-sent-to-jail-in-forgery-case/article35313615.ece
14 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Three held over kidney racket in Assam||The police in Morigaon district of Assam arrested three people — Lillimai Boro, her son Mintu Boro and their local contact identified as Ramen Medhi — for allegedly preying on villagers to run a kidney trade racket. Morigaon SP Aparna Natarajan said the police have found 10 people in Dakhin Dharamtul village who have been victims of the racket. Most victims were either grappling with poverty or were desperate to repay microfinance loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-over-kidney-racket-in-assam/article35313618.ece
14 July 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Two held for holding goat shandy||Two persons have been arrested for organising a goat shandy here in violation of COVID-19 safety protocol. Acting on a direction from Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi, revenue officials visited Aminabad, near here, where a group of traders was engaged in selling goats brought from different places. Since it was found to be a COVID-19 safety protocol violation, the officials handed over Sivakumar and Kumar of Ariyalur to police. Both were subsequently arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-holding-goat-shandy/article35313864.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. deploys over 3,000 workers in fight against dengue||The Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified dengue prevention measures, with the deployment of 3,323 personnel across all the zones for door-to-door checks, officials said. The focus on mosquito control and related dengue prevention measures have been increased proactively, instead of strengthening such activities after the outbreak of the disease, officials said. They added that Zika virus cases reported in Kerala were also a reason for intensifying such precautionary measures. Apart from surveillance for COVID-19, the fever survey workers have been asked to enquire about stagnation of water inside the households, which could end up becoming breeding grounds for dengue-causing Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes, which also cause the Zika virus disease, chikungunya and yellow fever. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that the workers had been asked to create awareness in each and every household they visited. “A particular area of concern is the tray on the backside of most refrigerators where water accumulates. It can be a breeding ground for dengue-causing mosquitoes,” he said. Mr. Bedi said that on Monday alone, workers found 1,865 households with such water stagnation behind refrigerators, which were subsequently cleared. Fogging increased He added that fogging had also been intensified, with 602 locations covered on Monday alone. “Reports on the number of households covered, number of locations where fogging was done and other such details are monitored on a daily basis,” he said. Apart from these, the Corporation has launched an initiative to spray anti-larval chemicals along canals with the help of drones. As the dengue-causing mosquitoes breed only in clean water, officials said this initiative was to prevent breeding of other types of mosquitoes, which cause diseases like malaria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-deploys-over-3000-workers-in-fight-against-dengue/article35313780.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allocate 1 cr. vaccine doses to Tamil Nadu, Stalin urges Modi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting his intervention to correct the imbalance in COVID-19 vaccine allocation to the State and to make a special allocation of 1 crore vaccine doses to it. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, submitted that the States had been allocated available vaccine quantity in proportion to their population aged 18 to 44. “However, Tamil Nadu has not received vaccines proportionate to its population size, resulting in the current acute shortage,” Mr. Stalin said. The number of vaccine doses allocated to Tamil Nadu is only 302 per thousand eligible population, he said, underlining that it was very low, when compared with vaccine doses made available to comparable States like Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan, which are at 533, 493 and 446 per thousand eligible population respectively. In his letter, a copy of which was circulated to the media, the Chief Minister recalled his earlier communications requesting Mr. Modi’s immediate intervention to make a special allocation of COVID-19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu. As of July 8, Tamil Nadu had received only 29,18,110 vaccine doses from the Union government for the 18-44 years category, and 1,30,08,440 doses for the above 45 years category. “As the allocation of vaccines is very inadequate, we are finding it extremely difficult to meet the huge demand for vaccination throughout the State. The success of my government in eliminating vaccine hesitancy and making the inoculation drive a mass movement now squarely rests on the doses made available to us,” Mr. Stalin said. He urged Mr. Modi to immediately intervene and correct the imbalance in vaccine allocation to Tamil Nadu and make a special allocation of 1 crore doses to it, so the State could vaccinate the targeted population in the shortest possible time.  The success of my government in eliminating vaccine hesitancy and making the inoculation drive a mass movement rests on the doses made available to us M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allocate-1-cr-vaccine-doses-to-tamil-nadu-stalin-urges-modi/article35313763.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court comes down hard on Vijay||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a writ petition filed by actor Joseph Vijay in 2012, seeking exemption of entry tax for his Rolls Royce Ghost car, imported from England. It also imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on him, to be paid to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Justice S.M. Subramaniam came down heavily on “reel heroes” for avoiding payment of taxes and highlighted how important this revenue was for building infrastructure. He also criticised Mr. Vijay for not having even disclosed his occupation in the affidavit filed in support of his case. “It is surprising to note that the petitioner has not even stated his profession or occupation in his affidavit. He has imported a prestigious costly car from England but unfortunately not paid entry tax as per the statutes. He has filed a writ petition to avoid the payment of tax... The petitioner, who is a reputed cine actor, is expected to pay the tax promptly and punctually,” the judge said. The judge went on to state that it was essential for every citizen to remit taxes dutifully to the government, and such payment was a mandatory contribution and not a voluntary one or a donation. Taxes help the State construct schools, hospitals, housing projects for the poor and railways, ports and so on for all, he said. The judge said Mr. Vijay had a large fan base, and those fans consider actors like him real heroes. “In the State of Tamil Nadu, cine heroes have risen as rulers of the State and therefore, the people are under the impression that they are real heroes. Thus, they are not expected to behave like reel heroes. Tax evasion is to be construed as an anti-national habit, attitude and mindset, and it is unconstitutional,” he said. Pointing out the stark difference between roles portrayed by actors on the silver screen and their character in real life, Justice Subramaniam said, “These actors portray themselves as champions of social justice. Their movies are against corrupt activities in society. But they are evading tax and acting in a manner which is not in consonance with provisions of the statutes.” A real hero The constitutional goal of social justice, as enshrined in the preamble of the Constitution, and the spirit of Article 38 (2) (minimising inequalities) can be achieved only if people of stature pay taxes punctually and act like real heroes in their life. A person paying tax punctually and promptly must be considered a real hero, the judge wrote. “Filing a writ petition, avoiding the payment of entry tax and keeping the writ petition pending for about nine years can never be appreciated, and it is not made clear even now whether the entry tax, as applicable, has been paid by the petitioner or not. On account of efflux of time, the learned counsel for the petitioner has also not stated anything regarding this,” the court said. The judge went on to state, “Even philosophically, the accumulation of wealth or possessing the world’s prestigious car will be of no assistance for a better life in our great nation, as our country is enriched with culture and social values... The reputed persons of this great nation should realise that the money that reaches them is from the poor man’s blood and hard-earned money, and not from the sky.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-comes-down-hard-on-vijay/article35313767.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 2,505 fresh infections and 48 fatalities||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to fall in the State, as 2,505 more people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. Thirty-one of the 38 districts reported fewer than 100 cases each. Seven districts accounted for half the fresh cases. Coimbatore recorded 282 cases, while Erode and Thanjavur saw 187 and 185 respectively. As many as 162 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem. There were 160 cases in Chennai, 148 in Tiruppur and 135 in Chengalpattu. Daily cases fell below 100 in Tiruchi, with 98 people testing positive for COVID-19. The fresh cases took the tally to 25,23,943. Another 48 people — 14 in private hospitals and 34 in government facilities — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 33,502. Of the 48 fatalities, Salem recorded six, while there were five deaths each in Chennai, Dindigul and Tiruppur. Coimbatore logged a single death, while 19 districts saw none. Among the deceased was a 23-year-old woman with no co-morbidities. As many as 3,058 people were discharged, taking the total figure to 24,59,223. As many as 31,218 people are currently under treatment. Of these, Coimbatore has 3,779 active cases. A total of 1,40,132 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 3,48,26,887. Over three lakh persons received COVID-19 vaccines in the State on Tuesday, taking the total coverage to 1,69,76,728. As many as 3,35,466 people, including 1,71,112 in the 18-44 age group, were inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-2505-fresh-infections-and-48-fatalities/article35313773.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNSF invests Rs. 95 crore in affordable housing project||The Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund (TNSF), managed by the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation (TNIFMC), has invested Rs. 95 crore in an affordable housing project by Vijay Raja Homes Private Limited. The funds will be utilised for the construction and development of ‘VRX 360’, a 2,700-unit complex coming up at the Affordable Development Project in Thirumazhisai, a suburb in the western outskirts of the city. TNSF is a Category I (Social) Alternative Investment Fund invested in by global investors like World Bank, and managed by the TNIFMC. It invests in environmental, social and governance compliant affordable housing impact projects for commercial returns. According to a statement issued by JLL India, the advisor for the transaction, “This is the first time the World Bank has invested in an innovative finance vehicle to support and provide funding for good quality affordable houses by private developers.” Affordable segment “The affordable segment is our key focus and we believe in the government’s vision of housing for all,” said Chendilnathan, chairman and managing director, Vijay Raja Homes Private Limited. “Thirumazhisai is an ideal location — with great connectivity to both the city, via Outer Ring Road, and the industrial corridors, via National Highway 4. The infrastructure will be enhanced with the development of the phase II project of the Metro Rail. Apart from the upcoming residential developments, it also houses large auto original equipment manufacturers and industrial estates,” said Siva Krishnan, managing director, Chennai and Coimbatore, and head of residential services, JLL India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnsf-invests-rs-95-crore-in-affordable-housing-project/article35313778.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Physical education teacher held for murder in Kancheepuram||A physical education teacher was arrested by the Kancheepuram taluk police on charges of murdering a woman in Orikkai village. The victim was identified as Anitha, 42, who worked as Tamil professor in a private university. The victim stayed in a room on the terrace of her house while her sister lived on the ground floor. Police said late on Saturday, Anitha called her sister on the phone and hung up after saying that somebody was hiding in her room. Declared dead Later, her sister found her with bleeding injuries, and took her to a hospital, where she was declared dead. Police scrutinised Anitha’s phone call records and found she was frequently in touch with Sudhakar, 40, of Pandavaperumal Koil Street, Kancheepuram. Upon interrogation, the police learned that Sudhakar, a married man, and Anitha were in an illicit relationship. On the day of the incident, they had a quarrel as she insisted him to marry her. Hence, he went to her room and allegedly stabbed her before escaping. Sudhakar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-education-teacher-held-for-murder-in-kancheepuram/article35313783.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Study needed to identify genuine minority educational institutions’||Congress leader and the newly appointed Chairman of the State Minorities Commission, Peter Alphonse, has made a strong case for assessing and scrutinising minority educational institutions to classify genuine institutions. In an interview, he said it had become fashionable for institutions run by individuals to use the ‘minority’ label to turn the rights of the minorities to their advantage. Edited excerpts:  What role do you envisage for the State Minorities Commission when there are separate ministries for the welfare of the backward classes and minorities? The Minorities Commission is a statutory entity established by a special statute to look after the socio-economic condition and cultural identities of religious and linguistic minorities. Religious minorities constitute 20% of the State’s population, and linguistic minorities another 20%. This is a substantial population, and our role is to act as a bridge between the government and the minorities. The commission is a goodwill ambassador of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to them. While the government has a lot of schemes, the minorities have special requests and needs. It is our job to see to it that these schemes reach the real beneficiaries and bring their demands and requests to the government’s attention. When compared to the minorities elsewhere, do you agree that they are relatively free from discrimination in T.N.? We are fortunate to live in Tamil Nadu, where we are not facing existential threats. The social justice system has ensured a comfortable life for the minorities. There is a vast difference between the AIADMK and the DMK when it comes to the approach towards the minorities. We will never trust the AIADMK government because of their stand on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The AIADMK and the BJP are the two parties that have not condemned the death of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. Are you planning to carry out a study of the minorities, on the lines of those done by the Backward Classes Commission? There is a need to study the socio-economic condition of the minorities. We are clear about one thing: the majority should rule. We (minorities) have no intention to rule, but should be given the space to live as dignified citizens. There should be a proper understanding and cooperation between the minority and majority communities. What is the role of the Minorities Commission vis-à-vis minority educational institutions? We have requested the Chief Minister to assess and classify genuine minority educational institutions. Of late, it has become fashionable for everyone to label their institutions as minority institutions to reap the benefits of minority rights. These rights are specially designed to help institutions serving the poor and downtrodden, and not those run by individuals. What actually happens today is that these individual institutions are using the ‘minority’ tag to exploit minority rights to their advantage. These so-called minority institutions should be studied and classified. Our services can be used for the purpose. Dalits who had converted to Christianity and Islam have been demanding their inclusion in the SC list. What is the commission going to do about it? The DMK government is convinced that they should be given minority status. The Chief Minister has articulated the view on many platforms. . Why should the benefits extended to Dalits who convert to Sikhism and Buddhism be denied to those who convert to Christianity and Islam? Equality before law demands their inclusion in the SC list. Will it not amount to saying that conversion has not changed their status? Yes. I fully agree. Even the Church people are divided based on their caste identity. As Periyar [E.V. Ramasamy] famously said, one can change one’s religion and not caste.  There is a need to study the socio-economic condition of the minorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-needed-to-identify-genuine-minority-educational-institutions/article35313775.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. rolls out pneumococcal conjugate vaccine||Tamil Nadu rolled out the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine under the Universal Immunisation Programme on Tuesday. This will benefit 9,23,000 children every year in the State. Launching the vaccine at the urban primary health centre in Poonamallee, the Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said currently, nine vaccines, including those for protection against hepatitis B, polio, diphtheria, whooping cough, rotavirus, measles and rubella, were in use for children in the State. The Minister said pneumococcal conjugate vaccine was already rolled out in 21 States and was in use for the last two years. It would protect children against pneumonia and meningitis. He told reporters that the previous AIADMK government did not show interest in rolling out the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in the State. The vaccine would be administered at six weeks and 10 weeks with a booster dose at nine months of age. “In the private sector, one dose of this vaccine costs Rs. 4,000. The State government will spend Rs. 12,000 for three doses of the vaccine for the children. It will be administered free,” he said. He said the mothers would receive the handbook for vaccination, and would get reminders from the Health Department through SMS or WhatsApp for the remaining doses. On COVID-19 vaccines, he said that according to information obtained under the Right to Information Act two months ago, nearly 8.3% vaccines were wasted earlier. “We have overcome the vaccine wastage, and have achieved better utilisation through the efforts of doctors and nurses,” he said. He said that another one lakh doses of Covaxin and 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield was expected to reach Chennai on Tuesday. “Covaxin will be administered on priority basis for those who have received their first dose,” he said. Mr. Subramanian and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan are scheduled to meet the Union Health Minister on Thursday in Delhi. Among the issues to be discussed are increased supply of COVID-19 vaccines and starting admissions in the 11 new government medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-rolls-out-pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccine/article35313801.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras High Court order a blow to BJP, AIADMK, says Stalin||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday described as a blow to the “double standard of the BJP” and its “sidekick AIADMK” the Madras High Court order rejecting a PIL petition filed by BJP State secretary K. Nagarajan against the Justice A.K. Rajan committee, which was constituted to study the impact of NEET on medical admissions. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said the petition exposed the double standard of the BJP, as the party’s leader in the Assembly, Nainar Nagendran, had said it would be welcome if NEET was dispensed with through legal means. “The petition was filed against the interest of Tamil Nadu students to gain political mileage and satisfy someone,” he added. Noting that the committee was constituted to study NEET’s impact on the educational, social and economic conditions of the students, the Chief Minister said it had received the views of over 86,000 people so far. “The government will take the next course of action after receiving a report from the committee,” he said. Recalling the ruling of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy that the mere constitution of a committee cannot be considered an act of defiance against any order passed by the Supreme Court in favour of NEET, and that it did not pose even the remotest challenge to the constitutional right of the Centre to fix standards for higher education, Mr. Stalin said it was an important judgment in the DMK’s fight against NEET. “It is a beginning in the State government’s efforts to fulfil the dreams of students who want to study medicine,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the order upheld the rights of not only the students but also the State. “It is a first victory, and it has given hope to the State government that it will be a complete victory,” he said. The Chief Minister said legal action would follow after the State government receives the report of Justice A.K. Rajan. “Since the date for NEET has been announced, the State government's efforts cannot be completed. It is regrettable that students are under compulsion to write the examination when the State government is taking legal steps. But it will create a situation that will put an end to NEET,” he said.  It is a beginning in the State government’s efforts to fulfil the dreams of students who want to study medicine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-order-is-a-blow-to-bjp-aiadmk-stalin/article35313791.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision on reopening schools depends on COVID-19 situation’||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said a decision on reopening schools would be taken only after taking the COVID-19 situation into consideration and consulting with various stakeholders. Following Puducherry’s decision to reopen schools for senior classes from July 16, private school associations here had asked for a decision to be taken in Tamil Nadu as well. “Following the announcement made by the Puducherry government, the Education Department held a meeting on Monday. We will convey the recommendations of officials and stakeholders to the Chief Minister, who will then make a decision based on the COVID-19 situation in the State,” the Minister. He said the government would observe and study the measures Puducherry puts in place in its educational institutions. “We will also take into consideration what parents feel about reopening schools and whether they are confident about the safety of the students,” he said. While NEET (UG) is scheduled to be held on September 12, the Minister said the Tamil Nadu government was against its conduct. As of last week, he said nearly 3.4 lakh students had joined government schools across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-reopening-schools-depends-on-covid-19-situation/article35313770.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan urges govt. to start radio service for students||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday suggested that the State government start a radio service for students similar to television channels that broadcast educational content. In a statement, he cited the initiative of school teacher A. Karthik Raja from Kaththazhai, near Bhuvanagiri in Cuddalore district, who has created an internet radio service to help students who have access only to 2G internet service. “Around 75 teachers have coordinated their efforts to help in this initiative. Thousands of students up to the eighth standard have benefited from this initiative. This does not require a big investment or technological equipment. 300 MB of data is enough,” he said. The radio service has been used 3.2 lakh times and has been in use for over 14,500 hours. “This is proof of its necessity. Students from poor and humble backgrounds can benefit from this,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the radio service could help students who do not have access to laptops, smartphones or uninterrupted internet connection. “As students constantly stare at screens and listen on headsets for a prolonged time, it is affecting their eyesight and hearing abilities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-urges-govt-to-start-radio-service-for-students/article35313796.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital launches centre for treatment of hernia||GEM Hospital has recently inaugurated a laparoscopic and robotic institute for hernia and abdominal wall reconstruction on its campus here. Inaugurating the institute, Tamil Nadu Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian lauded hospital chairman C. Palanivelu for pioneering the use of laparoscopy for hernia repair in the State. Pointing out that hernia was a common problem affecting the public, particularly labourers and agricultural workers, the Minister said laparoscopic procedure for treating hernia helped since the possibility of recurrence was low, and workers could quickly get back to work due to faster recovery. He appealed to the hospital to train more doctors from government institutions on laparoscopic procedures. Dr. Palanivelu said though hernia was a common clinical condition, many people did not seek treatment due to fear of pain, prolonged recovery and possibility of recurrence. He said with advancement in technology and expertise, patients could be confident that the hernia could be treated with less pain, faster recovery and affordable cost without the possibility of recurrence. Highlighting the need for abdominal wall reconstruction in case of complex hernias to reinforce the integrity of the muscles, he said with the new institute, the hospital would further enhance its comprehensive approach.  Laparoscopic procedure for treating hernia helps as the possibility of recurrence is low, and workers can quickly get back to work due to faster recovery Ma. Subramanian Tamil Nadu Medical and Family Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-hospital-launches-centre-for-treatment-of-hernia/article35313781.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin extends KYC submission deadline for monthly cardholders||Aavin has extended the deadline for submission of the Know Your Customer (KYC) forms by a month for monthly cardholders. This follows requests from many card consumers. The milk major had insisted that consumers can renew their cards only if they provided KYC details. Card consumers get milk at a discounted price of Rs. 3 a litre since they pay the month’s charge in advance. Aavin sells around 6 lakh litres a day via monthly cards. Sources in Aavin said they had received complaints that some retail shops and wholesalers were availing the benefit of subsidy extended to cardholders and were selling the card milk at MRP in the open market. “In order to prevent this, an effort has been taken to validate the genuineness of the cardholders,” an official said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-extends-kyc-submission-deadline-for-monthly-cardholders/article35313776.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surgery for disc correction done with help of ultrasound guidance||A woman, who was 13 weeks pregnant, recently underwent a procedure to remove a prolapsed disc using an ultrasound endoscopic method in Gleneagles Global Health City. The woman from Salem had been suffering from severe backache radiating to the leg and was unable to walk, stand or lie down in a single position. Doctors told her the surgery to correct her disc prolapse would require her to be exposed to x-rays, which could harm the foetus. She then consulted S. Karunakaran, director, Institute of Spine Sciences, Gleneagles Global Health City. After evaluation, interventional radiologist P. Mohnish and his team opted for an ultrasound-guided surgery without x-ray radiation. The doctors made an 8-mm incision and used ultrasound to map the affected discs (L4-L5) under epidural anaesthesia to prevent placental exchange of hazardous general anaesthesia drugs. Post-procedure, she expressed relief from the pain and was discharged the same day. Zero x-ray radiation Dr. Karunakaran said, “As a team, we were able to achieve complete pain relief without harming the mother and foetus with zero x-ray radiation risk at the Advanced Endoscopic Spine Centre.” According to Dr. Mohnish, it was the first time ultrasound had been used to identify the disc level in an adult patient without x-ray radiation. “Interventional radiology uses high-end, cutting edge technology for treatment, and soon many people will be able to avail themselves of the benefit,” he said. Hospital CEO Alok Khullar said, “Maternity brings great happiness and fulfilment to the family as a unit, and I am thrilled that our doctors were able to safely relieve the intense pain of the patient without any possible risk to the baby.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-for-disc-correction-done-with-help-of-ultrasound-guidance/article35313784.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wear handloom clothes, Stalin advises govt. staff||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said government employees should be advised to wear handloom clothes twice a week to promote those products. Mr. Stalin held a review meeting with Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan and Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi. He also asked the officials to take steps to take the products of Co-Optex to the younger generation and come up with new designs for all age groups. Besides, he advised that the products be promoted among higher income groups to augment revenue as this would benefit the weavers. The Chief Minister asked officials to make efforts to build a brand for the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wear-handloom-clothes-stalin-advises-govt-staff/article35313789.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Revive free data card scheme for students’||Former Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Tuesday urged the State government to revive the scheme of providing 2 GB data cards free of cost to students of government colleges and polytechnics, apart from government-aided colleges. Pointing out that the scheme was in operation till April, he said the students, who belonged to the poor and the middle classes, were now not in a position to renew the cards, by spending Rs. 200 or Rs. 400 a month. At the same time, they were confused about whether online classes would continue this year too or if educational institutions would open, Mr. Palaniswami said, recalling that when the previous AIADMK government launched the scheme in January this year, it covered 9.7 lakh students. He urged the government to get the cards renewed and distributed to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revive-free-data-card-scheme-for-students/article35313794.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No rules flouted in construction of thermal plants, says Minister||Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji clarified that the construction work for the Ennore and North Chennai Stage 3 Thermal Stations are being carried out after getting all the necessary permissions from the Central Environmental Agency. He denied the accusation of environmental activists that rules had been flouted for the construction of the plants. In a press release, Mr. Senthilbalaji said all the construction work was being carried out under the supervision of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. Also, both power stations are being constructed as per the designs of the super critical thermal stations. The Minister also pointed out the pipelines for bringing seawater, establishment of coal conveyor belt and bridges on which the belts would function are being constructed on land owned by the State government. Regarding the issue of a road on the Buckingham Canal and Kosasthalaiyar river, he pointed out it was only a temporary road to facilitate the construction of the thermal stations, and after completion, the roads would be dismantled. While the North Chennai Stage 3 Project has been given time till January 2023, the Ennore plant’s construction will continue till December 2023, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-rules-flouted-in-construction-of-thermal-plants-says-minister/article35313782.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Survey to identify persons with diabetes’||A massive survey to identify people with diabetes and hypertension will be taken up in Tamil Nadu soon. An initiative to deliver medicines for them at their homes will be launched, said Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian. Holding a review meeting on Tuesday, the Minister said there were nearly 20 lakh people with diabetes and hypertension in the State. They faced difficulties in getting medicines from health sub-centres, primary health centres and government hospitals for the last one-and-a-half years due to the restrictions on transportation. ‘Serious situation’ The number of people travelling in buses to government hospitals to get the medicines had declined. When a person with uncontrolled diabetes tests positive for COVID-19, it can be fatal. With no proper way to get medicines from government hospitals, people have been getting affected to a large extent, he said. He said a mega survey would be taken up for the purpose, and an initiative to deliver medicines to patients at their homes through government medical staff would be started soon. He said they were planning to provide physiotherapy for those affected with paralysis in their homes and dialysis for others, again at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-to-identify-diabetics/article35313771.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Exempt customs/IGST on life-saving drugs’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, requesting the government to exempt Customs Duty, integrated GST or any such tax on the import of life-saving drugs for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Pointing out that the gene therapy for this genetic disorder cost over Rs. 16 crore per person, Mr. Stalin, in his letter, said Tamil Nadu annually saw 90-100 such cases. As these drugs are imported, Customs Duty and integrated GST levied on them further increase the cost of gene therapy, he said. “Hence, I request you to give necessary instructions to the Ministry of Finance to take steps to exempt Customs Duty, integrated GST/any other such tax on the import of life-saving drugs for the treatment of SMA, as a policy,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exempt-customsigst-on-life-saving-drugs/article35313761.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to celebrate centenary of Sankaraiah||As CPI(M) leader and freedom fighter N. Sankaraiah turns 100 on July 15, the State Platform for Common School System- Tamil Nadu has requested the State government to celebrate his centenary. “Mr. Sankaraiah personified simplicity, integrity and hard work. Not everyone gets the opportunity to celebrate the centenary of a living freedom fighter, but Tamil Nadu has been given a rare chance. The government should celebrate it with the people,” said president P. Rathinasabapathy and general secretary P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu in their letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Mr. Sankaraiah was a student of the American College in Madurai, but could not complete his degree because he was arrested in 1941 when he was a final-year student. He spent almost eight years in jail, and was released a day before India gained independence. When the Communist party split, he joined the newly-launched CPI(M) and was elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly in the 1967, 1977 and 1980 elections. He was also the secretary of the State unit of CPI(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-celebrate-centenary-of-sankaraiah/article35313765.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||65 Aedes mosquito pools test negative for Zika||In light of Zika virus cases in Kerala, the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has taken up surveillance in areas bordering Kerala. As part of monitoring, 65 Aedes mosquito pools, collected from areas bordering Kerala, were tested at the State Public Health Laboratory (SPHL). All pools were found to be negative for the Zika virus. According to the Directorate, Zika virus is transmitted by the Aedes mosquitoes that also transmit dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. Recently, cases of Zika virus were reported in Kerala, and as of July 12, as many as 18 cases had been documented. RT-PCR tests are the method of choice for confirming Zika virus, and serum samples are collected in the first five days after the onset of symptoms. The SPHL is an Indian Council of Medical Research-approved RT-PCR laboratory for COVID-19 testing in Tamil Nadu, handling a load of 7,000-8,000 samples a day. SPHL has the capacity for surveillance and diagnosis of vector-borne diseases such as dengue, Japanese encephalitis and Zika, from human and mosquito samples from the field, by the RT-PCR method. The facility currently has Zika-specific RT-PCR test kits, and human samples and mosquito pools can be tested for the Zika virus for laboratory confirmation, a report issued by the DPH on Zika virus surveillance and diagnostic capacity in Tamil Nadu said. SPHL tested 65 Ades mosquito pools from areas bordering Kerala, and all of them returned negative for the Zika virus. This activity was “innovative and unique for Tamil Nadu under the Vector Borne Disease Control programme”, it said. On a war footing In Chennai, officials said the ongoing measures for dengue control should help monitor the Zika virus as well. “Both are caused by the same species, Aedes. So dengue control measures are adequate to keep a watch on Zika. We are taking dengue control measures on a war footing,” an official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said. He said 2,080 domestic breeding checkers were deployed to take up regular checks on a daily basis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-aedes-mosquito-pools-test-negative-for-zika/article35313769.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. rolls out pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for children||Tamil Nadu rolled out the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine under the Universal Immunisation Programme on Tuesday. This will benefit 9,23,000 children every year in the State. Launching the vaccine at the Urban Primary Health Centre in Poonamallee, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said currently, nine vaccines, including those for protection against hepatitis B, polio, diphtheria, whooping cough, rotavirus, measles and rubella, were in use for children in the State. The Minister added that pneumococcal conjugate vaccine was already rolled out in 21 States and was in use for the last two years. It would protect children against pneumonia and meningitis. Three doses Speaking to reporters, he alleged that the AIADMK government did not show interest in rolling out the vaccine. It would be administered at six weeks and 10 weeks with a booster dose at nine months of age. “In the private sector, one dose of this vaccine costs Rs. 4,000. The State government will spend Rs. 12,000 for three doses of the vaccine for the children. The vaccine will be administered ffor ree,” he said. Prevent deaths The vaccine would prevent deaths due to pneumonia and meningitis. He said mothers would receive the handbook for vaccination and would get reminders from the Health Department through SMS or WhatsApp for the remaining doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-rolls-out-pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccine-for-children/article35313793.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four new members for TNPSC||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday appointed four new members to the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC). IAS officer S. Munianathan, Professor K. Jothi Sivagnanam, K. Arulmathi and Fr. A. Raj Mariasusai are the new members appointed by the government. Their term would be for six years or till they attain the age of 62, a Government Order issued in this regard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-new-members-for-tnpsc/article35314162.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advise govt. staff to wear handloom twice a week: CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said government employees should be advised to wear handloom clothes twice a week to promote handloom products. Mr. Stalin held a review meeting with Minister for Rural T.M. Anbarasan and Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi. The Chief Minister also asked the officials to take steps to take forward the products of Co-Optex to the younger generation and to come up with new designs for all age groups. Besides, he advised that the products be promoted among higher income groups to augment the revenue as this would benefit the weavers. ‘Build a brand’ The Chief Minister asked officials to make efforts to build a brand for the products. Mr. Stalin also discussed with officials the preparation of a draft plan to implement a slew of schemes to increase silk production in the State. A sum of Rs. 1000 crore had been allotted for this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advise-govt-staff-to-wear-handloom-twice-a-week-cm/article35313910.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over relief||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday handed over a relief of Rs. 20 lakh from the Kargil Defence Personnel Relief Fund to the family members of each of the four soldiers from the State, who died while in the service of the nation. Mr. Stalin handed over the cheque for Rs. 20 lakh to family members of each of deceased personnel at the Secretariat on Tuesday. The family members of soldiers -- N. Balamurugan of Madurai district, N. Santhosh of Krishnagiri district, S. Anand of Kanniyakumari district and S. Sabarinathan of Tirupattur district received the cash assistance, an official release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hands-over-relief-to-families-of-4-slain-soldiers/article35313873.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Long wait for COVID-19 vaccine continues in Coimbatore district||Hundreds of people thronged vaccination centres in Coimbatore district where camps for the general public aged above 18 were held on Tuesday after 10 days. People formed queues in front of many vaccination centres from Monday night to ensure that they got the tokens as the camps started on Tuesday morning. Minor tension prevailed at many centres as several people who waited in queues from the early hours were not given tokens. At Nadoor near Mettupalayam, people queued up from Monday night. Many people -- senior citizens and youngsters -- came to the place with mats to sleep on by the side of roads. They also carried snacks and mosquito repellents to pass the night. At a school near Nanjundapuram, people formed queues as early as 2 a.m. They continued the wait for the vaccine even though it rained around 6.30 a.m. Road block At Subramaniampalayam, people staged a road blockade after the vaccination drive did not start as announced in the morning. People who did not get token after waiting for several hours staged a protest at Vadamadurai near Thudiyalur. Minor tension prevailed at several other vaccination centres and the police stepped in to control the crowd. According to the district administration, a total of 21,550 doses of Covishield vaccine were allotted to 61 centres in the district on Tuesday. Of these, 7,750 doses were administered through 31 centres in Coimbatore Corporation limits. The rural areas received 12,800 doses through 30 centres. A senior official involved in the vaccination programme said that centres were overcrowded as allotment of doses for vaccinating the general public aged above 18 came after a gap of 10 days. The official said that the previous allotment the district received was used for vaccinating persons aged above 65, who had taken the first dose of Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-wait-for-covid-19-vaccine-continues-in-coimbatore-district/article35313813.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek time to pay GST||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) here have appealed to the State government to take up with the Union government the need for time for the units to pay GST this month and next month. The Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy held a meeting here on Monday with members of trade and industry. It is impossible for the units to pay both, GST and Income Tax before the due dates in July/August. Hence, the last date for payment of taxes should be extended. The late fees applicable on delayed filing of GSTR 1 should be waived off. The interest and penalty on GST due dates during April 2021 to July 2021 should be completely waived, said the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association in a memorandum submitted to the Minister. GST refund  Its president M.V. Ramesh Babu said the pending GST refunds should be released immediately and a centralised counter should be opened at the office of the joint commissioner of Sales Tax to receive all communications related to refund, grievances, etc., he said. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has said the threshold limit for registration for those who deal exclusively in supply of Services or who deal in both Goods and Services should be increased to Rs. 40 lakh. Further, there should not be interest on the amount credited in electronic cash ledger and it should be considered as tax paid because the amount is paid only in government account, said the Chamber president C. Balasubramanian. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations said that engineering job work units were exempted from Value Added Tax. Now, the units pay 12 % GST. This has resulted in financial crisis for micro units. The units should come under the 5 % GST slab, it said. Every tax payer should be given an assigning circle / assessment officer. Even now there is no clarity for tax payers on which circle they belong to, it said. The Coimbatore and Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association said the condition that the receiver of goods cannot claim input tax credit if the seller does not file the monthly data. This should be set right, the Association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-seek-time-to-pay-gst/article35313803.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. removes encroachment on Muthannankulam||The Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday demolished seven temples built encroaching on the Muthannankulam, off Poosaripalayam Road. Officials led by Executive Engineer S. Ravichandran and Assistant Town Planning Officer K. Sathya deployed earth movers and heavy machinery to demolish Amman Kovil, Bannari Amman Kovil, Angala Parameswari, Karupparayan Kovil, Muneeswaran Kovil and a few other temples on the northern bund of the tank, which the Corporation had taken up for rejuvenation and development under the Smart Cities Mission. Families removed The Corporation had earlier removed around 2,400 families from the tank bund after demolishing their houses in early 2020 and providing alternative houses in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board projects in Keeranatham, Malumichampattyand Kovaipudur. It was after relocating the people that the Corporation had to demolish the temples to prevent law and order issues, said the Corporation sources. However, around 150 persons gathered near the tank to oppose the demolition. The Coimbatore City Police personnel present there removed the protesters. With the demolition of the seven temples, the Muthannankulam bund was almost free of encroachments, the sources said and added that the total land reclaimed thus far was 14 acre. The total tank area was 90 acre. The sources further said that the Corporation would next focus on removing encroachments on Krishnampathy tank, which was west of Muthannankulam. The Corporation had already relocated close to 300 families who lived encroaching the tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-removes-encroachment-on-muthannankulam/article35313821.ece
14 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmers lock horns with HR&CE Dept. over alleged encroachment||With the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department identifying around 23 acres of allegedly encroached temple lands in Sulur, the farmers who were identified as encroachers denied any encroachment during a meeting with the officials here on Tuesday. Sources in the HR&CE Department said that nine farmers in Sulur taluk were identified to have encroached on around 23 acres that belonged to Mandhiragiri Velayudha Swamy Temple in Thencherimalai. The officials had issued notices to the alleged encroachers earlier this year, asking them to hand over the land to the HR&CE Department. They, however, refused to do so by claiming that they had pattas and were not encroaching on the land. HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan called for a meeting on Tuesday with the nine farmers, the sources said. Around 50 persons, including members of the Tamilaga Vivasayigal Pathukappu Sangam, a farmers association, visited the office to participate in the meeting. The association’s founder M. Easan told mediapersons that the temple lands were ‘inam’ lands that were gifted by various rulers centuries ago and the ownership of the lands were transferred to the farmers as per the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963. Hence, he claimed that the farmers were not encroachers and that they had pattas for the land. However, the HR&CE Department sources said that the patta for the 23 acres was registered in the temple’s name and contended that the farmers did not have pattas as claimed by Mr. Easan. A second meeting will be held here on July 20, during which the farmers will be required to furnish evidence for their claimed ownership of the land, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-lock-horns-with-hrce-dept-over-alleged-encroachment/article35313808.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive against anthrax begins||The Animal Husbandry Department on Tuesday started vaccination drive against anthrax in the villages near Anaikatti in Coimbatore district, where the infectious disease claimed the life of a wild elephant in a reserve forest area. Three teams formed R. Perumalsamy, Joint Director of the Animal Husbandry Department in Coimbatore, said three teams were formed for the special drive that started on Tuesday. “As per the standard operating procedure (SOP), the vaccination against anthrax should be done in a radius of eight km from the place where the animal was found dead due to the disease. We have identified around 250 cattle and goats belonging to people who live in the radius for vaccination,” he said. According to Dr. Perumalsamy, the Department has enough stock of anthrax spore vaccine to administer to the targeted number of cattle and goats. The vaccination drive was expected to be completed in two to three days. District Forest Officer (DFO) D. Venkatesh said that he interacted with officials of the Kerala Forest Department to check whether any case of anthrax infection was reported within the limits of Palakkad and Mannarkkad Forest Divisions that share boundaries with the forest areas of Tamil Nadu. Last incidence “According to Palakkad DFO, the last incidence of anthrax was reported in the Division a year ago. Mannarkkad Division did not have any case recently as per information shared from the Kerala side,” Mr. Venkatesh said. In Coimbatore Forest Division, the last incidence of anthrax was reported in December 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-against-anthrax-begins-following-elephants-death/article35313815.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile exporters seek removal of import duty on cotton||The Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (Texprocil) has appealed to the Union Textile Minister Piyush Goyal to remove the Customs Duty on cotton as it is mainly the extra long staple branded cotton and contamination free cotton that are imported. Chairman of the Council Manoj Patodia, Vice Chairman Sunil Patwari, and Executive Director Siddhartha Rajagopal met the Minister in Mumbai recently and discussed issues that the the industry faced and the growth prospects for cotton textiles. Exports of Cotton textiles (including raw cotton) during 2020-2021 reached US$ 10,723 million as against US$ 9,799 million in 2019-20, registering 9.43 % growth. Mr. Patodia pointed out the need for the industry to have cotton at international prices and to promote export of value added products. He also said the RODTEP rates should be notified at the earliest and RoSCTL rates should be maintained for made ups under the RODTEP scheme. Duty concessions On the Indo-UK Free Trade Agreement, the Council urged the Minister to include textiles and clothing sector upfront in the “pre-negotiation scoping phase” or any envisaged “early harvest” programme to overcome the disadvantage faced by the Indian exporters due to duty concessions already granted by the UK to Bangladesh , Pakistan, Vietnam, Turkey and Sri Lanka. He also sought measures to expedite the Indo- EU Free Trade Agreement to help the Indian exporters overcome the disadvantages of tariff preferences given to competing countries by European Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-exporters-seek-removal-of-import-duty-on-cotton/article35313804.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Probe should cover Bharathiar, Thiruvalluvar varsities also’||The Association of University Teachers has urged the State Government to expand the scope of its inquiry into the alleged irregularities in appointments in Bharathiar University, Coimbatore and Thiruvalluvar University, Vellore. In a release issued here on Tuesday, association president P. Thirunavukkarasu said the organisation welcomed the Government’s move to probe appointment and promotion irregularities in Madurai Kamaraj, Periyar and Annamalai universities. It wanted the Government to expand the scope to include the Bharathiar and Thiruvalluvar universities as well. Further, he sought an inquiry into the alleged harassment the Periyar University staff had faced during the terms of the last two Vice- Chancellors and the irregularities during their terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-should-cover-bharathiar-thiruvalluvar-varsities-also/article35313909.ece
14 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Award for Shanti Ashram president||President of NGO Shanti Ashram Kezevino Aram has been chosen by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, the public health school of Harvard University, for its 2021 Leadership Award in Public Health Practice. A release said she was the first Indian chosen for this award that recognises a “graduate of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health who has been an outstanding example of effective leadership in the practice of public health, in the public or private sphere.” Dr. Aram received her Master of Public Health degree from the School of Public Health with a double major in child health and international health, the release said. She founded in 2017 the International Centre for Child and Public Health that focuses on paediatric care. In March 2020, the State government invited her to be part of the expert committee formed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-shanti-ashram-president/article35313806.ece
14 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in elephant attack||A 54-year-old man, working as a driver on contract with the eco-tourism section of Kovai Courtallam, was injured in an attack by a wild elephant late on Monday. A senior official from Boluvampatti forest range said the driver, N. Vijayakumar, did not report for duty on Monday. However, he came to the Forest Department checkpost on the way to Vaidehi Falls near Narasipuram where the staff were driving away a wild elephant that strayed into human habitations. Another wild elephant that unexpectedly passed through the area attacked him and he was injured in both legs. He was initially taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, from where he was shifted to a private hospital. His condition was said to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-injured-in-elephant-attack/article35313906.ece
14 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Coimbatore Productivity Council has announced a one-year diploma course in Quality Management. A release said that those who have completed Class 10, Class 12 or any diploma were eligible to enrol in the part-time course. Those interested shall contact 99524 04302, 73736 63002 and 82200 00371/2/3/4 for further details   Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International will conduct an online (Zoom platform) meeting on July 16 to improve communication skills. The meeting number is 870 8197 2333 and those interested may contact 95004 02317 or 99946 06591 on WhatsApp for details.    Officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board collected samples from Nallar and Noyyal rivers in Tiruppur to check for the extent of pollution. The sample for River Nallar was collected at the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Angeripalayam and the sample for River Noyyal was collected from the CETP in Kasipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35313810.ece
14 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||BJP Dharmapuri unit demands ‘Kongu Nadu’||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Dharmapuri unit adopted a resolution on Tuesday demanding the formation of ‘Kongu Nadu’ by carving out the western districts from Tamil Nadu. This is the second BJP district unit to raise the demand, after the party’s Coimbatore North unit passed a similar resolution on Monday. The party’s district executive committee sought the formation of a separate ‘Kongu Nadu’ at its meeting. The committee also passed resolutions demanding the implementation of Hogenekkal surplus water scheme and fill lakes with surplus water through lift irrigation. The committee urged the State government to expedite the works for SIPCOT park, and wanted the government to desilt River Sanathkumar and remove encroachments. The party unit also wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s portrait displayed at all Government offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-dharmapuri-unit-demands-kongu-nadu/article35313805.ece
14 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Found dead||An elderly couple was found dead near their residence in Bommidi here on Tuesday. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Krishnan (75) and Sulochana (70). They were staying at their farm house in Pilparuthi. On Tuesday morning, passers-by noticed their bodies and alerted the police. Superintendent of Police C. Kalaichelvan visited the spot. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-found-dead/article35313898.ece
14 July 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Police lenient towards usurers, says forum||The police were not taking stern action against usury menace and not registering cases against those moneylenders even if complaints were lodged against them, said members of Untouchability Eradication Front (TNUEF) who staged a demonstration along with cadres of Communist Party of India (Marxist) in front of the Collectorate here on Tuesday. Citing an instance, the protesters said that despite lodging a complaint with Vedasandur police Inspector on January 27, no action was taken against usury menace. The DSP also had not questioned his subordinates for the inaction. The usurers, who lent money in the range of Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 50,000 to people belonging to the Scheduled Caste communities, had collected several lakhs of rupees as interest over the years and refused to return the bonds even after the principal was paid. Even if the victims approached the police, they offered no help. Usury menace was high in Undarpatti, Ayyampalayam, Vadamadurai and Perumpulli, the protesters said. ‘Women are abused’ Former CPI(M) MLA Balabharathi said that the SC women were harassed by the moneylenders. On many occasions, they abused them by derogatorily calling them by their caste name. It was condemnable and unfortunate that the police did nothing even after receiving complaints, she said. TNUEF State secretary Samuel Raj, CPI(M) district secretary R. Sachidanandam, who spoke, demanded action against the usurers under Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act  and punish them for abusing the Dalits. ADSP Vellaichami held talks with the agitators and assured to take swift action against the usurers following which the demonstrators dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-lenient-towards-usurers-says-forum/article35313886.ece
14 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Merchants start arriving at textile market||With resumption of bus and train services, merchants from other districts and from nearby States visited the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani market) here on Tuesday. There are 370 permanent shops on the premises that function every day while 730 shops function from Monday night to Tuesday night. Following the COVID-19 second wave, all the shops were closed from May 6 and were reopened on July 5. However, shops were allowed to function only till 9 p.m. and the weekly market was not allowed to function throughout the night. Merchants from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala visited the weekly shops on Tuesday and placed orders while traders from across the district and from other districts also visited the market. Though expected sales did not happen, traders said the volume of sale had picked up when compared to last week. S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association, said since bus services resumed and most of the trains were operated, merchants arrived at the market without trouble. “We expect sales to improve in the coming weeks,” he said and added that Aadi sales had picked up in the market. Since lockdown norms were relaxed and business returned to normalcy in other States, sale of textiles to Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal had also improved in the past two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/merchants-start-arriving-at-textile-market/article35313896.ece
14 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Permit tribal communities to harvest withered bamboos: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the Forest Department to permit tribal communities to harvest withered bamboos from the forest area and sell it to generate small income for them. The party’s Talavadi East Union members met at Talavadi on Monday and discussed various issues related to tribal rights and Forest Rights Act. The meeting was chaired by Kanakarai Nagarai in which S. Mohan Kumar, State Committee Member, and functionaries from Neithalapuram, Talamalai, Hasanur, Germalam and Thingalur panchayats took part. A resolution passed in the meeting said most of the bamboo in the Sathyamangalam forest area had dried up and slanted. Usually, the life of bamboo was 40 years after which it started flowering, generating rice and slant. The resolution said most of the trees had generated rice and were falling. Once it was on the ground, termites attacked the bamboo after which it served no purpose. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, tribal communities were facing a crisis and farming activities failed to help them. Also, they were unable to go for jobs to the plains. Since the forest area came under tiger reserve, the Forest Department was preventing them from collecting minor forest produce (MFP) also. Bamboo was a grass and not a tree and was not consumed by wild animals. The Forest Right Act (FRA), 2006, allowed tribal communities to harvest green bamboo and utilise it. Hence, permission should be given to harvest the bamboo. Mr. Mohan Kumar said as per the FRA, 2006, Community Forest Rights (CFR) was given to the tribal communities to collect MFP and Gram Sabha in the hamlets should pass a resolution of such rights and submit it to the sub-divisional level committee headed by Revenue Divisional Officer. The RDO would forward the application to the district-level committee headed by the District Collector. “Once the rights are approved, communities can collect MFP without any trouble,” he added. But citing that Critical Tiger Habitats were yet to be demarcated in the tiger reserves, communities were denied their rights, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-tribal-communities-to-harvest-withered-bamboos-cpi/article35313894.ece
14 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,500 persons vaccinated in Erode||Over 10,500 persons were vaccinated at 107 centres across the district on Tuesday, taking the number of vaccinated people to 4.78 lakh in the district. After a gap of eight days, vaccination camps resumed in the district on Monday with over 15,500 persons getting vaccinated at 111 centres. On Tuesday, 10,700 doses of Covishield were available and each of the 87 centres in rural areas and 20 centres in the Corporation limits were allotted 100 doses. In each centre, women waited for over 12 hours to receive tokens and get vaccinated. Also, over five private hospitals in the city started vaccinating people and more hospitals are making arrangements to conduct vaccination camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10500-persons-vaccinated-in-erode/article35313897.ece
14 July 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Four held for attack on Kodaikanal resident||Kodaikanal police arrested four persons from Sellur in Madurai on a charge of assaulting a resident here in an inebriated state. Police said that eight persons from Sellur visited the hill station two days ago. They were staying in a cottage on Convent Road. Some of them had consumed liquor and were creating a ruckus. When a resident, Jerald Peter, objected to their behaviour, the youths attacked him and also damaged his car. Police rushed to the spot and picked up the gang. The victim was admitted to the Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-attack-on-kodaikanal-resident/article35313854.ece
14 July 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Four held for attack||Kodaikanal police arrested four persons from Sellur in Madurai on a charge of assaulting a resident here in an inebriated state. Police said that eight persons from Sellur visited the hill station two days ago. They were staying in a cottage on Convent Road. Some of them had consumed liquor and were creating a ruckus. When a resident, Jerald Peter, objected to their behaviour, the youths attacked him and also damaged his car. On information, the police rushed to the spot and picked up the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-attack/article35314085.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ring well with design unearthed at Keeladi||Every season of excavation at Keeladi archaeological site has unearthed ring wells, an indicator of the advanced water conservation technology that existed more than 2,000 years ago. But the recovery of a terracotta ring well with thumb impressions creatively carved on a band around its surface, ushered in a wave of excitement among the staff at work. “So far we have excavated a dozen plain ring wells and this is the first one with an intricate design,” said M. Ramesh, one of the four Archaeological Officers (AO), who has been assigned to the Keeladi site from round one. The ring well was traced at a depth of 126 cm in one of the eight pits dug for the seventh phase of excavation that resumed last month after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. On Tuesday, three layers of the ring well were exposed. The height of the first ring is 44 cm with a diameter of 77 cm. The overall height of the ring well with a 2.5 cm thick rim is 79 cm. The second ring has a slightly differently designed band around the structure. It has depressions in the shape of small squares. Aesthetic sense Deputy Director of Archaeology and the director of Keeladi excavations R. Sivanandam said that the ring well with designs is a new find, indicating the aesthetic sense of people living in those times. “It is interesting to see how they used their creativity even on things of basic needs and necessity,” he said. “We will dig up to a depth of 4.25 metre to see how deep the well is and if there are more such designs visible,” said Ajay Kumar, another AO. In the last phase, one ring well was excavated and fifth phase unearthed the highest at three. The Keeladi ring wells also testify the science behind the structures. Each ring is designed with a locking system and they sit tightly one on top of the other, to prevent sand from getting in, considering Keeladi’s proximity to Vaigai river and the sandy terrain of the region, said Mr. Ramesh. He said that it can be presumed that the ring wells helped the settlers to store water for the drought months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ring-well-with-design-unearthed-at-keeladi/article35313879.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses former MP’s petition||Dismissing the plea filed by former AIADMK MP R. Gopalakrishnan who sought to unlock and unseal the office premises that had been allotted to him by Madurai Corporation, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that persons holding public office were supposed to vacate and hand over the office premises after their tenure was over. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that persons holding a public office like Member of Parliament and Member of the Legislative Assembly were not expected to squat on public property. The court observed that the petitioner does not have any vested right to continue possession of the property. The judge observed that the petitioner was utilising the property given by the Corporation as an office space in his capacity as an MP and once he ceases to be an MP he loses his right to occupy the property. The court would have directed the removal of the lock and seal if it was the petitioner’s private premises, taking into account that the election was over. The court observed that it was left open to the Corporation to utilise the office premises after removing the lock and seal. If there were any arrears, it was left open to the Corporation to collect the same from the petitioner and any articles in the office premises belonging to the former MP could be handed over to him. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that he was allotted the office premises by Madurai Corporation on a rental basis in 2014. During the 2021 assembly elections, banners in the office premises were removed and subsequently the office was kept under lock and seal. The steps were taken by the election flying squad based on a complaint. Even after the election was over the office remained under lock and seal, he complained. He said that he had also sent several representations to the authorities concerned in this regard. The petitioner sought a direction to the authorities to unlock and unseal the office premises by considering his representation. A probe based on the complaint is pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-former-mps-petition/article35314078.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Virtual alumni meet held||The Fatima College Alumnae Association (FCAA) organised a virtual annual alumni meet on July 10. Bharathi Sankara Rajulu, lecturer, Tamil and Telugu, Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, University of California, and Tanvi Kapadia, CEO and Founder, INCORPORAN Inc., New York City, USA, were the chief guests. R. Velankanni Matharasi, secretary of FCAA, presented the annual report. She thanked the alumnae from the FCAA US West Coast chapter for their contribution of Rs. 1.5 lakh towards education of students from economically weak sections of the society. Principal Rev. Sr. G. Celine Sahaya Mary spoke about the importance of women being multitaskers. Ms. Bharathi Sankara Rajulu recalled her fond memories during her college life. Ms. Tanvi Kapadia stressed the importance of value education and how it helped her uphold values against all challenges in life. Rev. Sr. M. Francisca Flora, college secretary, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-alumni-meet-held/article35314080.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments removed||The district administration began a drive to evict people from Mullai Nagar who have encroached upon the BB Kulam tank on Tuesday. A revenue official said that for the past 30 years, residents have encroached upon the BB Kulam tank and have built houses and shops inside the waterspread area of the tank. Recently, the Madurai bench of Madras High Court ordered the eviction of the encroachments. The official said that 581 houses have been built by encroaching the waterbody. “We have informed the residents to evacuate from their residences within the next few days,” he said. The district administration razed 100 shops and two bathroom complexes on Tuesday. The official said that the High Court had ordered for evicting the residents by April. However, the process got delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have urged the residents to relocate to the apartments built at Rajakoor constructed by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-removed/article35314082.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||First ring well with design unearthed at Keeladi archaeological site||Every season of excavation at Keeladi archaeological site has unearthed ring wells, an indicator of the advanced water conservation technology that existed more than 2,000 years ago. But the recovery of a terracotta ring well with thumb impressions creatively carved on a band around its surface, ushered in a wave of excitement among the staff at work. “So far we have excavated a dozen plain ring wells and this is the first one with an intricate design,” said M. Ramesh, one of the four Archaeological Officers (AO), who has been assigned to the Keeladi site from round one. The ring well was traced at a depth of 126 cm in one of the eight pits dug for the seventh phase of excavation that resumed last month after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. On Tuesday, three layers of the ring well were exposed. The height of the first ring is 44 cm with a diameter of 77 cm. The overall height of the ring well with a 2.5 cm thick rim is 79 cm. The second ring has a slightly differently designed band around the structure. It has depressions in the shape of small squares. Aesthetic sense Deputy Director of Archaeology and the director of Keeladi excavations R. Sivanandam said that the ring well with designs is a new find, indicating the aesthetic sense of people living in those times. “It is interesting to see how they used their creativity even on things of basic needs and necessity,” he said. “We will dig up to a depth of 4.25 metre to see how deep the well is and if there are more such designs visible,” said Ajay Kumar, another AO. In the last phase, one ring well was excavated and fifth phase unearthed the highest at three. The Keeladi ring wells also testify the science behind the structures. Each ring is designed with a locking system and they sit tightly one on top of the other, to prevent sand from getting in, considering Keeladi’s proximity to Vaigai river and the sandy terrain of the region, said Mr. Ramesh. He said that it can be presumed that the ring wells helped the settlers to store water for the drought months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ring-well-with-design-unearthed-at-keeladi/article35313798.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to remove encroachments||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Sivaganga district administration in a PIL petition that complained of encroachments on a road leading to the Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered notice in the petition filed by C. Murugan, M. K. Nagarajan and K. Murugan. The petitioners sought a direction to the authorities to survey the land and take action. They said that the road was given by the Sivaganga district administration to the hospital so that emergency vehicles could reach the hospital on time without any traffic hindrance. But shops have been constructed along the road. These shops have to be removed to ensure that there was no traffic congestion, the petitioners said. The land must be surveyed and the encroachers evicted, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-remove-encroachments/article35313882.ece
14 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven youths nabbed for attack on shopkeeper||Seven youths were nabbed on the charge of attacking a shopkeeper, Mydeen, of Panaikulam near Othakadai in Madurai district. The youth had demanded the shopkeeper to give cigarettes for free and threatened him of dire consequences. A wordy altercation led to assault on Mydeen. The video, which went viral on social media, drew the police attention. Superintendent of Police Baskaran directed the Othakadai police to register a case and search for the suspects. Othakadai police station Inspector Ananda Thandavan and team zeroed in on the suspects at Mangulam. While nabbing seven of them, two, when attempting to escape, suffered injuries, police said. The names of the accused were given as Paramaguru, 20, of Tirumohur, Tamilarasan, 23, of Malayalathanpatti, Sankar Ajay, 19, Vishwa, 20, Harish, 20, and Alagar, 22, all from Tiruvadavur and a 17-year-old boy. Based on their confession, it was revealed that they had indulged in waylaying a goods vehicle at Karuppayoorani and the driver was robbed of his mobile phone. Similarly, a car driver, who had parked at Nelliyendalpatti to attend nature’s call, lost his gold chain to the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-youths-nabbed-for-attack-on-shopkeeper/article35314076.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Usilampatti farmers urge PWD to release water for canal scheme||Farmers of Usilampatti region are urging the Public Works Department (PWD) to release water from Vaigai dam through the 58 Canal scheme as the water level in the dam has crossed 67 feet. The water level in Vaigai dam was 67.22 feet at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. O. Sivaprakasam, secretary of Usilampatti Taluk 58 Villages Irrigation Farmers’ Association, said that there was a good rainfall in Kerala, resulting in an increase in water level in Periyar dam. The sill of the sluice which will release water from the Vaigai dam through the 58 Canal scheme is present at 67 feet at the dam. “Since, there is comfortable storage of water in Vaigai dam, water can be released from the dam through the 58 Canal scheme,” he added. In the first week of June, water was released from the Vaigai dam to irrigate the first crop of the double crop regions of Madurai and Dindigul districts. “Most of the farmers are currently raising nurseries and hence do not require additional water. Moreover, good rains are expected during the south-west monsoon. Hence, these scenarios make it favourable for releasing water through the 58 Canal scheme,” said P. Manikandan, president of Madurai District Wet and Dry Land Farmers’ Association. Mr. Sivaprakasam said that after many failed attempts, water release through the 58 Canal scheme helped to fill 22 tanks last year. “As a result, the groundwater level has increased drastically this year. There is good water level in some of the wells in the villages,” he added. However, concrete lining was needed on channels that were vulnerable to breaching during water release. “With the current infrastructure, it is not possible to release water through the channel at the optimum capacity. The government needs to address this issue also,” said Mr. Sivaprakasam. A senior PWD official said that a Government Order has to be passed to release water from the dam for the 58 Canal scheme. It would be comfortable to release water from the dam only if the level crosses 68 feet, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/usilampatti-farmers-urge-pwd-to-release-water-for-58-canal-scheme/article35313881.ece
14 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested||Five anti-social elements, including two habitual offenders, were arrested by the Sellur police on Raja Mill Road. They were hatching a major robbery. They had two knives among them and all had chilli powder packets. Among the five, Virumandi, 24, of VOC Nagar in Meenambalpuram and Balamurugan, 36, of Anaiyur were habitual offenders. Their accomplices were identified as Kuttai Ajit, 21, of Meenakshipuram, Ajit Kumar, 20, of Indra Nagar and Subramanian, 24, of Poonthamalli Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested/article35314083.ece
14 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||550 bags of rice seized||A team of Civil Supplies Corporation officials seized 550 bags of rice meant for distribution to PDS outlets and booked cases against three persons here on Tuesday. Following a tip-off that ration rice had been stored in Palani Murugan mill at Mahalipatti near Chinthamani, the team conducted a raid and found the commodity in the hulling mill. Samples from all bags were collected and quality analysis revealed that it had been mixed with fresh rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/550-bags-of-rice-seized/article35314203.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to plant saplings||A resident of Tiruchendur moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking a direction to the authorities to ensure planting of saplings in ten multitude in lieu of the trees that were going to be removed along Tiruchendur-Ambasamudram road under the the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor project. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered notice in the petition filed by A. Stephen Lobo. The petitioner said that removing trees would create an imbalance in the environment and people in the region will be affected due to this. He said that some of the trees were more than 100 years old. Tiruchendur was one of the abodes of Lord Murugan. During the festivals every year lakhs of devotees walk along the stretch to reach the temples. If the trees were removed, they would be put to much hardships as they would have to walk under the scorching hot sun. Therefore saplings have to be planted, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchendur-resident-submits-petition-for-planting-of-saplings/article35313871.ece
14 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 126.65 feet (permissible level is 142 feet), with an inflow of 1,338 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.22 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,117 cusecs and a discharge of 669 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,080 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Periyar dam 21.6, Thekkadi 8.6, Veerapandi 5, Gudalur 2.4 and Shanmuganathi dam 2.3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35313888.ece
14 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Renovate HR & CE school buildings’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment P.K. Sekar Babu has ordered the officials to strengthen the compound wall around Sri Mahadevar Temple at Thikkurichi in Kanniyakumari district. He also instructed the officials to renovate buildings of the schools under the administration of HR and CE Department. While continuing the inspection of the HR and CE temples on the second day on Tuesday, he visited Sri Mahadevar Temple, the second shrine to be visited by the devotees during the ‘Sivaalaya Ottam’ on maha sivarathri every year. The minister, after the inspection of the shrine, said the Tamirabharani flowing along the eastern entrance of Sri Mahadevar Temple had weakened the compound wall around the shrine built with huge unpolished granite stones. Officials were asked to prepare a project report for strengthening the compound wall around the temple in consultation with the Collector. When he visited the schools under the administration of Kuzhithurai Devasthanam, he expressed his displeasure over the manner in which the school buildings were being maintained. “All the buildings of primary and high schools are in the worst shape. Those who are administering these two schools should solicit the opinion of the public living here on renovating the school buildings and the one-and-a-half acre premises. A library should be created on the school campus for the benefit of the students and the public,” he said adding that the 400-year-old Travancore Palace at Kuzhithurai would be renovated. Apart from the Nagaraja Temple, he also visited the temples at Krishnankovil, Thiruppathisaaram and Thovaalai and inspected the schools under the management of HR and CE at Suchindram, Thirparappu and Mandaikaadu and inspected the infrastructure facilities in these schools and admission of students. When he happened to see the poorly maintained playgrounds, he asked the heads of schools and the HR and CE officials to make the playgrounds students-friendly. He inaugurated the work on creating ‘nandavanam’ in Sri Krishnaswamy Temple at Krishnankovil. Minister for Information and Technology T. Mano Thangaraj, HR and CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran, Collector M. Aravind, MLAs and the HR and CE officials accompanied him during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovate-hr-ce-school-buildings/article35314209.ece
14 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen generator inaugurated at hospital||Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj inaugurated the oxygen generator installed at Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam here at a cost of Rs. 3 crore on Tuesday. Capable of generating 1,000 litre medical-grade oxygen per minute, it is expected to be in handy to face the COVID-19 ‘third wave’, if any. “It will play effective role in tackling the COVID-19,” said Mr. Mano Thangaraj. Collector M. Aravind, MP Vijay Vasanth, and Dean, Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital Thiruvasagamani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-generator-inaugurated-at-hospital/article35313872.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||Pinarayi meets PM, demands GST dues||The Union government owed Kerala Rs. 4,524 crore of Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his first meeting with the latter after winning a second term in the State. Mr. Vijayan said the COVID-19 pandemic had put a strain on the State’s finances. “Ideally, the States should be given financial assistance. But the Centre, in fact, owes the State Rs. 4,524 crore of GST compensation for 2020-21. This should be disbursed at the earliest,” Mr. Vijayan said at a press conference. The meeting with Mr. Modi lasted nearly half an hour and Mr. Vijayan described it as cordial. Long-standing problems and demands of Kerala were discussed, he stated. Vaccination The need of the hour was to ensure that the majority of the people were vaccinated. “Which is why Kerala too needs more vaccines and we informed this to the Prime Minister. We need 60 lakh doses for this month,” he said. To administer the second dose alone, the State needed 25 lakh doses this month. Kerala so far had managed to give the first dose to 44% of people above the age of 18. Mr. Vijayan also met Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Puri, who also handles the Petroleum portfolio. When asked if he discussed the rising fuel prices with him, Mr. Vijayan said this issue did not impact Kerala alone. “This is something that impacts the entire country and our party will be raising it emphatically during the Parliament session,” he said. Fuel under GST Mr. Vijayan said his government had not yet formed an opinion on whether or not fuel should be brought under the GST ambit. In his three meetings on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan flagged the delays in infrastructure projects in the State, including the Sabari-Angamaly rail line, an airport for quick access to the pilgrimage site of Sabarimala and an All India Institute for Medical Sciences for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pinarayi-meets-pm-demands-gst-dues/article35313654.ece
14 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Several protests disrupt normal life||A spate of protests on issues ranging from the death of tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy to the move of Karnataka to build a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu disrupted normal life in the city on Tuesday. Activists, led by the Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu (Committee to Secure the Rights on Cauvery) on Tuesday burnt the effigy of Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to protest against the move to build a dam at Mekedatu. Volunteers from various organisations participated in the protests at the Anna Statue intersection. Amid raising of slogans, an effigy which was concealed by a group was quickly brought out and set afire. The police intervened to disperse the group, snuff out the fire and remove the effigy. Cadre of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi took out a protest march condemning the police for allegedly diluting the case of the abduction and assault of a bus driver in Kodathur as a man missing incident. As the protesters on Gingee Salai surged towards the DGP’s office, they were intercepted by the police. Later, the police led by SPs Pratiksha Godara Rachna Singh and B. Ranganathan held talks with the leaders to calm the situation. The crowd dispersed after the police personnel promised to take appropriate action against the culprits. Meanwhile, the CPI-affiliated AITUC staged an agitation on Nehru Street to protest against the harsh hike of municipality levy that affected about 450 vendors. CPI leader K. Sethu Selvam, who led the protests, said when apprised of the issue, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy had directed the municipality to stick to the previous levy, but the civic body officials had launched a crackdown on vendors to impose the higher rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-protests-disrupt-normal-life/article35314159.ece
14 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination coverage crosses 6 lakh mark||The Union Territory crossed a milestone in combating the pandemic as the beneficiaries of the free COVID-19 vaccination programme crossed the 6 lakh mark on Tuesday even as zero deaths were reported for the second time in three days. The total number of people vaccinated so far aggregates to 6,08,832, including 37,640 healthcare workers, 22,943 frontline personnel and 4,32,433 members of the public. While 4,86,868 people have received a single jab, 1,07,865 have completed the two-dose inoculation schedule. While the cumulative death toll remained at 1,771, the Union Territory added 124 new cases from 5,758 tests in the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for 106 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (15) and Mahe (3). No new cases were reported in Yanam. The test positivity rate was 2.15%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.35%. With 153 patients posting recovery in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 1,384. Of this, 262 patients were in hospitals and 1,122 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,19,181 cases against 1,16,026 recovered patients. Of an estimated 13.95 lakh tests administered to date, over 11.91 lakh have returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-coverage-crosses-6-lakh-mark/article35314164.ece
14 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Home Minister responds to portfolio allocation||In his first reaction to the portfolio allocation, Puducherry Home Minister and BJP leader A. Namassivayam on Tuesday said everyone has to work within the framework of the party rules. Replying to a query on whether he was happy with the subjects BJP representatives in the Cabinet had been allotted, the Minister said, “We will have to function under the party framework and as per the directions of the Central leadership.” Mr. Namassivayam said he would be available in the party office on all Tuesdays from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. to listen to the grievances of the people. Grievance redressal He had received several representations seeking jobs and would examine them. He would be taking a positive decision on the long pending demand for recruitment of constables. The BJP had launched a programme where party Ministers will listen to the grievances of party workers and the public every day during weekdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-minister-responds-to-portfolio-allocation/article35314161.ece
14 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry CM keeps two more portfolios||The portfolios of Planning and Finance and the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms were added to the list of subjects with Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. A formal order in this regard was issued in a gazette notification by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar after the approval of Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The new subjects are in addition to the 12 portfolios that were allotted by a gazette notification on July 11 — Confidential and Cabinet Department, Revenue and Excise, Local Administration, Health, Port, Wakf Board, Hindu Religious Institutions, Town and Country Planning, General Administration, Information and Publicity and other subjects not allocated to his Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-keeps-two-more-portfolios/article35313912.ece
14 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G nod for resumption of medical classes||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has given the nod for the resumption of regular classes in medical institutions in the Union Territory. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, the approval was accorded to the proposal of the Health Department, duly approved by the Chairman, State Disaster Management Authority, to start regular classes for medical and paramedical courses in the medical and para-medical institutions of the Union Territory due to decline in COVID-19 cases. Among the other files cleared by the Lt. Governor was the sanction of Rs. 60 lakh for payment of ex-gratia compensation to families of two government servants who died while on election duty, due to COVID-19. Sanction was also accorded for Rs. 42,08,852 towards purchase of NCERT text books for free distribution to all the students of Classes 1 to 5, studying in the government schools in the Union Territory of Puducherry. The Lt. Governor gave the nod for transfer of government land situated at Akkaraivattam revenue village to the Jail Department for construction of District Jail at Karaikal at zero cost on “no profit no loss” basis and another Rs. 17.89 crore for release of grants-in-aid to 35 government aided private schools in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam regions towards payment of salary and pension to the employees from March1 to July 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-nod-for-resumption-of-medical-classes/article35314157.ece
14 July 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest officials seize sea cucumber||Mandapam forest officials arrested two persons and seized sea cucumber and a country boat on Tuesday. The patrol team spotted the smugglers with a boat near Vedalai. When they approached them, they tried to escape. After a chase, they were nabbed off Manoli island. The forest officials found that the two had dumped at least 500 kg of live sea cucumber into the sea and had hidden 150 kg in two bags in the boat. The smugglers were identified as Mohamed Nazeer and Meeran Gani of Vedalai. The owner of the boat Abid Ali is yet to be secured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-officials-seize-sea-cucumber/article35313863.ece
14 July 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Teacher detained under Goondas Act||Mohamed Habeeb, 36, a Mathematics teacher, who was arrested here under POCSO Act on June 22, has been detained under the Goondas Act and shifted to Madurai Central Prisons. Police sources said that he was working in a government-aided school in Mudukalathur. The police registered a case of child abuse. Investigations revealed that he had sldo allegedly indulged in stalking and made the children expose themselves online. He was detained in the sub-jail here. On the recommendations of the Superintendant of Police E. Karthik, Collector J. U. Chandrakala directed the authorities to detain him under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-held-under-goondas-act/article35313855.ece
14 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Registration process will be made easier: Minister||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy said the department was mulling measures to make registration process easier and prevent the public from waiting for long hours at registration offices. The public were forced to depend on document writers to get the process done. “We are planning measures where the public can come to a registration office and get done with the process within a short period rather than waiting for long hours,” Mr. Moorthy told presspersons. Mr. Moorthy along with M.A. Siddique, Principal Secretary and Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Department, B. Jothi Nirmalasamy, Secretary of Commercial Taxes Department, and other senior officials interacted with traders and department officials from Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts here. The officials heard the grievances of traders, the challenges in businesses and GST issues. The Minister said stern action would be taken against officials if they were found indulging in irregularities or malpractices. He added that they were planning to transfer officials, who had been working at the same place for 10-15 years, after seeking permission from the Chief Minister. The State government would stand by businessmen who were conducting businesses honestly and action would be taken against those indulging in fake bill trading. Genuine requests from traders and the public for reducing GST tax percentage on products would be raised by the State government at the GST Council, the Minister said. Mr. Moorthy said suspensions and transfers had been effected in the Registration Department at places where irregularities had been found. At present, sub-registrars did not have powers to nullify a registration and measures were being taken to give officials the power to cancel false registrations. Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan, MLAs and MPs from the region were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-process-will-be-made-easier-minister/article35313902.ece
14 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects vaccination camps||Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj inspected vaccination camps here on Tuesday and reviewed their progress. Mr. Christuraj visited the camps at the Government Arts and Science College at Vincent, Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Manakadu, Anna Hospital and Pavadi Girls Higher Secondary School here and checked the progress of vaccination. He interacted with the public and enquired about the availability of amenities at the centres. According to officials, 5,000 vaccine doses were allotted to 33 centres in the Corporation limits on Tuesday. The Commissioner also inspected Ayyasami park near Ammapet here and reviewed the amenities. He also interacted with morning walkers and heard their grievances. He inspected the sanitation works being carried out at various parts of Ammapet zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-inspects-vaccination-camps/article35313903.ece
14 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam for irrigation in delta region was reduced since late hours of Monday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the discharge was reduced from 8,000 cusecs to 5,000 cusecs due to recent rain. On Tuesday, the water level at the dam was 73.02 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The storage was 35,349 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 1,479 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article35313899.ece
14 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wetland management committee meeting||The district wetland management committee meeting was held at the Collectorate here recently. According to a release, Collector S. Karmegham, District Forest Officer R. Murugan and other senior officials discussed measures to protect 15,270 hectares of wetlands, identify new wetlands and measures to remove encroachments in wetlands. The officials also discussed measures to remove encroachments from forest lands and provide relief to tribal people under Forest Rights Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wetland-management-committee-meeting/article35313900.ece
14 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Newborn found abandoned||A newborn girl child was found abandoned near the Collectorate here. Sanitary workers, who went to clear waste from a dustbin, found the child in a bag and alerted the police. The child was rushed to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, but was declared dead. The Salem Town police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-found-abandoned/article35313904.ece
14 July 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni to get modern UGD cleaning machines||Modern machines, which will make the task easy for conservancy workers while cleaning the underground drainage system, will be given to each of the three municipalities in Theni district within a month, said National Commission for Safai Karamchari chairman M. Venkatesan. He was speaking at a review meeting here on Tuesday in the presence of Collector K.V. Muralidharan, Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre and officials from Adi Dravida Welfare, Education, Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation (TAHDCO) and other departments. A large number of conservancy workers from various municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats took part in the meeting. Mr. Venkatesan received petitions from the workers and enquired about their working conditions and facilities. He said they should not lift night soil manually and should not do any work that is life-threatening. The sanitary workers should wear safety gadgets while cleaning hazardous or industrial or bio-medical waste, he said. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Venkatesan said that corporation officials in Madurai hurriedly arranged to give a relief of Rs. 1 lakh to a conservancy worker, following a review meeting there on Monday. The worker had lost a part of his hand while discharging his duty. “Civic officials should not have a nonchalant attitude towards the workers,” he said. Room for drivers When pointed out about the plight of ‘108’ ambulance drivers of Theni Government Medical College Hospital, he said that the Collector had promised to redress their grievances in consultation with the Dean. The drivers had, in a petition, demanded a separate room for resting so that they need not share it with the crew handling COVID-19 patients. Mr. Venkatesan also assured to look into the grievances of contract labourers regarding their wages and working hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-to-get-modern-ugd-cleaning-machines/article35313876.ece
14 July 2021||THOOTHUKUIDI,TAMIL NADU||All airport staff vaccinated||Airports Authority of India employees deployed in the aerodrome here, security personnel and contract workers working in the ongoing airport development works were vaccinated on Tuesday. “In all, 180 persons were vaccinated in a special camp inaugurated by MP M.K. Kanimozhi and it has become the first airport in the country to vaccinate all the staff,” Collector K. Senthil Raj said. Airport Director N. Subramanian and Airport Manager Jayaraman and Ottapidaaram MLA Shanmugaiah were present. Ms. Kanimozhi chaired a meeting in the airport to review the progress of ongoing development works, particularly the airstrip extension work. The meeting discussed a range of future plans including expediting the landing strip extension work, operation of flights in the night as night landing facilities have been established, handling of cargo flights, increasing services to various domestic destinations etc. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Corporation Commissioner T. Charushree, District Forest Officer Abishek Tomar, District Revenue Officer Kannapiraan, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Saravanan, Assistant Collector (Training) Srutanjay Narayanan, Deputy General Manager of Thoothukudi Airport Sundaravelu, General Manager (Civil) Radhakrishnan participated in the review meeting. Later, Ms. Kanimozhi inaugurated the solid waste management project, implemented by the Thoothukudi Airport under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme on an outlay of Rs. 85 lakh at Koottaampuli under Kumaragiri village panchayat. This facility will convert into manure six tonnes of degradable waste getting generated everyday in Kumaragiri, Mudivanthaanenthal, Kattaalankulam and Servaikaaranmadam village panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-get-the-jab-at-thoothukudi-airport/article35313862.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boilers’ association seeks PM’s intervention||Highlighting the critical condition of micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Tiruchi region due to economic meltdown caused by the general recession, pandemic impact, unfavourable policies and other factors, the Tamil Nadu Boilers' Association has appealed for immediate intervention of the Prime Minister for ensuring viability of the sector. The MSME units in Tiruchi have complained of neglect in the absence of any remedy for the last five years that witnessed many stressed industries turning into Non-Performing Assets RBI had directed banks to extend rehabilitation package for MSME sector from January 2019, and the government had also announced a financial package for settling critical commitments like labour wages and electricity bills, but their liability has kept mounting during the recession period. “The promoters and workers are without any income and finding it difficult to meet day-to-day expenses. After exhausting all their personal savings including jewellery and other borrowings currently meeting essential medical expenses has become impossible,” Rajappa Rajkumar, Treasurer of Tamil Nadu Boilers' Association, said. With the drastic increase in cost of raw materials and consumables, execution of even the available orders has become impossible. Customers are not willing to revise the price. Instead of supporting the MSME Units in this hour of crisis they are applying penalty clauses and suspension of approval. Further deterioration in the financial condition of the MSME units in Tiruchi has ben caused by delayed payments by customers; they were not registering with TReds Platform as per instructions of the Government, he said. The MSME units now find themselves forced to bear the interest and penalty charges to banks in the lockdown situation, he said. “With absolutely no savings, the very survival of the promoters and employees of the MSME units has become a big question mark. The employers themselves have started looking for employment in a state of desperation,” Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said in his representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking an appointment. Continuance of the current situation would lead to a total disaster; the MSME promoters and workers will have to end their lives along with their family members. The Central government must immediately direct financial institutions to desist from initiating SARFAESI proceedings for the next two years. Auctioning of jewellery of the Promoters and employees must be stopped, and the promoters and employees who had taken personal and housing loans must be exempted from action. A rehabilitation package with concessional rate of interest has to be arrived at in consultation with the units. A minimum holiday period of two years was required for the stressed industries. For NPA units, a restructuring package including One Time Settlement has to be considered for implementation either through Small Industries Development Bank of India or an exclusive Rehabilitation Cell. Considering the continuous recession and the pandemic, the interest charged for the past two years must be waived. Penal action must be avoided for delay in payment of GST, ESI, PF and filing of income tax returns. Due to the drastic upward variation in raw material and consumable prices, public sector undertakings and Corporate Customers should include a Price Variation Clause (PVC) in their contracts and implement it properly. On its part, the government should ensure the standardisation of raw material prices, and ban its export. Import of raw materials has to be permitted with concessional rate of duty, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said.  The employers themselves have started looking for employment in a state of desperation Rajappa RajkumarTreasurer, Tamil Nadu Boilers' Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boilers-association-seeks-pms-intervention/article35313874.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Construction of vehicular underpass at Kondayampettai gathers pace||Work on construction of a vehicular underpass at Kondayampettai-Sanjeevi Nagar intersection on the city stretch of Tiruchi-Chennai National Highway has gathered pace with mobilisation of more workers following relaxation of lockdown norms. The underpass, according to sources in National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), will be completed within the next 30-45 days. Construction of the underpass that would meet a felt need of motorists and residents began in October last, but was impeded by unseasonal rain in January and series of lockdowns imposed in view of the pandemic. NHAI had previously planned to complete the work by April-May. However, the lockdowns and the resultant labour shortage caused a slowdown. “Workers have returned in strength and the work has been progressing on a fast clip over the last 10 days. The project will be completed within a month or 45 days at the most,” an NHAI official told The Hindu . Work was also progressing on laying an approach road to the underpass. The underpass was sanctioned in 2015 after public outcry over a spate of accidents at the spot and an inspection by former Union Minister of State Pon. Radhakrishnan. The underpass, along with seven minor bridges along the city stretch of the bypass road, was sanctioned at a total cost of about Rs. 30.8 crore. Accidents have been frequent at Kondayampettai intersection ever since the bypass road was made a four-lane highway by NHAI. Hundreds of vehicles, including lorries and buses, cross the highway at the intersection from either side, creating chaos. Police have been forced to place multiple barricades to regulate vehicles. The problem is expected to be overcome once the underpass is built.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-vehicular-underpass-at-kondayampettai-gathers-pace/article35313867.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu members detained in delta districts||Members of Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu on Tuesday courted arrest in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and other delta districts after burning or attempting to burn the effigy of Karnataka Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa for his government move to build a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. About 40 members of the organisation, led by its coordinator P. Maniarasan, were detained near the railway station in Thanjavur after they burnt the effigy of Mr. Yediyurappa during the protest. Similar demonstrations were held at Kumbakonam, Sengipatti, Budalur and other places in the district. In Tiruchi, about 20 people were taken into custody when they attempted to burnt the effigy near Central Bus Stand. Police thwarted the attempt before rounding up the agitators, who were led by Kavithuvan, district organiser, Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu. M.P. Chinnadurai, district president of Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, also participated in the agitation and courted arrest. The organisation contended that construction of the dam at Mekedatu would effectively prevent any water flow in the Cauvery to Tamil Nadu. The State should move the Supreme Court to thwart the construction. Also, Tamil Nadu should resort to an economic embargo against Karnataka. The organisation urged the Union Ministry of Jal Sakthi to publicly deny permission to Karnataka to build the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-urimai-meetpu-kuzhu-members-detained-in-delta-districts/article35313860.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drug racket busted, seven arrested by Tiruchi police||In a major operation, Tiruchi city police on Tuesday arrested seven persons and seized medicines, normally used as tranquilizers but misused to get a ‘high’, worth Rs. 2 lakh. The accused were identified as J. Sakthidasan, 31, M. Kumar, 23, S. Balaji, 20, and M. Kumar, 24, of Woraiyur, V. Ramesh, 21, of Varaganeri Bazaar, T. Nandakumar, 21, of Thennur and R. Prakash, 21, of Gandhi Market. Acting on a tip off that a group of persons were selling drugs, which were meant to be sold only under the prescription of a qualified medical practitioner, Commissioner of Police A. Arun formed a special team to monitor their activities. The team swung into operation on Monday night and carried out a surprise search near the railway gate at Jeeva Nagar in the city. Sensing the arrival of the police, the accused began disappearing from the spot. However, the police team apprehended all of them. They were found to be selling the medicines by mixing them with distilled water to youth, who had been addicted to the drugs. Police also seized needles used for injecting the drug substance, five kg of ganja, three two-wheelers and six mobile phones from the gang members. Investigation revealed that Sakthidasan, who had a pharmacy with the licence of his wife in Woraiyur, closed it sometime back due to losses. But, he continued to source medicines mainly used for psychiatric patients from a distributor in Tiruppur and sold them to youngsters in the form of injection by mixing with some chemical substance. Mr. Arun said that Sakthidasan had misused the licence to source the drugs. It had been established that he along with his six others had been selling the drugs to a closed group of addicted persons. One more suspect was absconding. The Commissioner of Police said pharmacies in Tiruchi had been strictly warned not to dispense such medicines without the mandatory prescription of medical practitioners. Severe action would be taken against the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drug-racket-busted-seven-arrested-by-tiruchi-police/article35314204.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||State government to take over payment of guest lecturers of converted colleges?||The latest communication from the Directorate of Collegiate Education to Regional Joint Directors seeking details of teaching and non-teaching staff in erstwhile constituent colleges, which were converted into government colleges of arts and science, has come as a huge relief for cash-strapped State universities. In particular, Bharathidasan University, which had the highest number of 10 out of the 41 constituent colleges in its fold, will be able to save close to Rs. 2 crore every month spent towards salaries for around 700 guest lecturers and non-teaching staff. As per the Government Order issued during February, State universities were required to meet the salary expenses till June. The salary for June for guest lecturers in the constituent colleges of Bharathidasan University will be released in a day or two, official sources said. The university, however, has not implemented an order issued by the government early this year for enhancing the monthly salary of a guest lecturer from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 due to lack of approval from Finance Committee and Syndicate. According to university sources, effecting the hike would have caused drastic financial burden on the already cash-strapped university Teachers’ organisations say the State government must start paying the guest lecturers Rs. 20,000 per month from July and also settle the arrears of the last few months. Representatives of guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges emphasise that the government must be prompt in settling the arrears and paying the enhanced amount since there was no other source of income for them. According to a guest lecturer in one of the converted constituent colleges for over a decade, even the salary of Rs. 20,000 was far below the Rs. 50,000 monthly honorarium specified by UGC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-to-take-over-payment-of-guest-lecturers-of-converted-colleges/article35313858.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts record 477 fresh positive cases, 13 fatalities||The central districts on Tuesday registered 477 fresh cases and the death of 13 patients due to COVID-19 infection. According to a press release issued by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Thanjavur continued to report high number of fresh cases among the central districts. It recorded 185 cases and two deaths. All other districts ,including Tiruchi, registered less than 100 cases. While 98 patients tested positive in Tiruchi on Tuesday, Mayiladuthurai reported 37 fresh cases, Nagapattinam 34 and Pudukottai 33. The day’s count was 23 in Ariyalur, 19 in Karur, 16 in Perambalur and 33 in Tiruvarur. In terms of fatalities, Ariyalur district recorded four deaths followed by two each in Pudukottai and Thanjavur. Tiruchi and Karur registered one death each. No death was reported in Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-record-477-fresh-positive-cases-13-fatalities/article35313857.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Come third wave, a large part of Tiruchi city will be safe: Health Officer||About 70% of the 300 people whose blood samples were collected during the serosurvey undertaken in the city have developed antibodies against COVID-19, officials of Tiruchi Corporation toldThe Hindu. To study the incidence of the infection, the Directorate of Public Health identified eight locations in the city. The Directorate earmarked hotspots and informed local health officials, who drew blood samples to test for antibodies for COVID-19. City Health Officer M. Yazhini said 30 samples were taken from each location. So, 30 samples of 30 different individuals in 30 adjacent houses were taken in each locality. Residents who were unwilling to take part or unavailable were left out. The results were sent to a laboratory of the Directorate of Public Health in Manapparai, and the results, which were published on Monday evening, indicated that 70% of the population surveyed had developed antibodies, either by infection or by vaccination. The results in some of the individual areas were much higher. In Duraisamipuram, 83.33% had developed antibodies, in Mela Eda street 76,7%, in Kalaivanar street 60%, in Bharathisadan 5th street 70%, in Durgaiamman Kovil street 53.33%, in Rajam street 70%, on Sangiliandapuram main road 63.3% and in Rayar Thoppu 83.3%. As per experts, the result of the serological survey had to be about 50-60%, to indicate herd immunity. Herd immunity Herd immunity is a form of protection from an infection that can occur when over half of a population is immune to it, either through vaccination or from getting infected. “Our results are well above 50%. This means that come third wave, a large part of the city will be safe. If the pace of the vaccination drives continues, more people can be saved,” Dr. Yazhini said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-third-wave-a-large-part-of-tiruchi-city-will-be-safe-health-officer/article35313868.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of boy exhumed from home for mentally challenged in Thanjavur district||Skeletal remains believed to be that of a 12-year-old boy have been recovered during exhumation conducted within the premises of a private home for the mentally challenged at Eripurakarai near Adhiramapattinam in Thanjavur district. The exhumation on Monday was carried out following a complaint that a minor boy was allegedly murdered and buried more than a year ago. The skeletal remains were sent to Government Hospital, Pattukottai for examination and for obtaining a report from the medical experts. The home, started in 2009, had 25 mentally challenged persons in the age group of 10 to 45 years. It was run by a team of members with Mohamed Sheikh Abdullah as its president. His wife Kaleema sent a complaint to the State government alleging that a mentally challenged boy was killed in the home and that his body was buried within its premises more than a year ago, said official sources. On receipt of the complaint, Adhiramapattinam police registered a case of suspicious death and conducted investigation. As part of the probe, exhumation was done on the campus of the home under the supervision of revenue and police officials. Official sources said the skeletal remains recovered from the spot were sent for medical examination. Only after obtaining the medical report would things come to light. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skeletal-remains-of-boy-exhumed-from-home-for-mentally-challenged-in-thanjavur-district/article35313869.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two brothers drown in sea||Two brothers, both students of engineering, drowned in the sea on Tuesday. Police said a family from Duraikudiyiruppu near Valliyoor went to Uvari to offer prayers at St. Antony’s Shrine in Uvari on Tuesday in memory of their mother, Reni, who passed away 15 days ago following prolonged illness. After participating in the holy mass conducted in the noon in the church on the beach and tonsuring their heads, brothers A. Agnel Roy, 18, and A. Praveen Roy, 16, took a in the sea along with their father Arul, 58. As the sea in this region was rough due to heavy winds, Agnel was caught in the tide first. When Praveen and Mr. Arul tried to rescue him, all the three were caught in the giant wave. While Mr. Arul was rescued by others taking bath in the sea and the fishermen in the vicinity, Praveen and Agnel could be retrieved in unconscious state. Though they were rushed to the hospital in nearby Thisaiyanvilai, the doctors there declared the brothers ‘brought dead’. The bodies were sent to Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam for post-mortem. The Koodankulam Marine Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-brothers-drown-in-sea/article35313877.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Family refuses to accept body of contractor||Demanding the arrest of those who killed a construction contractor at Vadakku Thaazhaiyooththu on Monday and a government job to the victim’s wife, relatives of the deceased refused to accept the body and continue their protest in the village triggering tension here. When contractor N. Kannan of Vadakku Thaazhaiyooththu was taking water in pots at nearby Pandaarakulam and loading the pots in a cargo autorickshaw on Monday, an armed gang, who came to the spot in three bikes, hacked him to death. Since the assailants are suspected to be the supporters of rowdy Muthu Mano, who was beaten to death in Palayamkottai Central Prison on April 22 last, tension gripped the spot and Tirunelveli. As the police started its investigation, the suspicion became true and three special teams were deployed to nab the culprits. Even though DIG of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Superintendent of Police, N. Manivannan held talks with the relatives of the deceased, they refused to accept the body. They said his family should be given Rs. 50lakh as compensation and Kannan’s wife be given a government job. Five persons have been picked up for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-refuses-to-accept-body-of-contractor/article35313889.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Family refuses to accept body of contractor||Demanding the arrest of those who killed a construction contractor at Vadakku Thaazhaiyooththu on Monday and a government job to the victim’s wife, relatives of the deceased refused to accept the body and continue their protest in the village triggering tension here. When contractor N. Kannan of Vadakku Thaazhaiyooththu was taking water in pots at nearby Pandaarakulam and loading the pots in a cargo autorickshaw on Monday, an armed gang, who came to the spot in three bikes, hacked him to death. Since the assailants are suspected to be the supporters of rowdy Muthu Mano, who was beaten to death in Palayamkottai Central Prison on April 22 last, tension gripped the spot and Tirunelveli. As the police started its investigation, the suspicion became true and three special teams were deployed to nab the culprits. Even though Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli N. Manivannan held talks with the relatives of the deceased, they refused to accept the body. They said “an innocent” had been murdered by the supporters of the anti social, both belonging to different castes as revenge. The family of the deceased should be given Rs. 50 lakh as compensation and Kannan’s wife be given employment in a government department. “Above all, the assailants and the person who is murdering the innocents in southern districts should be arrested. When this contract killer’s men tried to murder a person at Naanalkaadu near Vallanaadu in Thoothukudi district recently, they, after missing the target, murdered the owner of a broiler unit, an innocent. Now, another innocent has been targeted. If these murders have to stop, the Chathramputhukkulam-based contract killer and his men should be arrested. We’ll not receive the body until our demands are met,” said a close relative of the deceased. The police teams have picked up five persons for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-refuses-to-accept-body-of-contractor/article35314207.ece
14 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Tuesday stood at 116.35 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,153.09 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 75.70 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 87 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.    A woman set herself ablaze near Kadayam on Tuesday after killing her two children. Gowri alias Kanaga, 26, of Chekkadiyoor near Kadayam was married to Saravanan alias Suresh, 32, of the same place in 2015. The couple has two children, son Keerthanu, 5, and daughter Ilakkiya, 2. A quarrel used to break out between Kanaga and Suresh, a manual labourer working in Kerala. The woman allegedly sprinkled kerosene on the children and herself on Tuesday and set ablaze. The mother and the children were charred to death on the spot. The bodies were sent to Tenkasi Government Hospital for post-mortem. Those in distress or with suicidal mood could seek help by calling State’s health helpline 104 or 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35314211.ece
14 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Samples collected from rivers||Officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) collected samples from Nallar and Noyyal rivers in Tiruppur in the presence of District Collector S. Vineeth to check for the extent of pollution. A release said that the sample for River Nallar was collected at the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Angeripalayam and the sample for River Noyyal was collected from the CETP in Kasipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/samples-collected-from-rivers/article35313905.ece
14 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter arrested||The Tiruppur City Police, on Monday, arrested a man in connection with several car thefts reported across the State. A statement from the police said that the Tiruppur North police registered a car theft case at Susaiyapuram on June 11. As per the directions of Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha, a special team led by Tiruppur North police Inspector V. Ganesan was formed to investigate the case. A month later, the team arrested A. Sureshkumar aka Kulithalai Suresh (39). He had nearly 25 cases registered against him across the State for stealing four-wheelers, smuggling of red sanders and spirit. The accused was arrested and the car stolen at Susaiyapuram was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-arrested/article35313811.ece
14 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for murder||Tiruppur district police on Tuesday arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in a murder that took place nearly 10 months ago at Kundadam near Dharapuram. The police said that Manikandan (20) was killed in September 2020 and buried in Kundadam. Based on a tip-off, the police requisitioned the Dharapuram tahsildar for exhumation, following which the skeletal remains of the deceased were exhumed in the presence of Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dharapuram) R. Dhanarasu and Kundadam police station Inspector O. Ananth on Tuesday afternoon. Investigations revealed that the accused, Ramesh (32), his wife Chithra (23) and his 17-year-old cousin, were working along with Manikandan as labourers on an farmland in Kundadam. In September last year, Manikandan got into a fight with Ramesh, following which Chithra and the boy attacked him with an iron rod, causing his death. The three allegedly buried the body. The Kundadam police booked the three accused. While Ramesh and Chitra were remanded in judicial custody, the juvenile was sent to an observation home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-murder/article35313809.ece
14 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB collects samples from rivers||Officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) collected samples from Nallar and Noyyal rivers in Tiruppur in the presence of District Collector S. Vineeth to check for the extent of pollution. A release said that the sample for River Nallar was collected at the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Angeripalayam and the sample for River Noyyal was collected from the CETP in Kasipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpcb-collects-samples-from-rivers/article35313891.ece
14 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Shrinking “vayals” a cause for concern in the Nilgiris||Late last year, residents of Cherangode and surrounding villages in Pandalur staged a protest calling for the capture of a male elephant, known as “Shankar”, that that they claimed had been responsible for the killing of three persons in accidental encounters. Now, just five months since the elephant was captured, the swamp or “vayal,” which was used by Shankar, as well as other elephant herds in the region is being threatened by local residents, who have started cultivating crops in the area. One of the men who has started a farm in Chappanthode, Aravindan (name changed to protect identity), said that he has started growing garlic in 20 cents of land. “When Shankar was around, it was impossible for us to grow crops as we were scared of venturing into the forests. Now, the other elephant herds keep their distance, and so I have begun growing garlic in the revenue land surrounding my property,” said Mr. Aravindan, who runs a guest house in the area and admits to not having a patta for the land he is cultivating. “It’s not just me, all people cultivating in this village have encroached on government land,” he said. Crucial for elephants “The problem is that these land classifications – forest land, patta and revenue land, are all just terminologies. These swamplands, or “vayals,” are crucial for the survival of elephants in the region, as they are a key source of fodder and water for elephants, and as long as these areas remain unprotected, conflict between people and elephants for land and resources is inevitable,” said N. Sadiq Ali, Founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust. Restoration ecologist, Godwin Vasanth Bosco, said that the “vayals”, essentially grassy swamps, host a vast array of native biodiversity, including endangered species of grasses. “These lands are also very fertile, and are much coveted by people. Moreover, as most of the lands lie in areas which are not protected by forest laws, they are the first to be destroyed and replaced with farms,” said Mr. Bosco. Unfortunately, with encroachments continuing to mushroom around the “vayals”, problematic interactions between elephants and humans is inevitable in the long-run, say conservationists. “The habitable areas for elephants in the entire Cherambadi region are the swamps. That elephants are able to persist in such a landscape is perhaps unique. A key factor is that most of this natural cover consists of swamps or wetlands, with perennial water sources and abundant vegetation. They are surrounded by thick stands of trees, with species like Elaeocarpus tuberculatus , Macaranga peltata , Toona ciliata , and species of bamboo (mainly Bambusa arundinaceae ). Inside the swamps, there are dense palms (mainly Pandanus fascicularis ), a favourite of elephants, and tall grasses, all of which and consumed extensively by elephants,” said Tarsh Thekaekara, founder of The Shola Trust, who has been studying elephants in the region. In Cherambadi, many of the “vayals” are inside private and government tea estates. Srinivas R. Reddy, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation (TANTEA), said that while it was true that “vayals” constituted a key part of elephants’ habitat, the entire Gudalur landscape itself was made up of vayals and hillocks, and each was as important as the other. “The elephants spend their days inside the vayals and forage in the forests at night,” said Mr. Reddy. Multiple pathways “There are multiple elephant pathways that pass through the landscape, and some of these pathways pass through the TANTEA estates,” said Mr. Reddy. The onus was on the Forest Department to identify important elephant corridors. “We have expressed willingness to forego these lands when these pathways are identified. TANTEA has already handed over 276 hectares of land back to the Forest Department in Cherambadi, Cherangode and Pandiar estates to mitigate conflict in these areas,” he said. Difficult to protect District Forest Officer (Gudalur division) Kommu Omkaram said that most of the swamps used by the elephants lay outside forest areas, which makes protecting them extremely difficult and complicated. “The Forest Department is looking at ways to get these vayals under the protection of the department, either as getting them notified as biodiverse, important areas, or as crucial elephant corridors, to prevent further encroachments,” Mr. Omkaran told The Hindu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrinking-vayals-a-cause-for-concern-in-the-nilgiris/article35313908.ece
14 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||As curbs go, age-old cattle shandy near Vellore reopens||Around 3 a.m on Tuesday, Poigai, a small, sleepy village on the Bengaluru Highway (NH 48) near Vellore town, came to life as groups of dairy farmers, with their cattle in tow, started to pour into it before dawn. They came either to sell or buy milch cows and fowl in the village, which is known to organise weekly cattle shandies since the British times. The age-old weekly cattle shandy near the town had been suspended for one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic. With the lifting of curbs, more than 2,000 cattle, mainly milch cows, were brought to the market that witnessed a large number of dairy farmers from the neighbouring districts. The market used to operate between 3 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Tuesdays. That tradition remains unchanged. “Such shandies help farmers to supplement their regular income from agriculture. Also, the weekly market provides a platform to farmers to get quality breeds from various places,” said 38-year-old J. Suresh, a dairy farmer from Latheri village near Katpadi. Mr. Suresh brought two milch cows to the shandy and sold them for Rs. 25,000 each. Each of his cows yields at least 3 l of milk a day. Cows are priced based on their daily yield of milk and health condition. COVID-19 impact Prior to COVID-19, a milch cow yielding on average, 6-8 l of milk every day was priced between Rs. 60,000 and Rs. 70,000. Strong bulls are mainly bought to plough vast cultivable lands under the searing heat in the hilly terrain of Tiruvannamalai, Ambur, Arcot, Arni, Krishnagiri and Hosur. Dairy farmers in Tirupattur, Jolarpet and Anaikattu (Vellore) depend entirely on money earned from cattle sale at the Poigai shandy. The Poigai market is also known for selling a large number of fowl depending on their size, shape and breed. The shandy also houses more than 50 small shops that sell various products used for cattle rearing, such as water and feed containers made of steel, ropes, neck bells and mixed nutritious feed. A token discount for these products is also offered to dairy farmers at the market to revive their business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-curbs-go-age-old-cattle-shandy-near-vellore-reopens/article35314213.ece
14 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||31 new cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,468 with 31 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 45,988 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 403. The district’s death toll is 1,077. In Ranipet district, 34 cases were reported and the total stood at 41,534. In Tirupathur district, 26 new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 27,855. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 71, taking the tally to 50,862. Out of this, 49,118 people have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 1,121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-new-cases-in-vellore/article35314214.ece
14 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Four held||The Gingee police on Tuesday arrested four persons, including a minor boy, in connection with the murder of a 16-year-old girl. According to the police, the victim’s body was found floating in a well in a village near Gingee. The four persons are being questioned to ascertain the motive behind the murder, the police said. Relatives of the girl staged a protest accusing the police of not acting on a complaint when the girl went missing on July 11. The police registered a missing complaint on July 12 but they failed to interrogate the four suspects mentioned in the complaint, the girl’s parents said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held/article35314086.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 187 new cases||Erode district reported 187 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. While 174 persons were discharged, 2,668 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 162 positive cases were reported. According to health officials, 102 cases were indigenous and 25 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 74 cases were reported. Krishnagiri reported 46 indigenous cases and Dharmapuri reported 49 cases. As per bulletin, six deaths were reported in Salem and one death in Dharmapuri. Coimbatore district reported 282 new cases on Tuesday. The Health Department said that 9,292 swab samples were tested. The district had 3,779 active cases. Tiruppur reported 148 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 85,897. A total of 1,576 active cases were in the district and 186 persons were dischrged on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 70 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 29,556. The toll stood at 172 while 885 people are undergoing treatment. In Coimbatore district, hundreds of people thronged vaccination centres where camps for the general public aged above 18 were held on Tuesday after 10 days. People formed queues in front of many vaccination centres from Monday night to ensure that they got the tokens as the camps started on Tuesday morning. Minor tension prevailed at many centres as several people who waited in queues from the early hours were not given tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-187-new-cases/article35313893.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 282 new cases, one death||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 282 new cases of COVID-19 and one death. The district had 3,779 active cases as on Tuesday. The toll increased to 2,108 after a 65-year-old man died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday, sources said. Tiruppur district reported 148 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 85,897. The five new deaths reported on the day took the district’s toll to 806. The district had a total of 1,576 active cases and 186 patients were discharged on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 70 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 29,556. A total of 885 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-282-new-cases-one-death/article35313817.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Case against NEET panel dismissed||“A section of citizens may feel that it is a waste to appoint a commission; that the costs incurred in maintaining such a commission may be better used to provide relief to those who suffered in the course of the pandemic. But these are choices that an elected government has to take. The courts cannot rush in and interdict notifications or steps taken pertaining to policy or for garnering public opinion or the like,” the Bench observed. Authoring the verdict, the Chief Justice said the court’s immediate intervention would have been needed if the constitution of the committee was, in any manner, perceived to be an affront to the authority of the Supreme Court, or in derogation of the obligation of the State to aid the implementation of an order of the Supreme Court, or as an alternative to a national procedure for entrance exam conducted in accordance with a parliamentary legislation in a field open only to Parliament. “Nothing of such kind can be apprehended or reasonably seen to be the effect of the constitution of the committee... The issuance of the Government Order does not exceed the authority of the State government. As long as the State government does not do anything to upset the procedure for admission to medical institutions as established by law, it does not call for any interference,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-neet-panel-dismissed/article35313795.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Set for bumper harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-for-bumper-harvest/article35314088.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on SCM, 10 a.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Faculty Development Programme, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article35313819.ece
14 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tahsildar assaulted||Some people, including relatives of a widow, assaulted a Tahsildar for his alleged obscene behaviour with the woman in Chikkodi on Tuesday. The woman from a village near Chikkodi had approached D.S. Jamadar, a Grade II Tahsildar, to complain against delayed release of her widow pension. But she ran out of his chamber, shrieking, within minutes. She complained that the officer called her alone inside his chamber and made sexual advances. She told another woman that the Tahsildar had opened his trousers and flashed at her. This angered her relatives and some other people who were waiting outside the Tahsildar’s office. They stormed into his chamber, pulled him out and slapped him. He denied the allegations and said that the woman was making up stories. Senior Tahsildar Preetam Jain told journalists that an inquiry will be ordered into the incident. The woman’s relatives registered a complaint at the Chikkodi Police Station later. Mr. Jamadar said that he will also file a complaint against the woman and her relatives for assaulting him while on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildar-assaulted/article35313922.ece
14 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Five arrested on the charge of killing dhaba owner||Belagavi District Police on Tuesday arrested five persons on the charge of killing a private dhaba owner in Mugat Khan Hubballi village. The arrests were made within 24 hours of the offence reported. Kittur Police arrested Abdul Badegar (38), Mohammad Shafi Badegar (35), Shakeel Ahmed Badegar (36), Irfan Badegar (25) and Sajid Badegar (20), all members of a family from Mugat Khan Hubballi. They attacked Pradeep Naganur (36) when he tried to intervene in their fight in his dhaba. They hit him with whatever came to their hand, including bottles, mugs, chairs and water jugs. Naganur started bleeding and died on the way to hospital. The police have also seized a car that the accused used to flee from the scene. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi has congratulated the team of officers, including Manjunath Kusugal, S.B. Mavinakatti, S.R. Sheeli, S.S. Kajagar, B.S. Pattar, R.K. Gajer, S.M. Javali, C.S. Buddi, L.F. Jambalwadi, M.M. Dyamanagoudar, S.P. Tippannanavar, R.S. Teli and Y.R. Pujari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-arrested-on-the-charge-of-killing-dhaba-owner/article35313921.ece
14 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two killed in road accident||Two men died in a collision between three vehicles near Sutagatti-Vantamuri villages on the Belagavi-Pune National Highway on Monday night. A container lorry filled with maize flour was on its way from Shivamogga to Pune. The driver of the vehicle lost control and it jumped over the divider to hit an onion-laden lorry coming from Kolhapur to Belagavi. The force of the collision forced the top of the container to fall off and hit a van containing chemicals parked nearby. The van was damaged, but no one was injured. The deceased have been recognised as Niraj Kumar, aged around 30, from Uttar Pradesh and Rajendra Gawde, aged around 35, from Bheed district in Maharashtra. The accident caused a traffic jam and the drivers of other vehicles rushed to the accident site. Some of them then called the Belagavi Police. The police, who rushed to the spot, cleared the vehicles using earthmovers. The road was opened for traffic by daybreak, the police said. The collision between the vehicles resulted in onion and maize flour spilling onto the highway. Some homeless persons collected onion and flour before the police arrived and cleared the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-road-accident/article35313923.ece
14 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Last respects||Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi paid her respects on Tuesday to the mortal remains of Manjunath Goudannanavar, a soldier of the Indian Army, who was killed in a road accident while on duty in Nagaland. He died two days ago. She blessed Swaroop, the five-year-old son of the deceased solider who wore an olive green uniform of the army, as he sat near the body. As soon as the MP and others entered his home to pay respects to his father, the child stood up and saluted the body. The body was brought home on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-respects/article35313924.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine: Jayadeva to study need for booster dose||A study to assess the need for a booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccine is set to begin at Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences in Bengaluru. Institute Director C.N. Manjaunath told The Hindu that the 200 healthcare workers at the institute, who had received their second dose in February, would be tested for the robustness and longevity of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in September first week. “In the wake of all the discussion around a booster dose, we want to study how long the vaccine mediated antibody response will last,” he said. This group, aged above 45 years (including 100 female health staff), will undergo the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay or ELISA test that measures antibodies in blood. First test in April “We had tested the same group in April, two months after they had taken the second dose and had found a good antibody response in 77.7% of them. Our September study will show if the good immune response gained after two months is sustaining or waning,” said Dr. Manjunath, who is also the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force. “In this group, the antibody response was above 90% among those who had been infected and had taken the vaccine after recovery. There was some cell mediated immunity, which gives protection against the infection, in the remaining 22.3% too. My assessment is that the group that showed weak immune response may require a booster shot,” he said. The employees had taken two doses of Covishield after an interval of four weeks as per the spacing rules then. “As many as 154 of them had developed good immunogenic responses. Now after the government revised the gap between two doses to 12-16 weeks, there should be no doubt about immunogenicity among the healthcare workers who took the second dose after four weeks. Our study will clear their doubts and also provide evidence on the requirement of a booster shot,” the doctor said. “If the antibody response is poor after seven months, particularly among people with comorbidities and those above 60 years, they should receive a booster shot on priority,” Dr. Manjunath said. As many as 35 of the vaccinated group of 200 staffers got infected during the second wave. However, none except one required hospitalisation. The only person who was admitted also recovered without any complications. This indicated that vaccination helped prevent severe disease in the infected staffer, he pointed out. Dr. Manjunath agreed there are some practical difficulties. The booster dose can be made available only after the vaccine supply is in surplus and after a majority of the population (70%-80%) has taken both the doses, he added. First priority Meanwhile, some experts emphasised the need to vaccinate all the vulnerable people with both the doses before booster shots. In a tweet, Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who is also the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said, “More doses per person is not helpful. More people with adequate doses is what is needed for the world.” “Irrespective of the number of (booster) doses planned in the developed world, no region is safe unless the rest of the world gets two doses,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-jayadeva-to-study-need-for-booster-dose/article35313727.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu: ‘Centre has promised help’||A day after Tamil Nadu unanimously passed a resolution urging the Union government not to accord permission to Karnataka for the Mekedatu project in the Cauvery basin, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had promised help to the State in resolving all pending irrigation projects, including Mekedatu. Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Shekhawat reviewed drinking water and irrigation projects in Karnataka on Tuesday. The Chief Minister told reporters that the government had urged Mr. Shekhawat to grant environmental clearances for irrigation projects and Mekedatu project. On July 12, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired an all-party meeting in Chennai where a resolution was passed saying no construction must be undertaken at Mekedatu without permission of the downstream States as per the Supreme Court’s judgment. The Karnataka government has, however, insisted that the Centre had no reason to stall the proposal since drinking water was a major component of the project. Answering a question after the meeting on Tuesday with Mr. Shekhawat, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “I don’t want to discuss Tamil Nadu or any other State. We have got every right and we are going to start the work.” He had earlier written to Mr. Stalin inviting him for a discussion on the issue. Minister for Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai said Mr. Shekhawat had promised to provide “justice to Karnataka”. The State had been executing the project as per the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal Award by honouring water allocation made to three States, he said, adding that the government also submitted a memorandum to the Union Minister seeking early clearances for projects. Prior to the meeting, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar had tweeted: “Today, as Union Minister of Jal Shakti Sri @GSSJodhpur will be conducting a meeting with CM Sri @BSY, we hope that the date of initiation of Mekedatu will be finalised. This project represents hope for Karnataka, and we expect the CM will leave no stone unturned to fulfil it.” The Chief Minister said the State government had also urged the Jal Shakti Minister to issue Krishna Tribunal Award gazette notification and pending permissions from the Centre for Kalasa-Banduri and Yettinahole projects in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-centre-has-promised-help/article35313732.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam: OMR sheets to be pre-printed and colour-coded||SSLC students, who will appear for their final examination next week, will get OMR sheets with their names and register number printed on it. It will also have a photograph of the student, which will be verified by the examination staff. SSLC students who appear for the examination will only have to sign on the OMR sheets. V. Sumangala, director of Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, said the OMR sheets will be of different colours so that there is no confusion among students. “First language and mathematics OMR sheets will be pink, second language and science sheets will be orange, while third language and social science OMR sheets will be green,” she said. As many as 8.76 lakh students have registered for the final examinations scheduled to be held on July 19 and 22. Each subject paper will be of 40 marks and three papers will be conducted one each day for three hours. “Students will be given three question papers and three OMR sheets of different colours so that there is no confusion and they use the right OMR sheets for the right subjects,” Ms. Sumangala added.  As there will be no conventional method of evaluation this year, the time taken to evaluate and announce the results will be faster. “The machine will read the OMR sheets. So students who will get multiple choice questions will have to carefully shade the right option in the sheet. They also have to ensure that they do not scratch or shade on the sheet unnecessarily,” a KSEEB official said. Every year, the board took around 35 days to announce the results. This year, they expect to announce results in a fortnight. Parents, teachers, and students are happy with the colour coding of the OMR sheets. “Students have been told that they will be given all three question papers and OMR sheets in the beginning and that they can attempt the papers in any order they wish to. It is best that the sheets are colour coded so that the scope for errors are minimised,” said Paramesh S., parent of a class 10 student. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said managements have sent videos on the colour-coded OMR sheets and have asked students to take online mock tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-exam-omr-sheets-to-be-pre-printed-and-colour-coded/article35313744.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||War rooms scaled down, turned into surveillance cells||Zonal war rooms, nerve centres of the city’s response to the second wave, have now been scaled down. Once teeming with hundreds of telecallers and executives on every shift, they now wear a deserted look with less than 20% of the staff strength compared to during the second wave. At the peak of the second wave, these war rooms, tasked with telephonic triaging of patients and bed allotment, also came under flak over allegations of a bed blocking scam, triggering a set of reforms. However, with caseload low now, the BBMP has shifted to physical triaging and bed allotment is no longer being done. Hence, the role of these war rooms has completely changed. Staffed with two epidemiologists, they are now tasked with surveillance and predictive analysis of emerging trends of COVID-19 in their zones. “The surveillance has helped us make an early intervention in emerging micro-clusters in wards. These rooms are not only monitoring wards reporting more cases, but also those reporting very few, trying to analyse reasons for this. In many wards, interventions like micro containment zones or increasing testing have paid off well,” said D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP. Presently, the BBMP has deployed only two telecallers per shift at each of the zonal war rooms to handle severe cases, which are also rare these days. “We have not cancelled the contracts with the private firms who ran war rooms during the second wave. We have deliberately kept it low key and at skeletal staff, but have kept the option to scale these war rooms back to its prior capacity if the caseload in the city shoots up. While we are doing physical triaging now, we will be forced to revert to telephonic triaging if cases rise to unmanageable levels again,” Mr. Randeep said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/war-rooms-scaled-down-turned-into-surveillance-cells/article35313720.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In what manner are RTOs assessing driving test applicants, asks HC||Indicating that it may appoint an independent agency to inspect the process of driving tests, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to explain in what manner the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) are testing the competence of applicants to drive before issuing motor vehicle driving licence. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Gowrishankar S., a resident of Bengaluru. 24 parameters Noticing that the Rule 15 of the Central Motor Vehicle (CMV) Rules, 1989, prescribes that the applicants are subjected to 24 different parameters to test their competence to drive, the HC said that it has to consider the question raised by the petitioner on whether is it possible to subject 50-70 driving licence applicants to these 24 parameters in a day in an RTO. The petitioner has contended that driving licences are being issued without conducting driving tests as per the parameters. However, the government advocate pointed out that there are separate driving test tracks in many RTOs limits and these tracks are designed to ensure that proper tests are conducted complying with the rules. Surprise inspections “The truth will come out if we appoint an independent agency to conduct surprise inspections at the time of driving tests in RTOs,” the Bench orally observed. Meanwhile, the Bench rejected the plea of the petitioner to direct the RTOs to conduct re-test of all the persons possessing driving licence as there is no provision on the law to subject a valid driving licence holders to re-test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-what-manner-are-rtos-assessing-driving-test-applicants-asks-hc/article35313725.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six bike lifters arrested||The police arrested six bike lifters in four different cases and recovered 20 stolen bikes from them. The Rajajinagar police, who were patrolling the area on Sunday morning, arrested Antony D’Silva, 24, and Subramanya, 21, while they were allegedly moving suspiciously on Prakashnagar Main Road. The police recovered a dagger from them. They were taken to the station and a detailed inquiry led them to confess. Based on their confession, the police recovered seven stolen bikes worth Rs. 4.5 lakh from them. The duo were habitual offenders arrested in similar offences earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-bike-lifters-arrested/article35313722.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Specify that order on JSW land will not be acted upon sans Cabinet nod’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked the State government to specify that the Government Order issued on May 6, 2021, for sale of 3,667 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, will not be acted upon without approval from the State Cabinet. A Division Bench issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by K.A. Paul, a resident of Bengaluru, questioning sale of land at meagre price of Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre. Though the Bench on June 15, 2021, had issued an interim order imposing a condition that the Cabinet decision of April 26 to sell the land to the company would be subject to the court’s further order, it was brought to the court’s notice on Tuesday that a Government Order was issued on May 6 for sale of land to the company. Interestingly, the government had on June 15 told the court that though the Cabinet meeting on April 26 had taken a decision to sell the land to the company, the said decision was “not confirmed” in the subsequent Cabinet meeting on May 27. How could a Government Order have been issued if the Cabinet had not approved the Government Order, the Bench questioned while asking the government to clarify whether a Government Order can be issued without the approval of the Cabinet and to clarify the factual aspect of the decision on sale of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/specify-that-order-on-jsw-land-will-not-be-acted-upon-sans-cabinet-nod/article35313740.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSCPCR cracks the whip on school managements blocking online classes||After being flooded with complaints from parents against school managements, the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) has warned schools that they will be in trouble if they continue to block online classes for not paying school fees in full for the 2021-2022 academic year. KSCPCR chairman Fr. Antony Sebastian said on Monday that the commission had called for a hearing and summoned 19 school managements against whom complaints were received. In addition, hearing was conducted with 14 school managements on Tuesday. “A majority of these are central board schools who are demanding that parents pay fees in full. As many parents have not, they have blocked online classes for students,” he said. Fr. Sebastian said all school managements had agreed to unblock online classes and warned that if schools fail to adhere to the commission’s orders, it would direct the jurisdictional Block Education Officers to initiate action against the schools. He also said the BEO would be recommended to cancel the No Objection Certificate of the schools. However, many parents pointed out that they would have to wait for school managements to communicate if they had decided to allow online classes. “Although the school managements have agreed to the commission’s decision, we will have to wait for the school to issue a circular providing access to online classes,” a parent, who had filed a complaint against the management, said.  Many parents complained that managements were blocking classes for not paying school fees in full.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kscpcr-cracks-the-whip-on-school-managements-blocking-online-classes/article35313742.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM launches initiatives of Home Department||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched new initiatives of the Home Department for strengthening the police force and for the benefit of the education of children of policemen. Besides making recruitment of “scene of crime officers” into investigation of crimes, the department launched the Vidhya Nidhi programme to provide scholarships to children. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said scene crime officers have been appointed following suggestion from Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The department also launched the Arogya Bhagya scheme to provide healthcare to police and their family members. The Chief Minister handed over 50 new buses and motorcycles to the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-launches-initiatives-of-home-department/article35313747.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man booked for mailing malicious PDF to Army officers||The cybercrime police are on the lookout for a person who allegedly sent a PDF file which was malicious in nature to some Indian Army officers. Though the incident occurred in April this year, the matter was probed by intelligence agencies to locate the person through the IP address before handing over the details to the Anti-Terrorist Cell. Bharath M.M., Inspector, ATC located the address and filed a plaint with the cyber crime police on Monday. The police registered a case against the accused under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, and the IT Act, 2000. The file contained malware that re-routes the user to other websites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-for-mailing-malicious-pdf-to-army-officers/article35313721.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal rehab centre raided||Members of Childline, with the help of the police, raided ‘Shalom Baiblic Byaptis Church Ministries’, a centre situated in Chikkabellanduru, and rescued five children on Thursday who were allegedly rescued and rehabilitated illegally. Based on directions from the Juvenile Justice Board (JJ Board), Radha R., member, Childline, went to the organisation and found the children on the premises. In a complaint, Ms. Radha said that the institution was sheltering around 14 children for rehabilitation without due permission or registration from the JJ Board. The rescue centre did not even have a woman caretaker, which is an essential part of a rescue and rehab centre for minors, she said. The team rescued five children, including four girls and a boy, aged between 7 and 16 years. Based on the complaint, the Varthur police registered a case against the institution charging them under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-rehab-centre-raided/article35313723.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only one of the 16 Muslim youths fired got job back||Only one of the 16 Muslim youths fired from their jobs - hours after Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya read out their names during an ‘expose’ of an alleged bed-blocking scam on May 4 - got back his job. After running pillar to post for over two months, the youths now seem to have given up any hope of justice. While a few have got new jobs, the rest are still searching. “The MP read out our names without any evidence of our involvement. We faced a police probe and not one of us has been arrested in the bed-blocking scam. But we have been punished for our religion alone,” lamented one of them. “The company paid only for five days that we worked in May, there was not even a severance pay. It was not our mistake that we couldn’t work that month. We were unfairly taken out,” said another. Their employer, Crystal Infosystems and Services, had claimed they were not fired, but taken out of deputation pending inquiry. However, despite all of them clearing a police probe, only one of them was taken back. With the war rooms being wound down, most of the jobs have disappeared and contracts of hundreds of others too have been terminated over the last two months, the company sources claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-one-of-the-16-muslim-youths-fired-got-job-back/article35313728.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.T. Ravi favours population control law||Taking a cue from proposed population control legislation in BJP-ruled Assam and Uttar Pradesh, party national general secretary C.T. Ravi batted for a similar law in the State as well. “With limited natural resources available, it will be difficult to meet the needs of every citizen if there is a population explosion,” he tweeted on Tuesday. Opposing this, Anand G. of Banavasi Balaga said: “The Total Fertility Rate of Karnataka is 1.7, much below 2.1 to maintain the same population levels. BJP seems to be targeting minorities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ct-ravi-favours-population-control-law/article35313738.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest against rise in price of essential goods||Members of the All India Mahila Sanskritika Sanghatan, Bengaluru District Committee, staged a protest on Tuesday demanding that the Centre check the rise in prices of essential commodities. They also urged the government to make appropriate arrangements for the third wave by providing free vaccines and strengthening the public health care system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-rise-in-price-of-essential-goods/article35313739.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free bus travel||In view of SSLC examination being conducted next week, the BMTC has said that students can travel from their residence and examination centres by showing their hall tickets. They can also avail free travel in KSRTC buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-bus-travel/article35313745.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Complete Jal Jeevan Mission on time’||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has directed Karnataka to implement the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in a time-bound manner. He reviewed implementation of JJM in Karnataka, along with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Under JJM, the Centre intends to provide functional household taps (FHTCs) to 15.70 crore rural households by 2024. Under the scheme, Karnataka intends to provide FHTCs to 25.17 lakh households in 2021-22, to 27.15 lakh households in 2022-23. and to cover the remaining 10.72 lakh households by December 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-jal-jeevan-mission-on-time/article35313733.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,913 new cases, 48 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 1,913 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,74,597. Of these, 401 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 48 deaths, the toll rose to 35,944. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,489 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,04,396. The State now has 34,234 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.53%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.50%. As many as 1,24,594 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 90,154 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,61,68,611.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1913-new-cases-48-deaths/article35313726.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee to look into demand for holding bank exams in local languages||The Union Finance Ministry has said that in order to look into the demand for holding examination for clerical cadre in Public Sector Banks (PSBs) in local/regional languages, a committee has been constituted to look into the matter in its entirety. “The committee will give its recommendations within 15 days. The ongoing process of holding the examination initiated by IBPS will be kept on hold until the recommendations are made available,” said a release issued by PIB. It further clarified that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made a statement in 2019 on conducting examination for the posts of Office Assistant and Officer Scale-I in Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) only in 13 regional languages, including Konkani and Kannada, besides Hindi, and English. Since then, examinations for these recruitments are being conducted in regional languages too. “It may be clarified that the Finance Minister’s statement referred to Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) only,” said the release. Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets that it was “betrayal” of Kannadigas to not allow candidates to write IBPS exams in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-to-look-into-demand-for-holding-bank-exams-in-local-languages/article35313741.ece
14 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Acid attack: 4 convicted||A Chikkamagaluru court, on July 13, convicted four persons accused of pouring acid on a woman at Menase in Sringeri taluk. The court will pronounce the quantum of punishment on July 15. The convicted persons are Ganesh, Kabir, Majid and Vinod. They threw acid on Sumana, 29, on April 18, 2015. She lost an eye and underwent multiple surgeries following the attack. Sudheer Hegde, who is now ACP at Madiwala in Bengaluru, conducted the investigation and submitted a charge-sheet. At the time of the attack, he was Police Inspector of Sringeri. Sumana now works in the Agriculture Department in Chikkamagaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acid-attack-4-convicted/article35314121.ece
14 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||84 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district reported 84 fresh cases of COVID-19 and three deaths due to the infection on Tuesday. With that, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 increased to 1,020. Among the fresh cases, 52 are from Shivamogga taluk, eight from Bhadravati, five in Thirthahalli, two in Shikaripura, seven each in Sagar and Hosanagar and three cases are from other districts. As many as 857 people are under treatment. Of them, 128 are in designated COVID-19 hospitals, 136 are in care centres, 82 in private hospitals, 398 people are under home isolation and 48 are in triages. In Hassan, 191 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported and two more people died of the infection on the day. With that, the total number of cases increased to 1,04,541 and the death toll increased to 1,238. As many as 2,176 are under treatment and 63 are in the intensive care units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/84-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-shivamogga/article35314118.ece
14 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Growers’ appeal to govt.||Citing recent incidents of elephant herds raiding plantations in Sakleshpur taluk, Karnataka Growers’ Federation has urged the State government to find a permanent solution to the menace. Federation president H.T. Mohan Kumar and secretary K.B. Krishnappa, in a press release, said that for the last few days, herds of elephants had been seen raiding plantations in Sakleshpur and parts of Belur taluks. Growers who spent lakhs on plantations suffered a loss. Many have also died in elephant attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growers-appeal-to-govt/article35314119.ece
14 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Plan soon to make use of MSIL land in Hubballi||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that very soon an appropriate plan will be chalked out to utilise the land owned by MSIL (Mysore Sales International Limited) in Hubballi and make it a centre for MSIL activities in North Karnataka. On Tuesday, Mr. Shettar, along with MSIL Chairman H. Halappa, inspected the two-acre land owned by MSIL at Navanagar on Hubballi-Dharwad Road. Mr. Shettar said that although MSIL owned such a big land attached to the old PB Road (now Hubballi-Dharwad Road), it came to his notice recently. “I took up the issue with Mr. Halappa on the need to utilise the land available and make Hubballi a centre for expanding MSIL activities in North Karnataka,” he said. He said that despite having land, MSIL was paying rent in lakhs for various buildings in Hubballi. Constructing a building as per the needs of MSIL will not only ensure savings for the corporation but also help improve its presence in North Karnataka, he said. Mr. Halappa told presspersons that “the Hubballi site is commercially viable.” “We will chalk out a Rs. 30 crore plan. At present, MSIL is spending Rs. 40 lakh as rent for warehouses in Hubballi. MSIL offices are also functioning from rented premises. The requirements for warehouse, office and commercial space and housing will all be considered while designing the project,” he said. Managing Director of MSIL Vikas Kumar Vikas, directors Shivaji Shivaraya Dollin, Totappa Nidagundi, Chief General Manager Ramakanth Hebballi, HDUDA chairman Nagesh Kalburgi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-soon-to-make-use-of-msil-land-in-hubballi/article35313927.ece
14 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Tungabhadra irrigation canals to get water supply from July 18||Tungabhadra Irrigation Consultative Committee (ICC) that met at the conference hall of the Tungabhadra Command Area Development Authority in Munirabad, Koppal district, on Monday, decided to release water from the Tungabhadra reservoir into different canals from July 18 for agricultural purposes. The 115th meeting of the ICC was chaired by Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf and Ballari district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh and attended by Lok Sabha members from Koppal, Ballari and Raichur, Karadi Sanganna, Y. Devendrappa and Raja Amareshwar Naik, respectively, and also legislators from Koppal, Ballari and Raichur districts, including K.C. Kondaiah, Somashekhar Reddy, Raja Venkatappa Naik, Basavaraj Dhadesugur, Raghavendra Hitnal, Basavanaguda Turvihal, B. Nagendra, J.N. Ganesh and Shivaraj Patil, and Agriculture Price Commission Chairman Hanumanagouda Belagurki, Koppal Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishore Suralkar, Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati, Raichur Additional Deputy Commissioner Durugesh and other senior officers from the three districts. Addressing media representatives after the meeting, Mr. Singh said that the ICC had decided to release water at a rate of 4,100 cusecs into the Tungabhadra Left Bank Canal (TLBC), 1,130 cusecs into the Tungabhadra Right Bank High Level Canal and 700 cusecs into the Tungabhadra Right Bank Low-Level Canal from July 18 to November 30. He added that water will be released at a rate of 235 cusecs into the Rayabasava Canal till December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tungabhadra-irrigation-canals-to-get-water-supply-from-july-18/article35313920.ece
14 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Takes charge||Fouzia Taranum, a 2015-batch Indian Administrative Service officer, took charge as Chief Executive Officer of Koppal Zilla Panchayat. Ms. Taranum earlier served as Assistant Commissioner in Uttara Kannada, Commissioner of Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation, among other posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/takes-charge/article35313926.ece
14 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State govt. to build mega dining facility at Kukke Subrahmanya||The government will construct a three-floor building at Kukke Subrahmanya to enable about 3,000 persons dine at a time, according to Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary. Speaking at a meeting in Kukke Subrahmanya on Tuesday to discuss phase III projects to be taken up under the Rs. 300-crore Master Plan for the temple town, the Minister said that the particular building will have architecture prevalent in the coastal region. In addition, the Minister said, a hall which will have a seating capacity of 1,000 will be constructed at Injady, near the town. It will have spacious parking, rest rooms and emergency medical facilities. The meeting decided to re-build the snana ghatta (bathing place) on the Kumaradhara to enable devotees to take bath safely. It decided that Mr. Poojary and Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara, who is also the president of development committee of the temple, should meet the Chief Minister to get a new power station for the temple town. The meeting also decided to have an open Gou Shala (open shelter for cows) on 17 acres of land at Ainekidu. Cows will be allowed to let freely graze on this land. The meeting discussed building seva counters, rest houses, museum, security office, information centre and shops to sell silver items and “hannu kai” in the traditional style. Apart from Mr. Angara, president of the managing committee of the temple Mohanram Sulli participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-to-build-mega-dining-facility-at-kukke-subrahmanya/article35314095.ece
14 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sampaje Sheenappa Rai, artiste, passes away||Yakshagana artiste Sampaje Sheenappa Rai passed away at a private hospital here on Tuesday. He was 78. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. Mr. Rai, who was a professional artiste for more than six decades, was ailing for sometime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sampaje-sheenappa-rai-artiste-passes-away/article35314097.ece
14 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman found murdered||The Udupi Police have formed four teams to trace the accused involved in the murder of a 35-year-old woman in her apartment in Brahmavar on Monday evening. The police gave the name of the deceased as Vishala Ganiga. The police said that she was strangulated to death. According to Brahmavar Police, Vishala Ganiga stayed with her husband Ramakrishna Ganiga and daughter Arvi in Dubai. She came to her native in Brahmavar along with her daughter on July 2 in connection with partition of ancestral property. The police said that her father Vasu Ganiga found his daughter dead in the hall of her house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-found-murdered/article35314100.ece
14 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Free Yakshagana training in Udupi||Panambur Venkatraya Aitala Samskrutika Pratishtana, Udupi, will start on July 20 free Tenku Thittu Yakshagana dance training classes in Udupi. The classes will be held on Tuesdays. Yakshagana teacher Rakesh Rai Adka will be the instructor. The classes will be held from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Interested people can join the class. There is no age limit. Mr. Adka has been training over 80 students in the Udupi Sode Mutt for the last four years. Sode Mutt seer Vishwallabha Sripada has been supporting the training by providing the venue in the mutt. Call Ph: 9844212104, 9663424981, 9845150802.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-yakshagana-training-in-udupi/article35314098.ece
14 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Delayed recovery, price rise drive KSRTC to look for fuel efficiency||It’s a double whammy for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) as it is facing dearth of commuters amidst the skyrocketing diesel prices. Despite resuming services for over a week, the passenger response has not been very encouraging and the revenue isn’t rising as expected, delaying full-scale operations. If the pandemic had severely hit the KSRTC’s earnings, most of its current revenue was going towards fuel. The KSRTC slowly regained its ground after the impact from last year’s lockdown. Prior to COVID-19, the Mysuru division’s revenue alone was Rs. 24 crore a month. The Mysuru KSRTC division alone lost nearly Rs. 70 crore as the buses were off the road for a long time last year. The KSRTC division in Mysuru is now asking its drivers to focus on achieving fuel efficiency, imparting them necessary skills on conserving fuel in these difficult times. “Training to drivers for achieving fuel efficiency is not new but we are now stressing it more and subjecting more number of drivers to training amidst rising fuel prices,” said KSRTC Divisional Controller (Rural) K.H. Srinivas. He said the Mysuru division was only running 50 per cent of its services. “Around 80 per cent of whatever revenue we are earning since the lockdown curbs were eased was going towards fuel because of price hike. Our usual daily revenue was Rs. 85 lakh but it has fallen below Rs. 40 lakh due to the dearth of commuters,” he explained. “The division has been running 285 buses, including 70-80 buses to Bengaluru. Until the response is good, we cannot start full-fledged operations, especially when diesel prices are continuing to increase. The price has gone up by nearly Rs. 14 since the lockdown was announced about two-and-a-half months ago,” he said. The response to AC buses was very poor and therefore it was running fewer buses to destinations, mostly to Bengaluru. Resource persons from KSRTC Driving and Technical Training Center at Malavalli usually train drivers on various technical aspects, including fuel efficiency, besides the experts from Petroleum Conservation and Research Association (PCRA) of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. Nagaraj, Divisional Controller, Mysuru urban, KSRTC said trainers from these centres routinely conduct sessions at the depots or at the institutes. Now, such training has gained significance. Monday rush The intra-city operations in Mysuru are also yet to return to normal. “The passenger traffic is good on Mondays but slows down on the other weekdays. Around 75,000 commuters travel on Mondays. Going by the traffic, we run around 280 buses on Monday and 200 on remaining weekdays,” Mr. Nagaraj said. The urban division’s revenue on normal days was Rs. 30 lakh. Drivers had to wait for the buses to fill up to 50 per cent to operate. Some services were run based on passenger numbers and the frequency of buses was delayed due to the dearth of commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delayed-recovery-price-rise-drive-ksrtc-to-look-for-fuel-efficiency/article35314114.ece
14 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM: Breather for PhD aspirants||In a breather to PhD aspirants, the Academic Council of University of Mysore has given its nod for conducting the mandatory coursework for doctoral studies online only this year in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. The coursework is usually done offline. The University said it has plans to conduct coursework offline as well but the option of choosing the mode was left to the candidates. However, the examination after the coursework would be conducted in the offline mode. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar, who chaired the meeting on Tuesday, told The Hindu that several PhD aspirants had urged him to conduct coursework in online mode since they were unable to attend it in offline mode in view of COVID-19. “Some foreign students, who had enrolled for doctoral studies, had also requested him for online coursework as they were unable to reach the country due to travel restrictions. In view of these issues, we decided to conduct the coursework online only this year,” he said. The coursework for the current year in all departments should have started in March but the pandemic caused a delay. He said a proposal would be sent to the government seeking its nod for establishing a Centre for Buddhist Studies in the University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-breather-for-phd-aspirants/article35314117.ece
14 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Despite pandemic, KSOU admissions see a surge||On its 25th anniversary this year, the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) in Mysuru is expecting around 40,000 admissions in July cycle-2021 even as it recorded over 50 per cent rise in its admissions last year in spite of the pandemic situation. “If the pandemic has hit admissions in other universities, we registered more admissions last year which were double the number of admissions recorded in 2019. The candidates reposed faith in us and got admitted to various courses online amidst COVID-19,” said Vice-Chancellor S. Vidyashankar. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday to chronicle the journey of KSOU on its 25th anniversary (1996-2021), he said 22,000 admissions were recorded in July cycle-2020 and 7,000 in January cycle this year. In July cycle-2019, the admissions were around 11,000. Compared to the January cycle, more admissions happen in the July cycle, he explained. With the KSOU hoping to get UGC nod for 11 more courses, particularly science courses, this year, about 40,000 admissions were expected in July cycle-2021. “As we are swearing for quality education, KSOU is now the sole institution running ODL courses,” said Prof. Vidyashankar. While thanking the government for giving KSOU the “exclusive right” on offering ODL courses on the occasion of its 25th anniversary, the VC said the KSOU had applied for 11 new courses and the UGC’s expert committee had six meetings. “The proposals are before the UGC and we strongly hope to get the approval shortly.” The 11 courses include MSc Botany, Zoology, Food and Nutrition Science and Information Technology; BSc General, Information Technology and Home Science; BBA and BCA; ad MA in Education and Telugu. “PG ODL courses in science in North Karnataka are in demand. The KSOU will also be seeking the UGC nod for five more courses, including MSW and BSW. We are currently offering 31 courses and the number may soon increase to 42 even as our target is to increase the number of courses to 50,” he replied. The VC said the AICTE recognition had been sought for MBA courses and added that the University will approach the UGC seeking renewal of recognition that ends in 2023. “We need to start the process at least six months before the date. Unlike the past, we have no hurdles now and we are confident of getting the recognition renewed for five more years since the university is on the path of recovery,” he told reporters. Prof. Vidyashankar said plans are also afoot to launch online courses even as admissions had gone contactless. Document verification too is done online. The idea is to increase the gross enrolment ratio in higher education. On conducting examinations, the VC said the government has asked it not to announce the exam dates till July 31 although the university had done preparations for conducting the examinations. On the occasion, the VC listed out 40 recent initiatives that go a long way in improving the KSOU’s belief of reaching the unreached, offering quality distance education. Registrar R. Rajanna, Registrar (Evaluation) K.M. Mahadevan, Jainahalli Satyanarayana Gowda and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-pandemic-ksou-admissions-see-a-surge/article35314110.ece
14 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Row persists over trial blasts near KRS||A fresh question mark has come to hang over the proposal to conduct trial blasts in the vicinity of KRS reservoir to ascertain the impact of quarrying on the dam in wake of the government’s move to permanently ban stone quarrying around the reservoir. Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda, who held a meeting of district administration officials on the issue on Monday, wondered if the trial blasts were necessary when the government was planning to altogether ban quarrying around the reservoir permanently. Mr. Gowda said the matter will be reviewed during his discussions with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the Ministers concerned. Mr. Gowda’s statement also comes in the wake of the opposition from farmers’ organisations, which had launched an agitation when the trial blasts were first proposed more than two years ago. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalapura Nagendra said the trial blasts posed a threat to the dam. Even though the authorities are trying assure the people that they will not permit ‘mega’ blasts during the trial, Mr. Nagendra said there was no need for the exercise when the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), a government agency, had itself recommended ban on quarrying in the vicinity of the dam after reporting tremors. Holding trial blasts will only add to the confusion, he added. Farmers’ leader from Mandya Kempu Gowda too had opposed the proposal to hold trial blasts.“The government should permanently ban quarrying in a radius of 20 km from the KRS reservoir”, he said. It may be recalled here that the Irrigation Department has commissioned Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), a CISR institute based in Dhanbad, to conduct trial blasts as part of an exercise to ascertain the impact of quarrying on the reservoir. The Irrigation Department officials said the State government has already paid the stipulated fees to CIMFR for the trial blasts, which had been put off due to the second wave of COVID-19. Meanwhile, another section of farmers’ representatives including Kurubur Shanthakumar and Sunanda Jayaram,said they did not foresee any harm in carrying out a ‘scientific’ and ‘controlled’ exercise to ascertain the impact of quarrying on the dam. But, they also favoured a ban on quarrying in the vicinity of KRS reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-persists-over-trial-blasts-near-krs/article35314115.ece
14 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity now eligible for UGC aid||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has accorded 12(B) status to the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), Mysuru. With this, the KSOU, which is in its silver jubilee year, is now eligible for financial assistance from the UGC like other universities. In a letter to the Registrar, KSOU, UGC Under Secretary Naresh Kumar Sharma said the University’s name has been included in the list of Universities under Section 12 (B) of the UGC Act, 1956. The University had sought 12 (B) Status and accordingly the UGC had sent an expert committee to Mysuru on February 5 and 6. “The report of the expert committee along with the compliance submitted by the University was placed before the Standing Committee of the UGC members for consideration. The recommendations of the Standing Committee along with the report of the expert committee were placed before the Commission in its 551st meeting on July 1. The Commission has noted the recommendations and included the name of the University in the list of universities under 12 (B) of the UGC Act, 1956,” said the letter. Advice The UGC has advised the University to participate in NIRF ranking and get NAAC accreditation at the earliest. The faculty sanctioned and in position should be as per concerned statutory councils of the UGC, according to the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-now-eligible-for-ugc-aid/article35314111.ece
14 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Passenger traffic better on Bengaluru route||The passenger response for services on the Mysuru-Bengaluru route was better when compared to other routes since operations were restored. Hence, nearly 40 per cent of the total KSRTC services are being run on this route. More than 150 trips were operated between two cities post-COVID-19 and the services included Sarige, Airavata and Rajahamsa. The number has come down by nearly half after this year’s 0lockdown curbs were eased. Passenger traffic on this route had seen considerable improvement after last year’s loss due to the pandemic. The absence of many trains on the route helped the KSRTC to increase the trips early this year with the fall in COVID-19 cases. Before COVID-19, KSRTC was running nearly 300 daily trips, including AC buses, on this route. Ready for more “If required we can increase more buses on the Bengaluru route. The passenger traffic and occupancy is better on this route, besides to the taluks within the district. Otherwise, the traffic is yet to pick up,” said KSRTC sources here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passenger-traffic-better-on-bengaluru-route/article35314112.ece
14 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Notice over violation of COVID-19 protocol||The Labour inspector of Kollegal taluk in Chamarajanagar near here has been served with a show cause notice for the reported violation of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour during the distribution of ration kits by Karnataka State Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The show cause noticed issued by Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi comes in the wake of reports of absence of any precautionary or safety measures during the programme in Kollegal on July 9. A statement from the district administration said the workers, who had gathered in large numbers, were also found without masks or not maintaining social distance while referring to media reports about the chaos during the distribution programme. The notice to Labour Inspector P. Chandru has been issued under the provisions of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. He has been asked to give a written reply within three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-over-violation-of-covid-19-protocol/article35314120.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KARNATAKA||In Karnataka, a silent revolution with bananas||Farming communities in Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada are demonstrating that much more than banana bread — the flavour of the first year of lockdown — can be made with the fruit. In rain-rich Karnataka, banana cultivation is common but farmers have no control over prices. “Merchants categorise the fruit into first and second quality. It was being bought at Rs. 4 and 5 per kg during the lockdown. The farmers were forced to take back the seconds. When there is a glut, distress sales are common,” says farm educator Shree Padre. Now, homemakers are helping farmers by experimenting with banana flour, which can be used for everything from dosas to gulab jamun. Nayana Anand from Tumkur turned a bunch of plantain into sweets and savouries for a week, posting pictures of her experiments and, thus, creating a buzz in Any Time Vegetable (ATV), a WhatsApp group composed predominantly of farmers in Uttara Kannada. “She had cooked most of the dishes with banana flour, which was made by drying local varieties,” says Mr. Padre. This March, Ms. Anand saw a post by Jayambika Rajan from Haripad, Kerala, who was making and selling banana flour made of the Nendran variety. She had turned entrepreneur with the help of an incubation centre at the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Alappuzha. A common ingredient of baby food in Kerala, banana flour is sold as a branded product. Ms. Anand contacted Mr. Padre and requested him to help her make the flour. He put her in touch with Jissy George, Subject Matter Specialist at KVK. Ms. George says it is easy to process raw banana of any variety into flour. All one needs is a drier. “Although Jissy knows no Kannada and I don’t follow Malayalam, she explained the process of drying bananas and turning it into flour with one voice message on WhatsApp. During ‘banana week’ on ATV, I prepared and posted a range of things I had made with the flour in our group,” says Ms. Anand. Sensing that this would be of immense help to farmers, Mr. Padre requested Ms. Anand to explain how to make the flour, and she posted an explainer on his WhatsApp groups, sending it to farming groups across Uttara Kannada. “As the monsoon had set in, I hoped at least a few farmers would take it up there. This district probably has the highest number of food grade driers,” says Mr. Padre. To his delight, septuagenarian Subraya Hegde from Ooruthota took the initiative to make banana flour, using it for roti, thalipeeth and several snacks. As he shared his success on social media, it sparked interest among farmers. In the meantime, Mr. Padre got in touch with the Central Processing facility at Kotegadde, near Thirthahalli, established by the Vanilla Growers’ Association. He persuaded them to process banana flour and 50 kg, made from local varieties, were distributed to homes. Families across Thirthahalli took up the challenge and unleashed a culinary fiesta. “More than 30 families in Uttara Kannada are making banana flour with the help of driers and they send me pictures of the food they cook with it: Thellevu, Vadape, Upma, Shankar Pole, Malt, dry Jamun, Buns, Goli Baje, Chiwda, Chakkuli, Dosa, Kadubu, Dood Peda … the list is extensive,” laughs Mr. Padre. News of the banana revolution reached the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) at Tiruchi in Tamil Nadu and its director Uma Subbaraya sent a congratulatory message to Ms. Anand for her innovation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-karnataka-a-silent-revolution-with-bananas/article35313735.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Relief scheme modified||Following this, the Bench told he government to consider afresh applications, made by the family members of 20 farmers from Shahpur taluk, which were rejected earlier as the farmers had taken loans from private moneylenders. Meanwhile, the Bench allowed the petitioner to question the decision of the government not to extend the compensation to families who had taken loans from unlicensed private moneylenders.The court had earlier observed that “ prima facie , it is very difficult to accept that the classification made by the government will stand the test of Article 14 of the Constitution of India...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-scheme-modified/article35313730.ece
14 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two arrested for murder of 32-year-old woman||The police on Tuesday arrested two persons in connection with the murder of a 32-year-old woman. The body of Anitha, wife of Aneesh, Punnapra South, was found floating in a canal near Pallathuruthy on July 10. According to the police, the arrested Prabheesh, 36, of Nilambur, Malappuram, and Rajani, 38, of Kainakary in Kuttanad, committed the crime on July 9 and dumped the body in the water body. The police said Anitha, an estranged wife and a mother of two, had been in a relationship with Prabheesh. She was six months pregnant at the time of her death. S.T. Suresh Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambalappuzha, said the accused strangled and smothered the victim during sex at Rajani's house. “Prabheesh and Rajani were living together for the past couple of years. Prabheesh, a driver, met Anitha and developed a relationship with her. The victim became pregnant. Although they tried to terminate the “unwanted” pregnancy, it did not succeed. Both Prabheesh and Rajani decided to get rid of Anitha and it culminated in the murder,” Mr. Kumar said.  The police cracked the case after analysing the phone call records of the victim following the findings of the post-mortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-murder-of-32-year-old-woman/article35314063.ece
14 July 2021||Chennai,KERALA||T.N. reports 2,505 fresh cases, 48 fatalities||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to fall in the State, as 2,505 more people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. Thirty-one of the 38 districts reported fewer than 100 cases each. Seven districts accounted for half the fresh cases. Coimbatore recorded 282 cases, while Erode and Thanjavur saw 187 and 185 respectively. As many as 162 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem. There were 160 cases in Chennai, 148 in Tiruppur and 135 in Chengalpattu. Daily cases fell below 100 in Tiruchi, with 98 people testing positive for COVID-19. Another 48 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 33,502. Kerala reported 14,539 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, when 1,39,049 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate again went up to 10.46%. Andhra Pradesh reported 18 more deaths and 2,567 infections on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 13,042 and case tally to 19,26,988. The daily TPR of 81,763 samples was 3.14%, the highest in the past five days. The overall positivity rate of the 2.31 crore samples tested was 8.33%. The recovery rate almost reached 98%. With 3,304 new recoveries and 18,87,236 total recoveries, the recovery rate increased to 97.94% while 26,710 COVID cases were active. The death rate was at 0.68%. Guntur reported four deaths, Chittoor and Nellore three each, East Godavari, Prakasam and West Godavari two each and Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam one each. Telangana posted 767 new infections on Tuesday with Khammam recording the maximum at 84 and Greater Hyderabad with 77. Fresh mortality related to COVID was put at three, taking the toll to 3,738. The overall case tally was 6,33,146. In Karnataka Karnataka on Tuesday reported 1,913 new cases, taking the total to 28,74,597. Of these, 401 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 48 more deaths, the toll rose to 35,944. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.As many as 2,489 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 28,04,396. The State now has 34,234 active patients. The daily TPR touched 1.53%. As many as 1,24,594 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 90,154 RT-PCR tests.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-reports-2505-fresh-cases-48-fatalities/article35314018.ece
14 July 2021||DINDIGUL,KERALA||Gang rape charge: Dindigul police to question woman in Kannur||A special team from Dindigul led by an Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police (ADySP) has gone to Kannur n Kerala to probe the allegations of a 40-year-old woman that she was gang-raped in Palani during her stay there on June 19, DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) Vijayakumari said on Tuesday. Addressing journalists, the DIG said that since the woman had submitted her petition to the Kerala DGP, the police here had registered a case based on her complaint. The woman had stated that she came to Palani on June 19 and stayed in a lodge along with a man. The following day, they were directed to vacate the room. While she was walking on the road, some persons forcibly took her to a place and raped her, she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gang-rape-charge-dindigul-police-to-question-woman-in-kannur/article35314005.ece
14 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Rain damages houses in Idukki||Vast damage to houses and standing crops were reported in Kodikulam area near Thodupuzha in Idukki district following heavy rain and gusty wind in the wee hours of Tuesday. As per the initial estimate of the Revenue Department, 10 houses were fully damaged and 35 others partially damaged in Kodikulam. A house was also fully damaged in Kumaramangalam village. Standing crops in many areas were also destroyed. Local residents said heavy rain, accompanied by winds, lashed the area around 4 a.m. Trees fell over some houses, while some roads were blocked by fallen trees. However, no casualty was reported. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel had reached the spot. Though the rain and wind were reported in other places of the district as well, Kodikulam witnessed the heaviest damage, according to the Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-damages-houses-in-idukki/article35314068.ece
14 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Child rights panel seeks report||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has registered a suo motu case in connection with the sexual abuse and murder of a six-year-old girl at Vandipperiyar on June 30. The commission has given notice to the District Police Chief (DPC) directing him to conduct an inquiry without revealing the identity of the victim. It has also directed that appropriate legal action be taken in accordance with the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. The inquiry report should be submitted along with relevant documents, including a copy of the first information report, autopsy report, and details of the action taken within ten days. The child living at the workers’ quarters of the Choorakkulam tea estate was found dead hanging in a room recently. The initial report indicated that the girl accidentally got caught in a rope in the room. However, the autopsy report stated that she had been subjected to severe sexual abuse for long. The Vandipperiyar police had on Sunday arrested Arjun, 22, in connection with her death. The accused was living close to the family in the same quarters. Minister visits kin Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine on Monday visited the kin of the victim. He said the government was with the family and would give all support to them. The Muttam POCSO court on Tuesday remanded the accused till July 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-seeks-report/article35314020.ece
14 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Sheeba George is new Idukki Collector||Sheeba George has taken charge as the 40th District Collector of Idukki from H. Dinesan on Tuesday. Ms. George is the first woman collector in the district. A resident of Melukavu in Idukki, she was working as director of the Social Justice Department prior to taking up her new assignment. Additional district magistrate Shiju P. Jacob, district development commissioner Arjun Pandian and Devikulam Sub-Collector Rahul Krishna Sarma attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sheeba-george-is-new-idukki-collector/article35314065.ece
14 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two cases in Edamalakkudy||For the first time after the COVID-19 outbreak, two positive cases have been reported from Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat in the Munnar forest division. A 40-year-old homemaker from Irumpukallukudy and a 24-year-old man from Iddaliparakudy are the patients. While the former was tested for COVID-19 at Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital where she was admitted with health issues, the latter was diagnosed with the virus at a private hospital in Munnar on Tueday. The grama panchayat had successfully combated COVID-19 with a strict ban on outsiders enforced by the tribal council. Only officials on emergency duty are allowed entry to Edamalakkudy . A health official said how the two contracted the infection was being looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-cases-in-edamalakkudy/article35314019.ece
14 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||State to be made safe tourism destination: Mohamed Riyas||The State will be made a safe tourism destination after completing 100% vaccination of those working in the sector, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Speaking after inaugurating the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination campaign at Vythiri in the district on Tuesday, Mr. Riyas said the pilot project, to be executed in Vythiri and Meppady grama panchayats with the support of the Health Department, would be extended across the State in a phased manner. The campaign would help build confidence in the industry and rejuvenate the tourism sector, he added. The Vythiri grama panchayat will become the first fully vaccinated local body in the State after as many as 3,680 persons, yet to be vaccinated, are inoculated in five days. The programme is being implemented in association with Doctors for You, an NGO. The organisation will provide three mobile vaccination units with doctors and health staff for the State-wide campaign. The members of Pulse Emergency Team, Kerala, will also support the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-be-made-safe-tourism-destination-mohamed-riyas/article35313999.ece
14 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Biodiesel from broiler chicken waste and dead poultry||A biodiesel technology scaled up at Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) in Wayanad is getting ready for viable commercial production. The Indian Patent Office issued the certificate of grant for the development titled ‘Biodiesel Production from Rendered Chicken Oil’ recently. This is the doctoral work of John Abraham, associate professor, Livestock Production Management (LPM), College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode, under KVASU. He pioneered the production of biodiesel from broiler chicken waste and dead poultry. Along with his guide Ramesh Saravana Kumar, professor and head of the LPM, Veterinary College and Research Institute (VCARI) at Namakkal in Tamil Nadu, Dr. Abraham filed a patent for the technology in 2014 on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS). Dr. Abraham scaled up his innovation by establishing a pilot plant on the KVASU campus at Pookode and demonstrated the economic production of a renewable biofuel from a potential hazardous waste. The bio-fuel was validated by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited  (BPCL), Kochi refinery. Demonstrably, a farm vehicle ran on it with better engine efficiency and significantly reduced emissions. However, a Coimbatore-based rendering plant has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with TANUVAS for the commercial production of the biodiesel, which would commence soon, he said. The chicken-sourced biodiesel was found to have a commendably higher cetane value of 72, as compared to 64 of petro-diesel, meaning better efficiency, Dr. Abraham pointed out. Cheaper deal It is relatively cheaper as well. Diesel could be produced at Rs. 30.23 per litre and the bio-fuel can be used at 80:20 ratio with diesel in normal, unmodified, diesel engines. However, it can be used as the sole fuel with some engine modifications, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biodiesel-from-broiler-chicken-waste-and-dead-poultry/article35314034.ece
14 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Turning waste materials into hearth and home||Even as people were wondering how to spend their time during the COVID lockdown, it was a busy schedule for Aji Anand, his friends, and relatives, who live at Annur in Kannur district. They were busy collecting construction waste, beer bottles, second-hand goods, and filling plastic bags with mud to help Mr. Anand construct a low-cost budget house. He and his wife, Thanya K. Leela, a principal in a private institute, had plans to construct a house, but the huge cost was a constraint. That is when they decided on a house using mud and discarded materials on the advice of his cousin, Akash Krishnaraj, a student at the School of Planning and Architecture in Bhopal. Soon, a message was placed on the social media for help with the necessary materials. It went so viral that they got numerous calls across the district. Within a few months, they got everything they wanted to start the construction. Instead of using laterite stones, they decided to use the mud dug up from the construction site to pack plastic bags. These bags were stacked one upon another to build the walls of the house. Second-hand wooden window panes, doors, and about 2,500 beer bottles and PET bottles went in between the walls to light the house and provide ventilation. Similarly, second-hand tiles were used for the roof. Despite the lockdown, they had no problem in the construction work as all materials were available at the site and others were collected from houses nearby and other premises. The major challenge was collecting beer bottles as the liquor shops and bars were shut, he said. Mr. Krishnaraj said the advantage of this house was that it was cost-effective, stable during earthquakes, and environment-friendly. The 1,000-sq.ft. house with two rooms, a hall, kitchen and a toilet, could be constructed at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh. The amount of cement and stone used for construction was quite less, which helped to keep the cost down. The plastering of the house was done with mud, which when nicely mixed with husk, clay and cement, strongly binds the mud bags together and strengthens the walls. It could stand for over 60 years, he claimed. With just a few labourers to help, the work was done with the support of friends and relatives, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/turning-waste-materials-into-hearth-and-home/article35313990.ece
14 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||New Kasaragod Collector takes charge||Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand assumed charge as Kasaragod District Collector at the Collectorate on Tuesday. The incumbent District Collector D. Sajith Babu, who has been appointed as Director of Civil Supplies Department, received Ms. Chand in the Collector’s chamber. Official documents were handed over. Additional District Magistrate A.K. Ramendran, Sub Collector D.R. Meghashree, and Kasaragod Revenue Divisional Officer Atul Swaminath were present. Ms. Chand is the first woman Collector in the district. A native of Maharashtra, she ranked 69th in the 2010 IAS batch. She holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, University of Michigan, USA; a Master’s Degree in Public Policy from the Indira Gandhi National Open University; and a Bachelor’s degree in Electronics Engineering from the University of Mumbai. Before joining as Collector, she was Director, Department of Industry and Commerce. She was also Managing Director of Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, Deputy Secretary of Planning and Finance Department, Director of Scheduled Tribes Department, Director of Lottery Department and Fort Kochi Sub Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-kasaragod-collector-takes-charge/article35313998.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Spike in number of infected children in second wave||SARS-CoV-2 infection among children and teenagers saw an increase of two percentage points in the second wave compared to the first wave in Ernakulam, according to official estimates. Of the about 2.4 lakh tested positive in the second wave, 39,427 were children. This accounted for nearly 16% of the total infected population in the district. In the first wave, 18,307 children were infected. The total count of positive cases in the previous wave was about 1.28 lakh. Children amounted to nearly 14% of the infected in the first wave, as per data available with the Health Department. Two children had died owing to the infection. The first death of a 16-year-old girl was reported on October 13 last year. A fifteen-year-old girl’s death was reported on June 12. Six cases of MISC (Multi-System Inflammatory Syndrome in Children) were detected in the district. All the cases were reported in the second wave. About 19,177 of the children infected in the current wave were in the age category of 5-14. In the age category of 15-19, about 13,353 were infected while the corresponding figure in the 1-4 age category was 6, 894. In the previous wave, about 8, 400 figured under the age category of 5-14 while the corresponding figure in the age group of 15-19 was 5,893. “A feature we have noticed in the second wave is that everyone else in the family was getting infected when one member tested positive. This could be due to the Delta variant that spreads very fast. When an adult member gets infected, it was natural that children would also get infected,” said M. Narayanan, former State president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. On the MISC cases in the second wave, Dr. Narayanan pointed out that a proportionate increase in such cases was possible as there was a spike in the total number of persons getting infected. “It was found happening nearly one month after the peak of the wave,” he said. Asked about speculations that children may be affected more in the third wave, Dr. Mathews Numpeli, District Programme Manager, National Health Mission, said that there was no scientific evidence to support such inferences. “Children were infected in both the first and the second wave. The chances of a change in pattern in which the virus attacks children more were remote,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-number-of-infected-children-in-second-wave/article35314013.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Governor’s decision to fast triggers debate||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s decision to join a fast against the practice of dowry on Wednesday has triggered an intense debate with some legal experts questioning the Constitutional propriety of the decision. Mr. Khan has decided to go on a fast in response to a call made by some Gandhian organisations. The Governor will join the fast from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. “to create awareness against giving and taking dowry,” according to an official communication from Raj Bhavan. Prayer meeting He will attend a prayer meeting from 4.30 p.m. at Gandhi Bhavan, Thycaud. Incidentally, Mr. Khan had paid a visit to the house of an alleged victim of the social practice and consoled her parents. C.P. Sudhakara Prasad, former Advocate General of Kerala, said the Governor himself was the right person to gauge the Constitutional propriety of his decision. However, there was no legal issues involved in his decision. The call for fasting was given by a few Gandhian organisations, Mr. Prasad said. However, T. Asaf Ali, former Director General of Prosecution, Kerala, felt that the decision of the Governor was something unheard of in the Constitutional history of the country. The Governor abdicated his Constitutional responsibilities by deciding to go on a fast. Upholding his gubernatorial responsibilities, Mr. Khan should have called for a report from the Chief Minister of the State on dowry deaths and related issues rather than staging a public fast, Mr. Ali said. Noting that it would be for the first time in the Constitutional history of the country that a Governor had decided to join a fast organised by some public organisations, Mr. Ali said the act of the Governor went against his own high office. Constitution The Governor is bound to uphold the Constitutional principles and can report to the President instances of break down of law and order situation and the Constitutional mechanism. If the Governor was of the view that the law and order situation had worsened in the State or the Constitutional mechanism failed, he should invoke the provisions of the Constitution to address the situation, Mr. Ali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-to-join-fast-against-dowry-practice/article35313652.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi looking for temporary waste treatment plant||The civic authorities of Kochi are pinning their hopes on a temporary waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram as the existing plant has become near-defunct. The existing plant, which was commissioned over a decade ago, had faced a series of issues ever since its inauguration. The sinking of the floor of the plant, which was constructed by spending around Rs. 12 crore, a few months after its inauguration and the resultant damage to the machinery had hit the waste management in the city. The city needs to look for a temporary mechanism for processing the waste that is collected from the city streets and the neighbouring local bodies with the existing plant becoming defunct, says T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the Health Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation. To make matters worse, the contractor, who is carrying out the processing of waste, has informed the civic authorities his reluctance to continue the work. Besides the fresh waste collected every day, the civic authority has also to manage the legacy waste that has accumulated on the campus. The civic body is awaiting a Detailed Project Report from an expert agency for setting up a plant, which would process the waste through composting method. The corporation is also looking for new technologies that would reduce the time required for processing the waste, he said. Though the government has plans to set up a waste-to-energy plant on the campus, it may take considerable time for the new plant to materialise. It might take at least four years for the new waste to energy plant to become operational and corporation cannot remain idle till the new one becomes functional, he said. Incidentally, members of the Health Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation had inspected the Brahmapuram site on Saturday to take stock of the situation. A report on the visit would be submitted to the Mayor shortly, said Mr. Ashraf. The local body hopes to set up the new facility on a 10-acre area stretch located at a higher altitude. The Rs. 9 crore earmarked in the plan fund could be used for the purpose, said the civic administrators. The corporation would convene a special session shortly to discuss the issue and chart out the action plan, civic authorities said.  The corporation is looking for new technologies that would reduce the time required for processing waste T.K. Ashraf Health Standing Committee chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-looking-for-temporary-waste-treatment-plant/article35314009.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Port Minister moots cargo service to Lakshadweep||Visiting the Cochin Port on Tuesday, a first by a State Minister, Port Minister Ahamed Devarkovil said there’s a need for a barge service to Lakshadweep to transport goods like gas cylinders, and also a roll on-roll off (ro-ro) service between Kollam and Azheekkal ports. Ports would do well to have multimodal transport with the help of shipping transporting agencies. Incentive scheme “Once Vizhinjam has become an international transshipment gateway, all ports in Kerala, including the Cochin Port, could connect with one another for cargo movement, and Kerala Maritime Board could coordinate this,” he said, urging the Cochin Port to recommend to the Union Shipping Ministry due support for the coastal shipping incentive scheme being implemented by the State government. Cochin Port Trust Chairperson M. Beena, Deputy Chairman Cyril George, Kerala Maritime Board Chairman T.P. Salim Kumar and steamers’ and customs brokers’ association members took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-moots-lakshadweep-cargo-service/article35313991.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Heavy rain, wind batter Ernakulam||Heavy wind and rain caused widespread damage to homes and standing crops across Ernakulam district in the early hours of Tuesday even as power outage disrupted normal businesses in several places. P.V. Mohanan, member of ward 3 in Alangad panchayat, said trees fell over more than a dozen homes in the panchayat. Most of the houses had no electricity for more than three hours. He said on Tuesday that Fire and Rescue Services personnel were removing uprooted trees from some of the arterial roads while privately engaged tree cutters were trying to remove obstacles on some of the smaller roads. Neelakanthan Namboodiri in Kalady said his home had a miraculous escape as heavy wind uprooted several trees in his neighbourhood. Councillor of ward 10 in Kalady panchayat Shahina Naushad said power failure was one of the biggest problems the panchayat faced on Tuesday as several trees fell across service lines and electric posts. She said there was no loss of human lives but several houses were damaged even as others saw miraculous escapes as trees collapsed close to them.  A communication from the district administration said Alangad, Kottuvally and Karumalloor villages were the worst hit in the district. Forty houses were badly damaged in Kottuvally village while 102 were partially damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-wind-batter-ernakulam/article35314006.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Irrigation Department recommends closure of pipeline linked to Periyar||The Irrigation Department has recommended closure of the pipeline connecting the Periyar and Edayattuchal in Edayar here. The proposal was made based on the inference that the pipeline, which was set up to water the Edayattuchal paddy fields using water from the Periyar, was no longer serving the intended purpose. With the water levels receding in summer, the pumping of water from the river was not possible as the mouth of the pipeline was situated above the water level. The department made its recommendation after an inspection in June revealed a six-inch diameter unauthorised outlet into the pipeline. Effluents black in colour were detected from the illegal source into the pipeline. The digging work was carried out after the National Green Tribunal asked the authorities to speed up the action plan on rejuvenating the Edayattuchal hit by pollution. The State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management appointed by the tribunal had reported about the possible illegal outlets into the pipeline connecting the river and Edayattuchal. The illegal outlet was later sealed by the officials involved in the work. The department has suggested that a pumping system be installed near the Pathalam regulator to divert water from the river as an alternative to the technical hurdles in routing the water through the existing pipeline. A pipeline could be laid along the road connecting the distribution point near the regulator and Edayattuchal. The proposal has been shared with the Pollution Control Board and the Department of Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/irrigation-department-recommends-closure-of-pipeline-linked-to-periyar/article35314015.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Textile dealers move HC||The Kerala Textiles and Garments Dealers Welfare Association on Tuesday approached the Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the State government to allow the dealers to open their shops on all days. In the petition, K. Krishnan, general secretary of the association, said the dealers were now allowed to open shops only on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. The textile and garment business, both wholesale and retail, was going through a crisis due to lockdowns and intermittent alternate day closures. He pointed out that when textile shops were opened on alternate days, there would be heavy crowding and long queues at the shops. It also created congestion of vehicles and traffic jams in cities and towns, virtually defeating the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/textile-dealers-move-hc/article35314188.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CIAL files complaint against use of drones||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has filed a police complaint against the use of drones and laser beams during festivities as they posed a threat to aviation operations. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the airport authority appealed to the public to call up 0484 2610001 to inform about the use of drones near the airport. The use of laser beams for publicity during festivities too posed a threat, the statement said. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has ordered airports and district administrations to strictly follow the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules 2021 following the recent drone attacks in Jammu. There is a ban on the use of drones within three-km radius of airports and drones can be used only with the permission of the DGCA, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-files-complaint-against-use-of-drones/article35314008.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold smugglers have inter-State links: Customs||The accused in the Karipur gold smuggling case have connections with inter-State smuggling rackets and the current case is “only the tip of the iceberg,” according to Customs authorities. Customs officials came up with these details in the remand extension report of Arjun Ayanki, second accused in the case. According to the report, the channel and the destination of the proceeds of the smuggling needs to be thoroughly investigated. The Karipur case unfolded with the seizure of gold worth Rs. 1.11 crore from Mohammed Shafeeque Melethil, who arrived at the Calicut airport from Dubai on June 21. The Customs had arrested Arjun on the basis of the statements of Shafeeque and other inputs. One more arrested Meanwhile, Customs officials on Tuesday arrested Ajmal of Panoor who helped Arjun get a SIM card for mobile phone connection. Muhamad Shafi, one of the convicts in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case, was let off by the Customs after an interrogation session that lasted for a few hours. Incidentally, the Customs had on Monday interrogated the mother of Ajmal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-smugglers-have-inter-state-links-customs/article35314023.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of thefts||The Palarivattom police on Tuesday arrested an alleged habitual thief who primarily targeted medical shops. The arrested man was identified as Abhilash aka Rajesh, 40. After being released from the Kozhikode district jail in June 2020, he had shifted to Kochi where he allegedly carried out thefts wearing masks. "He was 'prolific' in that he had pulled off not less than 10 thefts in the short stretch between the Medical Trust Hospital and Palarivattom. He always targeted medical shops and closely observed the shop, its owner and employees, and the presence of cameras before making the hit," said K. R. Rupesh, sub inspector, Palarivattom. He was nabbed with the help of the cyber cell. He was arrested in connection with the theft of Rs. 60,000 and a mobile phone from a medical shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-thefts/article35314010.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two-day COVID cartoon camp from July 17||Cartoonists, who remained in the vanguard of awareness creation against COVID-19 by drawing on compound walls and carrying out a social media campaign, are now coming together at a two-day cartoon camp, ‘Locking Lines’ on July 17 and 18 at Aluva to take forward their campaign ahead of the predicted third wave of the pandemic. The event is jointly organised by the National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development (Bengaluru region) under the Union government, the Social Security Mission under the State government and DMC India. Kerala Cartoon Academy and YMCA are collaborating with the event. The 12 cartoonists taking part in the camp were selected by the academy. The camp will be held in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-day-covid-cartoon-camp-from-july-17/article35314011.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,624 test positive in Ernakulam||Around 1,624 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. Nearly 1,590 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 24 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 9.69%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Thrikkakara (69), Chellanam (57), Maradu (43), Vazhakulam (43), Elankunnapuzha (36), Pallipuram (36), Manjapra (34), Rayamangalam (34), Thripunithura (33), Alangad (32), Udayamperoor (31) and Kumbalangi (30). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayavana, Elanji, Eloor, Kunnathunad, Nedumbassery, Chottanikara, Thammanam, Palarivattom, Mulavukad and Poonithura. Around 12,317 persons in the district are under treatment after testing positive, according to an official release Vaccination About 15.77 lakh persons have received the first dose of vaccination in the district while 4.46 lakh had received their second dose. The district was leading the list of districts that had administered the highest number of doses. Over 7,000 migrant workers in the district have received the first dose. Thirty vaccination centres were opened in the district for migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1624-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35314014.ece
14 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No cut from pension sans consent: HC||The Kerala High Court has ordered that no amount be deducted from the pension of retired Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) employees towards the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund under ‘vaccine challenge’ except if they give specific consent for the same in writing. Justice Devan Ramachandran made a declaration to this effect on Tuesday while allowing a writ petition by two retired employees — 73-year-old Rajan E.G. and 71-year-old M. Kesavan Nair from Thiruvananthapuram — challenging the deduction of a portion of their pension under the vaccine challenge without their consent. The court observed that normally, any contribution to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or such other fund could be effected only with full volition of the contributor and could not be a matter of compulsion or forced compliance unless there was a valid law that sanctioned such deduction. The KSEB or the State had no case that the petitioners or other employees, serving or retired, were “under any legally sanctioned obligation to suffer any remittance under the vaccine challenge”. However, the KSEB circular mandated that certain deductions would be made from the pension of the retired employees towards the relief fund, “but without conceding to any provision for such deduction being done only with the prior consent of the retirees”, the court added. The petitioners said they had neither agreed to any contribution under the ‘vaccine challenge’ nor had they consented that their pension be reduced in any manner for such purpose. They sought to set aside the KSEB action in forcibly deducting a certain amount from their pension and its remittance into the Chief Minister’s Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-deduction-from-pension-without-consent-kerala-hc/article35313650.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses as withdrawn plea of Nimisha’s mother||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed as withdrawn a petition filed by the mother of Nimisha Fathima, a Keralite woman who is languishing in a jail in Afghanistan, seeking a directive to the Centre to take expeditious steps to repatriate her daughter and granddaughter. When the case came up for hearing, the Bench led by Justice K. Vinod Chandran was of the opinion that the present habeas corpus petition was not the proper remedy available under the law in such matters. The Bench, therefore, asked her counsel to file a writ petition before a single judge. The counsel then withdrew the petition. In her petition, K Bindu, mother of Nismiha, said her daughter's IS fighter husband was killed in an attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-dismisses-as-withdrawn-plea-of-nimishas-mother/article35314021.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Don’t assess parents’ income for education loan: HC||The Kerala High Court has held that the repayment possibilities of education loans should not be assessed based on the financial position of the parents, but should be based on the projected future earnings of the students on employment after education. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar made the observation on Tuesday while disposing of a writ petition filed by Devik Soniraj, a second-year BAMS student, challenging the decision of Bank of India, a public sector bank, to reject her request for an educational loan. Guidance notes The court observed the revised guidance notes on Model Education Loan Scheme issued by the Indian Banks' Association in 2015 said that repayment possibilities of education loans under the scheme should not be assessed based on the financial position of the parents, but should be based on the projected future earnings of the students on employment after education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-assess-parents-income-for-education-loan-hc/article35314022.ece
14 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,404 cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,404 new cases of COVID-19 and 830 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,394 patients contracted the disease through contact, others include five NRIs, two persons from other States and three health workers. Kollam district currently has 31,152 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 17,58,403. While 3,048 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 2,95,667 primary and 18,433 secondary contacts of the cases. 3 deaths in Alappuzha The district reported 871 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. It also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 7.86%. The new cases include 850 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of 19 others remains unidentified. One person who came from abroad and a health staff were also diagnosed with the disease. The 871 cases include 90 logged from Alappuzha, 45 from Ezhupunna, 33 from Muhamma, 29 from Mararikulam South, 28 from Thanneermukkom, 24 from Perumbalam, 23 from Kanjikuzhy, and 21 each from Cherthala South and Mararikulam North. Meanwhile, 668 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload climbed to 8,217. ( With contribution from bureau in Alappuzha )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1404-cases-in-kollam/article35314071.ece
14 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Miyawaki forest comes alive||With miniature urban forests taking roots in 12 locations across the State, the Kerala Development and Innovative Strategic Council (K-DISC) has completed the first one of its Miyawaki afforestation programme. While some districts have already developed dense biodiverse woodlands, small green islands of varying sizes are flourishing bit by bit in some other spots. “We have completed the first stage and now we are planning to conduct an environmental impact study to assess difference in various parameters, including air quality. The study will be conducted in all sites after one year,” says K.T.Shakeela, assistant programme manager, K-DISC. Among the 14 districts, Wayanad, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam were excluded while Ernakulam and Thrissur have two sites each. “Districts such as Wayanad and Idukki were not considered since they have a comparatively larger green cover,” she adds. Planting process Though the project took off by 2019 end, the planting process in all districts was completed only recently. “As on now, we have one-and-a-half-year-old micro-forests to healthy 3-month-old patches. The project got delayed due to COVID-19, but now the planting has been completed. But they need regular nurturing and grooming till the three-year incubation period is over,” says Hari Prabhakaran, director and CEO, Nature’s Green Guardian Foundation (NGGfn), implementing agency of the project. The Munakkal beach in Thrissur, Andalurkavu in Kannur, Bhatt Road in Kozhikode and the Asramam biodiversity heritage site in Kollam are some of the locations where the project is being implemented. A method popularised by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, the fast-growing native vegetations are expected to become self-sustaining ecosystems after a particular time frame. Cultivated using organic methods, the saplings grow tall and thick, generating a lush habitat for pollinators, including butterflies and bees. “If we don't choose the indigenous species, their growth will deteriorate and we always add fruit-bearing trees to attract birds and insects. You can't replicate the same forest in all sites and we have included some rare varieties. We started the project in consultation with Mr. Miyawaki and two of his team members had visited all our sites,” he adds. Apart from removing carbon footprints and improving terrestrial biodiversity, the project also aims to encourage ecotourism. Tourism potential “The project has great tourism potential as it develops natural woodlands inside urban pockets. We are recreating the serenity of forests in an urban area and it will definitely attract tourists and nature enthusiasts,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/miyawaki-forest-comes-alive/article35314199.ece
14 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Catholicos laid to rest with State honours||The mortal remains of Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan Baselios Mar Thoma Poulose II, head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, were interred in a crypt with State honours beside the Catholicate palace chapel at Devalokam, Kottayam, by 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The funeral service was led by Kuriakose Mar Cleemis. All metropolitans of the Orthodox Church were co-celebrants. The proceedings began with prayers in the morning and the mortal remains were kept for the public to pay homage till 2 p.m.  Biden pays homage A wide array of leaders across all political parties paid their last respects to the Catholicos. United States President Joe Biden and Ignatius Aphrem II, Patriarch of Antioch and head of the Universal Syriac Orthodox Church, offered their condolences. Church sources said a five-member episcopal council led by senior metropolitan Kuriakose Mar Cleemis would manage the administration of the Church till October 14. On that day, the Malankara Association, the apex body comprising priests and laity representatives from all parishes under the Church, is slated to meet at Parumala and elect the next head of the Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catholicos-laid-to-rest-with-state-honours/article35314025.ece
14 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Infighting overshadows revamped Kerala Congress||Efforts by the Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph to realign with all major forces within the regional party’s platform appears to have suffered a major setback with reports of a major infighting emerging along factional lines. According to party sources, the immediate context of the latest round of infighting is a reorganisation of the party held soon after the Assembly elections. The process has disrupted the hierarchical order while the jumbo committees, formed apparently to accommodate senior leaders, have rendered it an unwieldy character.  Simmering discontent The simmering discontent within the party leadership was on ample display when its core leadership met at the residence of Mr. Joseph in Thodupuzha on Monday. While it brought to the fore the raging differences between the major leaders, the meeting finally arrived at a consensus on conducting organisational elections at the earliest. In April, Mr. Joseph had formalisd its merger with the Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas and appointed him as the working chairman. Mons Joseph, a Joseph group strong man from Kaduthuruthy, was elected as the executive chairman, while Joy Abraham was the secretary general. A group of leaders under senior leader Francis George and Johny Nellore, later came out in the open expressing reservations. The two leaders had joined Mr. Joseph as part of the veteran leader's effort to expand by bringing in new members and shifting old alliances so as to gain an upper hand over the KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani. “Despite the protests, the party leadership continued with its reorganisation,” said a leader. Outraged by the perceived side-lining, Mr. George and team refused to assume the positions accorded to them.  The dissident leaders, meanwhile, are expected to take charge of their positions after these elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infighting-overshadows-revamped-kerala-congress/article35314074.ece
14 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||1,359 fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode; TPR at 13.77%||As many as 1,359 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayashree, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 13.77% when 10,021 samples were tested. There were 1,329 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 27 others is not known. Active cases Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 255 locally acquired infections. As many as 1,176 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload from the district is 15,453. Meanwhile, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas said that mass COVID tests would be held in Beypore Assembly constituency on Thursday and Friday. The Minister directed officials to shift infected persons to treatment centres, if there was a need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1359-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-at-1377/article35314003.ece
14 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mixed response to govt. bid to recall teachers on deputation||The State government’s bid to recall teachers in government and aided schools who have gone on deputation to other departments or agencies for over five years has evoked mixed response. List prepared Education Minister V. Sivankutty recently stated that the department was planning to prepare a list of such teachers and ask them to return, while adding that “teachers should work in schools”. While teachers’ unions have not opposed the move in public, it is believed to have annoyed some of their leaders who have made it a practice to be on “permanent deputation”. According to sources, a large number of teachers, most of them leaders of unions, have been deployed in the Samagra Shiksha Keralam, State Council for Educational Research and Training, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education or KITE, Campaign to Protect Public Education, State Council for Open and Lifelong Education – Kerala or SCOLE Kerala, State Institute of Educational Technology, and the Kerala State Literacy Mission. It has been reported that some others have even found a placement in the Kudumbashree Mission. A State-level functionary of the pro-Left Kerala School Teachers Association, the biggest union representing school teachers, told The Hindu that there was nothing wrong in recalling them. He quoted provisions of the Right to Education Act to claim that “deployment of teachers for non-educational work” had been prohibited. It would affect only those who were on regular deputation, he added. M. Salahuddeen, president of the Congress-affiliated Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association, “expressed the hope” that the proposal would be implemented effectively. Though they are sent on deputation initially for a year, it can go up to five years, and there are teachers who have been in some posts for 10 years or more. This helped some to focus on their organisational responsibilities and some others to be in their home town. Some teachers work on deputation for five years, come back to their parent department for a year, then again go back. Not replaced K.K. Sreejesh Kumar, general secretary, Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers Association, claimed that the current system of deputation was affecting the functioning of aided schools. “Those who go on deputation are not replaced and the academic prospects of students are hit. Also some teachers are appointed in key posts bypassing seniority and service,” he said.  It is believed to have annoyed some leaders who have made it a practice to be on ‘permanent deputation’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mixed-response-to-govt-bid-to-recall-teachers-on-deputation/article35314001.ece
14 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||State govt. nod for responsible tourism project in Beypore||The State government has approved a comprehensive project to convert Beypore into a responsible tourism destination. The project envisages developing Beypore into an international destination in four years. Local MLA and Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas chaired a primary meeting of stakeholders in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. He said Beypore, with the confluence of the Arabian sea with the Chaliyar river, the port, breakwater, lighthouse, Kadalundi Bird Sanctuary, Kadalundi Kadavu estuary and the mangrove forest besides culture, food and rural life, had the right mix to be a successful tourism destination. The project envisages providing direct and indirect employment to more than 1,000 people in four years, including at least 500 units of Responsible Tourism Mission. The other tourism projects planned in Beypore will also be brought under the project. The Tourism Department will ensure the development of basic infrastructure. Preparing a draft plan of the kind of development needed; organising special tourism grama sabhas; holding meetings of stakeholders and investors; tourism resource mapping; training of beneficiaries; destination marketing and making of promotion video; and familiarisation field trips for bloggers, tour operators and media are to be the initial steps. A committee headed by Mr. Riyas, with State Responsible Tourism Mission Coordinator Roopesh Kumar as convenor and heads of local bodies in Beypore constituency as members, has been formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-govt-nod-for-responsible-tourism-project-in-beypore/article35313994.ece
14 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man abducted, smuggling gang’s role suspected||A team of the Kozhikode Rural police is learnt to have questioned some people in connection with the abduction of a Gulf returnee at gunpoint by a gang from Koduvally that is reportedly involved in gold smuggling. A senior police officer told The Hindu on Tuesday evening that they were working on primary data and no one had been arrested so far. According to the police, 37-year-old Ashraf of Oorallur, son of Mathoth Meethal Ahmed, returned from the Gulf on May 26. The investigation is based on a complaint by his brother Siddique that a five-member gang barged into their house at 6.40 a.m. on Tuesday and abducted Ashraf in a vehicle. Gold carrier The police suspect that Ashraf could be a carrier of smuggled gold. He was arrested on the charge at the Calicut international airport while transporting gold from Qatar six years ago. It has been reported that Ashraf had bought gold and the gang accused him of not transporting it to Koduvally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-abducted-smuggling-gangs-role-suspected/article35314002.ece
14 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for steps to solve traders’ crisis||Kozhikode MP M.K. Raghavan has called upon the State government to convene an all-party meeting to solve the crisis faced by the merchants due to “unscientific” restrictions. Speaking in support of the merchants who have been protesting against the COVID-related restrictions on commercial establishments here on Tuesday, the MP inaugurated a ‘standing protest’ by the United Democratic Front councillors of the Kozhikode Corporation. The MP said the merchants’ concerns were not taken into consideration while imposing the restrictions. “All shops in the State should be allowed to open. The practice of closing down all shops in a local body is unscientific. The restrictions need to be imposed in only those parts of a local body where the test positivity rate is too high,” said Mr. Raghavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-steps-to-solve-traders-crisis/article35313995.ece
14 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Police raid cockpit in Palakkad, 4 arrested||The police arrested four persons for cockfight betting in Kozhinjampara, near here, on Monday. Four roosters were seized from the cockpit and the bet amount of Rs. 8,830 was confiscated. Those arrested were S. Gokul Krishnan, 24, from Ozhalapathy; C. Jayaprakash, 26, from Thenampathy; N. Sakthivel, 26, from Vannamada; and M. Muthukumar, 21, from Vadakarapathy. The police raided a cockfight centre in a deserted plantation at Thenampathy, near Kozhinjampara, following a tip-off and seized the cocks. Those arrested were later released on bail. The seized roosters were auctioned off by the police for Rs. 8,900. The police said they had enhanced the vigil against cockfight betting, as the banned game was on the increase in many areas in the district bordering Tamil Nadu. For the scheduled communities of Pazhankudi Makkal living in the fringes of hills in the border villages of Palakkad, cockfight is a tradition they consider as part of their culture. Tamil Gaunders in the border regions also invest in and encourage this game. Healthy cockerels are hand picked and trained until they become roosters fit to display their power and persistence in attacking their opponents in cockpits. The value of a fighting cock usually goes up depending on the number of victories it obtains. Special chicken fairs are often held in the border villages, where roosters come up for sale and auction. Although there is no ban as such on cockfights, police intervenes when betting takes place. Betting in cockfights leads to quarrels and clashes between groups of aficionados, often invoking stringent clampdown by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-raid-cockpit-in-palakkad-4-arrested/article35314153.ece
14 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Gusty winds||The high-velocity winds that lashed parts of the Pathanamthitta district in the wee hours of Tuesday caused widespread damage in the Ranni region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gusty-winds/article35314073.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM seeks PM’s help for State’s infra aspirations||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sought Centre’s support for the State’s ambitious infrastructure projects during his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Tuesday. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Modi evinced keen interest in the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod dedicated semi-high-speed railway project SilverLine. The 530-km line will compress the travel time between the two ends of the State into four hours. The Centre has accorded “approval in principle” for the project. However, Mr. Vijayan said he sought a definite clearance from the Centre to foray ahead with the Rs. 63,491-crore “game-changing” scheme. The State government had granted administrative sanction for acquiring land for the SilverLine project. It had submitted a detailed project report to the Union Ministry of Railways for approval. The Centre just required to act on it, Mr. Vijayan said. Water transport Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Modi enquired in detail about the possibility of water transport and moving freight in ships from the Kollam, Azheekal and Kochi ports to other ports along India’s western coastline. Mr. Modi cited the Varanasi-Kolkata sea route as an example Kerala could emulate. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Modi approached the State’s demand for an AIIMS hospital positively. Mr. Vijayan sought Mr. Modi’s help to expedite the Rs. 2,815-crore Angamaly-Sabari railway project. Mr. Vijayan said he requested Mr. Modia to include the Kannur airport in the ASEAN open sky agreement in which the Centre is a signatory. Mr. Vijayan appraised Mr. Modi about the delay caused by two private firms contracted to build a reticulated piped gas network in the State. He hoped the Centre would put pressure on the companies to meet their contractual obligation. The State also pushed for the expedition of work on the second phase of the Kochi metro, which covered 11.2 km from Kakkanad Infopark to Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. Mr. Vijayan met Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnav and Union Minister for Petroleum Hardeep Singh Puri. Light metro Mr. Vijayan interacted with Mr. Puri and pressed the case for developing the petrochemical complex in Kochi. He requested the development of the Thalassery-Mysuru rail route and light metro rail systems for Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-seeks-pms-help-for-states-infra-aspirations/article35314030.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||US Consul General pays virtual visit to city||U.S. Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin was in the capital city on a virtual visit on Tuesday, during which she met several prominent individuals and civil society leaders to explore cooperation between the United States and Kerala on issues ranging from climate change mitigation to combating COVID-19. Ms. Ravin was briefed about the Kerala Model of Development and focus on traditional and new sectors, including tourism, information technology, space technology, innovation, coastal infrastructure, and service sector.  Chief Executive Officer of the Technopark John M. Thomas led the Consul General on a virtual tour of the Technopark campus. Ms. Ravin met representatives from seven major U.S. and Indian IT companies to learn about the current business environment in Kerala. She met with the alumni and trainers from the Consulate’s English Access Micro-scholarship Program (Access), conducted in collaboration with the Women’s Muslim Association and the Loyola College Society. The Consul General met women leaders from academia, entertainment, entrepreneurship, and the NGO sector and discussed women’s issues, the growth of women’s movements in Kerala, and government initiatives to promote women’s empowerment, gender equity, and equality. She also interacted with the members of the royal family of erstwhile Travancore. Key issues A pressnote quoting the Consul General said the virtual visit had helped to address key issues of mutual interest and gain insight into Kerala’s cultural heritage, socio-economic development, pluralistic ethos, and the tradition of tolerance and inclusion. “I am richer today with more ideas for promoting people-to-people and institutional partnerships between Kerala and the United States,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/us-consul-general-pays-virtual-visit-to-city/article35314196.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Concern as cases rise in north Kerala||Increasing COVID-19 transmission in all northern districts is emerging as a major concern, with the test positivity rate (TPR) remaining steady around 10%-11%. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday asked all districts to increase testing in accordance with the current positivity rate and to seriously examine if the relaxations allowed post lockdown were what was leading to increased disease transmission. While he maintained that restrictions on the basis of TPR would be in force for one more week, the State would also undertake a mega COVID testing drive centred around all local self-government bodies where the TPR was high. As part of this drive, 2.5 lakh additional COVID tests would be done over Thursday and Friday. District Collectors have been asked to intensify containment measures in districts and ward-level committees and rapid response teams have been asked to intensify their activities. New cases The State reported 14,539 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,39,049 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The TPR again went up to 10.46% The State’s active case pool rose to 1,15,174 when only 10,331 patients recovered on Tuesday. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 14,810 with the State adding 124 deaths. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 1,785 and the total number of patients in hospitals was 24,509. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients remained more or less unchanged at 1,949. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,115, followed by Ernakulam 1,624, Kollam 1,404, Thrissur 1,364, Kozhikode 1,359, Thiruvananthapuram 977, Palakkad 1,191, Kannur 926, Alappuzha 871, Kottayam 826, Kasaragod 657, Pathanamthitta 550, Wayanad 436 and Idukki 239.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-as-cases-rise-in-north-kerala/article35314029.ece
14 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEAM entrance on August 5||KEAM–2021, the entrance examination for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses in the State, will be held on August 5. The schedule was finalised on Tuesday following a discussion held by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu and Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) A. Geetha here on Tuesday. The examination, which had earlier been scheduled to be held on July 24, was postponed to avoid clashing of dates with the JEE Main examination. According to Ms. Geetha, the preparations for the conduct of the examination are in its final phase. It will be held across 415 centres in Kerala and abroad. While the CEE has obtained clearance for the Dubai and Mumbai centres, confirmation of the availability of two schools in Delhi is expected soon. Around 1.5 lakh students have applied for the examination this year. Nearly 525 candidates each have opted for the Dubai and Delhi centres, while around 200 will appear for the examination from Mumbai. Exam schedule The first paper, comprising Physics and Chemistry, will be held from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., while the second paper on Mathematics will be held from 2.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. Adhering to COVID-19 protocol, the office of the CEE has planned to restrict the number of examinees in a classroom to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keam-entrance-on-august-5/article35314035.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Four more Zika cases in capital||The State’s Zika virus (ZIKV) tally rose to 23 on Tuesday with four new cases being reported from scattered urban locales within the district. Of the cases so far, three are pregnant women. On Tuesday, a 35-year-old woman at Poonthura, a 41-year-old pregnant woman at Sasthamangalam, a 38-year-old doctor at a private hospital and a 16-year-old girl at Karikkakam were diagnosed with the infection. Undetected cases The fact that isolated cases are being reported from various geographic points in the district is not just worrying, but it has made the task of epidemiologists, who are trying to trace the origin and the spread of the outbreak, harder. “It is more or less given that the virus would have been in circulation in the district for the past few months. It is also possible that there were several undetected cases which never reached a clinician, because ZIKV mostly manifests as a mild or asymptomatic infection which resolves itself in two or three days,” an epidemiologist said. District health officials said that while a cluster of epidemiologically linked cases have been found around a private hospital in the city, the new cases which have come up, need to be investigated. The city Corporation has been asked to do intensive vector- control measures within a radius of the hospital, including spraying of larvicides. The Central team investigating the outbreak visited more field sites, including Parassala from where the first case was reported. Action plan The city Corporation has prepared an action plan to prevent the spread of vector-borne diseases during the monsoons. Health standing committee chairperson Jameela Sreedharan presented the action plan at a special council meeting convened on Tuesday to discuss steps to control the spread of ZIKV and other diseases such as dengue fever. Inspections Meanwhile, the district administration has intensified inspections to identify and destroy mosquito-breeding sites. District health authorities have flagged the lack of progress in vector control measures in the Corporation. The diagnosis of the infection in a Poonthura native has raised concern with health officials anticipating more cases from the densely populated coastal belt. A squad led by District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu inspected various parts of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-diagnosed-with-zika-in-capital/article35313992.ece
14 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Domestic power bill can be paid in instalments||Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty has said domestic consumers will be permitted to pay electricity bill in instalments. As part of COVID-19 welfare measures, the government decided to provide concession of 25% on the fixed charges applicable to high tension (HT) electricity consumers. Speaking at a meet-the-press here on Tuesday. Mr. Krishnankutty said the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) would extend the 25% rebate being provided on fixed charges to industrial and commercial consumers. Pointing out that the decision to permit bill payment in instalments would provide immense relief for those affected by the pandemic, the Minister cautioned against wilful defaults. Power would be disconnected for non-payment. He said concessions would be provided for entrepreneurs involved in value addition in the farm sector. Kudumbashree units engaged in such activities would benefit. Mr. Krishnankutty said the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which would be tabled in the monsoon session of Parliament, would adversely affect the common man in the State. He expressed the optimism that the State government would be able to avail itself of an additional loan from the Centre without privatising the power distribution sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-power-bill-can-be-paid-in-instalments/article35314032.ece
14 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Posting: Khan seeks report||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Tuesday sought a report from the University of Kerala on the controversy surrounding the appointment of H. Poornima, wife of R. Mohanan, Officer on Special Duty to the Chief Minister, as the editor of Malayalam Lexicon in the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/posting-khan-seeks-report/article35314190.ece
14 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor convenes meet of VCs||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has called a meeting of Vice Chancellors on Friday. The meeting is likely to focus on issues relating to dowry and atrocities against women and children. According to sources, the meeting is scheduled to be held at the Ernakulam Guest House at 1 p.m. The programme assumes significance as it is being held against the backdrop of an assistant professor of Calicut University being suspended over sexual harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-convenes-meet-of-vcs/article35314191.ece
14 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||977 COVID-19 cases in district||The district recorded 977 COVID-19 cases and 754 recoveries on Tuesday. With this, the number of active cases rose to 9,729. The test positivity rate stood at 7.03% when 13,882 people were tested. Three health-care workers were among those who tested positive. A total of 32,694 are under quarantine. The death toll rose to 3,025 with 19 more deaths being attributed to the disease in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/977-covid-19-cases-in-district/article35314194.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC results to be declared today||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will announce the results of the 2021 SSLC examinations here at 2 p.m. on Wednesday. Results of the THSLC, SSLC (hearing impaired), THSLC (hearing impaired), and AHSLC examinations too will be announced. The results will be available on keralapareekshabhavan.in; sslcexam.kerala.gov.in; results.kite.kerala.gov.in; prd.kerala.gov.in; result. kerala.gov.in; examresults.kerala.gov.in; results.kerala.nic.in; sietkerala.gov.in The SSLC (hearing impaired) results will be available on sslchiexam.kerala.gov.in; THSLC results on thslcexam.kerala.gov.in; THSLC (hearing impaired) results on thslchiexam.kerala.gov.in; and the AHSLC result on ahslcexam.kerala.gov.in, the Pareeksha Bhavan secretary said in a statement on Tuesday. Saphalam app The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education has readied an app, Saphalam 2021, for accessing the SSLC results, besides its cloud-based portal results.kite.kerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-results-to-be-declared-today/article35314031.ece
14 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister gets death threat||Minister for Devaswoms, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST), and Backward Classes Welfare K. Radhakrishnan revealed on Tuesday that he had received a death threat over his phone. Speaking at the inauguration of e-office facilities at the Scheduled Castes Development Directorate, the Minister said that attempts to stop wrongdoings invite such reactions, however threats will not dissuade the government from its actions. Graft case The revelation comes at a time when the Scheduled Caste Development Department is carrying out audits into the fund disbursal under various schemes, following a case of corruption involving some officials at a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation office. Senior clerk U.R. Rahul, field promoter Sangeetha, and others had allegedly diverted funds meant for the educational and other purposes of beneficiaries into their own accounts. The fraudulent activity came to light by chance in April this year when the parent of a possible beneficiary, who was marked as ineligible by the official, found out later that the money was collected using the child’s records, but diverted into the field promoter’s account. Lakhs of rupees is estimated to have been diverted into multiple benami accounts. Arrested Mr. Rahul was arrested last week. The Vigilance Court on Monday sent him in police custody. Meanwhile, acting on the complaint, the Cantonment police registered a case against one Ajith, who hails from Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-gets-death-threat/article35314004.ece
14 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Top priority to COVID control, says Collector||The preventive measures against COVID -19 will be on the top of the priority list of the new Thrissur Collector Haritha V. Kumar. “Efforts will be made to control the spread of the pandemic by focusing on vaccination. Special attention will be given for speedy completion of Kuthiran tunnels. The distribution of title deeds for high range farmers is progressing,” she said. Thrissur is a district which has scope and challenges for development. Sincere efforts will be there to provide solutions for the issues, she said. Ms. Kumar had earlier worked as sub collector in Thrissur for almost a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/top-priority-to-covid-control-says-collector/article35314151.ece
14 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Surendran to appear before SIT today||BJP State president K. Surendran will appear before the special team investigating the Kodakara black money heist case for interrogation on Wednesday. He will appear before the officials at the Thrissur Police Club at 10.30 a.m. Many BJP leaders have already been questioned in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surendran-to-appear-before-sit-today/article35314026.ece
14 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Protest against demolition of church||Demolition of the Little Flower (Syro-Malabar) Church in Delhi was a blatant violation of human rights, Thrissur Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath has said. Demolition of the church, which was the place of religious worship of around 2,000 Christians, is a challenge to religious freedom promised by the Constitution. Such incidents hurt sentiments of peace loving Christians, a joint protest meeting of various religious organisations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-demolition-of-church/article35314152.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In Karnataka, a silent revolution with bananas||Farming communities in Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada in Karnataka are demonstrating that much more than banana bread — the flavour of the first year of lockdown — can be made with the fruit. In rain-rich Karnataka, banana cultivation is common but farmers have no control over prices. “Merchants categorise the fruit into first and second quality. It was being bought at Rs. 4 and 5 per kg during the lockdown. The farmers were forced to take back the seconds. When there is a glut, distress sales are common in this region,” says farm educator Shree Padre. Now, homemakers are helping these farmers by experimenting with banana flour, which can be used for everything from dosas to gulab jamun. Nayana Anand from Tumkur, Karnataka, turned a bunch of plantain into sweets and savouries for a week, posting pictures of her experiments and, thus, creating a buzz in Any Time Vegetable (ATV), a WhatsApp group composed predominantly of farmers in Uttara Kannada, Karnataka. “The reason for the excitement was because she had cooked most of the dishes with banana flour, which was made by drying local varieties grown in the region,” says Mr. Padre. The lockdowns have forced farmers to feed their crop to cattle or sell it for rock bottom prices. Sharing the crop with neighbours or relatives is ruled out as they are also into banana cultivation. Although, many farmers dry the ripe fruit to make banana fig, during the monsoon that too comes to a standstill and tonnes of fresh fruit have to be discarded. Baby food Then, this March, Ms. Anand saw a post by Jayambika Rajan from Haripad, Kerala, who was making and selling banana flour made of the Nendran variety. She had turned entrepreneur with the help of an incubation centre at the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Alappuzha. A common ingredient of baby food in Kerala, banana flour is sold as a branded product by private players and Kudumbashree units. Ms. Anand contacted Mr. Padre and requested him to help her make the flour. He put her in touch with Jissy George, Subject Matter Specialist at KVK, Alappuzha. Ms. George asserts that it is easy to process raw banana of any variety into flour, and no fancy equipment or heavy investment is required. All one needs is a drier. “Although Jissy knows no Kannada and I don’t follow Malayalam, she explained the process of drying bananas and turning it into flour with one voice message on WhatsApp. During ‘banana week’ on ATV, I prepared and posted a range of things I had made with the flour in our group ” says Ms. Anand. Sensing that this would be of immense help to farmers, Mr. Padre requested Ms. Anand to explain how to make the flour, and she posted an explainer on his WhatsApp groups, sending it to farming groups across Uttara Kannada. “As the monsoon had set in, I hoped at least a few farmers would take it up there. This district probably has the highest number of food grade driers, [about 1,500-plus] in Karnataka and so it would be easy for them to make the flour,” says Mr. Padre. Septuagenarian’s initiative To his delight, septuagenarian Subraya Hegde from Ooruthota took the initiative to make banana flour, using it for roti, thalipeeth and several snacks. As he shared his success on social media, it sparked interest among farmers. In the meantime, Mr. Padre got in touch with the Central Processing facility at Kotegadde, near Thirthahalli, established by the Vanilla Growers’ Association. He persuaded them to process banana flour and 50 kg, made from local varieties, were distributed to homes. Families across Thirthahalli took up the challenge and unleashed a culinary fiesta with banana flour, which Mr. Padre calls ‘Ba Ka Hu’. “More than 30 families in Uttara Kannada are making banana flour with the help of driers and they send me pictures of the food they cook with it. Every day, I get about three to four recipes: Thellevu, Vadape, Upma, Shankar Pole, Malt, dry Jamun, Buns, Goli Baje, Chiwda, Chakkuli, Dosa, Kadubu, Dood Peda … the list is extensive,” laughs Mr. Padre. Pat for homemaker News of the banana revolution reached the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) at Tiruchi in Tamil Nadu and its director Uma Subbaraya sent a congratulatory message to Ms. Anand for her culinary innovation. “The market is ripe for banana flour and, if marketed imaginatively, it has great potential. Rich in resistant starch, its glycemic index is low, making it an excellent addition or substitute in recipes that call for rice or wheat flour. Moreover, this could help farmers who have to deal with heavy rains that destroy the crop since even the undeveloped raw fruit can be turned into flour. If major brands are attracted towards this, it could help farmers avoid distress sales,” says Dr. Uma Subbaraya, adding, “A silent revolution is taking place in Karnataka thanks to a bunch of enterprising women.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-karnataka-a-silent-revolution-with-bananas/article35313660.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spirited protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirited-protest/article35313997.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking relaxation in norms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-relaxation-in-norms/article35314155.ece
14 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks officials to start Jagananna Colony works on a priority basis||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development officials to start the works pertaining to development of infrastructure in the YSR Jagananna Colonies on a priority. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the progress of works undertaken by the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department on Tuesday and asked the officials to complete the works pertaining to village secretariats, village clinics and digital libraries by the year-end. The officials must complete the geo-tagging and review the progress of construction of those buildings, apart from ensuring the implementation of the cleanliness drive programme in villages. Referring to the cleanliness drive, the Chief Minister said that 23,747 green ambassadors and 4,482 green guards were on duty for door-to-door collection of garbage across the State and approval had been given to recruit additional 11,453 green ambassadors and 5,551 green guards. The Chief Minister also accorded permission to launch 14,000 tricycles in villages and 1034 autos in urban areas, which will be used to collect garbage. PPE kits The officials informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that PPE kits were distributed to all green ambassadors and green guards. The Chief Minister asked them to focus on maintenance of garbage collection vehicles and proper disposal of the PPE kits. Solid and liquid waste management system in villages and towns should be carried out properly, he said. A clean Andhra Pradesh will be possible only if the municipal and panchayat raj officials work in tandem, said the Chief minister and asked the officials to make arrangements for collection of wet waste in rural areas. “Contact number should be displayed in villages to ensure collection and shifting of garbage to the treatment plants without hassles,” he said. YSR Cheyutha Referring to the YSR Cheyutha and YSR Asara schemes, he said, “Six lakh women have been benefitted from the livelihood schemes and the officials must ensure that the beneficiaries face no marketing problems.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-asks-officials-to-start-jagananna-colony-works-on-a-priority-basis/article35314140.ece
14 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP should make its stand clear on Seema projects: Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has demanded that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu should make his party stand clear on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS). Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy slammed Mr. Chandrababu Naidu for ‘supporting water usage for power generation by Telangana’, at a press meet here on Tuesday. Responding to a letter written by Prakasam district TDP leaders to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy recently against the RLIS, he said the opposition party was conspiring to create disputes among the three regions of the State. He criticised Mr. Naidu for filing cases in the NGT (National Green Tribunal) in ‘favour of Telangana’. However, the government, he said, was working without compromising the interests of any area. While all the political parties had to be united in the fight on the Krishna water issue, Mr. Naidu had been playing cheap tactics for his political mileage, he said. Denies charges Refuting the allegations that panchayat bodies were being replaced by village and ward secretariats, he said it was Mr. Chandrababu Naidu who had crippled the panchayat system in Andhra Pradesh by introducing Janmabhoomi Committees. People were looted through the Janmabhoomi Committees, which were formed illegally, he said. The YSRCP government had introduced a secretariat system to strengthen the panchayats and bring administration closer to people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-should-make-its-stand-clear-on-seema-projects-sajjala/article35314218.ece
14 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. foisting false cases against TDP leaders, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday accused the YSRCP government of foisting fake cases against the TDP leaders and arresting them only to divert the attention of the people from the ‘unchecked corruption’ and ‘endless atrocities’ of the ruling party leaders. Mr. Naidu alleged that fabricated cases were registered against TDP leader Dhulipalla Narendra on charges of irregularities in the Sangam Dairy. “The TDP will remember such political vendettas being perpetrated against its leaders,” said Mr. Naidu after meeting Mr. Narendra and his family at Chintalapudi . He enquired about the former MLA’s health and called upon the party leaders and cadres to stand by Mr. Narendra . “It was inhuman on the part of the police to arrest Mr. Narendra without showing any evidence and without serving a prior notice. The police are unable to discharge their duties lawfully because of the interference by the YSRCP leaders. The law and order situation in the State has gone for a toss,” said the TDP chief. “The Sangam Dairy was changed from a cooperative to a company in accordance with law. The government could not show any evidence of irregularities. But, Mr. Narendra was arrested and being harassed.,” said Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-foisting-false-cases-against-tdp-leaders-says-naidu/article35314142.ece
14 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP complains to CID over social media posts||The YSR Congress Party has complained to Additional Director General CID P.V. Sunil Kumar against certain objectionable posts in social media against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Party MLC Lella Appireddy called on Mr. Kumar and complained that certain objectionable social media posts against Mr. Jagan had mentioned that the latter’s bail would be cancelled on July 14 at the CBI Court and also added that there was a likelihood of violence breaking out after the judgment. Mr. Appireddy said that such posts could create law and order problems and promote enmity between various groups and urged the CID official to take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-complains-to-cid-over-social-media-posts/article35314166.ece
14 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers’ panel to oversee land survey||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the government is setting up a committee comprising three Ministers to ensure effective implementation of the YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku-Bhoomi Rakshana scheme. The panel comprising Ministers of Panchayat Raj, Revenue and Municipal Administration would oversee on the comprehensive land survey.  YSR Jala Kala “I want the departments concerned to take up the project with commitment. YSR Jala Kala project, a prestigious project will be helpful to lakhs of farmers,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said at a review meeting on Tuesday. He said that construction of check-dam type structures near bridges would be built on small rivers across the State so that water could be stored up to 3 to 4 feet. These structures would help recharge the ground water. The Chief Minister asked the officials to prepare an action plan in this regard. He also discussed the Jagananna Pacha Thoranam targetted to plant saplings in schools and hospitals as part of the Nadu-Nedu scheme. The officials informed the Chief Minister on the progress of YSR Bima, Jal Jeevan Mission, progress of the construction works pertaining to rural highways. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Principal Secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi, Panchayat Raj Commissioner Girija Shankar, SERP Chief Executive Officer P Raja Babu, Swacha Andhra Corporation Managing Director P. Sampath Kumar and other officials were present in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-panel-to-oversee-land-survey/article35314138.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sriramsagar gets 14 tmcft water in 2 days||Heavy flood into Sriramsagar Project (SRSP), the gateway project across Godavari in Telangana, has added about 14 tmcft water in 48 hours – from 6 p.m. on Sunday to 6 p.m. on Tuesday – in the reservoir with the help of inflows from the upstream Maharashtra and rains in the local catchment areas in the State. The storage in the reservoir crossed 48 tmcft against its capacity of 90.31 tmcft as of Tuesday evening, with heavy inflows of about 92,600 cusecs reaching the project. Inflows into other projects in the Godavari Basin as also in the Krishna Basin are continuing, although in a small measure. About 46,700 cusecs flood being discharged at Malegaon high-level barrage across Godavari in Maharashtra, in the upstream of Babli, is adding to the inflows into SRSP. According to officials of the Irrigation Department, heavy rains in the catchment areas of Upper Krishna Basin in Karnataka and Maharashtra for the last three days is also expected to increase the inflows into Almatti and Narayanpur projects in Karnataka and its discharge towards Telangana-Andhra Pradesh projects. Nearly 11 cm rain was recorded at Mahabaleshwar, the birthplace of Krishna river and many of its tributaries, and 6 cm rain in Malkhed (Karnataka) and nearly 5.2 cm in Jewangi area is likely to improve inflows into Jurala, which stood at about 2,000 cusecs on Tuesday evening. Heavy to very heavy rainfall of 9.4 cm and 12.6 cm during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday and Monday in Agumbe area, the catchment of Tungabhadra river, is also expected to improve inflows into Tungabhadra dam which stood at just 2,000 cusecs on Tuesday evening. At Medigadda (Laxmi) Barrage of Kaleshwaram Project across Godavari, the inflows and outflows were in the range of 45,000 cusecs on Tuesday evening. Taliperu brimming With a surge in inflows from Taliperu’s catchment areas spread in neighbouring Chhattisgarh owing to incessant rains, the water level in the Taliperu reservoir in Charla mandal has almost reached its brim on Tuesday evening. Three crest gates of the reservoir were lifted to a height of one feet and surplus water was discharged into the Godavari after the water level shot up to 73.17 metres as against FRL of 74 metres at 5 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sriramsagar-gets-14-tmcft-water-in-2-days/article35313932.ece
14 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will step up vigil on LWE activities, says new SP||The new East Godavari SP, M. Raveendranath Babu, has said that he would accord priority to stepping up vigil in the Left Wing Extremist-affected areas of the district bordering Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Speaking to the media after taking charge here on Tuesday, Mr. Raveendranth Babu said the ground situation would be studied to come up with a better action plan to tackle LWE activities in the agency. In the past year, a few Maoists of various cadres have surrendered to the police while an encounter took place recently on the Visakha-East Godavari agency border. Mr. Raveendranath Babu is known for strengthening a few wings, including the Intelligence, during his tenure in Krishna district. Mr. Raveendranath Babu said he would strengthen the existing initiatives for women’s safety and friendly policing. He was briefed on a range of subjects by the ASP, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB-Sand and Liquor), Sumit Garud and other officials before he met Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy at the Collectorate. Meanwhile, in Rampachodavaram, Krishnakanth Patil took over as ASP on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-step-up-vigil-on-lwe-activities-says-new-sp/article35314171.ece
14 July 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siddharth Kaushal takes charge as Krishna SP||Siddharth Kaushal, a 2012 batch IPS officer, assumed charge as Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) on Tuesday. Mr. Kaushal served as Additional SP in Visakhapatnam and Parvathipuram. He was Prakasam SP, before posting as Krishna SP. Additional SP (Administration) Mallika Garg, Additional Superintendent of Police (Special Enforcement Bureau) Vakul Jindal, ASP (AR) Satyanarayana and other officers met the new SP. Mr. Siddharth said that priority would be given for the complaints related to women, children and the elderly. Steps would be taken to control liquor smuggling, sale of ID liquor, ganja and gutkha, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siddharth-kaushal-takes-charge-as-krishna-sp/article35314216.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into ‘illegal purchase’ of land in Amaravati should continue, A.P. tells SC||The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that investigation into the alleged “illegal purchase” of land in Amaravati should go on and be monitored by a retired High Court judge. The government said the case could even be investigated by the CBI. The government urged a Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari to refer the case back to the High Court. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by the government against a High Court stay on investigation into the FIR involving former Advocate General Dammalapati Srinivas among others. The FIR shows offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, criminal breach of trust and cheating under the Indian Penal Code. The allegations include abuse of official positions in the State, sharing of privileged information and causing loss to the public exchequer during the previous Telegu Desam Party (TDP) regime. ‘Regime revenge’ The State, represented by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, maintained in the Supreme Court that the Amaravati land case was not a product of “regime revenge”. But senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Srinivas, countered that the case was indeed a case of “regime revenge”. Mr. Salve initially voiced an opinion to have the case heard in the top court itself. “It cannot go up and down like this,” he said in a virtual hearing. He said either the State’s appeal in the apex court should be dismissed and the case be heard in the High Court or let the case continue to be heard in the top court itself. The State cannot fight in two forums at the same time. “We have already agreed that no coercive action would be taken [against the persons named in the FIR]. I am not in a position to say that it could be heard here [Supreme Court]. On instructions, I am saying that the case has to be heard in the High Court, and in detail,” Mr. Dhavan submitted. The Bench deferred the hearing to July 22. The High Court had stayed the investigation and barred the State from taking any coercive action against the persons named in the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-into-illegal-land-purchase-in-amaravati-should-continue/article35313656.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC declines to revoke bail for 12 in gold smuggling case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to revoke the bail granted to 12 accused in the high-profile Kerala gold smuggling case and agreed to examine whether the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) can be invoked in smuggling cases. The question is whether the offence of gold smuggling is covered entirely under the Customs Act or would it fall within the definition of terrorist act under Section 15 (1) (a) (iiia) of the UAPA. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana issued notice to the 12 accused who were granted bail by the Kerala High Court on this limited question of law concerning the UAPA. The Centre and the National Investigation Agency, which had moved the apex court against the High Court’s categorical finding that the UAPA would not stand in smuggling cases, argued in the top court that the High Court’s view was divergent with its Rajasthan counterpart, and the law needed to be finally clarified by the Supreme Court. The Kerala High Court had maintained that the UAPA cannot be invoked in smuggling cases unless the crime was done with the intent to threaten the economic security of the country. The NIA had approached the High Court, invoking the UAPA, after the NIA court in Kochi gave the accused bail. The case concerns the seizure of 30 kg of 24 carat gold worth Rs. 14.82 crore at the Thiruvananthapuram airport last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-declines-to-revoke-bail-for-12-in-gold-smuggling-case/article35313657.ece
14 July 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco ryots seek higher per barn quota||Farmers in the traditional tobacco growing regions in Prakasam and Nellore districts are pressing for a higher per barn quota to take advantage of the economies of scale and remain competitive in the global market. The farmers, ahead of the Tobacco Board’s production policy for the 2021-22 financial year, complain that they have been incurring heavy losses owing to the decrease in the quota per barn, the primary processing unit of the produce. “We have been denied the opportunity to benefit from the optimum production level recommended by the Central Tobacco Research Institute ,” laments a group of farmers from the Southern Black Soil (SBS) and the Southern Light Soil(SLS) regions, saying that they are grappling with the situations in the wake of coronavirus pandemic that disrupted the tobacco trade during the peak marketing season. The farmers explain that they cannot keep the barns idle after investing heavily on them and incurring additional expenses in making them more energy efficient every year to cut costs and stay afloat amid the intense competition from their counterparts elsewhere in the world. “We have been burning our fingers since the quota was reduced by the crop regulator from 35 quintals per barn to 30 quintals per barn,” says SLS Growers Association Secretary T. Ramanaiah while pressing for at least 45 quintals per barn as quota for this financial year. ‘Hefty penalty’ “We end up paying hefty penalty in view of the reduction in per barn quota. We cannot cut down on extent of crop with a view to bring down the cost of cultivation including labour cost which is constantly going up,” adds Ramaanjaneyulu, a farmer at the Ongole II auction platform. A majority of the tobacco farmers spend more by taking additional barn on rent to avoid penalty, says V.V. Prasad, another farmer after a meeting with SBS Regional Manager B. Manjunath. A higher quota per barn does not necessarily mean higher crop production going by the authorised crop size approved by the crop regulator and the actual production, they argue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-ryots-seek-higher-per-barn-quota/article35314144.ece
14 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Consumers should know their rights, says Speaker||AP Legislative Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitharam on Tuesday said consumers should know their rights and responsibilities to protect themselves from cheating while buying goods and services. He formally inaugurated a vehicle designed to move in rural areas to create awareness over consumer rights. He lauded the initiative taken up by Aasraa Consumer Protection representatives Habib Sultan Ali, Ganji Ezra, P. Chandrapati Rao and others to educate consumers. Dr. Ezra said that the vehicle would move in all 38 mandals of the district and involve local public representatives in explaining the rights under the Consumer Protection Act. Members of the association Sasanapu Jogi Naidu, Konkyana Venugopal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/consumers-should-know-their-rights-says-speaker/article35314176.ece
14 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aid given to private staff||Local industrialist and philanthropist Srinivasa Rao distributed essential commodities to private school teachers, employees and workers of movie theatres affected by the closure of institutions. He also extended help to 350 poor families of Yatapeta and Macchavanipeta. He said helping needy people would give more happiness than personal wealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aid-given-to-private-staff/article35314169.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala eases curbs for some retail outlets||Shops in Kerala can remain open till 8 p.m. from July 15, but non-essential shops will stay closed in “critical spread” localities with a test positivity rate (TPR) higher than 15%. Retail, as per earlier norms, was allowed only on alternate weekdays, while weekend lockdowns would continue. The State permitted textile, furniture, home appliances, jewellery, electronic and vehicle showrooms to open from July 15. The government’s relaxations got no enthusiastic welcome from the retail sector. The Kerala Vyapara Vyvasayi Ekopana Samathi (KVVES) dismissed the “token” easing of restrictions as a half-measure. Traders to defy orders Its office-bearers said in Kozhikode that traders would defy the government and open as usual on all days from July 15. Street food vendors were likely to follow suit. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan said the government had failed to protect lives and livelihoods. The government was under pressure from religious groups to allow more people into places of worship. Reflecting higher testing, Kerala logged 14,539 fresh COVID-19 cases and 124 deaths on Tuesday, taking total infections to 30,87,673 and the toll to 14,810. Telangana posted 767 new infections on Tuesday with Khammam recording the maximum at 84 and Greater Hyderabad with 77. A comparatively high number of cases were recorded in rural districts — Mancherial (65), Pedapalli (59), Nalgonda (52) and Karimnagar (51). In comparison, the urban districts of Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri logged 42 and 26 fresh infections, respectively. Fresh mortality related to COVID was put at three, taking the toll to 3,738. The overall case tally was 6,33,146. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 1,913 new cases, taking the total to 28,74,597. With 48 more deaths, the toll rose to 35,944. The daily TPR touched 1.53%. In Tamil Nadu, fresh COVID cases continued to fall as 2,505 more people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. Thirty-one of the 38 districts reported fewer than 100 cases each. Seven districts accounted for half the fresh cases. Coimbatore recorded 282 cases, while Erode and Thanjavur saw 187 and 185 respectively. As many as 162 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem. There were 160 cases in Chennai. The fresh cases took the tally to 25,23,943. Another 48 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 33,502.  (With inputs from Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-eases-curbs-for-some-retail-outlets/article35313663.ece
14 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam performed at Tirumala||Fervour marked the event of Koil Alwar Thiurmanjanam, observed as a prelude to the annual Anivara Asthanam scheduled on July 16, at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. As part of the festival, idols of various utsava deities were temporarily removed from the inner sanctum sanctorum while the main idol was provided with a water proof covering. A herbal paste, containing a mixture of refined sandalwood powder, turmeric, camphor, vermilion and other ingredients that act a disinfectant, was applied to all the walls, roof and pillars inside the sanctorum as well as at all the other sub-temples inside the main temple complex and cleansed with water. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy and other temple staff took part in the three-hour event. The darshan lines, which were temporarily interrupted in the morning, resumed soon after the conclusion of the fete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koil-alwar-thirumanjanam-performed-at-tirumala/article35314130.ece
14 July 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Chinese nationals held for overstaying||The Tirupati Urban police arrested two Chinese nationals near Renigunta in Tuesday on charges of overstaying beyond the period of their Visa. Ren Wei and Du Yongan were staying back in a local hotel even after their Visa expired. The police, on getting information about their stay, raided the hotel and arrested Ren Wei on July 8. Du Yongan was picked up on Tuesday on the same charges. The police also sent the material seized from them to forensic science lab. The Union Home Ministry has been informed of the arrest, said Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban). He appealed to the public to keep a watch on the illegal stay of foreigners in their vicinity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-chinese-nationals-held-for-overstaying/article35314133.ece
14 July 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vehicle thieves nabbed, 26 bikes recovered||The Palamaner police arrested a seven-member gang of vehicle thieves operating on either side of the A.P.-Karnataka border and recovered 26 motorcycles from them on Tuesday. With a spurt in bike theft instances in Kuppam constituency, the police enhanced surveillance in Kuppam, Ramakuppam and Gudupalle police station limits and formed special teams to track the culprits. According to Palamaner Deputy Superintendent of Police C.M. Gangaiah, seven persons were arrested by a team of Kuppam police on Tuesday, who were allegedly involved in several cases of motorcycle theft in A.P. as well as Karnataka. The arrested were identified as T. Vinaykumar, V. Ekambaram, M. Muniraju, K. Lakshman, B. Santosh, K. Meghanath and K. Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vehicle-thieves-nabbed-26-bikes-recovered/article35314125.ece
14 July 2021||UNDI (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Toddler dies after choking on live fish||A nine-month-old toddler reportedly choked to death on a small live fish, at Undi village in West Godavari district on Tuesday. The deceased baby was identified as Nanda Kishore, son of T. Narayana and Usha. The incident occurred when the couple was playing with him outside their house on Monday. A neighbour who had gone fishing in a canal came back with some live fish and gave some to Narayana, who took a small fish and kept it near the toddler’s mouth in a bid to entertain him. Suddenly, the fish, about three inches in length, slipped into his mouth and the toddler began choking on it, said Undi Sub-Inspector Ravi Kumar. The couple rushed the toddler to a private hospital in Akiveedu, where doctors declared him dead. A case under Section 174 CrPc (death under suspicious circumstances) has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toddler-chokes-on-live-fish/article35313712.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain in Krishna, West Godavari districts||Heavy rains lashed the Agency area and other parts of the district in the last 24 hours. Many rivulets and streams were in spate due to the incessant downpour. The district received an average rainfall of 32.8 mm till Tuesday morning. The highest of 131.8 mm rainfall was recorded in Chagallu, followed by 108.4 in Palakoderu, 101.8 in Jeelugumilli, 75 mm in Devarapalli, and 74.2 mm in Polavaram. Kovvur, Ganapavaram, Buttaigudem, Veeravasaram and Koyyalagudem mandals received over 50 mm rainfall, officials said. The tributaries of Godavari and many rivulets in Telangana and Chhattisgarh States are overflowing due to heavy rains in the catchment areas. The flood level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam stood at 16.1 feet and is rising slowly, said Central Water Commission (CWC) officials. Temple closed Kothur canal, Jeelugumilli Vaagu and other streams in the Agency area were in spate due to heavy rainfall in the hilly areas. The Kothur causeway was closed for traffic as floodwater overflowed on to the bund posing a risk to motorists. Floodwaters entered the Gandi Pochamma temple, located on the river bank on Tuesday, prompting the temple management to suspend darshan of the deity. Some houses located on the river bed were inundated, the villagers said. In Krishna district, an average rainfall of 10.5 mm was recorded, and the highest of 38.4 mm rainfall was recorded in Tiruvuru, while Penuganchiprolu recorded 37.8 mm, Koduru 28.2, Gampalagudem 23.8, Kalidindi 23.6, Vatsavai 21.8, Bantumilli 21.6 and Veerulapadu mandal 20. Water released Irrigation officials released 6,560 cusecs of water downstream Prakasam Barrage by opening seven gates on Tuesday, authorities told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-in-krishna-west-godavari-districts/article35314127.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 18 COVID deaths||The State reported 18 new COVID deaths and 2,567 new infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning taking the death toll to 13,042 and cumulative tally to 19,26,988. The daily positivity rate of the 81,763 samples tested in the past day was 3.14%, the highest in the past five days. The overall positivity rate of the 2.31 crore samples tested was 8.33%. The recovery rate almost reached 98%. With 3,304 new recoveries and 18,87,236  total recoveries, the recovery rate increased to 97.94% while  26,710  COVID cases were active. The death rate was at 0.68%. New deaths and cases Five districts reported no new death in the past day, while Guntur reported four, Chittoor and Nellore reported three each, East Godavari, Prakasam and West Godavari reported two each and Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam reported one each. East Godavari reported 356 new infections. It was followed by Prakasam (351), Chittoor (300), West Godavari (279), Guntur (269), Krishna (269), Nellore (244), Visakhapatnam (199), Anantapur (81), Srikakulam (77), Kadapa (75), Vizanagaram (49) and Kurnool (18). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,70,638), Chittoor (2,25,142), West Godavari (1,66,085), Guntur (1,65,197), Anantapur (1,55,206), Visakhapatnam (1,50,281), Nellore (1,30,230), Prakasam (1,25,189), Kurnool (1,22,680), Srikakulam (1,19,596), Kadapa (1,08,371), Krishna (1,04,571) and Vizianagaram (80,907).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-18-covid-deaths/article35314136.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL demands high-level probe into PD accounts row||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao on Tuesday demanded a high-level inquiry into allegations of the Personal Deposit (PD) accounts which, he said, ‘are being indiscriminately operated in violation of financial regulations’. In a letter addressed to the Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, the MP requested him to direct the State government for a special audit of PD accounts under the supervision of the Comptroller and Audit General (CAG), in addition to an independent investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He said the CAG, in its latest report, had said that the State government had deposited huge sums of money in Personal Deposit (PD) Accounts and spent Rs. 41,000 crore sans transparency and was indulging in malpractice. “The money in the PD accounts is meant for use only in emergencies. It is to be used only on a limited basis for administrative convenience, not for large scale diversion of funds or for evasion of financial rules and regulations,” said Mr. Narasimha Rao. ‘Misappropriation of funds’ He maintained that public finances must be transparent and their utilisation should be in accordance with the regulations. “If this does not happen, it gives scope to misappropriation of funds. The allegation faced by the ruling party are serious in nature,” he said. Recalling that similar allegations were made during the TDP regime, he said the CAG report of 2016-17 financial year alleged that more than Rs. 53,000 crore were spent from personal accounts in violation of the rules. Mr. Narasimha Rao said he had written a letter to the then Governor E.S.L. Narasimham seeking an inquiry then also. He said according to the CAG, Rs. 53,000 crore during the TDP rule and Rs. 41,000 crore under the YSRCP regime, both put together, nearly Rs. 1 lakh crore was spent from the PD accounts by the two governments without transparency. “Whether these are PD accounts or ‘dopidi’ (theft) accounts is a matter of grave concern for the people and it needs to be investigated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-demands-high-level-probe-into-pd-accounts-row/article35314147.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Strict action against COVID safety violators’||Collector J. Nivas said that strict action will be taken against those violating COVID safety norms in the district. In a press conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Nivas said that though the number of active cases has come down, it is important to wear a mask in public and follow other COVID safety norms. A minimum penalty of Rs. 100 would be imposed on people for not wearing masks in public, the Collector said. Similarly, shops and establishments that fail to follow COVID safety norms will be fined and seized if necessary. He said Section 144 of CrPc would be imposed in busy areas of the district. Mr. Nivas said awareness campaigns like ‘No Mask-No Entry’, ‘No Mask-No Ride’, ‘No Mask-No Sale’ will be conducted at government offices, road junctions and shopping malls and markets on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays respectively for three months. He said 18.79 lakh samples were tested in the district so far, of which 1.04 lakh were found to be positive. There are 2,753 active cases in the district and over 8,000 samples are being tested daily, he said. So far, 16.40 lakh vaccine doses have been administered of which 1.74 lakh doses were administered to mothers of children aged below five. Guntur In Guntur as well, District Collector Vivek Yadav issued orders imposing a fine of Rs. 100 on those not wearing masks. “I would urge the people not to get complacent and leave their homes without wearing masks. There is a possibility of re-infection and until the central and State governments issue directions, not wearing masks is treated as an offence,” said Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strict-action-against-covid-safety-violators/article35314217.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to provide 25,000 electric vehicles to staff||The State government, through the New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP), will procure 25,000 Electric Vehicles (EV, two-wheelers) to provide them to its employees. Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, NREDCAP, S. Ramana Reddy signed an agreement with Mahua Acharya, CEO and Managing Director of Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL), a government of India company under Ministry of Power, on Tuesday. The number of vehicles proposed to be procured may increase, depending on the requirement. “Our vision is to make the State go electric. We have been providing affordable and clean power and a fillip to e-mobility will make a further push towards clean energy adoption,” said Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, adding: “The move will boost energy and financial savings and we hope that more people will make a shift to EVs.” Under the agreement, CESL and NREDCAP will work to aggregate demand, deploy electric vehicles, and build charging infrastructure. CESL will devise a suitable payment security mechanism, which will be facilitated by NREDCAP. The electric vehicles will be provided on a monthly lease, inclusive of a comprehensive insurance that will be deducted as EMI from the volunteering government employee’s account. They would carry a standard warranty of 3 years against any manufacturing defect and batteries will also carry warranty till 3 years or 60,000 km, whichever is earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-provide-25000-electric-vehicles-to-staff/article35314219.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SFI opposes renaming of ‘Telugu Akademi’||The Students Federation of India-AP chapter protested the State government’s decision to rename the Telugu Akademi as Telugu and Sanskrit Akademi. They protested at the Telugu Talli statue on the Thummapalli Vari Kalakshetram premises on Tuesday. SFI State president K. Prasanna Kumar demanded that the government roll back the decision. “The government had already removed Telugu medium from schools. Telugu should be given utmost importance above any other language and its board should not be merged with any other board,” SFI State president K. Prasanna Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sfi-opposes-renaming-of-telugu-akademi/article35314128.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. protests against fuel price hike||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre and the State governments for “thrusting burden on the common man in the form of a huge hike in fuel prices”. As part of a protest programme at a local petrol outlet, the State Congress chief interacted with the people coming to the petrol pump to fill fuel and denounced the “anti-people” policies of the governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article35314167.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI wants Assembly session||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded that the State government convene an Assembly session and place the details of expenditure regarding the row surrounding a sum of Rs. 41,000 crore. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that the government should prove its sincerity by placing the records on the floor of the Assembly. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy’s comments that the opposition parties were raking up unnecessary controversy was nothing, but a move to evade the issue. “Why cannot the government reply to the Principal Accountant General’s letter even after two months of receiving it? The money was transferred against the treasury code?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-wants-assembly-session/article35314146.ece
14 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don't trust social media posts on retirement age’||The Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Federation (APGEF) has urged the government employees not trust social media reports that the State Government was planning to bring down the retirement age to 57. In a statement on Tuesday, federation chairman K. Venkatarami Reddy said that some people were deliberately carrying out a misinformation campaign that the retirement age would be reduced. The social media posts, which were one year old, were being recirculated. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had clarified last year in this regard. The employees were requested not to trust such posts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-trust-social-media-posts-on-retirement-age/article35314165.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slum survey created panic among people, allege Opposition parties||The slum development survey conducted by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) seems to have not gone down well with the Opposition political parties, who express concern that the slum dwellers may be evicted under the guise of development and providing housing. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) opposed the idea and demanded that the GVMC conduct a discussion about the programme in the council meet first. The CPI(M) alleged that the survey has created panic among people and also questioned what was the necessity to organise the survey within a short period. CPI(M) leader and Corporator of Ward No. 78, B. Ganga Rao, said that the GVMC officials should have enquired about the condition of roads, drainages, retaining walls, drinking water facility, street lightning, community halls, anganwadi centres and community toilets in the survey. But instead they enquired about people who stay in the localities and collected various documents including Aadhaar card, gas connections, bank account details and property tax payment copies. This has led to panic among people, Mr. Ganga Rao said. He also questioned why did the GVMC officials did not bring the topic of slum development survey in the recently held council meet and why was the programme held all of a sudden. Former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma said that the construction activity would need workers who migrate from the adjacent rural areas to the city in search of livelihoods. “Slum rehabilitation should necessarily be based on in-situ rehabilitation, unless the local bodies can create livelihoods for them at locations where they are rehabilitated. Past experience shows that the local bodies could not create such livelihood opportunities for displaced slum-dwellers,” he added. Association for Urban and Tribal Development (AUTD) Secretary Pragada Vasu said that the GVMC did not consult any locals or stakeholders and this has made the slum dwellers apprehensive about the outcome of the survey. Moreover, GVMC officials have stated that there are 793 slums in the city. But on physical verification we realised that there are hardly 20 to 25 slums. From where did this 793 figure crop up. It appears that even fishermen colonies and a few residential areas in Adarsh Nagar, have been included under the slums, he said. ‘No need to panic’ Responding over the issue, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that there is no need to panic as the civic body has checked the residential proofs to ensure whether the people are really living in the locality. She said that the decision to denotify a slum or continue it as a slum will be decided only after checking the present development in the slum and the livelihood standards of the people residing over there. “Already the GVMC has prepared a report on the condition of roads, drainage, lighting, drinking water facility and other amenities in the slums. The report is ready with engineers and Sachivalayam staff,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slum-survey-created-panic-among-people-allege-opposition-parties/article35314228.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRZ rules violated in draft plan, alleges former bureaucrat||Former secretary to the Union Government E.A.S. Sarma has raised a few concerns on the new Master Plan, which has been drafted by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), and placed in the public domain for objections and suggestions. He said that the VMRDA officials should recognise 30.51 sq km in the Kambalakonda region, which includes 14 villages and two mandals, as eco-sensitive zone as per the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notification and see the man-made Sambhuvanipalem reservoir be included under water body in the plan. “In the previous master plan it was missed out,” he said. ‘Illegal layouts’ He said that in the previous master plan it was pointed out that the storage capacity of drinking water reservoirs such as Mehadrigedda, Mudasarlova, Thatipudi and Gambheeram has sunk largely due to the coming up of illegal layouts. “This aspect should be given prominence in the new plan,” he said. Mr. Sarma raised concern on the violation of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules, both in the previous and the present draft master plan. The proposed wide road corridor from Vizag to Bheemunipatnam violates the norms and this should be rectified, he added. He said that development plans along the coast could prove to be dangerous keeping in mind global warming due to climate change. There is enough study to suggest that the rise in ocean temperature, would lead to rise in ocean water levels. Keeping this in mind, Boston in the USA has already started taking measures, he said. The former bureaucrat also raised concerns over protection of archaeological and heritage sites, as development plans appear to encroach the norms. Mr. Sarma suggested that proposed slum development should be taken up in-situ instead of uprooting the entire community and shifting them to a faraway place, under the housing schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crz-rules-violated-in-draft-plan-alleges-former-bureaucrat/article35314229.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU exam schedule out||Director of School of Distance Education, Andhra University, K. Visweswara Rao, on Tuesday released new B.A/B.Com.,/B.Sc., examination schedule for the calendar year batch-2019. According to him, the date of notification and issue of examination applications is July 14. The tentative date for the third-year examinations is August 25 (followed by second-year and first-year) and the timing for the examination is 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The last date for receipt of applications without fine is August 16 and with a fine of Rs. 300 till August 21. The Director also said that the examination fee can be paid only through online from the website www.andhrauniversity.edu.in. For further details, students may contact 9963474712/0891-2844163/2754966, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exam-schedule-released/article35314178.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cheer4India: ECoR sets up selfie points||Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) has set up selfie points at Sports Complex, railway station, and at the divisional office as part of the nation-wide campaign, Cheer4India, jointly initiated by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the Indian Olympics Association (IOA). The campaign aims at encouraging and boosting the morale of the sportspersons of the country who are participating in the Olympics. The motto of the campaign is to create awareness among the general public of the importance of fitness and sports apart from professionalism. Large contingents of sportspersons from the Indian Railways have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics-21. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava along with ADRM (infra) Akshay Saxena, Sports Officer and Senior DEN (Co) Pradeep Yadav, branch officers and eminent sportspersons took photographs at the selfie point at Railway Indoor Sports Enclave (RISE) to encourage athletes taking part in the Olympics. The DRM appealed to all rail users, staff and their families to participate in the campaign to show their support and encourage Indian sportspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cheer4india-ecor-sets-up-selfie-points/article35314224.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seer apprises Union Minister of problems of tribals in Telugu States||Visakha Sarada Peetham Uttaradhikari Sri Swatmanandendra Saraswati Swamy apprised Union Minister for Tribal Affairs Renuka Singh of the problems of people in the tribal areas of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States. Swamy Swatmanandendra met the Union Minister in Delhi and told her of the activities of the Peetham in the tribal areas. The Minister said that if NGOs build hospitals in the tribal areas, the Centre would provide the basic infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seer-apprises-union-minister-of-problems-of-tribals-in-telugu-states/article35314227.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal farmers of Kondala Kothuru in a fix||The tribals farmers of Kondala Kothuru of Cheedikada mandal are in a fix, after the local police allegedly threatened them to evict the land to favour a private non-tribal persons, who has reportedly purchased the land from the owner. A few families belonging to the Konda Dora tribal community and resident of Kondala Kothuru have been reportedly cultivating about 32 acres of land in Konam villages in Cheedikada mandal for the last few decades. The land belongs to another person and he reportedly had sold it to a non-tribal person from the plain area. According to P.S. Ajay Kumar, national secretary, All India Agricultural and Rural Labour Association (AIARLA), a civil case filed by the tribals, in regard to the cultivation rights, is pending in the Court of Chodavaram Senior Civil Judge. But in the meantime the owner had sold the land to the private non-tribal person, he said. Now that person intends to occupy the land and the tribals have been objecting to it. With this as a background, the Circle Inspector of Chodavaram, reportedly called the tribals on Monday and threatened them to vacate the land by July 19, to facilitate the private person to move his men and machinery, alleged Mr. Ajay Kumar. He recalled that when Y.S. Rajasekara Reddy was the Chief Minister, the then Director General of Police (DGP) had directed the State police, not to interfere in land disputes in favour of non-tribals. ‘Counselling session’ However, refuting the allegations, the CI said that he had called both the parties for a discussion and a counselling session, as it may lead to a law and order situation. This was done in accordance to the direction given by the senior officers and we also advised both the parties to seek advice from the revenue officers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-farmers-of-kondala-kothuru-in-a-fix/article35314230.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yarlagadda defends renaming of academy||Andhra Pradesh Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad has defended the government’s decision to rename the Telugu Academy, saying that it would help expand the activities to promote Telugu language. He questioned TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu what was wrong if the name of the academy was changed as Telugu Sanskrit Academy. “The TDP during its tenure did not take action on the report submitted by Palle Raghunadha Reddy committee on Telugu language. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has revived the Telugu Academy and launched the Official Language Commission within three months of coming to power,” he said. ‘More grants’ He pointed out that the academy now would get more grants which could be utilised for promotion of Telugu language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yarlagadda-defends-renaming-of-academy/article35314168.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks extension of deadline||BJP State vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju met the Principal Secretary (Municipal Administration and Urban Development) Y. Srilakshmi on Tuesday and sought her intervention in extending the deadline for filing of objections against the VMRDA Draft Master Plant 2041, till August 31. The BJP leader said that at some places, the draft master plan proposes widening of roads beyond what was needed and at others, roads were proposed to be laid across housing layouts, which were already approved by VUDA. Ms. Srilakshmi said that she would look into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-extension-of-deadline/article35314223.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||199 COVID cases in dist.||The district saw 199 new COVID-19 infections on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 1,50,793. One more death took the toll to 1,038. Total recoveries rose to 1,47,693 with 69 of them being reported on Tuesday. Active cases, which fell below the 2,000-mark two days ago, increased to 2,062 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/199-covid-cases-in-dist/article35314225.ece
14 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid||Rich tributes were paid to veteran Hindi film actor Dilip Kumar at a condolence meeting, organised by the Vizag Film Society here on Tuesday. The speakers recalled his contribution to the film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid/article35314226.ece
14 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action plan ready to handle third wave: Vizianagaram Collector||Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Tuesday said that the district was geared up to handle COVID-19 cases in the anticipated third wave of coronavirus. Addressing the media along with Superintendent of Police Deepika Patil at the Collector’s office, he said that a zero death rate was the aim of the district administration in the future. “We have finalised an action plan to overcome any kind of eventuality in the third wave of COVID-19. We are making arrangements for sufficient number of beds and required staff in the designated hospitals. The task force committee had already issued guidelines in handling the situation in near future,” he said.  ‘Follow norms’ Ms. Deepika Patil made it clear that the police would impose fines if anybody was violating the COVID-19 protocol. She said that people should wear masks and maintain social distance for their own safety and of others in public places. “Penalties will go up if violations continue. So, people should understand the seriousness of the third wave and cooperate with police personnel,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/action-plan-ready-to-handle-third-wave-vizianagaram-collector/article35314174.ece
14 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. creating hurdles in discharging my duties, alleges Ashok Gajapathi Raju||Accusing the YSRCP government of creating hurdles and preventing him from discharging his duties, former Union Minister and MANSAS Trust chairperson P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju has said that the State government should play the role of a facilitator for the trust established with an aim of promote education and charitable activities. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju was reinstated as the chairperson of the trust recently following a directive of Andhra Pradesh High Court. He said that MANSAS Trust has cooperated with the successive governments by allocating precious land for establishment of educational institutions such as Government Polytechnic College of Vizianagaram. He opposed the transfer of the MANSAS Trust employees to other places and transfer of funds from the public sector banks to private ones. “Only the correspondents appointed by the MANSAS Trust have to manage the educational institutions and funds of the trust. However, the executive officer of the Endowments Department is ignoring the bylaws of the trust. He has written a letter to Bank of India to freeze the accounts of MANSAS Educational Institutions. It is creating problem for me in discharging my duties,” alleged Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. He further said that the employees had become victims with the decisions taken by the Endowments Department that was supposed to only oversee land of the trust. “Salaries of hundreds employees of 12 educational institutions including MR College, MVGR College of Engineering, and MR.V.R.G.R Law College are delayed. At least now, the government can extend its cooperation to the trust to ensure the smooth maintenance of the institutions,” said Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. Temple land Referring to issue on the sale of Simhachalam temple land, he said it was done in a transparent way, in association with the erstwhile Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-creating-hurdles-in-discharging-my-duties-alleges-ashok-gajapathi-raju/article35314145.ece
14 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roster system sought for DSC 2008 candidates||The Andhra Pradesh SC and ST Upadhyaya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam on Tuesday urged the government to follow a uniform procedure and merit and roster system in the recruitment drive taken up for the 2008 DSC candidates. In a press release, he said that many district administrations were not following the roster system which would ensure proper quota for SC and ST candidates. He requested the government to clear promotions for teachers so that they would become eligible for the next level of posts which were lying vacant following the retirement of many headmasters and others. He said that the promotion channel was disrupted during the COVID-19 pandemic period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roster-system-sought-for-dsc-2008-candidates/article35314172.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees’ delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-delight/article35314232.ece
14 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoist died due to illness: Police||Member of the proscribed CPI (Maoist)’s Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) Vinod reportedly died due to some ailment in south Bastar division of neighbouring Chhattisgarh, police said. Police said Vinod was among Maoist leaders who led the 2013 Jheeram Ghati attack that left 29 persons dead in the Bastar region of Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoist-died-due-to-illness-police/article35313981.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Covaxin shortage mars vaccination drive at govt. centres||The wait has got a tad longer for those interested in getting a shot of Covaxin at Government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVCs) in urban districts. For, the State Health department has run out of stock, and many people who visited the GCVCs for the vaccine in the past few days were forced to return home disappointed. Currently, the distribution of Covishield doses is being adjusted among districts to meet the daily demand. The shortage of Covaxin is not just limited to Hyderabad, but also neighbouring districts of Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri. There are 100 GCVCs in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits which includes Hyderabad and some parts of the other two districts. “Though Covishield doses are available, it’s not a lot. The stock is being adjusted between districts. This is one of the reasons we are not mobilising people to get the jab at GCVCs, which we were doing until a few weeks ago,” sources in the Health department said. The department used to provide 1,500-2,000 slots at each of the 100 GCVCs in GHMC region. “Now, around 200 slots are opened at each centre,” sources added. The shortage was predicted by senior officials in the department a week ago. They were expecting more doses from the Central government on July 11. The officials could not be reached for a comment on when the shortage is expected to be addressed. The demand for jabs at GCVCs shot up after the government announced those aged above 18 years can get a shot free of cost from July 1. This led to a sharp drop in rush for vaccination at private vaccination centres. Currently, there is no shortage of Covaxin or Covishield at corporate hospitals. Only last month, vaccination slots at corporate hospitals used to be filled up in no time. Now, people are able to register even on spot at the private centres. Covishield coverage Covishield constitutes a majority of doses administered in Telangana. Of a total 1,19,92,231 doses of COVID vaccines given to beneficiaries between January 16 and July 7, an overwhelming 80.13% (96.10 lakh doses) were of Covishield, 23.28 lakh of Covaxin and 53,172 of Sputnik. The doses are administered as per the vaccine stock supplied to the State. Till Monday, 1.05 crore people had received their first vaccine dose and 20.56 lakh their second dose.  Though Covishield doses are available, it’s not a lot. This is one of the reasons we are not mobilising people to get the jab at GCVCs. Health department sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covaxin-shortage-mars-vaccination-drive-at-govt-centres/article35313939.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rains pound Hyderabad||Heavy rains continued to batter the city on Tuesday, though the intensity and duration have come down compared to Monday night when it poured five centimetres maximum at a few locations. Drizzle and misty weather continued since morning, only to intensify into heavy downpour towards post noon hours. People had reasons to be reminded of floods from October last year, as quite a few lakes filled to the brim and threatened to overflow. As per the readings from the automatic weather stations installed across the city at 5 p.m., the maximum rainfall since 8.30 a.m. hovered at two centimetres at Musheerabad, Bandlaguda, Seetaphalmandi, Monda Market, Srinagar Colony, Asifnagar, Banjara Hills, Sardar Mahal, Saroornagar, Mehdipatnam and other localities. Tarnaka, Patigadda, Begumpet, Ramanthapur, Karwan, Goshamahal, Ramachandrapuram, and Habsiguda too experienced heavy rainfall. Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi toured the Ayyappa Colony and Mahalakshmi VAMBAY Colony in Nagole where residents are facing several hardships due to continuous rains. She assured them measures to ensure speedy completion of the box drain works which are in progress. She conducted an emergency review of the situation through a tele conference with legislators from the city, and passed necessary instructions to the corporation staff based on the suggestions from the MLAs. Department of Meteorology has predicted heavy to very heavy rains for the next two days at isolated places across the State. Generally cloudy sky with light rain has been forecasted for the city. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in Bhadradri-Kothagudem and in Rajanna Sircilla, Mahabubnagar, Jangoan, Wanaparthy, Khammam and Ranagareddy districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rains-pound-city/article35313961.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kokapet auction a serious violation, lake activist writes to Telangana CJ||Lake activist and general secretary and spokesperson of the Socialist Party (India) Lubna Sarwat has flagged serious violations in the auction of HMDA lands at Kokapet, saying the lands fall into the 500-1,000 metre range of the Gandipet. Ms. Sarwat raised these issues and more in an urgent letter mailed to Chief Justice of Telangana High Court Hima Kohli urging her to declare the auction illegal. HMDA layout juxtaposed with the satellite imagery of the Kokapet and Golden Mile layout using the geo-coordinates provided by HMDA notification reveal that the land fell in the proximity of 500 metres to one kilometre range from the draft FTL boundary of the historical Osmansagar, the letter said. HMDA has allowed unlimited Floor Space Index in serious violation of the GO 111, which prohibits any development up to 500 metres from the bund or FTL in the downstream. Beyond 500 metres and up to one kilometre downstream, only low rise residential development up to ground plus two floors should be allowed as per the GO. HMDA is the designated nodal agency to enforce the regulations, yet the same authority has resorted to the violations, Ms. Sarwat alleged in her letter. She has also brought into question the secrecy surrounding the actual FTL boundary of the lake, which has not been placed in public domain till date. The authorities have demarcated neither the FTL boundary nor the buffer zone, which fall under prohibitory and regulatory zones respectively. “Thus, the location demonstration has been left ambiguous and ‘open plots’ are being auctioned by HMDA. This is detrimental to the Osmansagar, which is one of the designated drinking water reservoirs…” the letter said. Raising further objections, the activist contended that mandatory public hearing should be conducted for area development close to protected areas and eco-sensitive zones. She also brought to the notice of the Chief Justice that Balkapur nala that flows from Janwada to the Hussainsagar too, is observed to have been violated at several points. The water channel has been dumped at various places, and roads have been laid, she alleged, attaching all the relevant maps to the letter. In her prayer, she also sought orders for restoration of Balkapur nala, declaration of non-notification of FTL as serious dereliction, and for comprehensive hydrological study of the Khanapur area where abundant water holding capacity was observed after the floods last October. HMDA has scheduled e-auction of Kokapet and Golden Mile lands for July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kokapet-auction-grave-violation-activist-writes-to-cj/article35313962.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unusual requests blow lid over EQ scam||It was the usual hectic day for South Central Railway (SCR)’s commercial wing, of trying to accommodate last-minute requests into the express trains through the Emergency Quota (EQ). Despite several trains running with less than the capacity, there are trains on demand like the Telangana Express to New Delhi. For EQ, there are up to 30 berths in sleeper class, 18 in 3AC, 12 in 2AC and four in first AC with most available in the originating stations or few at major stations en route for long distance trains. These are cleared a day in advance for trains departing before 4 p.m. or on the same day for those departing later. “Anyone can apply for EQ — passengers with health issues or requiring sudden visits for exam or interview, government officials on duty, public representatives can seek or recommend berths. Depending on hierarchy and availability, these are allotted with random checking done,” explained senior railway officials on Tuesday. It was during one of these routine checks of applications arriving by drop box at the various offices and in person, they noticed that were unusual requests from MLAs/MPs belonging to Goa, Maharashtra, Odisha, Kerala, and other States seeking berths for passengers starting from here! These were for e-tickets purchased online and for journeys on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Assistant Commercial Manager- Reservation K. Hari Kishore and his team also noticed most of these EQ requests were pertaining to tickets purchased from two or three Internet protocol addresses online over a period of time. Only six tickets can be purchased online through one email but using the same computer, multiple tickets can be brought using different mail IDs. Aadhaar linked mobile allows up to 12 tickets to be purchased. “Letterheads were official and the recommendations were arriving through one fax number. So we instructed the travelling ticket examiners to verify passengers’ credentials. That’s when we realised something was wrong,” said senior officials. Checking the Parliament website, they realised majority of slips for EQs were from MPs whose term was over. They reached out to the public representatives directly with trepidation. “It was a delicate task because public representatives may take offence to such inquiries. However, those contacted were gracious and immediately responded to our mails and messages stating no such requests were sent by them in recent months. Letterheads were fake and downloaded from websites,” they explained. The railway police were alerted and they swung into action to arrest two persons and seized used tickets valued at about Rs. 1.68 lakh. “We came across fake tickets, impersonations during travel and so on, but it is for the first time arrests were made for making use of EQ through fake recommendations letters,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unusual-requests-blow-the-lid-over-eq-scam/article35313955.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet to prepare recruitment calendar||The State government has decided to prepare an annual recruitment calendar for filling vacant posts in different categories every year. The State Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, directed the officials concerned to work out modalities relating to the job calendar so that vacant posts could be filled from time to time. The Cabinet decided to meet again on Wednesday to decide about the vacancies in government departments and the steps that should be initiated to fill these posts. Senior officials, including special chief secretaries, principal secretaries and others, were asked to attend the meeting on Wednesday with necessary information. The development follows the Chief Minister’s announcement on filling of 50,000 posts initially through direct recruitment and this would be followed by recruitment to vacancies that arose due to promotions. The Cabinet discussed the request from the employees’ associations regarding finalisation of cadre strength district-wise and sanction of posts accordingly. Officials concerned were directed to identify the vacancies and start the recruitment process at the earliest. The meeting resolved to provide 50% reservation in admissions to residential schools to students hailing from respective constituencies. The school managements were instructed to mandatorily invite the local MLA, ZP chairperson, MPP and municipal chairperson to the monthly meetings convened to review the functioning of these institutions. The State Cabinet discussed the Coronavirus situation in the State. Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi who led a team of experts which toured seven districts explained the first-hand information obtained about the steps taken to check the spread of the virus in these districts, bordering neighbouring States where the situation had still not come under control. The Cabinet discussed the availability of oxygen and other basic amenities in the hospitals. Officials briefed the Cabinet about progress of vaccination, availability of medicines and preparedness of the department in the event of occurrence of the third wave of the pandemic. The Cabinet directed the Health department to take steps in advance like keeping adequate stocks of medicine and other amenities and conduct of fever survey in the districts where the incidence of the virus was continuing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-to-prepare-recruitment-calendar/article35313973.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||In the fight against dengue||Monsoon brings relief from the scorching summer, but at the same time, it is the harbinger of diseases. That hygiene and sanitation are of utmost importance in the wet season cannot be stressed enough. In a bid to spread awareness about the prevention of vector-borne diseases such as dengue, a motley group of advocates, a doctor, private company employees and concerned citizens is urging people to be part of the disease surveillance. M. Karuna, the doctor in the group called ‘Dengue Brigade’, is educating people to take out a few minutes from their weekly schedule to clear stagnant water from unused vessels lying in and around homes. They plan to show videos on how mosquitoes which spread dengue virus can breed in stagnant fresh water. The chances of water accumulation increases in monsoon. The awareness campaigns would be conducted in collaboration with welfare associations over the weekends. Besides generating awareness, the brigade plans to urge people to report to government authorities if they contract dengue. She said that the authorities have to share the phone numbers of circle level entomologists and other officials concerned so that people can report the cases. Thereafter, government authorities can take measures for containment of further cases and avoid break-out. Dr Karuna also said coordination between hospitals, public, and government authorities helps in effective surveillance of dengue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-the-fight-against-dengue/article35313944.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Planning Board V-C moots single coop bank in State||Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) has been adjudged the best cooperative apex bank in the country and the Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank has been adjudged top district cooperative bank at Southern Zone level. The awards were presented virtually on Monday based on their performances, as part of the 40th anniversary of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. Gujarat State CAB was selected for the second position. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy complimented TSCAB Chairman K. Ravinder Rao, who is also chairman of KDCCB, here on Tuesday. Mr. Ravinder Rao informed the Minister that TSCAB was chosen best among 33 cooperative apex banks in the country functioning in States and Union Territories. Similarly, Karimnagar DCCB was chosen the best among 353 DCCBs in the country. The Minister said on the occasion that rural economy would be strong with a strong cooperative system. He noted that Rythu Bandhu Samithis were formed in the State as part of strengthening the cooperative system in the State. Meanwhile, Vice Chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar felicitated Mr. Ravinder Rao for keeping TSCAB ahead in the country. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vinod Kumar said the future of national banks had become uncertain during the present BJP government and urged people and farmers to strengthen the cooperative banks for keeping the rural economy strong. Mr. Vinod Kumar suggested formation of single cooperative bank in the State by merging all DCCBs for their viability and introduce two-tier system instead of the existing three-tier system in cooperative banking as the national banks may not lend the farmers in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinod-kumar-moots-single-coop-bank-in-ts/article35313968.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP, TRS leaders meet Revanth, extend support||Prominent politicians from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) met TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy at his residence on Tuesday and announced that they would soon join the Congress. Former Jadcherla MLA and present BJP president of Mahabubnagar, Erra Shekhar, former Mayor of Nizamabad D. Sanjay and senior leader from Bhupalapalli Gandra Satyanarayana were among those who met him and extended their support. Mr. Shekhar announced his resignation as BJP district unit president in support of Mr. Revanth Reddy and said he would soon join the party along with his supporters. Mr. Satyanarayana also said he would organise a massive meeting to join the party. Mr. Sanjay, who is son of dissident TRS Rajya Sabha member D. Srinivas, said the appointment of Mr. Revanth Reddy to the top post in Congress had raised the hopes of people and he would soon join the party in New Delhi in the presence of national leaders. Mr. Sanjay’s younger brother is the firebrand Nizamabad MP D. Arvind. He said though his family was from Congress he joined the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) under some unique circumstances but said he had always felt suffocated there. In fact, the scarf of TRS was like an axe, he said claiming that there was no respect for anyone there. Mr. Sanjay’s father D. Srinivas is presently staying away from party activities due to differences with the leadership. He was a prominent Congress leader heading the Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) twice apart from being a minister in Congress governments. His joining in the TRS after the formation of Telangana was a huge shock to the party and also to Congress loyalists given his close association with Ms. Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-trs-leaders-meet-revanth-extend-support/article35313975.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||History buffs discover two figures from Jain pantheon||A rising awareness about Telangana’s history is leading to discoveries that are shining new light on the region’s past. On Tuesday, a bunch of history buffs climbed a small hillock on the edge of Nagapur village near Kondapochamma temple in Siddipet district and discovered two figures from Jain pantheon. “Earlier, we had found an image of Paraswanatha in a different village. So, when were tipped off about similar images by villagers, we reached there,” said Ahobilam Karunakar, a businessman and history enthusiast. “One sculpture belongs to the 24th Tirthankara Vardhamana Mahavira and the other is of a Jain Chaumukh representing the four Jain Tirthankaras — Adinatha, Neminatha, Paraswanatha and Mahavira — carved on white granite stone,” said archaeologist E. Sivanagireddy about the find. “The Mahavira sculpture is 4.5 feet in height in dhyana mudra while the Chaumukh which measures 1.5 feet at the base and 2.5 feet in height. Both sculptures are broken but dateable to 10th century AD,” informed Sivanagireddy. He dated the sculptures to the 10th century based on style prevalent during the reign of Kalyana Chalukyas. The Kalyana Chalukyas ruled between 10th and 12 century from what is now called Basavakalyan. The empire spread over the region which comprises Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana. The period saw a gradual decline of Jainism in the region.  One sculpture belongs to the 24th Tirthankara Vardhamana Mahavira and the other is of a Jain Chaumukh representing the four Jain Tirthankaras carved on white granite. E. Sivanagireddy, archaeologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/history-buffs-discover-two-figures-from-jain-pantheon/article35313948.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Land pooling for developing layouts in municipalities||The State government has decided to adopt “land pooling” for development of layouts in different municipalities across the State. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who chaired a meeting of the State Cabinet on Tuesday, directed the Municipal Administration department to study the modalities required for the purpose. The department was instructed to examine the opportunities and prepare guidelines accordingly. The Cabinet discussed the drinking water problems being faced in some municipalities abutting the State capital. The Chief Minister announced immediate sanction of Rs. 1,200 crore for taking up works in these areas to address drinking water-related issues. The Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration departments submitted progress reports on the recently concluded Palle and Pattana Pragati programmes respectively. Mr. Rao directed officials to complete construction of vaikunta dhamams within the next month and submit reports in this regard. The officials were also instructed to put in a place a special power line, facilitating supply for street-lighting in all the villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-pooling-for-developing-layouts-in-municipalities/article35313971.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khammam case count highest for second day||The State posted 767 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday with Khammam recording the maximum number of cases at 84. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region was the second worst-hit with 77 persons testing positive for the infectious disease. A comparatively high number of cases were recorded in rural districts — Mancherial (65), Pedapalli (59), Nalgonda (52) and Karimnagar (51). In comparison, the urban districts of Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri logged 42 and 26 new infections, respectively. The number of COVID-related deaths continued to be on a downward slide with three more persons succumbing. With this, the death toll has reached 3,738. The overall case tally stands at 6,33,146 of which 10,064 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-case-count-highest-for-second-day/article35313942.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BPCL plans Rs. 1,000 cr. ethanol plant||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) plans to set up a grain-based ethanol production plant with an investment of Rs. 1,000 crore in Telangana. On Tuesday, a team of senior executives from the oil company met Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and discussed the proposed 5 lakh litre per day capacity first generation plant. Executive Director-Bio Fuels Anurag Saraogi, who led the team, said since Telangana is ethanol deficient in the present context of up to 10% ethanol blending in petrol, the company has proposed the plant. A road map document released by Niti Aayog and Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas last month had recommended 20% blending targets by 2025-26. About 100 acres having proximity to source of water was needed for the plant. The daily water requirement of the proposed facility would be about 4,000 KL. Mr. Ranjan assured that the government of Telangana would extend all the necessary support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bpcl-plans-rs-1000-cr-ethanol-plant/article35313959.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Will expose TRS corruption: Bandi||Exposing the massive corruption of TRS Ministers and MLAs in the last six years in power and positioning the party as only alternative to the ruling party so as to establish a true democratic Telangana will be the main focus of the ‘mahapadayatra’ scheduled to be taken up from August 9 from the Bhagyalakshmi temple at Charminar, said party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday. Addressing a meeting of office-bearers of the party in the districts to brief them about the proposed walkathon, Mr. Sanjay Kumar said that while where the tour would end was not finalised, it was decided to have Union Ministers and national party leaders to participate. Party activists were asked to join the programme in large numbers. The president said his proposed programme would go a long way in strengthening the party at grassroots. Top leaders, including national OBC president K. Laxman, N. Indrasena Reddy and D.K. Aruna, were present. Earlier, three TRS councillors belonging to Dubbak municipality joined the BJP in the presence of the party president. They are M. Malla Reddy, D. Kanakaiah and Balakrishna Goud. BJP MLA M. Raghunandan Rao was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-expose-trs-corruption-bandi/article35313970.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||20 child labourers rescued||As many as 20 child labourers, who were working in various factories and shops, were rescued as part of Operation Muskaan, Rachakonda Police said on Tuesday. According to the police, the children were rescued on Monday from various areas under the Uppal and Maheshwaram Police Station limits by Anti-Human Trafficking Unit teams along with other units. Rs. 200 per day As many as 10 minors, four girls and six boys, were rescued from Krishna Pharma Company at Devender Nagar Colony. They were found pouring sanitisers in bottles for over nine hours for Rs. 200 per day. These children are from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. A case was booked against firm owner Gambali Mallikarjuna Rao (60) under relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In the second case, 10 minor boys, eight from Bihar and two from Telangana, were rescued from garages, fast food centres and bakeries, and produced before the Child Welfare Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/20-child-labourers-rescued/article35313958.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Martyr’s wife visits PJTSAU to get a grip of agri sector||As part of her training, Deputy Collector B. Santoshi, wife of Col. Santosh Babu, who attained martyrdom in a clash with the Chinese Army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh last June, visited the Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) here on Tuesday for an understanding of the agriculture sector in the State. After being appointed Deputy Collector by the State government, she joined duty as a trainee in November last year. On Tuesday, she interacted with Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao and other university officers for first-hand information on the agriculture scenario in the State as well as activities of the university. The V-C explained the strides made by Telangana such as achieving high yield and production of paddy and other crops. He also talked about large-scale increase in irrigation potential with the help of projects taken up by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/galwan-martyrs-wife-visits-pjtsa-university/article35313938.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Venkaiah praises beauty of Urdu||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu appreciated the beauty and sweetness of Urdu language and its rich literary heritage. He was speaking after receiving the book, Urdu Poets and Writers-Gems of Deccan by J.S. Ifthekhar, senior journalist and former Special Correspondent of The Hindu . Mr Naidu hoped the book, which is in English, would be of immense benefit to the young generation and commended the author for tracing the rich literary and cultural traditions of the Deccan. He said the sheer beauty of Urdu, particularly its lyrical power, had the capacity to captivate and mesmerise everyone. Urdu was one of the ancient languages and has nothing to do with religion. Everyone should learn Urdu so that one can converse with people across the country, he advised, adding: “Love your mother, mother tongue and your motherland”. The Vice-President also expressed his attachment and reverence to the Mastan Vali dargah at Kasumur in Nellore district. Even now he visits the dargah, and has funded its development works, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/venkaiah-praises-beauty-of-urdu/article35313946.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Key level crossing bridged amid rain||South Central Railway (SCR) in its quest to eliminate all the manned level crossing (LC) gates on mission mode, has built a new road underbridge to remove the LC between Gadwal - Sriramnagar stations in Secunderabad - Dhone section, it was announced on Tuesday, It is in close proximity of Krishna River with 2.5 degree curvature and posed many challenges for which the engineers concerned laid wooden sleepers with perfection on the girder, carried out deep excavation and controlled blasting due to the hard rock with continuous dewatering activity amid rain, even while adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols of social distancing, face masks, etc. General Manager Gajanan Mallya congratulated the officers and construction teams for the task with least disturbance to the normal flow of rail traffic even during the pandemic times and adverse environment conditions at a crucial location, a press release from SCR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/key-level-crossing-bridged-amid-rain/article35313957.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water to Saraswati canal from today||Release of water from Sriramsagar Project (SRSP) to Saraswati canal ayacut for the current kharif season will begin on Wednesday. According to Superintending Engineer, Nirmal, Susheel Deshpande, Minister for Endowments A. Indrakaran Reddy will release the water at the project site by opening the sluice gates of the canal. He told people of habitations along the canal not to enter the canal even for fishing and grazing of cattle. He suggested that farmers shift motor pumpsets in the canal to safety. Otherwise they could get washed away in the flow. Water release to Kakatiya and Laxmi canals and Alisagar and Gutpa lift irrigation schemes had already commenced from Sriramsagar. Water release for kharif crops under projects such as Jurala, Nizamsagar, Nagarjunasagar (AMRP), Kaddam, Musi, Singur, Lower Manair and Yellampally including the lift irrigation schemes based on them commenced this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-to-saraswati-canal-from-today/article35313966.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vishweshwer Reddy too to join Cong.||Former Chevella MP Konda Vishweshwer Reddy said he would soon reveal the date for joining the Congress again but participate in the proposed deeksha of the Congress on unemployment issues. Mr. Reddy revealed this when TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy called on him at his residence. “He had resigned from the Congress but not from Congress ideology. And he can come back to the party anytime he wished,” Mr. Revanth Reddy said. Mr. Vishwesher Reddy, who joined the Congress from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) just before the elections, decided to stay away from politics for some time after losing the Lok Sabha election from Chevella. Though rumours were rife that he would join the BJP, Mr. Reddy denied. After their meeting, Mr. Revanth Reddy said they had discussed development issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vishweshwer-reddy-too-to-join-congress/article35313974.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lorry crushes woman||A 40-year-old woman was killed in a road accident in Uppal Police Station Limits on Tuesday after a lorry carrying fuel hit her two-wheeler from behind. Varalakshmi was on her way on an errand near the Uppal Ring Road around 11.30 a.m. when the lorry hit her. Police caught the driver Madhu Balakrishna (30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lorry-crushes-woman/article35313952.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Watchman stabs wife on her birthday, kills son||A 22-year-old woman’s birthday turned tragic when her husband stabbed her and then slit their two-year-old-son’s throat. The incident happened at Kethireddypally village on Monday night, Moinabad police said. The accused was identified as 28-year-old Dhappu Ramesh, a native of Nagasamudram in Yalal mandal, watchman at a dairy farm. His wife Shobha had her birthday on Monday. Her mother, Jyothi also went to Ramesh’s room at the dairy farm. The trio allegedly consumed liquor. Shobha and her mother were making rotis outside the room and conversing in their mother tongue which the accused could not understand. He thought they were abusing him and in an inebriated state, began to hit Shobha on the head and stomach with a stone. Soon after, he ran into his son Dinesh’s room and slit his throat. He fled after that. While Shobha was rushed to Chevella Government Hospital and is stable, Dinesh died on the spot. Later in the day, police nabbed the accused who was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/watchman-stabs-wife-on-her-birthday-kills-son/article35313963.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man with travel history to Libya detained||A man with a history of travelling to Libya was detained at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) and handed over to police on Tuesday morning as there is a travel ban on Indian citizens travelling to that country. Traveller Syed Haji Ismail is a native of Gulbarga in Karnataka. According to the police, Ismail was detained at the airport after he landed from Dubai. Immigration officials had noticed Libya stamps on his passport. He was questioned and handed over to RGIA police who booked a case under Section 12 of the Passport Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. “Ismail runs a hardware shop in Dubai. He was in Libya from June 24 to 26. He said that he went there in connection with clearing his business bills,” said RGIA police sub-inspector B. Suman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-with-travel-history-to-libya-detained/article35313953.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Musi beautification neglected: BJP||TS BJP has charged the government with turning the Musi Riverfront Development Board into a political one with not a single work taken up in the last seven years despite promises of beautification and clean up. “It is yet another classic case of false promises made with no commitment to fulfil,” said party leaders led by vice president Ch. Ramachandra Reddy, NVSS Prabhakar and others on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/musi-beautification-neglected-bjp/article35313950.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||66 mobile phones recovered||The South Zone Police on Tuesday recovered as many as 66 stolen or missing mobiles. According to the police, the owners of these phones had lost them, and some mobile phones were stolen from crowded places like shopping malls, and even vegetable markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/66-mobile-phones-recovered/article35313951.ece
14 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Nine check-posts set up||As many as nine check-posts have been set up along the inter-State borders and internal roads in the district as part of stepped-up vigil to curb illegal transportation of cattle. A total of seven cases were booked, 11 persons were arrested and seven vehicles were seized on charge of illegally transporting cattle under Kallur, Kusumanchi, Khanapuram Haveli and Karepalli police station limits in the past few days, police said. Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier said vigil had been stepped up in the border areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nine-check-posts-set-up/article35313980.ece
14 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Abandoned infant shifted to hospital||In a shocking incident, an infant was left on the roadside at Domadugu in Gummadidala mandal on Tuesday. According to sources, the infant, barely a few hours old and wrapped in a cloth, was left on the roadside at Domadugu in Gummadidala mandal. Passersby who noticed the infant, a female child, alerted officials. The baby-girl was shifted to government hospital at Sangareddy in an ambulance being run by Mythri Foundation. Presently her condition was stated to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/abandoned-infant-shifted-to-hospital/article35313979.ece
14 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||The notification for admissions into ITIs was issued on Tuesday. Interested candidates can submit their applications online from July 14 to 28, according to government ITI principal, Patancheru. Candidates have to upload original certificates of SSC, caste, local, study and TC online at http: // iti. telangana.gov.in. Students are asked to provide their personal phone numbers for further communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article35314184.ece
14 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Rains bring woes to oustees||Usually, rains bring cheers to farmers. Here the case is different because rains are not bringing smile on their face and instead fear is going down their spine. The government accommodated the oustees of Mallannasagar here at this village and houses were constructed for them by the government. Many of them are farmers, except a few. It was house number 46 in Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony of Etigaddakishtapur at Mutrajapally. On Tuesday, Nayini Aruna and her two children — Raju and Santosh – had a bitter experience. While Aruna was rolling beedis both the children were nearby. All of a sudden the basement of the hall sank, creating fear among them. Panicky over the incident, they rushed out of the house screaming for help. It took some time for them to become normal. “At the time of incident, I am outside on work. By the time I reached home all my family members are in fear. They feared that the house is collapsing but after some time everyone became normal. We were forced to vacate our native village and are now living in fear. We do not know what was in store by the time of completion of rainy season,” Nayini Muthyam told The Hindu.  At another house, rainwater seeped in such a way that the inmates had to place some vessels like plastic tubs to arrest the rain drops spreading over. But their effort was in vain as slowly the entire house witnessed rainwater seeping from the top. This was in house number 1275. In the beginning of the season, walls of two houses collapsed and officials clarified that there was no compromise in regard to quality and that the wall collapse was due to construction of toilets under the steps that had weakened the foundation of the wall. At some houses, the front yard of the house sank. “Every house has a tale to tell. The problems of all houses are not common. Cracks developed in some houses. There is seepage in some other places,” said Raju, another oustee of Pallepahad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rains-bring-woes-to-oustees/article35313977.ece
14 July 2021||Tirumala,TELANGANA||Efforts on to strengthen security in Tirumala: TTD EO||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said efforts were on to strengthen security at the temple of Lord Venkateswara and make Tirumala a crime-free zone. Mr. Jawahar Reddy, who visited the Common Command Control Center (CCC) at PAC-4 on Tuesday, appreciated the measures adopted by the TTD Vigilance and Security wing in providing a fool-proof security cover to the temple as well as to pilgrims, and said plans were also afoot to have a permanent building for the CCC. The management is also exploring the feasibility of adopting Israeli technology in having an infallible security cover, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/efforts-on-to-strengthen-security-says-ttd-eo/article35314132.ece
14 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||2 boys drown in Baswapur reservoir||Two teenagers, S. Pawan Kumar Reddy and L. Hemanth, residents of Bhongir town, reportedly drowned in the Baswarpur reservoir and were pulled out on Tuesday. According to Bhongir rural police, the boys aged 14 and 13 respectively, had left home on Monday evening for a swim on the banks of the reservoir and were missing since then. While one victim’s body was found on Tuesday morning, police with the help of locals swung into action to retrieve the other victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-boys-drown-in-baswapur-reservoir/article35314183.ece
14 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Anti-filariasis, deworming drive||District Collector Pamela Satpathy on Tuesday said the district medical and health office would take up a three-day door-to-door anti-filariasis and deworming drive starting Thursday. The drug administration programme was part of the National Programme for Elimination of Lymphatic Filariasis and nearly 7.70 lakh population, excluding children, would be targeted. Houses of the administered population will be stickered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anti-filariasis-deworming-drive/article35313965.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Illegal call centre busted with arrest of 26 employees||A sham call centre was busted with the arrest of 26 employees for allegedly duping U.S. citizens of at least Rs. 4 crore by impersonating Amazon customer service providers, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said they received a tip-off that an illegal call centre was being operated from south Delhi's Sultanpur. On reaching the spot, the police caught the employees red-handed. Preliminary enquiry revealed that the fake call centre had been running for the past seven months and on average, at least six U.S. citizens were cheated daily. Over 1,250 people have been found to be cheated so far.  During probe, it was revealed that the accused would send fake messages to phone numbers of the victims, telling them that their Amazon ID has been hacked and charges have been imposed on them. When the customer would call back to know more about it, they would show them fake repair of their Amazon ID through AnyDesk, a remote desktop access application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/illegal-call-centre-busted-with-arrest-of-26-employees/article35313850.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||500 centres shut after jab shortage||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said 500 COVID inoculation centres in the city had to be shut due to shortage of vaccines. “There is a shortage of vaccines in Delhi. We received a small stock of 1.5 lakh Covishield vaccines on Monday night, which will not last beyond Tuesday. This in effect will again cause the centres to shut after the stock gets depleted. We have around 1.68 lakh vaccines which will not last beyond Tuesday or half of Wednesday,” Mr. Jain said. He said that Delhi has the capacity to administer 3-4 lakh doses of vaccine a day but have to shut vaccination centres as we are not being supplied enough stock Several vaccination centres in the city have been closed for many days due to shortage, according to workers at the centres. People are also facing difficulties as centres are closed. At a government-run vaccination centre in Navyug School near Pandara Park, vaccination was not happening on Tuesday afternoon. “From Saturday, the centre has been closed due to vaccine shortage. About 50-100 people come every day to enquire whether vaccination is happening and we send them back,” said a employee at the centre. Kartik Gill, 20, who came to the centre to get his parents vaccinated said they were finding it difficult to get a second shot of the vaccine. “My parents got the first shot in Hauz Khas. We went there on Tuesday for the second dose, but the centre did not have any vaccine stock. Then we went to a dispensary that we heard was giving vaccine shots. When we got there, however, the employee there said inoculation had not been happening for the last four days as they do not have stock,” Mr. Gill said. Vaccination was not happening at a government-run vaccination centre in Mukherjee Park either. “We don’t have vaccine stock since Friday. We expect to get some vaccine doses soon, but there is no assurance as of now,” said a volunteer at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/500-centres-shut-after-jab-shortage/article35313847.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Haryana has released Delhi’s legitimate share of water: DJB||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said the water shortage in the city will be over soon as theHaryana government has released 16,000 cusecs of water. “The Haryana government released 16,000 cusecs of water soon after the Kejriwal government filed a petition in the Supreme Court. Delhi’s legitimate water share has been released by the Haryana government at Hathni Kund and 16,000 cusecs of water will reach Delhi’s water treatment plants in the next three days. The water problem in Delhi will end very soon and clean drinking water will reach Delhiites,” Mr. Chadha said. For the past one week, the DJB has been claiming that the Haryana government was not releasing Delhi’s share of Yamuna water and due to this the water supply in Delhi was being affected. Raw water from the Yamuna and other sources is treated by the DJB at different water treatment plants (WTPs) before supplying it to people. On Monday, Mr. Chadha had said that the water level at Wazirabad barrage, a point along of river Yamuna in Delhi, was the lowest since 1965 and warned of a water crisis.  The water problem will end very soon and clean drinking water will reach Delhiites Raghav Chadha DJB vice-chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-has-released-delhis-legitimate-share-of-water-djb/article35313845.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Court raps police for ‘casual’ reply to plea||A court here on Tuesday pulled up Delhi Police for filing in a “casual manner” the reply to a plea seeking registration of an FIR against Jaipur Golden Hospital management for alleged deaths of COVID-19 patients due to oxygen shortage.  Oxygen shortage As many as 21 critically ill patients had died at the hospital on the intervening night of April 23-24 as it allegedly awaited the oxygen supply to be replenished, following which six family members of the deceased approached the court. Not satisfied with the status report filed by the police, Metropolitan Magistrate Vivek Beniwal said, “The status report has been filed in a causal manner. The IO has not disclosed what steps were taken after he was directed to file the status report.” Furthermore, the judge called it a “highly sensitive matter” and gave the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) the last opportunity to file the status report, failing which the court would take action as per the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-raps-police-for-casual-reply-to-plea/article35313849.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. meets CVC, demands probe into DTC bus deal||A delegation of Delhi Congress leaders on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC), demanding a detailed probe into the DTC bus procurement and maintenance contract issue. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar claimed that the CVC assured of action on the complaint against the purchase and maintenance deal of 1,000 low-floor buses for the Delhi Transport Corporation. “A Delhi Congress delegation met Chief Vigilance Commissioner Suresh Patel at his office and submitted a letter on behalf of the people of Delhi, demanding a detailed probe into the Rs. 4,288 crore scam in the purchase and maintenance contracts of 1,000 low-floor buses,” the Delhi Congress said in a statement. In the letter, Mr. Kumar alleged that the purchase of buses for the DTC involved “big corruption”, which was a “gross misuse” of public money. He further alleged that the Rs. 3,413 crore tender for the annual maintenance contract was a “clear case of corruption”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-meets-cvc-demands-probe-into-dtc-bus-deal/article35314059.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands Gahlot’s resignation||While reiterating that Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal allow a probe by the Anti-Corruption Branch into the alleged DTC bus scam, the BJP on Tuesday demanded that Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot and its department officials responsible be removed. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said even the panel set up to examine the alleged scam had termed the purchase as well as maintenance tender “irregular” and asked that a fresh tender be issued. Cong. approaches CVC Meanwhile, a Delhi Congress delegation, headed by chief Ch. Anil Kumar submitted a letter to Chief Vigilance Commissioner Suresh N. Patel demanding a probe into the purchase and maintenance contracts of the 1,000 low-floor buses. Mr. Kumar said that Mr. Patel assured them that the CVC will hold a thorough probe into the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-demands-gahlots-resignation/article35313844.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Assess water supply stations: petition in HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the city government and the Delhi Jal Board to consider as representation a plea seeking fresh assessment of water supply stations here. The HC Bench asked the authorities to decide the representation in accordance with the law, rules, and regulations. City resident Ajay Gautam, in his plea, sought to conduct a fresh assessment of water supply stations and booster pumps, keeping in mind the increasing population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assess-water-supply-stations-petition-in-hc/article35313842.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Scheme for urban migrants gets DDA nod||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday approved several key proposals at a meeting chaired by L-G Anil Baijal. These, according to sources present at the meeting, included a draft policy for dynamic parking norms and inclusion of Affordable Rental Housing Complex Scheme in MPD 2021 for providing rental housing to urban migrants and economically weaker sections. Change of land use from recreational to public and semi-public facilities for the construction of a transit camp for the CRPF was also approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/scheme-for-urban-migrants-gets-dda-nod/article35313851.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Skill university ties up with Japanese firm to train students||The Delhi Skill University on Tuesday entered into a partnership with a Japanese firm to begin a programme to train and skill youth of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/skill-university-ties-up-with-japanese-firm-to-train-students/article35313843.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Deuba becomes Nepal PM for 5th time||Sher Bahadur Deuba, leader of the Nepali Congress, is the new Prime Minister of Nepal. The 75-year old centrist politician was sworn to office by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari on Tuesday evening, a day after the Supreme Court of Nepal, in a dramatic verdict, said Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli had violated constitutional principles. The coaltion government in Kathmandu will consist of Mr. Deuba’s Nepali Congress, the Maoist Center of Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and the Janata Samajvadi Party, which is a conglomeration of former Maoists and the Madhesi leaders. Mr. Deuba was sworn in with a small Cabinet. Gyanendra Karki was sworn in as the Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs and Bal Krishna Khand took oath as the Minister of Home Affairs. The Maoist Centre got two portfolios — Janardan Sharma got the Finance Ministry and Pampha Bhusal will be in charge of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation, an important Ministry of the Himalayan country. The oath of office was administered by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, who was also subjected to criticism of the Supreme Court for her role in denying Mr. Deuba a chance to prove majority in the Parliament of Nepal in May. This is the fifth time that Mr. Deuba is returning to power as the Prime Minister of Nepal. Earlier in the day, Bhesh Raj Adhikary, personal secretary of President Bhandari, told reporters that “In line with the apex court's verdict, President Bhandari named Deuba as the Prime Minister”. Previously, Mr. Deuba served as Nepal's Prime Minister four times from June 2017–February 2018, June 2004–February 2005, July 2001–October 2002 and September 1995–March 1997. Lasting impact Earlier in the day, Mr. Oli delivered a speech before stepping down and said the verdict of the Supreme Court will have a lasting impact on Nepal. “The language used in the verdict has alarmed those who believe in multi-party democracy,” said Mr. Oli, who had been elected PM on October 11, 2015, following the adoption of the new Constitution. His second tenure began in 2018. Throughout his tenure, Mr. Oli defended the Constitution against criticism from the Madhesis — people from Nepal’s plains who said the document was partial to the established elite of Kathmandu. “The constitution of Nepal is the document borne out of decades of struggle and sacrifice by the people of Nepal. We strengthened the political system of Nepal,” Mr. Oli said in his farewell speech on Tuesday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/deuba-becomes-nepal-pm-for-5th-time/article35313441.ece
14 July 2021||Kabul,||Don’t want to fight inside cities, say Taliban||The Taliban do not want to battle government forces inside Afghanistan’s cities and would rather see them surrender, a senior insurgent leader said on Tuesday, as the militants also warned Turkey against extending its troop presence. The hardline Islamist group has swept through much of the north as foreign troops complete their withdrawal, and the Afghan government now holds little more than a constellation of provincial capitals that must largely be resupplied by air. As security deteriorates, France on Tuesday became the latest country to call on its citizens to leave — offering them a last flight out of Kabul, free of charge. Earlier, the head of a Taliban commission that oversees government forces who surrender urged residents of Afghanistan’s cities to reach out to them. “Now that the fighting from mountains and deserts has reached the doors of the cities, Mujahiddin (Taliban) don’t want fighting inside the city,” Amir Khan Muttaqi said in a message tweeted by a Taliban spokesman. “It is better... to use any possible channel to get in touch with our invitation and guidance commission,” he said, adding this would “prevent their cities from getting damaged”. The strategy is one well-worn by the Taliban — particularly during their first rise to power in the 1990s — cutting off towns and district centres and getting elders to negotiate a surrender. Hours after Muttaqi’s message, a rush hour roadside bomb blast in the centre of the Afghan capital killed four civilians and wounded 11 others. Muttaqi’s comments came as the Defence Ministry said Afghan forces had cleared Qala-i-Naw city after days of fighting. Commandos executed The Badghis province capital saw sustained street fighting last week in the first assault by the Taliban on a major urban centre since foreign troops commenced their final withdrawal in May. The call also came the same day as a video emerged that CNN said it had verified, showing a group of Afghan commandos being gunned down by the Taliban in June after surrendering. In a separate statement, the Taliban said Turkey’s decision to provide security to Kabul airport when U.S.-led forces leave was “reprehensible”. “We consider stay of foreign forces in our homeland by any country under whatever pretext as occupation,” the group said, days after Ankara agreed with Washington to provide security for Kabul airport. As foreign forces wind up their withdrawal — due to be completed by August 31— the situation on the ground is changing rapidly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dont-want-to-fight-inside-cities-say-taliban/article35313436.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Supreme Court offers a way out of Kathmandu political impasse||The decision by a five-member Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court of Nepal to yet again overturn Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Oli’s dissolution of the House of Representatives was expected. Mr. Oli’s decision, ratified by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari who repeated the action taken in December 2020, came about in controversial circumstances in late May. After both Mr. Oli and the Nepali Congress’s Sher Bahadur Deuba were unable to establish majority support in Parliament in trust votes, they presented claims to the President with signatures affirming support. Mr. Deuba’s claim presented to Ms. Bhandari with signatures of 149 legislators was more valid than Mr. Oli’s, whose claim of support from 153 lawmakers were based on signatures of the leaders of the parties rather than from each individual. The discrepancy in Mr. Oli’s claims was due to the fact that both the ruling Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) (UML) and the Janata Samajbadi Party (JSP) in the Opposition were vertically split with rebel factions supporting Mr. Deuba’s candidacy, even though the parliamentary leaders of the parties gave their signatures affirming support for Mr. Oli. Right before the President’s decision, Mr. Oli had asked her to invoke Article 76 (5), which allows the President to appoint a member with majority support of the House through representation. However, the clause clearly specifies that this is possible only if the Prime Minister goes through a trust vote [Article 76 (3)], and Mr. Oli’s ploy to seek the President’s invocation of Article 76(5) raised the Opposition’s hackles. Ms. Bhandari rejected both claims and decided to dissolve the House and called for general elections to be held in November.  New PM  The Supreme Court has now not only overruled Mr. Oli’s decision to dissolve the House, but also said the rejection of Mr. Deuba’s claim with the support of 149 legislators of the 275-member House was unconstitutional as per Article 76(5). This led to Ms. Bhandari’s appointment of Mr. Deuba as the new Prime Minister. The 149 lawmakers supporting Mr. Deuba’s candidacy included those from Pushpa Kamal Dahal-led Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre), the Baburam Bhattarai-Upendra Yadav-led faction of the JSP and the Madhav Nepal-Jhalanath Khanal-led faction in the ruling UML.  What’s next  The court’s ruling also offered a way out of the political impasse – the Bench has allowed lawmakers to utilise their individual agency during the trust vote by making it clear that they are free to defy their parties’ whips. But in a party system that thrives heavily on patronage, whether individual lawmakers will apply such an agency during the trust vote remains to be seen. It is still not clear if Mr. Madhav Nepal’s faction within the UML will decide to vote formally for Mr. Deuba in the trust vote. Already Mr. Oli has sought to avoid a split within his party by coming up with concessions to the Nepal-Khanal faction, and this could still throw a spanner in the works for Mr. Deuba. If Mr. Deuba fails again, the extended stalemate could only result in calling for fresh elections later this year.  President’s role  Nevertheless, the Supreme Court’s decision is yet another rebuke of Mr Oli’s attempts at one-upmanship that set the stage for a constitutional breakdown. The ruling also brings scrutiny on the role of Ms. Bhandari whose decisions to rubber-stamp her former party colleague, Mr. Oli, have now been overturned twice by the court. The President’s office had in fact argued in a petition to the court last month that her actions cannot be subject to a judicial review, but the verdict categorically rejected this view by saying, “The action taken by the President falls under the executive function. In such a situation, if the President’s moves are kept out of the judicial review it will be an attack on the principle of the separation of power, control and balance”, as reported in The Kathmandu Post .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/supreme-court-offers-a-way-out-of-kathmandu-political-impasse/article35313600.ece
14 July 2021||Havana,||Cuba blames U.S. for anti-government protests||The Cuban police are out in force on the streets of the country after thousands of protesters rallied against the government over high prices and food shortages. President Miguel Diaz-Canel on Monday blamed the weekend protests on the United States pursuing a “policy of economic suffocation to provoke social unrest in the country”. Cuba has been under U.S. sanctions since 1962. He also accused Cuban Americans of using social media to spur the demonstrations. “What do they want? To provoke social unrest” with a view to “regime change”, the President said in an address broadcast on public television and radio. In a statement, U.S. President Joe Biden expressed support for the protesters’ demand for relief “from the decades of repression and economic suffering to which they have been subjected by Cuba’s authoritarian regime”. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said it would be a “grievous mistake” for Cuba to blame the U.S. for the protests he said could be traced to the communist leadership’s “mismanagement” of the economy and COVID-19. The Cuban authorities have also cut access to major social media platforms in an effort to stem the flow of information, a web monitoring organisation said. Data from the London-based group NetBlocks showed disruptions from Monday to WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram and as well as some Telegram servers.  The clampdown was similar to the social media restrictions during the San Isidro protests for artistic freedom in Havana in November 2020, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cuba-blames-us-for-anti-government-protests/article35313434.ece
14 July 2021||Tehran,||Iran confirms prisoner exchange talks with U.S.||Iran confirmed on Tuesday ongoing “negotiations” with the United States over a potential prisoner swap, after a U.S. official said Washington is working to release its detained citizens. The U.S. envoy for Iran, Robert Malley, said on Saturday that President Joe Biden insisted on the release of all Americans and would not accept a “partial deal”. Mr. Malley called the release of Americans detained in the Islamic republic a “priority” and said that negotiations with Iran had “made some progress”, NBC News reported. Asked about Mr. Malley’s remarks, Iran’s government spokesman Ali Rabiei confirmed the talks and said Tehran called for the release of all Iranian prisoners, not just those held in the U.S. Iran “is ready to swap all political prisoners in exchange for freeing all Iranian prisoners across the world”, he said. They include those “who have been detained upon U.S. orders” or at Washington’s request, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-confirms-prisoner-exchange-talks-with-us/article35313435.ece
14 July 2021||Paris,||Google fined €500 mn by French anti-trust agency||France’s competition regulator fined Google 500 million euros on Tuesday for failing to negotiate in good faith with French publishers in a dispute over payments for their news. The agency threatened fines of another 900,000 euros per day if Google doesn’t come up with proposals within two months on how it will compensate publishers and news agencies for their content. Google said in a statement it was “very disappointed” by the decision. The dispute is part of a larger effort by authorities in the European Union and around the world to force Google and other tech companies to compensate publishers for content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/google-fined-500-mn-by-french-anti-trust-agency/article35313438.ece
14 July 2021||Washington,||Biden nominates Gupta as top anti-drug official||President Joe Biden has nominated West Virginia’s former health commissioner as the nation’s top anti-drug official, tapping a doctor who served on the frontlines of the nation’s opioid epidemic. The White House said on Tuesday that Dr. Rahul Gupta will be the first physician to lead the Office of National Drug Control Policy, also known as the “drug czar”. The nomination drew bipartisan praise from West Virginia officials. Republican Governor Jim Justice called it a “great news”, and Democratic Senator Joe Manchin said the pick “means someone with firsthand knowledge of the opioid crisis, especially in West Virginia, will be coordinating the national fight against the drug epidemic that continues to ravage our nation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-nominates-gupta-as-top-anti-drug-official/article35313683.ece
14 July 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Death toll in S. Africa riots rises to 45||The death toll from rioting in South Africa rose to 45 on Tuesday as the police and the military tried to halt the unrest in poor areas of two provinces that began last week after the imprisonment of former President Jacob Zuma. Many of the deaths in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal provinces occurred in stampedes as people stole food, electric appliances, liquor and clothing from stores, officials said. Sporadic violence broke out after Mr. Zuma on Thursday began serving a 15-month sentence for contempt of court. He had refused to comply with a court order to testify at a state-backed inquiry investigating allegations of corruption while he was President from 2009 to 2018. The unrest then spiraled into a spree of looting in township areas of the two provinces, witnesses said, although it has not spread to South Africa’s other seven provinces. “The criminal element has hijacked this situation,” said Premier David Makhura of Gauteng province, which includes Johannesburg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/death-toll-in-s-africa-riots-rises-to-45/article35313437.ece
14 July 2021||Baghdad,||92 killed in Iraq COVID-19 hospital fire||The death toll from a fire that swept through a hospital coronavirus ward in Iraq climbed to 92 on Tuesday as anguished relatives buried their loved ones and lashed out at the government over the country’s second such disaster in less than three months. Health officials said scores of others were injured in the blaze that erupted on Monday at al-Hussein Teaching Hospital in Nasiriyah. The tragedy cast a spotlight on what many have decried as widespread negligence and mismanagement in Iraq’s hospitals after decades of war and sanctions. In the holy city of Najaf, the dead from Nasiriyah were laid to rest. Families stood over the coffins to say one last prayer. Their tears were tinged with anger, with some saying the disaster could have been prevented. They blamed both the provincial government and the central government in Baghdad. “The whole state system has collapsed, and who paid the price? These people have paid the price,” Haidar al-Askari seethed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/64-killed-in-iraq-covid-19-hospital-fire/article35313439.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The upcoming crisis in Indian federalism||The Indian Constitution may face an unprecedented crisis in 2026 when there will be a dramatic change in the composition of the Lok Sabha. Since 1976, seats in the Lok Sabha have reflected the 1971 census and have not taken into account changes in the population. The primary reason for this has been unequal population growth among States. India’s most highly developed and prosperous States have been successful at family planning, while the poorer States continue to expand. The freeze was thus a chance to ensure that India’s most successful States are not punished politically for their success. Post 2026, when this compact ends, there will be a seismic shift in national power towards India’s poorest and most populated States, which is sure to generate much resentment among the States that will lose political and economic power and influence. This calls for a realignment in the balance between the democratic principle and the federal principle in the Indian Constitution. The essence of the Union As Article 1 of the Indian Constitution says, India is a Union of States. The choice of words is deliberate: it is the several States that, together, make up the Indian Union. Admittedly, unlike in other federations, there is no separate State citizenship or State Constitutions. However, one need only study the history that led up to the linguistic reorganisation of States in 1956, and to subsequent movements for Statehood afterwards, to understand that States are distinct associative communities, within the federal structure of the Indian Union. Indeed, in a polity as plural as ours – linguistically, culturally, and ethnically – it could not be any other way. Big versus small States Having established, thus, that States are important, self-contained units within the Indian constitutional scheme, we must turn to an inherent contradiction between the principles of democracy and federalism, when federal units are unequal in size, population and economics. This is easy to comprehend. In a democratic set up, all citizens are equal and are thus entitled to equal representation in governance. But this would imply that bigger States are likely to dominate the national conversation over smaller States. Small States fear that they would get a smaller share of the pie economically, a much reduced say in national issues, and be irrelevant in the political governance of the country. In order to assuage this legitimate fear, federal democracies have incorporated into their governing structures various kinds of compromises to ensure a balance between democratic principles and federal ones. For example, when the Americans adopted their Constitution, they protected smaller States in four ways. First, national powers over the States were limited. Second, each State regardless of size had two seats in the Senate, giving smaller States an outsized role in national governance. Third, Presidents are elected by electoral votes, which means they must win States rather than the total national population. Fourth, and deplorably, the slave-owning States which did not confer citizenship on slaves were allowed to count the slaves for purposes of representation, with each slave being counted as three-fifths of a person. This essential structure remains the bedrock of the American Constitution today, though the Americans have rid themselves of slavery (fortunately) and have dramatically increased the scope of federal intervention. This federal structure has led to the severing of causational links between the national vote and presidential elections. Presidents George W. Bush and Donald Trump won without winning the popular vote. The current movement to remove the power of a minority to filibuster legislation is based on democratic principles seeking to mitigate the pathology of excessive federalism: indeed, the American structures of government go so far in the other direction, that they have been accused of essentially facilitating and entrenching minority rule through the Senate, which favours rural, sparsely populated States that are also predominantly white. The Indian structure Other federations (Switzerland and Belgium come to mind) have adopted other — less extreme — forms of reconciliation. However, India’s quasi-federal structure has always been sui generis . Our founders knew that India’s diversity made federalism inevitable, but, fearing fissiparous tendencies among States that had never been a single political unit, they also created a strong centre. While history has been chequered, the fears for Indian national unity simply on the basis of giving States greater powers have proven to be unfounded — and if at all, it has been the other way. The 1956 reorganisation of States on linguistic lines was a popular recognition of federal principles and yet did not result in separatist tendencies. Since then, new States within the Union have been created in response to the demands of people for greater autonomy. In India, any clash between federal principles and democracy will inevitably also have linguistic, religious and cultural implications and may result in new forms of sub-regional chauvinism. Thus, there is an urgent need to reimagine our national compact — another freeze will only kick this thorny issue down the road and will continue to perpetuate an increasingly undemocratic set up. Fine-tune these elements We have the components of such a new balance that need to be fine-tuned to Indian realities. First, the powers of States vis-à-vis the Centre contained in the Lists and in the provisions dealing with altering boundaries of States must be increased to assuage the fear of smaller States that they will be dominated by bigger ones. There is no reason to believe that empowering our States would cause national disintegration. On the contrary, more localised decision-making is bound to increase national prosperity. Indeed, this was the entire goal of the creation of Panchayat governance through the 73rd and 74th Amendments to the Constitution, whose promise remains — unfortunately — unrealised. Second, the role and composition of the Rajya Sabha, our House of States, must be expanded. This would allow smaller States a kind of brake over national majoritarian politics that adversely impact them. Third, constitutional change and the change in financial redistribution between the States must require the consent of all or nearly all States (the fate of the Goods and Services Tax, or GST, serves as a salutary warning in this regard). Constitutional provisions dealing with language and religion must also be inviolate. If India is a joint venture between majority and minority shareholders, the minority must be protected by a comprehensive list of “consensus items” that require unanimity — or at least, a super-majority — and not simple majority. Fourth, serious thought must be given to breaking up the biggest States into smaller units that will not by themselves dominate the national conversation. Competing claims The unity of India is, of course, the fundamental premise underlying this discussion; but this unity does not depend on an overbearing Centre for its survival. National bonds of affection and patriotism will not be severed by devolution of powers though they will be at least severely strained when one part of the country is empowered over another. Lampedusa’s Il Gattopardo contains the memorable quote, Everything must change for everything to remain the same. This includes the question of how we are to balance the competing claims of democracy and federalism, in the years to come. Rahul Narayan is Advocate on Record, Supreme Court of India. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-upcoming-crisis-in-indian-federalism/article35313424.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Framing the legislation, forgetting the transparency||It was the June of 2002 and the Information and Broadcasting Ministry office on the fifth and the sixth floors of Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi, was buzzing with activity. Cable operators referred to as “unsavoury characters” had taken over the conference room which was overflowing with pizza and soft drinks. Reporters could come and go and talk to officials; usually the Secretary and the Additional Secretary would come out to brief the reporters. There was a reason for this flurry of activity. The  Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Amendment Bill, which had the potential of regulating the business of lakhs of cable operators, multi-system operators and broadcasters, was going to be debated in Parliament and it was the draft of the proposed Bill that was being discussed threadbare with stakeholders. Then and now The discussions spilled over months as reporters munched through the pizzas. The Ministry was careful to keep the stakeholders away from each other. Such was the unease between the stakeholders. It was evident to all of us that while Ministry officials were comfortable discussing the provision of the proposed Bill with broadcasters, cable operators were a different kettle of fish. So, while the broadcasters were invited at dusk, the cable operators held sway during the day. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, much like the present Government, was clueless about the number of cable operators; many had sizeable stakes in the real estate business in the country and carried the channels for a price which was at the centre of animosity between the broadcasters and the cable operators. Eventually passed by Parliament in 2002, the Cable Television Networks Regulation (Amendment) Act was not a perfect Act, and would undergo many more amendments, but the changes were the outcome of intense discussions with all stakeholders. In the days to come, the Act would be criticised but the doors of the Ministry were always open for discussions. This is a marked departure from the manner in which the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which has sought to put the brakes on free speech, is being pushed through. OTT in focus Of course, the Government can always turn back and say, ‘hey we gave you 100 days’. But here is the rub. The Government never put up for public discussion what it was seeking to amend and control. The November 2020 Executive order bringing Over-The-Top (OTT) platforms or video streaming service providers such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and others under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, exposed the real intentions of the Government. But when the now former Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar commented that the Ministry officials had no fix on the number of OTT platforms and users in the country, his concern was legitimate. After all, this is a business and along with the entertainment industry, had reached Rs. 1.82 trillion in 2019 and has been projected to cross Rs. 2.4 trillion by 2022 (FICCI report on media and entertainment; https://bit.ly/36xaDTJ). In fact, digital media overtook filmed entertainment in 2019. And to throw in some more figures, there are around 550 million television and smartphone consumers in the country. The figures are expected to double by 2025. There are over 200 million OTT subscribers. The major draw of OTT is this: the content being served to you when you want it. You are free to watch what you wish to at a time chosen by you on a platform you are comfortable with. Your smartphone doubles up as the screen as you navigate your ride on the metro. This is in danger now with the IT rules having come into effect on February 25 (https://bit.ly/3riYdZn and https://bit.ly/3i8KEHF) with the Government giving digital publishers three months to comply (https://bit.ly/3B1qQ1E). The Digital News Publishers Association — a 13-member collective of some of the leading news media companies, the Press Trust of India and now the News Broadcasters Association, have moved courts petitioning them to intervene and stop the code which not only restricts free speech but also far exceeds the mandate of the IT Act in empowering the executive from controlling online content. Incidentally, while amending the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867, to bring within its ambit digital news platforms two years ago, for good measure, the Ministry had put out the draft on its website (draft “Registration of Press and Periodicals Bill, 2019) inviting discussions (https://bit.ly/3AWRuZl). So, it is all the more surprising why the Ministry did not follow the same process while attempting to regulate OTT and digital news platforms. It could have got a fix on both. Rules elsewhere Since the best of rules and guidelines are often enriched by best practices around the world, here is a brief list of some of these. The EU Audiovisual Media Services Directive, updated three years ago, encourages self-regulation and co-regulation among players, with specific focus on child safety and violence and hate speech. In the United Kingdom, programming on video-on-demand services, including TV and online film services, is regulated by Ofcom which not only provides editorial rules but also has specific provisions for protecting those under 18 and the prohibition of content inciting hatred. The United States, perhaps the most liberal of countries, expects Pay TV players to follow Federal Communications Commission (FCC) guidelines — OTT content remains unregulated. So, from a light touch to content governing children, most countries have set up an enabling architecture for OTT platforms to grow. India, it appears, has not followed in their footsteps, instead, charting a regulatory framework which has been characterised by excessive government overreach. Unease over free speech More importantly, does the government of the day have the mandate to control and regulate digital news? And here the Government, many of whose Ministers had burnished their reputation as champions of free speech during the Emergency, has floundered. Much like the Constitution makers who had decided to retain some of the most draconian provisions of laws controlling freedom of expression, the present government too appears to have followed the same path and has expressed its uneasiness over free speech on numerous occasions. The plate of newly minted Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur is overflowing. For one, he can pose a question to himself: should the Government formulate a self-regulating code for digital media? Does that even make sense? At the heart of content, both news and entertainment, is the freedom of expression — the life-giving force behind content. Finally, discussions and transparency indicate trust in the people by an elected government. There is little evidence of that in the framing of the IT guidelines. Now, we even have the Government’s draft on the proposed amendments to the Cinematograph Act of 1952 , seeking to control the Central Board of Film Certification’s power of certification! anuradha.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/framing-the-legislation-forgetting-the-transparency/article35313426.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Growth matters but income levels matter more||The provisional estimates of annual national income (2020-21), released on May 31 by the National Statistical Office, did not have any surprises, but for one, that is, there is nothing encouraging in the numbers. The agriculture sector continued its impressive growth performance, reiterating that it still remains as the vital sector of the economy, especially at times of crisis. The manufacturing sector continued its subdued growth performance, failing to emerge as the growth driver, with production interruptions due to localised lockdowns to be blamed. The contraction in trade (-18.2%), construction (-8.6%), mining (-8.5%) and manufacturing (-7.2%) is a matter of concern as these sectors account for the bulk of low-skilled jobs. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q4 of 2020-21 is showing a growth of 1.6%, slightly better than expected, but for a period when the restrictions on mobility and economic activity witnessed reduction, this performance looks below par. Further, this growth, which is an improvement over the 0.5% rate of growth in the previous quarter, is a statistical artefact as it is not devoid of the base effect and seasonality which plagues quarterly estimates. The magnitude of contraction in the economy and the policy responses towards it raises an important issue, that is, the question of growth prospects for the next year. Rising unemployment rate Contextualising the current growth rates in terms of some other macroeconomic data would provide us a better perspective on growth recovery. First, the unemployment data released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) which says, “In May 2021, India’s labour participation rate at 40 per cent was the same as it was in April 2021. But, the unemployment rate shot up to 11.9 per cent from 8 per cent in April. A stable labour participation rate combined with a higher unemployment rate implies a loss of jobs and a fall in the employment rate. The employment rate fell to 35.3 per cent in May 2021 from 36.8 per cent in April 2021. This is a very sharp fall for a single month... May 2021 was therefore a particularly stressful month on the jobs front”. According to CMIE, over 15 million jobs were lost in May 2021, higher than the 12.3 million in November 2016, the month of demonetisation. May 2021 was also the fourth consecutive month of a fall in employment. The more worrying fact is that the cumulative fall in employment since January 2021 is 25.3 million of which 22.7 million were in the first quarter of FY 2021-2022, that is, during April and May. This shows that the second wave of the pandemic has already dented economic activities, postponing recovery further. The job losses also bring out the high informality and vulnerability of labour in India as of the total jobs lost during April-May, 17.2 million were of daily wage earners. Elementary textbook economics tells us that employment and aggregate demand in an economy are related via the channel of disposable incomes of workers. We also know that aggregate demand and output growth have a positive correlation. Hence, the prospects of growth revival in the next year look bleak at the moment and from this perspective, it is worrying that in just April and May 2021, India lost 25 million non-farm jobs. Low business confidence This gets reflected in the business confidence of Indian companies, which is the second important data point that needs to examined. Business confidence index (BCI), from the survey by the industry body FICCI, plummeted to 51.5 from 74.2 in the previous round. The survey also highlights the weak demand conditions in the economy. It says, “With household income being severely impacted and past savings being already drawn on during the first wave of infections, demand conditions can be expected to remain weak for longer.” Compounding this is the uncertainty arising out of the imposition of localised curbs due to the second wave of infections and a muddled vaccine policy in the country. Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) also throws some light on the shape of things to come. PMI has slipped to a 10-month low indicating that the manufacturing sector is showing signs of strain with growth projections being revised lower. Both BCI and PMI slipping down indicates that the overall optimism towards 2021-22 is low, which could impact investments and cause further job losses. Demand recovery Growth recovery depends on demand recovery. External demand looks robust as India’s exports touched $32 billion in May 2021, 67% higher than in May 2020 and 8% more than in May 2019. The combined increase in exports of April and May 2021 is over 12% indicating that global demand rebound is much faster than the domestic demand. Stimulus programmes and a sharp decline in COVID-19 infections seem to be aiding these economies. What needs to be addressed immediately is the crisis of low domestic demand. Since last year, the policy responses have been to rely on credit easing, focusing more on supply side measures, with more and more guarantees by the government to improve flow of credit to important sectors. There has been less direct action by the government to support the vulnerable to alleviate their hardships. There were some sector-specific measures to alleviate distress in certain sectors, which were timely. However, this policy stance is unlikely to prop up growth for three reasons. First, the bulk of the policy measures, including the most recent, are supply side measures and not on the demand side. In times of financial anxiety, what is needed is direct state spending for a quick demand boost. Second, large parts of all the stimulus packages announced till now would work only in the medium term. These include policies related to the external sector, infrastructure and manufacturing sector. In fact, some of the policies towards agriculture, such as productivity enhancement through the introduction of new varieties, will only work over years. Third, the use of credit backstops as the main plank of policy has limits compared to any direct measure on the demand side as this could result in poor growth performance if private investments do not pick up. Further, the credit easing approach would take a longer time to multiply incomes as lending involves a lender’s discretion and borrower’s obligation. Interestingly, a tight-fisted fiscal policy approach comes at a time when conventional fiscal stimulus packages might not be enough as supply side issues arising out of episodic lockdowns need to be addressed simultaneously. What is required now is a sharp revival in overall demand. Focusing on short-term magnified growth rates resting on low bases might be erroneous, as income levels matter more than growth rates at this juncture. Focusing on growth rates has its merits in the long term as achieving higher income levels require sustained growth for longer periods. Bangladesh seems to be doing this without much fanfare, but the quest for sustained higher growth has been elusive for India for the last five years.  M. Suresh Babu is Professor of Economics at IIT Madras. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/growth-matters-but-income-levels-matter-more/article35313433.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Upholding trust in vaccination||Not very long ago, family planning dominated health system allocations and priorities in India and resulted in much harassment for grassroots health workers and the rural folk. It turned into a target-chasing, at times compulsive, exercise. The corollary was the undermining of trust in the public health system, which would often lead to people avoiding contact with health facilities for routine health services. Meeting targets Such trust is indispensable for large public health programmes to function optimally, particularly in cases like COVID-19 vaccination. But the primeval tendencies of the Indian public health system often antagonise such trust. These tendencies entail that a public health problem is seen merely as a function of input deficiencies, which can be overcome by pouring in more resources, manpower, and policies. The rich processes involved in translating these inputs into outcomes, which are deeply entwined with local contexts, are largely dismissed. They also result in benevolent objectives turning into ruthless targets which are to be met at all costs and reduce subtle activities like community sensitisation into simplistic information-education-communication exercises. There is every reason to expect these primeval tendencies to kick in and play foul in the COVID-19 vaccination drive. There are signs of vaccine hesitancy in India. Crucial junctures like a pandemic provide a window for communities to express distrust of otherwise long-established interventions like vaccines. For the government, failing to act with finesse in such situations could produce spillovers into the post-pandemic period and affect normal routine immunisation. More importantly, a desperate and overbearing approach to ensuring vaccination, coupled with deficient trust among communities, can lead to avoidance of public health facilities by many, which could be disastrous. Further, there are certain factors that make us particularly vulnerable to the peril of vaccine hesitancy during the pandemic. While routine immunisation is well-entrenched, COVID-19 vaccines are prone to suspicion as they are new and abrupt entrants. The unprecedented scale and speed of their roll-out, and the media reporting of adverse events that are often spurious, add to the suspicion. One of the biggest neutralisers of vaccine distrust are the visible improvements in disease prevention, and the equally visible damages when communities reject vaccines. These are unlikely to work substantially in the immediate term. The emergence of newer variants which predispose to vaccine failure and breakthrough infections can also endanger trust. Such crises also provide opportunities for traditional and folk medical practitioners to reassert themselves by attempting to discredit modern medical principles. These practitioners constitute influential hubs within many communities that may make or break a public health programme. Further, certain factors could prompt our public health system to regress to an instinctive top-down approach driven by desperation, including an imminent third wave, an anticipated increase in vaccine supplies in the near term, and the pressure to vaccinate as many as possible in the shortest time. Vaccine hesitancy may not necessarily emanate from a distrust of science but from government motives which may be miscommunicated. Acting prudently Apart from community involvement, contextualised action, and transparency, eloquence and responsibility in public communication, the government should rein in an instinct of regressing into ‘target mode’ even at the highest moment of desperation. This is necessary, though not sufficient, to safeguard public trust and prevent community alienation. There is a need of active thinking on avenues to incentivise vaccination beyond pecuniary subsidies, particularly for the rural sections. This would include removing disincentives that accompany reduced physical access, overenthusiastic drives on certain days that result in subsequent shortages, etc. Given that more than 38 crore vaccine doses have already been administered, there is a case for disseminating success stories through locally appropriate media, while not cutting back on honest, solemn and tactful reportage on adverse events. Positive messages and reinforcements for vaccination have to be aired from the several quarters that command respect and trust of the community. In this regard, there is a strong case for engaging with members of traditional and folk systems despite any potential resistance from them. Lastly, there is a strong case for effectively utilising the services of social science professionals. They may have a pivotal role in navigating the many nuances involved in community mobilisation that are often invisible to medical professionals and other technocrats. Soham D. Bhaduri is a physician, health policy expert, and chief editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/upholding-trust-in-vaccination/article35313429.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Disable unconstitutional sections||Recently, while hearing an application filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), the Supreme Court expressed shock that despite its declaration of Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 as being unconstitutional six years ago ( Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India ), criminal cases are still being registered by the police under this Section. The PUCL said that 1,307 cases had been registered since 2015 across States and therefore the Court must issue guidelines against the registering of FIRs by the police under this head. In 2015, the Supreme Court had declared Section 66A of the IT Act, which made online posting of information considered as “grossly offensive” a crime punishable by jail, as being violative of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and not saved under the ambit of reasonable restrictions defined in Article 19(2). It had also said that the expressions used in Section 66A were open-ended, undefined and therefore arbitrary. In 1983, the Court had struck down Section 303 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which provided capital punishment for murder by a person serving a life term in another case, as being unconstitutional. In Mithu v. State of Punjab, it held  that the punishment was not based on rational principle as no judicial discretion was available to a life convict. In 2018 ( Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India ), the Court read down Section 377 of the IPC criminalising “unnatural sex” as being unconstitutional. Similarly, in Joseph Shine v. Union of India (2018), the Court held adultery as defined under Section 497 of the IPC as being manifestly arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of the dignity of a woman and therefore, unconstitutional. Negligence by the police Undoubtedly, the registration of FIRs by the police under these sections is illegal and violative of the Court’s directions. Though such cases may not always be registered intentionally, negligence by Station House Officers (SHOs) must be nipped in the bud. The supervisory police officers at the sub-divisional level must ensure that such sections, if invoked due to lack of knowledge at the police station level, are removed at the earliest. The Superintendents of Police must fix responsibility on the erring officer and take corrective action. Everyone responsible for the negligence should not only be answerable to the courts for contempt but also be liable for departmental action. If the SHOs and others don’t mend their ways despite reprimands, their annual confidential reports could be dented with adverse entries. Action can also be initiated under the new Section 166A of the IPC which provides punishment for up to two years for disobeying directions under the law. Avoiding registration The best way to avoid registration of offences under sections held unconstitutional is to educate police officers of all ranks about such provisions in basic training institutes. Second, as the Attorney General of India, K.K. Venugopal, had suggested, there could be a mention in brackets near the provision that the provision has been struck down, so that FIRs are not registered under those sections. Third, unconstitutional sections of the IPC can be disabled in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS). Most States register FIRs in the CCTNS either on a real-time basis or in offline mode and synchronise this data with the State Data Centre as soon as connectivity is restored. In case police stations don’t have connectivity, the data (i.e., FIR in electronic format) are taken to the nearest police station that has connectivity and uploaded. The CCTNS came in handy when the Supreme Court directed the States in 2016 to upload FIRs on official websites within 24 to 72 hours of registration. In Chhattisgarh, we have disabled these Sections in the system. Other States could follow suit. The police must ensure that no FIR is registered under unconstitutional sections and no one is harassed for the negligent actions of SHOs. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/disable-unconstitutional-sections/article35313430.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Redemption road||Sport is replete with redemption stories. Teams wrestling with their pasts before swimming towards the light make for compelling plotlines. But for giant footballing countries, success following failure is more of a sequence and less of a narrative. This millennium, Germany and France have plumbed the depths before rising to become world champions. But Italy’s redemption story at Wembley on Sunday, a penalty shoot-out victory over England to secure only its second-ever European Championship, should not be seen through such a reductionist lens. The triumph represents the transformation of a proud, but dogmatic, footballing nation into a modern, forward-looking side, with the singular aim of coming out of one of its darkest chapters — of not qualifying for a World Cup (2018) for the first time since 1958. In the process, Roberto Mancini’s outfit also cleared the fog that had settled over international football. Built around the midfield abilities of Jorginho, Marco Verratti and Lorenzo Insigne, and the pace and drive of Federico Chiesa and Leonardo Spinazzola, Italy played with verve. Veteran defenders Giorgio Chiellini and Leonardo Bonucci ensured it also displayed old-school nous. Together with the goal-keeping brilliance of Gianluigi Donnarumma — player of the tournament — the Azzurri beat No.1 ranked Belgium, No.6 Spain and No.4 England back-to-back to claim their first major trophy since the 2006 World Cup. Italy, no doubt, had a generation of players schooled in progressive methods since their youth, but Mancini’s tactical acumen stood out. The 56-year-old’s handling of the loss of key personnel was smart, as was his role in shaping Italy’s response after England went a goal ahead and threatened to end its own trophy drought of 55 years. In contrast, Germany suffered under outgoing coach Joachim Low’s defunct ideas, while a complacent France blew a 3-1 lead against Switzerland and crashed out. Luis Enrique’s Spain, though, impressed, despite falling to Italy over penalties in the last four. Barcelona’s Pedri proved a gem and the 18-year-old midfielder was duly named the young player of the tournament. Cristiano Ronaldo won the Golden Boot (5 goals, 1 assist) but was far from the driving force he usually is for Portugal, the 2016 winner. Denmark, by reaching the semifinal despite the traumatic exit of Christian Eriksen, showcased its collective spirit. The only discordant notes in an otherwise excellent competition were English fans’ violent behaviour on the final day and the racist attacks on players who erred in the penalty shoot-out. But in the long run, Euro 2020 will be remembered for restoring Italian football, reinvigorating international football and proving mildly therapeutic to fans worldwide amidst an unending, exhausting pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/redemption-road/article35313418.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||An unproductive idea||Incentives and penalties form an integral component of the measures to control population growth, announced by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. These steps are aimed at reducing U.P.’s total fertility rate (TFR), recorded as 2.7 by the National Family Health Survey-4 in 2016, a figure only lower than that of neighbouring Bihar (3.1 as of 2020 in NFHS-5). Aims in this direction — increasing the rate of modern contraceptive prevalence, male contraception, decreasing maternal mortality and infant mortality rates significantly by 2026 — are, on the face of it, in line with what was stressed at the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development in 1994. The Cairo Consensus called for a promotion of reproductive rights, empowering women, universal education, maternal and infant health to untangle the knotty issue of poverty and high fertility. But rather than taking steps in this direction, the Government seems to have taken the beaten path of a mixture of incentives and penalties to tackle what is a socio-economic issue as a demographic one. In a draft Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021, the Government aims to incentivise one-child families and reward those with two children with perks in government schemes, rebates in taxes and loans, and cash awards if family planning is done among other sops. Disincentives for those with more than two children include denial of subsidies and welfare benefits, a bar on applying for government jobs and taking part in local elections. Assam, also led by the BJP, is mulling a similar policy. The incentives/disincentives approach has been denounced in the past by the National Human Rights Commission after such measures were introduced by several States in the 1990s and 2000s, i.e., Haryana, undivided Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The Supreme Court, in 2003, upheld a Haryana government law barring persons with more than two children from contesting local body polls, but the legal grounding of the moves impinging upon the informed choice of the individual remained questionable. Empirical studies of coercive measures have shown their discrimination against marginalised people in particular and with no discernible effect on population control, while more substantive poverty reduction schemes and economic reforms have raised labour productivity and employment opportunities, allowed families to empower women, and reduced fertility rates as rational choices. India’s TFRs have been reducing substantially across most States, even in U.P. and Bihar with the highest TFRs. To hasten the drop to replacement levels of fertility, States should tackle the socio-economic issues confronting India’s largely youthful demography rather than seeking neo-Malthusian approaches on population control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unproductive-idea/article35313416.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Advice on Ganga-Cauvery link||The Union Irrigation and Power Minister, Dr. K.L. Rao, told the Lok Sabha to-day [New Delhi, July 13] that the Government had invited a team of United Nations experts to advise on the feasibility of undertaking the 2,000 mile long grand feeder canal from Patna to Tamil Nadu linking the Ganga and the Cauvery. Replying to Mr. N.K. Sanghi, the Minister said the Government’s request had been registered with the U.N. and the expert team would commence its work in about three or four months’ time. After the team’s advice, the Government would make detailed investigations for determining the feasibility of the project. Preliminary studies, he said, indicated that monsoon water in the Ganga near Patna could be transferred to other areas in the country where there was great demand for additional irrigation, by a combination of pumped and gravity canals making use of natural water courses and existing or proposed reservoirs, whereever practicable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/advice-on-ganga-cauvery-link/article35313427.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘High fuel prices threaten recovery’||India’s economic recovery could be delayed by rising financial stress on households, with inflation adding to their woes, State Bank of India’s economics research team observed on Tuesday, urging that fuel taxes be cut to both cool inflationary pressures and ease the burden on consumers. “In June… spend on health expenditure has substantially reduced but expenditure on oil has more than crowded out the spending on other non-discretionary items, like grocery and utility services that was the trend in earlier months which is worrisome,” SBI group chief economic advisor Soumya Kanti Ghosh pointed out. “In fact, the share of non-discretionary spend has jumped to 75% in June, from 62% in March,” Mr. Ghosh said, citing an analysis of monthly credit card spending data. “This demands urgent cut in oil prices through tax rationalisation, otherwise consumers’ non-discretionary spending will continue to get distorted and crowd out discretionary expenses. This will also impart an upward bias in inflation,” he emphasised. Observing that rising transport costs would eventually push up food inflation even further, the researchers said higher petrol and diesel prices and regional truck driver shortages were driving up road transport costs. With every 10% increase in petrol pump prices in Mumbai estimated to lead to a 0.50% increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), the SBI economists said consumption trends in June indicated consumers were cutting back spending on other goods to be able to fork out the higher fuel costs.  Household distress rising  The second COVID-19 wave, that began in March, coincided with a significant dip in bank deposits, the researchers observed, with the number of districts seeing outflows of deposits almost doubling from the first-wave period. Bank deposits in the first quarter had declined by 38% by June 18, compared with a growth recorded in April to June period in 2020. Household debt had also shot up, so the recovery would be delayed as there was an indication of debt financed consumption, Mr. Ghosh said. Household debt as a percentage of GDP had increased sharply to 37.3% or Rs. 73.6 lakh crore in 2020-21, from 32.5% of GDP or Rs. 66.1 lakh crore in 2019-20. Asserting that the decline in financial savings reflected the household distress in India, SBI’s economists noted, “the household financial savings rate in the third quarter of 2020-21 has come down to 8.2% of GDP from 21% and 10.4% in the previous two quarters”. “This indicates how delayed the recovery will be in India... as we are predominantly a domestic consumption based [economy].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-fuel-prices-threaten-recovery/article35313404.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s trade with China soared 62% in H1||India’s trade with China in the first half of 2021 rose by a record 62.7% — the highest increase among China’s major trade partners — with total two-way trade surpassing the pre-pandemic levels. Two-way trade after six months was $57.48 billion, the highest on record for the first half. Bilateral trade surged from the year-earlier period, when trade slumped amid the pandemic, and surpassed the $44.72 billion pre-pandemic figure recorded in the first half of 2019, according to data released on Tuesday by China’s General Administration of Customs. India’s imports, driven by record purchases of medical supplies, reached $42.76 billion this year, up 60.4% and higher than the first-half 2019 figure of $35.8 billion. India’s exports to China climbed 69.6% to $14.72 billion, also the highest figure on record for the first half of any year. India’s biggest exports to China annually are iron ore, cotton, and other raw material-based commodities. The trade deficit after the first six months stood at $28.04 billion.  The 62.7% increase was the highest among China’s major trading partners. Trade with ASEAN, China’s biggest trading partner, was up 38.2% to $410.75 billion. Trade with the EU reached $388.2 billion, up 37%, while two-way figures with the United States were up 45.7% at $340.8 billion. And while trade with South Africa surged 70%, the total bilateral trade figure of $25.32 billion, less than half India’s, does not place the African country among China’s top 25 trading partners. The GAC said China’s foreign trade in the first half of 2021 “posted the best performance in history, underpinned by the country’s sustainable economic recovery and strong global demand”, the official Xinhua news agency reported, adding that total trade was up 27.1% to $2.79 trillion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-trade-with-china-soared-62-in-h1/article35313393.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Funding gap may stump ‘Housing for All’ goal||The government‘s promise to provide ‘Housing for All’ by 2022 faces a severe funding crunch even as implementation is running behind schedule. The Centre had promised to build 50 million houses by 2022 under the PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) unveiled in 2015, but even a subsequently scaled down target of 32.6 million may be difficult to meet by next year, as there is a ‘large’ Rs. 1.24 lakh crore funding gap to be bridged in the next eighteen months, ratings agency ICRA said. “With 1.5 years to go, against the revised targets, 19.55 million houses have been sanctioned and 14.16 million have been completed through PMAY-Rural till April 2021, implying completion of 67% of the revised target and 72% of the sanctioned houses,” said Kapil Banga, assistant vice-president and sector head, ICRA, adding that only 43% of the 11.2 million urban housing units had been built so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/funding-gap-may-stump-housing-for-all-goal/article35313402.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||S&P keeps India rating at lowest investment grade||S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday kept India’s sovereign rating unchanged at the lowest investment grade of ‘BBB-’ for the 14th year in a row, and said the government’s ability to execute additional economic reforms that spur investment and create jobs will be crucial for recovery from the current economic slowdown. S&P projected a 9.5% GDP growth in the current fiscal year that began in April and a 7.8% expansion in the following year. Stable outlook Forecasting economic recovery to gain pace through the second half of 2021-22 fiscal, S&P kept the rating outlook at stable. “The government’s ability to deliver and execute additional economic reforms, especially those that spur investment and job creation, will be important for India’s ability to recover from the economic slowdown.  “We expect economic activity in India to begin to normalise throughout the remainder of fiscal 2022, resulting in real GDP growth of about 9.5%,” said S&P Global. “The stable outlook reflects our expectation that India’s economy will recover following the resolution of the COVID-19 pandemic, and that the country’s strong external settings will act as a buffer against financial strains despite elevated government funding needs over the next 24 months.” (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra in Mumbai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sp-keeps-india-rating-at-lowest-investment-grade/article35313400.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Mindtree Q1 net rises 61% to Rs. 343.3 cr.||Larsen & Toubro-owned Mindtree Ltd. posted a 61.2% rise in net profit at Rs. 343.3 crore for the quarter ended June, from a year earlier. Total revenue from operations grew 20% to Rs. 2,291.7 crore. During the quarter, the company saw its order book rise to $504 million. “Our highest-ever order book of $504 million affirms that the focussed execution of our strategy and our client-centricity in re-imagining business models for the digital era are helping us drive profitable and sustainable growth,” CEO and MD Debashis Chatterjee said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mindtree-q1-net-rises-61-to-rs-3433-cr/article35313398.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||NPCI arm to extend BHIM UPI payments system to Bhutan||National Payment Corporation of India’s arm, NPCI International Payments Ltd. (NIPL) has partnered Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan for implementing BHIM UPI in Bhutan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/npci-arm-to-extend-bhim-upi-payments-system-to-bhutan/article35313399.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,||Usha picks Neeraj to end India’s medal drought||Whenever P.T. Usha saw javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra at the 2016 under-20 Worlds in Poland, she was reminded of her running days. “Even when he was just walking around, I remember, he used to keep trying out throws as if he carried an imaginary javelin,” said Usha, who was in Poland then with her trainee Jisna Mathew, in a chat with The Hindu on Tuesday. “I used to do that often when I was young... if I saw a hurdle anywhere or even a stone on the road, I would run and try to clear it. Strong “Neeraj looked so strong and confident then. And when he won the junior Worlds gold with a world record, I felt that he would go far,” she said. Usha, who narrowly missed winning an Olympic medal in the 400m hurdles in 1984 at Los Angeles, feels that Neeraj will end India's long wait for its first-ever Olympic athletics medal. “Neeraj did 88m earlier this year, he could probably go past 90m. I think he is capable of winning a medal,” said Usha, now a prominent coach. She also feels that long jumper M. Sreeshankar can produce a big surprise. “He is the No. 2 in the team. Considering his age, Sreeshankar has produced some big jumps. He may not be very consistent and that could be because he has not had any international competition this year. “But he is young and that is why I feel he can surprise us all with a big show,” said Usha. “But he should not be under any pressure. If he is bold and free, he can reach the final and do very well after that,” she said. Usha picked discus thrower Kamalpreet and javelin thrower Annu Rani as two other athletes capable of making their respective finals. “Kamalpreet has broken Krishna Poona's national record and has done 66-plus and Annu Rani has been very consistent, so I think both will enter the final. “Shot putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor could also make it if he repeats his big throws,” she said. But she doesn’t hold out much hope for the 4x400m relay teams (mixed and men). “Amoj Jacob, Muhammed Anas, Revathi and Subha will probably run the mixed relay but the two girls are not capable of going below 53s, so it will be very difficult. “And some of our top men have not run many quartermile races this year. So you can't predict anything in the men's relay,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usha-picks-neeraj-to-end-indias-medal-drought/article35313391.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Yashpal Sharma, India’s 1983 World Cup winner, passes away||Best remembered for his exploits in the 1983 World Cup, Yashpal Sharma succumbed to a massive heart attack on Tuesday morning. He was 66. Known for his gritty batting, immaculate fielding and brisk running between the wickets, Yashpal returned home from his morning walk and collapsed. He is survived by wife, two daughters and a son. During a career between 1973 and 1993, Yashpal played Ranji Trophy for Punjab (47 matches), Haryana (14) and Railways (6). No duck in 42 ODIs In an international career from 1978 to 1985, Yashpal was never out for a duck in 42 ODIs. During his 37-Test career that began at Lord’s, Yashpal’s 140 against England at Chennai in 1982, was the highpoint. His top-score was part of a 316-run stand with wrist-artist G.R. Viswanath who scored a career-high 222. Yashpal “learnt by watching the master at work” as the duo batted throughout the second day. Yashpal made up for limited strokes through sheer resolve. Perpetually battling the fear of being dropped, Yashpal turned circumspect. That perhaps explained his caution until the first 40-50 runs before shifting gears. One such innings resulted in his maiden Test century, against Australia at Delhi’s Ferozeshah Kotla, in 1979. Following a ‘pair’ in the previous Test at Kanpur, Yashpal was desperate. For the better part of his half-century, Yashpal was booed for his defensive approach. Thereafter, he made up for the lost time by going after Peter Sleep. Three consecutive sixes into the stands behind midwicket and instantly and Yashpal was the darling of the crowd. A similar approach in ODIs rescued India thrice during the historic 1983 World Cup-triumph! In the opener against two-time champion West Indies, Yashpal scored a 120-ball 89 in India’s 262 for eight in 60 overs. Reviving the innings K. Srikkanth, Sunil Gavaskar, Mohinder Amarnath, Sandeep Patil and Kapil Dev fell with just 141 on the board, but Yashpal and Roger Binny resurrected the innings with a 73-run sixth wicket stand against the likes of Michael Holding, Andy Roberts, Malcolm Marshal and Joel Garner. The resultant 34-run defeat was the first for West Indies in World Cup. In a must-win game against Australia, Yashpal top-scored with 40 in India’s 247 in 55.5 overs. Here, the attack he negotiated, included Geoff Lawson, Rodney Hogg, Tom Hogan and the feared Jeff Thomson. After Madan Lal and Binny took four wickets each in India’s 118-run triumph, Yashpal’s contribution stood pushed into the background. But skipper Kapil never missed an opportunity to underline Yashpal’s role. In the tense semifinal against England, Yashpal once again delivered with a calculated, unbeaten 61 off 120 deliveries as India chased down 214 with six wickets to spare. Fresh in memory Even after close to four decades, the image of Yashpal helping a Bob Wills delivery on its way to the deep square-leg fence is still fresh in the minds of many. Yashpal leaves behind memories of his modest, yet memorable, contributions in a triumph that changed the face of Indian cricket forever.  Absolutely shocking news. He was worried about my health when we met last for the (World Cup special) book launch on June 25 in Delhi and today this happens… I can’t believe that my room partner is no more Balwinder Sandhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-1983-world-cup-winner-yashpal-sharma-passes-away/article35313675.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Attack is our strong point’||Chirag Shetty and R. Satwiksairaj are being tipped as medal hopes in men’s doubles at the Olympics, given the kind of reputation they have built up in the recent past with their attacking game. What exactly does the World No.10 ranked pair think about the Olympics? “Mathias Boe’s smart training has been really beneficial to us. Short duration sessions, lesser breaks, more focused and not too hard sessions but really quality sessions,” said 20-year-old Satwiksairaj. “Thanks to Boe, we are playing much better, more confidently. We will have to see how it shapes up in the Olympics. I feel the strong points are our attack. Definitely, we have changed our game a bit for the good. We will have to see how they work against the opponents. A very good communication channel between us is our strength,” he said. “Chirag plays a daring game even at crucial points, coming up mostly with winning points. He controls the game after 15 points,” Satwik said. “We are not thinking too much. We just want to give our best, changing the tactics as the situation demands and not inviting any sort of pressure.” Lack of crowds “Having no crowds is a disadvantage though we have played a few tournaments and got used to the new normal. It might be more mechanical now, playing like in any practice sessions,” said Satwik with a big smile. For his part, 24-year-old Chirag said the emphasis initially was on physical strength before focussing on on-court training defence and shot selection as the Games approach. “Definitely, looking forward to the Olympics which will be different but we are going to take it like any other tournament,” he said. “Our strength is our attack which separates us from the others. If we are able to create as many opportunities to attack we will be playing at our best,” he said. “I will be lying if I say there is no pressure on us. But, if both of us play at our best. I think we have the game to beat anyone in the world,” Chirag said. “In the Olympics, anything can happen. No one has an upper hand. Even the World No. 1 or the No. 16 is equal. Whoever handles the pressure well will have an edge,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/attack-is-our-strong-point/article35313406.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Cricket on a knife-edge: learning to live with the virus||The trial is over, and we await the judgement. Last weekend saw one of the biggest experiments in recent sporting history at three venues across England: Wembley, Wimbledon and Lord’s. It involved crowds of over 60,000 as Italy beat England in the Euro final, 15,000 as Novak Djokovic climbed into the record books with his 20th Grand Slam title (and Ashleigh Barty claimed her second), and some 20,000 who watched a hastily put together England beat Pakistan in a One-Day International. That’s nearly one lakh people whose immediate future will tell us something about our long-term future. Brave or foolhardy Cricket, sport, and indeed mankind will have to learn to live with the coronavirus. This much we have learnt. If sport, as we believe, is a reflection of society, then what happens at a sporting venue could reflect what might happen outside it. Whether the English authorities were being brave or foolhardy will be revealed too. That might act as the template for others to follow (or not) in the continuing battle against the virus. England cricket captain Ben Stokes has said that he is reconciled to going back to life in a bio-secure bubble. He and his team might have to if the India series next month is to be played safely, with the players feeling secure. The result of the experiment will be known before the first ball is bowled on August 4. Already England have had to field a new team after the coronavirus entered their camp ahead of the Pakistan series. If there is tension in and around a cricket team, that is only natural. In Sri Lanka, the start of the white-ball series against India was postponed by five days after the hosts’ batting coach and team analyst contracted covid. The sequence of testing-isolating-awaiting negative report-returning to competition has become as commonplace as wearing masks-social distancing-handwashing, and most importantly, vaccinating. Ashley Giles, the managing director of England men’s cricket summed it up when he said, “We are fully aware of the risks and we are aware of the knife-edge that we are working on all the time.” Cricket is being played around the world on a knife-edge; and only the absence of, or relative low numbers of casualties can be taken as an endorsement of the decision to play. Efficacy of the bio-bubble The efficacy of the ‘secure’ bio-bubble depends largely on the people inside it. Sri Lanka recently suspended three players for breaching it on their tour of England and ordered their return home. They were seen on the streets of Durham after a T20 International. There are bio-bubbles and then there are bio-bubbles. The ones in England and Australia seem to have kept the players safe during internationals (played to empty stadiums) there this year. These didn’t work quite so efficiently in India during the IPL when Wriddhiman Saha and Amit Mishra were among those who caught the virus. The thumb rule seems to be: less travel, constant monitoring, common sense. And of course, discipline. It is difficult not to sympathise with the players and support staff who are forced into the bubble in order to a) entertain us and b) prompt some cash flow into the sport and for themselves. It is tough. But, increasingly as we are learning, eternal vigilance is the price all of us have to pay. Recently, county cricket in England was affected, with the Derbyshire v Essex match being called off after a positive test in the former’s camp. England’s new limited over franchise tournament, The Hundred, scheduled to commence on July 21, seems to be under some threat since the squads are unlikely to be in bubbles.  England cannot afford to have any national player (most of whom have had at least one jab) affected since the series against India is set to bring in about a £100 million in broadcast revenues. The Indian squad have had both their jabs. The domestic season in India is set to begin on September 21. There are 2127 matches to be played. Things like travel and accommodation and indeed the bubble (if necessary) will have to be worked out in the weeks to come, depending on how the anticipated third wave affects the population. It is a huge exercise. That new expression in the language — ‘super-spreader’ — is not one we should turn to regularly. Or ever. So if the experiment with crowds in England passes off without incident (something that will be known only in a fortnight), sport would have gained enormously. And the experiment would have been worth it. If not…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-on-a-knife-edge-learning-to-live-with-the-virus/article35313409.ece
14 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Yashpal was a team man to the core’||G.R. Viswanath vividly remembers that January afternoon in 1982 in Chennai, when he stitched together a 316-run stand with Yashpal Sharma in the fifth Test. Against a star-studded England bowling line-up, India had lost its openers – Sunil Gavaskar and Pranab Roy – early and an injury to Dilip Vengsarkar meant that the onus was on Viswanath and Yashpal to steady the ship. It was a challenging task, but Viswanath and Yashpal’s gameplan was simple: stay at the crease and help India bounce back. They batted throughout the second day and were finally dismissed for 222 and 140 on day three! Viswanath couldn’t come to terms with the fact that Yashpal is no more. “It’s a terrible news. In our generation, he was one of the fittest guys. I have never heard about his health problems. He was always fit and very jovial,” Viswanath told Sportstar.  “I cannot forget the Chennai innings because I never expected myself to bat the whole day in a Test match given my temperament. We had a massive partnership. Yashpal was a very good cricketer, a very sharp fielder and a team man to the core,” Viswanath said. “It was a bouncy wicket and we lost the openers early. Once Dilip retired hurt, we had to settle down and take it from there. Both of us had regular chats on how to go about it. The idea was to stick around for a couple of hours, hoping that the pitch would ease out and the England bowlers (like Ian Botham, Bob Willis) will become tired. “We had to ensure that we did not lose any more wickets. We just hung in there before playing our shots. Yashpal played a magnificent and authoritative innings,” said India’s batting legend. “Yashpal was extremely gritty on the field, but a jolly man off it. He could take all the criticism and was extremely good to people. I never expected that our off the field partnership would end so soon.”  Never expected that our off the field partnership would end so soon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashpal-was-a-team-man-to-the-core/article35313737.ece
14 July 2021||Chennai,||We will all miss Yashpal: Srikkanth||K. Srikkanth was not only Yashpal Sharma’s teammate during the triumphant World Cup campaign in 1983 but also worked with the late batsman as a selector that put together the 2011 Indian World Cup winning team. In a chat with The Hindu , Srikkanth provided rare insight into Yashpal, the cricketer and the person. Srikkanth said, “I am shocked beyond words at Yashpal’s sudden death. In fact, we all met in New Delhi on June 25 for the 1983 World Cup book launch and he was in perfect health. My heart goes out to his family.” Srikkanth revealed, “We, the team members of the 1983 World Cup, have a Whatsapp group called ‘Forever Champions’ and Yashpal was a prominent member of that. Now we have lost him, but Forever Champions is eternal.”  The Chennai dasher recalled, “Yashpal was a pure vegetarian and was very fond of almonds. So when he played a stroke, we used to call it ‘Badam Shot.’” Remembering Yashpal’s key role in the 1983 World Cup, Srikkanth said, “His battling 89 against the West Indies in Manchester enabled us to shock the Caribbeans in our first game of the competition.” Srikkanth recalled, “Who can forget the manner he stepped down and then swung Bob Willis for a six over fine-leg in the semifinal. Or the manner in which he struck Paul Allott for a straight six. A wonderful fielder, his run-out of Allan Lamb was sensational in that last-four clash.” Outstanding innings The former India captain said, “Yashpal’s 140 at Chepauk against England in 1982, in the same innings where G.R. Viswanath made a double hundred, was an outstanding Test innings. He employed the slog-sweep very well.” The former India opener said, “I used to head the National selection committee and he was always frank and forthright with his views. We got along well.” Srikkanth observed, “A fighter with the bat, a terrific fielder and a fine man, we will all miss our dear Yashpal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-will-all-miss-yashpal-srikkanth/article35313788.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Perform without pressure, PM tells athletes||It was the final blessing on behalf of the nation and a morale boost for the Olympics-bound Indian athletes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi goaded them to play without the pressure of winning and do their best wholeheartedly. In an interaction that spanned more than an hour with 15 athletes and their family members, starting with World No. 1 archer Deepika Kumari and ending with tennis ace Sania Mirza, the Prime Minister revealed his knowledge of their background, journey and achievements. The Prime Minister started in Gujarati with rifle shooter Elavenil Valarivan and ended with a Tamil Vanakkam to her parents. Deepika assured the PM she was focused on training and giving her best in Tokyo. Modi was impressed by archer Pravin Kumar Jakhar who had journeyed this far from a poor background. Neeraj Chopra said he was determined to overcome the hurdles — injury and the pandemic — and do well at the Olympics. Serving as an inspiration Sprinter Dutee Chand spoke on inspiring girls and women to aspire for a better life. Boxer Ashish Kumar said he was grateful to coach Dharmendra Singh Yadav for supporting him at a crucial stage. The Prime Minister appreciated Ashish’s ability to stay focused on training even after the death of his father. Boxer Mary Kom said, being a left-hander she preferred the hook to stun her opponents, that Muhammad Ali was her idol and Olympic gold her dream. Modi talked to P.V. Sindhu about her training and recalled how coach Gopi Chand had kept her phone away and not allowed her to eat ice cream during the Rio Games. “Sometimes I eat ice cream,” said Sindhu with a smile and the Prime Minister promised to have ice cream with her when she returned from Tokyo. “You are very focused. You have a long journey. You will do very well,” the Prime Minister told shooter Saurabh Chaudhary. Entertaining It was equally entertaining and inspirational as Modi talked to table tennis stars Sharath Kamal, Manika Batra, wrestler Vinesh Phogat, swimmer Sajan Prakash and hockey captain Manpreet Singh. Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, former Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju and Indian Olympic Association president, Narinder Batra were present among others who participated in the virtual interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/perform-without-pressure-pm-tells-athletes/article35313679.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Anand and Kramnik set to resume rivalry||Viswanathan Anand and Vladimir Kramnik often produced fascinating chess when they came face-to-face, until the Russian retired in 2019. That rivalry resumes on Wednesday — albeit in a brand new format. The 14th and 15th World champions are set to play a series of four games of No-Castling Chess at Dortmund for the Sparkassen Trophy. The format will not allow the players to castle — that is, bringing the king, from the middle of the board, to the safety of a fortress at either of the flanks, by a single move. Castling is the only move in chess with which you can move two pieces — the king and the rook — at the same time. Now, chess is a very theoretical game with professional players memorising the first few moves (called the opening). Unpredictable So the real, unpredictable action would begin only after the opening moves are played out. Castling is very much part of the opening moves. When you throw castling out of the window, an element of unpredictability comes into the game from early on. A player cannot depend on memorised patterns. Chess could be more dynamic and exciting. That is what Kramnik felt when he proposed the idea about the new variant in 2019. Entertaining Anand, fresh from his stunning show at the Croatia Grand Chess Tour where he belied his age to take the runner-up spot in a strong field, feels No-Castling Chess could be entertaining. “I found the concept fascinating,” he told The Hindu . “And I am looking forward to it.” So is International Master V. Saravanan. “Since Anand and Kramnik are very creative players, I think it would be interesting,” he said. “Anand is in excellent form and Kramnik, though retired, is still a strong player, I feel.” The match concludes on July 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-and-kramnik-set-to-resume-rivalry/article35313369.ece
14 July 2021||TOKYO,||Olympic Village opens its doors||The Tokyo 2020 Olympic Village officially opened its doors on Tuesday and began welcoming the athletes ahead of this year’s Games, which will take place between July 23 and August 8. Over 11,000 athletes from 205 National Olympic Committees and the IOC Refugee Olympic Team will compete in the Games, with the majority staying in the Olympic Village situated in the picturesque Harumi waterfront district of Tokyo. Bach’s message Speaking about the athletes arriving, IOC President Thomas Bach in a release said: “The athletes are grateful that these Olympic Games are happening under these circumstances, and that all measures are being taken to deliver safe and secure Games. “After all that they had to overcome during this last year — where they did not know whether the next competition would take place, they did not know whether they could go to training the next day, they did not know where they would meet with their coach again — after all this additional stress during the pandemic, finally, they can shine on the Olympic stage. “And I hope that they will, under these circumstances nevertheless, enjoy it to the fullest.” Around 85% of those arriving in the Olympic Village will have been vaccinated against COVID-19. In addition, all Village residents will follow strict COVID-19 countermeasures outlined in the Athletes and Team Officials Playbook. These include common hygiene practices such as mask-wearing, hand sanitisation, and physical distancing, as well as details covering daily screening testing and limitations on athletes’ movements. Unique features  Whilst in the Olympic Village, the residents will experience a range of unique features which includes a dining hall, open 24/7, that will offer around 700 food options, catering to all dietary requirements. A fitness centre will also be available, while those looking to relax between competitions can enjoy several recreation areas around the Village. In the residential facilities, the bed frames are made of cardboard and are 100% recyclable, while blackout curtains have been installed to allow sleep at any time during the day. In its quest to make these the most innovative Olympic Games, Tokyo 2020 is operating several autonomous internal shuttle buses within the Village. There will also, for the first time in the history of the Games, be a dedicated treatment programme that will provide comprehensive medical care for female athletes, at the Clinic Complex (Polyclinic).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-village-opens-its-doors-to-welcome-athletes/article35313383.ece
14 July 2021||Chelmsford,||India to go all out in series-decider||India Women will aim to put up a complete performance instead of relying on individual brilliance to topple a hurting England here on Wednesday. Another impressive outing in the field and tight ‘death’ bowling by the spin duo of Poonam Yadav and Deepti Sharma brought India back from the dead in the second match on Sunday. And now Harmanpreet Kaur and her girls have a chance of enjoying their first T20 series success after the 2019 away triumph against the West Indies. England self-destructing from a commanding position also helped the visitors level the series in Hove. While Shafali Verma was impressive at the top and the spinners came to the rescue later in the game, the middle-order and the pace department needs to step up. Pacers Shikha Pandey and Arundhati Reddy, who were all over the place on Sunday, will have to be much more accurate.  England leads the multi-format series 8-6 and therefore can't lose it.   The teams (from):   India: Harmanpreet Kaur (Capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Deepti Sharma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Shafali Verma, Richa Ghosh, Harleen Deol, Sneh Rana, Taniya Bhatia, Indrani Roy, Shikha Pandey, Pooja Vastrakar, Arundhati Reddy, Poonam Yadav, Ekta Bisht, Radha Yadav and Simran Dil Bahadur.   England: Heather Knight (Capt.), Tammy Beaumont, Katherine Brunt, Freya Davies, Sophia Dunkley, Sophie Ecclestone, Tash Farrant, Sarah Glenn, Amy Jones, Nat Sciver, Anya Shrubsole, Mady Villiers, Fran Wilson and Danni Wyatt.   Match starts 11 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-go-all-out-in-series-decider/article35313680.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Man Singh, Shivlal pay tributes to Yashpal||P.R. Man Singh, manager of the 1983 World Cup-winning Indian team, expressed shock at the passing away of Yasphal Sharma. “I am deeply saddened by the terrible loss and express my condolences to the bereaved family members. Only three weeks back in Delhi, we (all members of the World Cup-winning squad) met to celebrate the 30th anniversary of our historic win and he was also there,” Man Singh told The Hindu . “It was Yashpal who gave the impetus to India’s campaign in the knock-out phase of the 1983 World Cup with a brilliant batting and fielding display against the West Indies, which also won him the man-of-the-match award,” Man Singh recalled. “His partnership of 92 for the third wicket with Mohinder Amarnath was crucial in India’s semifinal victory against England. Yashpal had a great sense of humour and was always a team man.” A wonderful person Former India off-spinner and BCCI pesident N. Shivlal Yadav said: “I am deeply saddened. He was my roommate in two series. He was a wonderful person and always tried to lift the morale of teammates. “Obviously, being a member of the World Cup-winning squad was the high point of his career. But, I always felt he never really played to his full potential. He was a wonderful strokemaker and a fantastic fielder.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-singh-shivlal-pay-tributes-to-yashpal/article35313954.ece
14 July 2021||TOKYO,||Olympic recovery monuments unveiled||The Tokyo 2020 Organising Committee unveiled three monuments designed to forge a connection between the three Tohoku prefectures worst affected by the 2011 Great East Japan earthquake and the rest of the world. The monuments have been constructed using aluminium recycled from window frames used in temporary housing built in the disaster-hit areas. The panels embedded on the monuments display the messages of support to athletes. During the Games, the monuments will be displayed adjacent to the new Olympic Stadium here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-recovery-monuments-unveiled/article35313375.ece
14 July 2021||KYIV (Ukraine),||Oleg Verniaiev set to miss the Games||Olympic champion gymnast Oleg Verniaiev is set to miss the Tokyo Games because he has been banned following a failed drug test. The Ukrainian gymnast said in an Instagram post on Tuesday that he tested positive for the banned substance meldonium and was banned after a ruling by the Gymnastics Ethics Foundation. Verniaiev said the GEF “decided that the concentration of meldonium found in my body is sufficient to ban me for four years” and that the ban is backdated to run from November 2020. That could also rule him out of the 2024 Olympics in Paris. Verniaiev denies wrongdoing and said he will appeal the ruling to the CAS. “The main question is how a banned substances got into my body?” he wrote. “Why did it happen at a time when there were no serious international competitions and there was only light training taking place?” Verniaiev won gold on the parallel bars at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics in 2016 and was the silver medalist in the all-around, in a dramatic. Since then, his competitive appearances have been limited by injuries and now his ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/oleg-verniaiev-set-to-miss-the-games/article35313380.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||Deepak Kabra is first Indian gymnastics judge||Deepak Kabra has become the first Indian to be selected for judging the gymnastics competition at the Olympic Games, a life goal achieved for the man who knew he wouldn’t have made it there as an active gymnast because of his not-so-strong fundamentals. Kabra will be seen officiating the men’s artistic gymnasts at the Tokyo Games, which gets underway on July 23. Nervous wait “I had got the invitation in March last year, but then the Olympics got postponed and what followed was a nervous wait for more than a year,” Kabra said. “I got confirmation again in April, but with the COVID-19 pandemic still raging there was uncertainty whether the Olympics would actually happen. But I am happy that at last, I will be able to live my Olympic dream.” The 33-year-old from Maharashtra took to the sport quite late and soon realised his fundamentals were not strong enough to make it big as an athlete. “I started very late at the age of 12, in 2000. I used to live in Surat and the facilities were not great at that time. I competed in national-level events, also participated in the 2007 National Games in Guwahati,” said Kabra, who was Gujarat State champion from 2005 to 2009. “I knew I didn’t have a future as an athlete, my fundamentals were not strong but I had the passion so I started judging. My coach Kaushik Bediwala was also a judge, so I took inspiration from him and soon took a course and topped it in 2009.”  The 2010 Commonwealth Games in India was his first international assignment and Kabra went on to become the first Indian judge to officiate in the 2014 Asian Games and Youth Olympics. He also officiated as a judge in the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games in 2018, Youth Olympics in Argentina, besides other international events such as World Cups. “I was the youngest judge at 2010 CWG. I have officiated in around 20 major events so far. Olympics was the only one missing, now it completes my portfolio,” said Kabra, who is a category 2 judge. “It takes a minimum of 12 years to reach Olympics and I was lucky to get it exactly after 12 years,” said Kabra, who was appointed as a member of the Asian Gymnastics Union’s technical committee in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-kabra-is-first-indian-gymnastics-judge/article35313373.ece
14 July 2021||GENEVA,||Federer to skip Olympics||Roger Federer announced on Tuesday he has withdrawn from the upcoming Tokyo Olympics after a “setback” with his recovery from a knee injury. “I am greatly disappointed, as it has been an honour and highlight of my career each time I have represented Switzerland. I have already begun rehabilitation in the hopes of returning to the tour later this summer. I wish the entire Swiss team the best of luck and I will be rooting hard from afar,” tweeted Federer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-to-skip-olympics/article35313672.ece
14 July 2021||KOCHI,||Progoveki and Martens join Blasters’ coaching staff||Werner Martens and Slaven Progoveki have joined the Kerala Blasters FC’s coaching staff for the upcoming ISL season. The 39-year-old Martens, who has worked with premier division clubs in Belgium, Slovakia, Holland and Saudi Arabia, will be the strength and conditioning coach . Progoveki, who has been associated with clubs in Serbia, is the goalkeeping coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/progoveki-martens-join-kbfc-staff/article35314062.ece
14 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||KSSC’s selection trials from July 21||The Kerala State Sports Council (KSSC) will conduct zonal selection trials for admission to its school, plus one and college hostels for the 2021-21 academic year and also for its elite sports academy and Operation Olympia schemes. The selection trials will be conducted under COVID-19 protocol at various venues across the State from July 21 to 28. For school and college sports hostels, the selection trials will be conducted in athletics, football, volleyball, basketball, swimming, boxing, judo, fencing, archery, wrestling, takewondo, cycling, netball, hockey, kabaddi, handball, kho-kho, canoeing and kayaking events. The trials will be conducted in athletics, basketball, football and volleyball for admission to elite academy while for the Operation Olympia scheme, the trials will be for athletics, boxing, fencing and in rowing events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksscs-selection-trials-from-july-21/article35314185.ece
14 July 2021||Hyderabad,||India to host 2026 BWF World Championship||The Badminton World Federation (BWF) has allotted the BWF World Championship to India for 2026, it was officially announced on Tuesday. This will be the second time that India will host the premium tournament, after the 2009 edition in Hyderabad. Confident Badminton Association of India president Himanta Biswa Sarma was confident that hosting the Worlds would help Indian badminton take bigger steps towards becoming a world powerhouse. “We are thankful to BWF for considering India for badminton’s most prestigious and premier tournament and I believe with world-class shuttlers coming to participate, it will be a great opportunity and motivation for the enthusiasts of the game and for the sport to see a huge growth across the country,” said Sarma. “With a string of tournaments being cancelled due to the pandemic globally, BWF had reached out to us with an alternate proposal. We, at BAI, felt that this was a great opportunity for the country as well as for the badminton fraternity,” said BAI general secretary Ajay K. Singhania. India has so far won 10 World Championship medals with reigning champion P.V. Sindhu leading the chart with a gold, two silver, and two bronze. Prakash Padukone claimed India’s first medal at the Worlds in 1983. The other winners have been Saina Nehwal (silver, 2015 & bronze, 2017), B. Sai Praneeth (bronze, 2019), and Ashwini Ponnappa & Jwala Gutta (doubles bronze, 2011).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-host-2026-bwf-world-championship/article35313407.ece
14 July 2021||Bengaluru,||HAL promoted to BDFA A-division||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) FC, once a powerhouse team on the national circuit, secured promotion to the BDFA- A division football league by entering the semifinals of the B- division here. HAL, which has competed in the National Football League and I-League, had temporarily closed football activities a few years. Back with a bang The unit is now back in action, and has recorded two successive promotions in the State BDFA league. Rebels FC, Blitz FC and Friends United FC were the other B-division teams to seal promotions. In the A- division, Ishan Sahi’s 18th minute goal helped BUFC defeat Parikrma FC 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hal-promoted-to-bdfa-a-division/article35313713.ece
14 July 2021||Los Angeles,||US hoopsters lose again||The United States men's basketball team lost 91-83 to Australia in a pre-Olympic friendly tournament in Las Vegas on Monday. This was the second straight loss for the Americans, whose roster includes a host of NBA All-Stars. On Saturday, USA had lost 90-87 to unheralded Nigeria. They have now lost four of their last five games dating back to the 2019 FIBA World Cup, where they finished an embarrassing seventh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/us-hoopsters-lose-again/article35313378.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||228-strong Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics||India will be sending a 228-strong contingent to the Tokyo Olympics, including 119 athletes, IOA president Narinder Batra said on Tuesday. This will be India’s largest-ever contingent for an Olympics. 85 medal events “The Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics will be 228. There will be 67 male athletes and 52 female athletes. We are fighting for 85 medal events,” Batra said in a virtual interaction. “The first contingent, that will leave for Tokyo on July 17 will have 90 athletes and officials in total.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/228-strong-indian-contingent-for-tokyo-olympics/article35313666.ece
14 July 2021||Los Angeles,||Andreescu to skip Games over COVID concerns||Canadian tennis star and World No. 5 Bianca Andreescu said on Monday she would skip the Tokyo Olympics, citing concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic. The 21-year-old 2019 US Open champion said in a statement on social media: “... I have made the very difficult decision to not play in the Tokyo Olympics later this month.” "I have been dreaming of representing Canada at the Olympics since I was a little girl, but with all the challenges we are facing as it relates to the pandemic, I know that deep in my heart, this is the right decision to make for myself."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andreescu-to-skip-games-over-covid-concerns/article35313371.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Yashpal through the lens||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashpal-through-the-lens/article35313665.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gukesh has to wait, others advance||All the Indians, except D. Gukesh, moved into the second round of the chess World Cup after remaining undefeated in the second game of the first round in Sochi on Tuesday.   Indian results (round 1, game 2):   Men: B. Adhiban bt Chiletso Chipanga (Mwi) (Adhiban wins 2-0); Michael Concio Jr. (Phi) lost to Aravindh Chithambaram (Aravindh wins 2-0).   Nihal Sarin drew with Arthur Ssegwanyi (Uga) (Nihal wins 1.5-0.5); R. Praggnanandhaa drew with Paulo Bersamina (Phi) (Praggnanandhaa wins 1.5-0.5).   D. Gukesh drew with Pawel Teclaf (Pol) (match tied 1-1); Sebastian Bogner (Swi) drew with P. Iniyan (Iniyan wins 1.5-0.5).   Women: Ulviyya Fataliyeva (Aze) lost to Padmini Rout (Padmini won 2-0); Zhou Qiyu (Can) lost to R. Vaishali (Vaishali won 2-0).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gukesh-falls-other-indians-advance/article35313667.ece
14 July 2021||Hamburg,||Sumit Nagal bows out||Lucky loser Sumit Nagal lost 0-6, 4-6 to qualifier Juan Pablo Varillas of Peru in the first round of the €1,168,220 ATP tournament here on Tuesday. Sumit collected 10 ATP points for reaching the final round of the qualification event and €12,650.  Other results: 535,535 ATP, Newport, US: Qualifying singles (second and final round): Michael Krueger (US) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.   €481,270 ATP, Bastad, Sweden: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Filip Bergevi & Markus Eriksson (Swe) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 5-7, 6-3, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumit-nagal-bows-out/article35313410.ece
14 July 2021||Chicago,||Ghosal, Joshna seeded at squash Worlds||Saurav Ghosal and Joshna Chinappa will be the two seeded players from India in the PSA World squash championships to be held in Chicago from July 14 to 22. Seeded 12th in the men’s section, Ghosal will take on Aly Hussein of Egypt in the first round on Thursday. The 10th-seeded Joshna will be challenged by Tessa ter Sluis of the Netherlands in the women’s opening round on Wednesday. The other Indians in the fray include Mahesh Mangaonkar, Aditya Jagtap, Vikram Malhotra and Ramit Tandon.  Ghosal has been seeded 12th Joshna is the 10th seed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ghosal-joshna-seeded-at-squash-worlds/article35313411.ece
14 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Important to focus on basics: Tripuraneni||Varun Tripuraneni, co-owner of Hyderabad FC, said on Tuesday that the club’s focus is on strengthening the team ahead of ISL 2021-22. “We have identified certain gaps in the team and made some changes to fill them.” Reflecting on the club’s partnership with German giant Borussia Dortmund (BVB), Tripuraneni said the intent was to start slow, step by step, and grow big. “It is important to focus on basics in Hyderabad while engaging BVB in conducting virtual activities like online coaching seminars,” he said. “We are taking valuable input from the BVB to have a solid youth development programme back home. We need time and emulate what Dortmund does through this historic partnership.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/important-to-focus-on-basics-tripuraneni/article35313929.ece
14 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Shriram Capital is title sponsor of TNPL-5||The Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) on Tuesday announced the signing of Shriram Capital Limited as the title sponsor of Season 5 (2020-21). The Shriram Group had sponsored the State teams for five years from 2013. “We are really thankful to the Shriram Group for getting on board in these difficult times. The TNCA had a good relationship with them in the past and this association reinforces it further,” TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shriram-capital-is-title-sponsor-of-tnpl-5/article35313751.ece
14 July 2021||TOKYO,||Indian sailing team in Tokyo||The Indian sailing team on Tuesday became the first from the country’s contingent to arrive here for the Olympics which opens on July 23. Pictures of the Indian sailing team, comprising Varun Thakkar, Ganapathy Chengappa, Vishnu Saravanan and Nethra Kumanan and their coaches, arriving at the Haneda airport were tweeted by the Sports Authority of India. Nethra Kumanan will compete in the laser radial event, Vishnu Saravanan in laser standard class and the pair of Varun Thakkar and Ganapathy Chengappa in 49er class. The sailing competition starts on July 25. For the first time in history, a record four sailors will represent India at the Games. This is also the first time that the country will field sailors in three events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-sailing-team-arrives-in-tokyo/article35313677.ece
14 July 2021||GROS-ISLET (ST. LUCIA),||West Indies seals series||Chris Gayle’s knock took the West Indies to a six-wicket win and an unassailable 3-0 lead in the five-match T20I series against Australia on Monday.  The scores: Australia 141/6 in 20 overs (Aaron Finch 30, Moises Henriques 33) lost to West Indies 142/4 in 14.5 overs (Chris Gayle 67, Nicholas Pooran 32 n.o, Riley Meredith 3/48). AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-seals-series/article35313669.ece
14 July 2021||Bratislava,||Injured Sagan to skip Olympics||Three-time World champion cyclist and seven-time winner of the Tour de France green jersey Peter Sagan of Slovakia will skip the Tokyo Olympic Games because of an injury. The 31-year-old hurt his knee in a bunch sprint fall during stage three. He later underwent surgery in Monaco, according to a statement on Tuesday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-sagan-to-skip-olympics/article35313377.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Rama bhakthi||Itihasas and Puranas are to be studied to understand the Vedas. Of the two Itihasas, Ramayana is more important, because it is entirely about the avatara of the Lord, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. The Mahabharata is referred to as equal to the Vedas — Bharatam panchamo Vedah. Then how does the Ramayana become superior to Mahabharata? In the Rama avatara, the Lord hid His supremacy. But despite this, Mandodari identified Him as the Supreme One, and said Rama was none other than the four-handed Vishnu. So the Ramayana tells us about the Supreme One whom the Vedas talk about. The Supreme One took an avatara, which was written about in the first Itihasa, namely the Ramayana. The Vedas, which show us the Supreme One, took an avatara as the Mahabharata, the second of the two Itihasas. Later Acharyas like Nampillai, for instance, gave many references from the Ramayana, in their discourses. Among the Azhvars, Kulasekhara Azhvar was very fond of the Rama avatara. Whenever Kulasekhara Azhvar heard Rama’s story, he would rush to fetch his army to help Rama, as if the event was happening then! Kulasekhara Azhvar is known as Kulasekara Perumal. In Sri Vaishnava tradition the word ‘Perumal’ is used to refer to Rama. No wonder Kulasekhara Azhvar is known as Kulasekhara Perumal, given his adoration of Rama. The verses sung by him are given the title ‘Perumal Thirumozhi.’ His verses in praise of the deity of Thirukannapuram are in the form of a lullaby for Rama. There are verses which capture Dasaratha’s anguish upon exiling Rama. So full of emotion are these verses that it seems as if Kulasekhara Azhvar has placed himself in the position of Dasaratha, and is crying out for Rama, as a father would weep for his beloved son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/rama-bhakthi/article35313632.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 07:29 IST,||Sudoku — July 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-14-2021/article35314244.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon arrives in Delhi, late by 2 weeks||The southwest monsoon finally advanced over the Capital on Tuesday after missing its normal onset date of June 27. The last time the monsoon arrived this late in the Capital was 19 years ago in 2002 when it reached the Capital on July 19. With its advancement over Delhi, the monsoon has now covered the entire country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD)said. The normal date for the monsoon to cover the entire country is July 8. Rain lashed several parts of the city early in the morning and continued in spurts throughout the day with the official weather reading recorded at the Safdarjung station showing that the Capital received 28.1 mm of rainfall between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The rain brought relief from the heat with the maximum temperature settling at 30.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. The minimum settled at 23.5 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below normal. The delay in the monsoon had lead to a string of heatwaves in the Capital in the first week of July with the maximum temperature settling at 43.1 degrees Celsius on July 1 and at 42.6 degrees Celsius on July 7. The IMD said the delay in advancement of the monsoon over the Capital was mainly due to no formation of low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, no presence of monsoon trough at mean sea level near Delhi and 5-6 western disturbances that moved west to east across north India, which dominated the monsoon easterlies. The Met department got the prediction for the monsoon’s onset over Delhi wrong this time as it had first said the monsoon would arrive early — by June 15. It then changed its forecast on June 14 saying the monsoon would be delayed further and that it would advance into remaining parts of western Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10. While the neighbouring areas received rain, the monsoon continued to elude the city till Tuesday morning.  “Such type of failure by numerical models in prediction of monsoon advance over Delhi is rare and uncommon. It is needless to mention that IMD has predicted with high accuracy about the advance of monsoon over Delhi in recent years and also the advance of monsoon over different parts of the country during the monsoon-2021 accurately about four to five days ahead,” the IMD said. More rain The forecast for July 14 reads generally cloudy sky with moderate rain/thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle between 33 and 24 degrees respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/monsoon-arrives-in-delhi-late-by-2-weeks/article35313838.ece
14 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Govt. should hold talks with farmers: BJP leader||Former Haryana Home Minister and BJP leader Prof. Sampat Singh has again came out in support of the farmers’ movement demanding that the government open the avenues of dialogue. He added that farmers alone could sustain an agitation for so long and not any political party. Prof. Singh had this past month refused nomination as a member of the Haryana State Executive Committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party in support of the farmers’ agitation. In a letter to State BJP chief O.P. Dhankar, Prof. Singh had said “he was unable to accept this responsibility because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation in support of their demands, which I also supported from Day One”. ‘Losing patience’ On Tuesday, Prof. Singh, in a tweet from his handle, said the agitating farmers were losing patience time and again and that could happen during such a long movement. His tweet came in context of the farmers’ clash with State Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa on Sunday. Prof. Singh said no political party has the capacity to run a movement for so long and the farmers alone could do so, demanding that the government open the avenues of dialogue with them. In an obvious reference to the cases registered against the farmers in Sirsa two days ago, Prof. Singh, with a folded hands emoji, said Mr. Gangwa and Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal show big heart and withdraw the cases. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Prof. Singh, said the government should show “large heart” to initiate dialogue with farmers without any “pre-conditions” and patiently listen to their grievances. Recalling his own experience regarding the farmers’ agitation in Jind’s Kandela village during Om Prakash Chautala’s rule, Prof. Singh said the government, like parents, must listen to the public. The six-time MLA said he had led and been a witness to many agitations over the past four decades, but no movement had lasted so long. ‘Listen to farmers’ He said the Opposition in Haryana was “weak” and a “divided house” and did not have the potential to run a movement for long against the BJP. Prof. Singh said the BJP came to power with the farmers’ support and now must listen to them. “So far the farmers have managed to keep the outsiders away from the movement, but they might sneak into it if it prolongs. The politics has degraded and people are just looking for small political gains. No one has the guts to tell truth to the people at the top of the political hierarchy,” he lamented. Prof. Singh said the movement could lead to violence. “We must listen to the farmers’ grievances. It is not just about politics, it is about the society as whole. Even wars can end with dialogues, these farmers are after all our own people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-should-hold-talks-with-farmers-bjp-leader/article35313832.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra unveils new EV policy||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday unveiled its new electric vehicle (EV) policy and its plans to attract EV manufacturing companies and allied businesses to the State by offering incentives to industries as well as to consumers. State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray officially unveiled the Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021, which aims to promote the adoption of electric vehicles, its production and strengthen necessary infrastructure. The State Cabinet had approved the policy on July 4. The policy offers industries all the benefits under the ‘D+’ category of mega projects irrespective of the location of the manufacturing unit in the State. D+ category benefits are meant for industries in the least developed parts of the State. The policy also states that the incentives will be applicable from the date of notification of policy and will be disbursed through the Industries, Energy and Labour Departments. Mr. Thackeray said, “Maharashtra is one of the leading States in the country in vehicle manufacture and we intend to continue this. With the incentives that we are offering to manufacturers along with the existing infrastructure in the State and considering the urban population which might be most interested in electric vehicles, we expect manufacturers to keep Maharashtra as their priority.” Road tax exemption All EVs sold in the State shall be exempted from road tax as well as registration charges. Vehicles sold without battery will be eligible for 50% of the demand incentive, while the remaining incentive amount will be given to the energy operator. The incentives disbursement system will be made digital. Mr. Thackeray said that the aims of the policy include ensuring that EVs comprise at least 10% of new vehicles registered by 2025; all new government vehicles are EVs from April 2022; 25% electrification of public transport by 2025 in six urban centres: Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nashik; and setting up 2,500 charging stations in urban areas and highways. He said, “Urban local bodies shall be encouraged to provide property tax rebates to residential owners for installing private charging infrastructure. EV charging stations will be considered amenities and spaces will be earmarked for them in the development plans of cities.”  Urban local bodies shall be encouraged to provide property tax rebates to residential owners for installing private charging infrastructure Aaditya Thackeray State Environment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-unveils-new-ev-policy/article35314039.ece
14 July 2021||New Delhi,||PWD gets 70 waterlogging complaints in 10 hours||The Public Works Department (PWD), which has jurisdiction over the entire network of arterial road stretches in Delhi, received around seven waterlogging complaints every hour following the sudden downpour on Tuesday. According to a PWD official, the department’s control room received 70 calls about waterlogging during a ten-hour period starting around 9 a.m. “There was some duplication in the complaints but, broadly, most of them pertained to around half a dozen locations and alleged waterlogging within an hour after the shower. The first call was logged around 8.50 a.m.,” the PWD official said. Waterlogging complaints were received in relation to the Azadpur metro station, Majlis Park, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Mathura Road, Dhaula Kuan, Badarpur metro station and MB Road near the DM office. Delhi traffic police said vehicular movement was affected and heavy traffic was observed at Dhaula Kuan and Azadpur in addition to Delhi Cantonment and Kalindi Kunj flyovers among other locations. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accused the Delhi government of indulging in a “sewer scam” by claiming that all PWD-owned sewers had been cleaned in the Capital. The season’s first rainfall, he alleged, had clearly exposed the “fraud” perpetuated by the AAP Delhi government on citizens in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pwd-gets-70-waterlogging-complaints-in-10-hours/article35313835.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||State sees 7,243 new cases, 196 deaths, 10,978 more recoveries||Maharashtra reported 7,243 new COVID-19 cases and 196 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the total tally of infections to 61,72,645 and death toll to 1,26,220, a State Health Department official said. As many as 10,978 patients were discharged since Monday evening, taking the number of recoveries to 59,38,734. The State now has 1,04,406 active cases. The recovery rate is 96.21%, while the fatality rate is 2.04%, the official said. Of the 196 deaths reported on Tuesday, 167 occurred in the last 48 hours, while 29 took place in the last week. With 1,96,664 tests being conducted in last 24 hours, the State has carried out 4,43,83,113 tests so far, with the positivity rate at 13.91%. Of 1,04,406 active cases, the highest 16,663 are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 16,100 and 10,611 patients, respectively. Mumbai recorded 454 new COVID-19 cases, taking the city’s total case tally to 7,28,644, while the death toll increased to 15,644 with eight fatalities. The larger Mumbai division that comprises Mumbai and its surrounding satellite towns reported 1,444 cases and 31 deaths, taking the region’s caseload to 16,18,082 and death toll to 33,088. Nashik division’s caseload increased by 704 and it also reported nine deaths. Pune division recorded 2,058 new cases. Out of 47 deaths reported in the Pune division, 29 took place in the Satara district alone. The Kolhapur division added 2,514 COVID-19 cases and 61 deaths, of which 21 deaths were from the rural parts of Kolhapur, while Ratnagiri and rural parts of Sangli district reported 11 and 13 deaths, respectively. The Aurangabad division reported 66 new COVID-19 cases and 42 deaths. COVID-19 caseload in Latur division increased by 341, while the region reported four deaths. There were 66 new cases and two deaths reported in Akola division. Nagpur division recorded 50 new cases but no deaths. Currently, 5,74,463 people are in home quarantine and 4,607 are in institutional quarantine across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/state-sees-7243-new-cases-196-deaths-10978-more-recoveries/article35314037.ece
14 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Aadhaar uncertainty for 27 lakh as NRC in limbo in Assam||The Aadhaar enrolment of more than 27 lakh people in Assam has been shrouded in uncertainty because of the delay in completing the process of the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The biometrics of 27,43,396 people were collected during the claims and objections phase of the NRC exercise prior to the publishing of the complete draft on August 31, 2019. They include the 19,06,657 people left out of the complete draft. The applications of 3.3 crore people were processed during the exercise to update the NRC of 1951. Replying to a question by All India United Democratic Front MLA Ashraful Hussain in the Assembly on Tuesday, Assam’s Minister for General Administration Ranjeet Kumar Dass said the onus was on the Centre to decide whether or not these 27.43 lakh people would be issued Aadhaar cards. The biometrics of these people were frozen after the publication of the NRC. The Centre had earlier been asked to unfreeze the biometrics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aadhaar-uncertainty-for-27-lakh-as-nrc-in-limbo-in-assam/article35313830.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘He threatened to kill her before her birthday and did it’||Nearly a fortnight ago, Pradeep had allegedly threatened the teenager that she won’t survive to celebrate her seventeenth birthday. As it turned out, he kept his word and attacked her on Monday — a day before her birthday. A few hours later, she succumbed to injuries. According to an eyewitness, the girl had complained to her father about being stalked by the accused for the past few months. Next, her father confronted Pradeep in a nearby vegetable market and slapped him. The accused had then, in full public view, challenged to kill her before her birthday. ‘No complaints lodged’ “He did what he had threatened to do. We all thought he was making empty threats. Being a concerned neighbour, we all had asked the girl’s father to file a police complaint. But he did not want his daughter to get involved in all this and thought that things had settled down,” said the eyewitness. On the day of the incident, the eyewitness said, Pradeep was waiting for her outside the society gate. When he saw her walking towards her house, he attacked her with the axe and ran away. The girl was bleeding profusely and screamed for help. Residents then informed the police about the incident. But by the time, the police arrived, she had fainted. Concerns over security “She was rushed to a hospital by a security guard in an autorickshaw. The police collected the murder weapon [axe] from the spot and CCTV footage of the entire incident. After the incident, residents have raised concerns over the security in the area,” said the eyewitness. The girl’s father works as a housekeeping staff in an Embassy while her mother works as a maid. The victim was the eldest child and has two sisters and one brother. “I am concerned over the security of the victim’s two younger sisters. The victim was a brilliant student of Class XI and recently her father had brought her a mobile phone for online classes. Her father is numb while her mother is inconsolable,” said a distant relative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/he-threatened-to-kill-her-before-her-birthday-and-did-it/article35313840.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||‘Centre ordered transfer of Bhima-Koregaon case’||The Central government had suo motu directed the NIA (National Investigation Agency) to take up the investigation into the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, considering the gravity of the offence and its inter-State link and implications on national security, the central probe agency informed the Bombay High Court on Tuesday. The NIA filed the reply before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar in a petition filed by an accused in the case, advocate Surendra Gadling, who was arrested on June 6, 2018, and is currently lodged at Taloja Central Jail. Mr. Gadling had challenged the transfer of the investigation from the Pune police to the NIA in January 2020 after the chargesheet was filed in the case in 2018. “The transfer is contrary to the scheme of the NIA as there is no provision empowering the Central government to transfer the investigation after completion of investigation, particularly when there were no compelling circumstances necessitating such transfer. The transfer is impermissible under law,” the NIA’s petition stated. Vikram Khalate, Superintendent of Police, NIA, filed an affidavit in the court that said, “During the investigation, it was revealed that senior leaders of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), a banned organisation under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, were in contact with the organisers of the Elgaar Parishad as well as the arrested accused persons of the case to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-ordered-transfer-of-bhima-koregaon-case/article35314044.ece
14 July 2021||Chandigarh,||FIR in car attack case||The Sirsa police have registered a case against over 100 protesters on various charges in connection with the incident on Sunday in which Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car came under attack during a farmers’ protest targeting the events of the BJP leaders. “We have registered an FIR against 100-150 protesters under various provisions of the IPC,” Civil Lines SHO said over the phone on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-in-car-attack-case/article35313827.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teenager attacked by stalker succumbs during treatment, accused in custody||The 16-year-old girl who was attacked by her alleged stalker with an axe in south-west Delhi’s Moti Bagh died during treatment at Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, the police said. The accused, Pradeep alias Praveen, a resident of a jhuggi in Shastri Park, South Campus, has been arrested, said DCP (South) Ingit Pratap Singh. Pradeep completed his graduation from Delhi University this year. Mr. Singh said the accused, who had been stalking the girl for some months, attacked her to get revenge after her father had slapped him. The accused was arrested from his sister’s house in Palwal in Haryana when he was about to flee to Mumbai. He had bought the axe from R.K. Puram last month and attacked her with it on Monday. She sustained serious injuries near her eyebrow. A case lodged under Section 307 (attempt to murder) has been changed to 302 (Murder) of the IPC following her death. “We will add further IPC sections of stalking and sections of Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act against the accused. The axe has been recovered and the incident has been captured on a CCTV camera,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teenager-attacked-by-stalker-succumbs-during-treatment-accused-in-custody/article35313841.ece
14 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man with criminal cases shot in lawyer’s chamber||A 42-year-old man was shot dead inside a lawyer’s chamber in Dwarka Court Complex on Monday night. Police have registered a case and begun probe. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the victim has been identified as Swikar Luthra. A case under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC has been registered and investigation is under way. Police sources said the incident took place around 9 p.m. when Luthra, who has several criminal cases registered against him, was visiting lawyer Arun Sharma in his chamber. “There were four others inside the chamber out of which one is absconding,” said a senior police officer. Police said that the absconding person is suspected to have shot Luthra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-with-criminal-cases-shot-in-lawyers-chamber/article35313833.ece
14 July 2021||Mumbai,||Patole: media misconstrued my statement||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Tuesday said the media had misconstrued his statement on the use of central agencies for surveillance. “Having daily reports of developments from agencies is routine practice, with State and Central governments. I had said that. But the media presented it as if I specifically blamed the CM and the Deputy CM. We are together in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and working on a common minimum programme prepared by our leader Sonia Gandhi,” Mr. Patole said. He said a video clip was circulated without context to divert attention. “As a Congress leader, it is my duty to energise my party workers. Even the Chief Minister too addressed his party. Why am I being targeted?” he asked. Maharashtra Congress in-charge H.K. Patil said the party considered the matter closed as Mr. Patole had issued a clarification. “He has clarified that he was targeting the Centre over surveillance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/patole-media-misconstrued-my-statement/article35314040.ece
14 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Godman held for duping woman||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Unit II has arrested a godman who allegedly duped a 26-year-old woman of Rs. 4.57 lakh by promising to use black magic to bring back her estranged boyfriend. Wasim Khan alias Baba Kabir Khan Bangali (33) was arrested from his flat in Mira Road after a team led by senior police inspector Giridhar Gore obtained information about his Google Pay account, his bank account details and his KYC details. The team traced the accused’s mobile number and obtained the call data record. The team learnt that the accused hailed from Lisali Road in Meerut, but lived in Mira Road. “We are finding out if there are other people who were cheated in a similar way,” Mr. Gore said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/godman-held-for-duping-woman/article35314041.ece
14 July 2021||July 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Packed to capacity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/packed-to-capacity/article35314043.ece
14 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Three held in Assam for kidney racket||The police in Morigaon district of Assam arrested three people for allegedly preying on villagers to run a kidney trade racket. Morigaon SP Aparna Natarajan said the police have found 10 people in Dakhin Dharamtul village who have been victims of the racket. Most victims were either grappling with poverty or were desperate to repay microfinance loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-held-in-assam-for-kidney-racket/article35313828.ece
14 July 2021||Guwahati,||NLFB militant killed in police encounter||A militant of the National Liberation Front of Bodoland outfit was killed in a police encounter in Assam’s Udalguri district on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, the police launched an operation in Dimachang in Mazbat police station area and the outfit’s self-styled Udalguri district commander was killed, Special Director General of Police G.P. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nlfb-militant-killed-in-police-encounter/article35314058.ece
14 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Sit-in protest at ex-Minister’s house in Rohtak||The ongoing controversy over alleged obscene gestures towards women protesters outside Guru Jambheshwar University this past week led to a sit-in agitation near former Minister Manish Grover’s residence in Rohtak on Tuesday. A large number of farmers, including women, sat on a sit-in near Mr. Grover’s residence in the evening seeking an apology from him. A man had allegedly made obscene gestures towards protesting women farmers at the GJU, Hisar, Gate Number 3, from a car occupied by Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana and Mr. Grover on July 10. The State-level leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha led the protest march towards the local residence of Mr. Grover, but were stopped by the police at the barricades. “ An action committee was formed which decided to put up an indefinite dharna,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana. Jagmati Sangwan, national vice-president, AIDWA, said Chief Minister Manohar Lal pretended to show concern for women but today his own party people were insulting the women and he was silent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sit-in-protest-at-ex-ministers-house-in-rohtak/article35313829.ece
