15 July 2021||NEw Delhi,||Govt. directs private centres to step up the pace of vaccination||The slow pace of COVID-19 vaccination by private centres in some States is a “cause of serious worry”, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday. Mr. Bhushan said he had directed the States to review the status and progress of vaccine procurement by these centres on a daily basis. Many private COVID-19 vaccination centres (PCVCs), he said, had not placed any indent for the earmarked quantum of vaccines. Mr. Bhushan chaired a meeting with the Health Secretaries and senior immunisation officials of 15 States and Union Territories during which the areas of concern were highlighted, including delay in ordering and lifting of doses and payment. He directed them to ensure that the indents for the earmarked quantum of vaccines were placed with the vaccine manufacturers at the earliest. Senior health officials of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana participated in the videoconference. Nodal representatives from the vaccine manufacturers Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) were present. The State governments and the PCVCs were advised to ensure that the gap between the indented quantity and the payment towards their procurement was reduced to zero. Some States/PCVCs had not physically lifted the vaccines that had been paid for. They should ensure the lifting of the dispatched doses immediately, he said. A release issued by the Union Health Ministry said that in some States, wherever vaccine doses had been lifted by the PCVCs, their actual administration was seen to be less than the quantity lifted. The States and the PCVCs were advised to review this and ensure that the unutilised vaccine doses were quickly administered. The Ministry said more than 39.59 crore doses had been provided to the States and the Union Territories so far, through all sources and a further 30,250 doses were in the pipeline. “Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 38,07,68,770 doses (as per data available at 8 a.m. on Wednesday). More than 1.51 Cr (1,51,52,450) balance and unutilised COVID Vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs and private hospitals to be administered,” it stated. ‘Adequate doses’ Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a series of tweets, rubbished allegations by the State governments of vaccine shortage due to the Union government not ensuring adequate supplies. “11.46 cr. doses of vaccine were made available to States govts. in June so that vaccination can be done through government and private hospitals,” he said. “This availability has been increased to 13.50 crores in the month of July.” The Minister said that the States knew very well when and in what quantity they would get the doses. The Union government had done this so that they could chalk out the vaccination work up to the district-level by planning properly and people did not face any problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-directs-private-centres-to-step-up-the-pace-of-vaccination/article35334261.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Record 99.47% pass in SSLC exam||In an all-time record, 99.47% of the students who appeared for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination in April this year have become eligible for higher studies. The results this year are 0.65 percentage point up from last year’s pass percentage (98.82%), though students did not attend school for most of the year owing to COVID-19. The number of students who secured A+ in all subjects also touched a high this year: 1,21,318, up by a whopping 79,412. No grace marks were allowed this year. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty, who announced the results on Wednesday, said Kerala was announcing the SSLC results after conducting the exam, unlike many other States. General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish and Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. said the exam took into account that students had attended digital classes for the most part. Focus areas were published to make the exam easier, and students were provided with lots of options in the question papers. The policy decision was to test them on what they had learnt.Of the 4,21,887 students who appeared for the exam, 4,19,651 became eligible for higher studies. The number of candidates who took the exam in the private category was 991. Of them, 807 became eligible for higher studies. Students can submit applications online for revaluation, scrutiny, and photocopy of answer scripts online from July 17 to 23. The dates for SAY (Save a Year) exam for regular candidates will be announced later. Candidates can register for a maximum of three subjects. Plus One admission The schedule for the Plus One admissions would be announced soon. An increase in Plus One seats would be considered, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-9947-pass-in-sslc-examination/article35334488.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,||Heightened police vigil on inter-State border||Following reports of rising Delta variant of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, Belagavi District Police have increased vigil at the inter-State border points. The police conducted random checks at the inter-State borders in Kugnoli and Kagwad to see if all travellers were carrying RT-PCR negative certificates or COVID-19 vaccination certificates. This follows a recent circular from the State government that the Delta variant was of concern and the district authorities should take steps to reduce its spread. A NEKRTC bus from Ichalkaranji to Indi was sent back, as most passengers did not have either of the two certificates and they were not following social distancing. Some government and private buses coming from Pune, Mumbai and other towns in Maharashtra were sent back from the check-post. Some private buses were allowed to enter or leave, after passengers without certificates were asked to get off them. Some private cars and other vehicles were also asked to return. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi, who was present at the spot, conducted random tests on buses and other vehicles. The district administration officers have put up a COVID-19 Rapid Antigen Test centre. Private vehicle commuters and motorcycle riders coming from Maharashtra who do not carry RT-PCR test results are tested there and allowed to proceed only if they test negative. Similar enforcement is being taken up at the Central Bus Stand and Belagavi Railway Station, Sambra Airport and some check-posts on the inter-State borders in the city limits. Vehicles carrying passengers without RT-PCR or vaccination certificates are being sent back. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe and his team stopped vehicles at the check-posts at Shinolli, Rakkasakoppa, Bekkinakere Cheluvyanatti and Kakati. Mr. Amathe said that two persons were found to be COVID-19 positive at the Rapid Antigen Test centre at the Central Bus Stand. Rapid Antigen Test centres have been put up by the Health Department in all these points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heightened-police-vigil-on-inter-state-border/article35334463.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||SC to examine plea challenging sedition||The Supreme Court will examine a petition filed by a retired Major-General who said a nearly 60-year-old judgment of the court that helped sedition survive in the Indian Penal Code was behind time and needed a relook. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, on Wednesday listed the case for hearing on July 15 and asked Major-General S.G. Vombatkere (retd.), represented by advocates P.B. Suresh and S. Prasanna, to serve a copy of his petition to Attorney General K.K. Venugopal. The petitioner argued that the 1962 judgment in the Kedar Nath case, which upheld Section 124A (sedition), a relic of the colonial legacy, was given at a time when doctrines such as ‘chilling effect’ on free speech were unheard of. “The doctrine of ‘chilling effect’ on speech considers the probability of a legal provision causing psychological barriers in the free exercise of the right... This doctrine had not sufficiently developed in 1962. Even in the U.S., the doctrine was established only as late as 1967… The most concrete pronouncement on a statutory provision causing a chilling effect on speech is as recent as 2015 in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India ,” he submitted. ‘Sea change’ The Kedar Nath judgment was delivered during an era when the extent, scope and inter-relationship of fundamental rights such as liberty, equality and dignity were “rather restrictive”, the plea said. In the judgment, the court had reasoned that without Section 124A, the state would be in jeopardy if the government was subverted. It, however, said that Section 124A would apply only to expressions that either intended to or had the tendency to cause violence were punishable as ‘sedition’. The maximum punishment was life imprisonment. The offence was classified as ‘cognisable’ and ‘non-bailable’. This judgment could hardly be seen as a beacon of light now, the petitioner contended. He referred to the Supreme Court’s recent judgments decriminalising homosexuality and declaring privacy as a fundamental right as testaments of how the times and attitudes have undergone a “sea change” over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-examine-plea-challenging-sedition/article35334264.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||A.P. moves apex court against Telangana||Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court accusing neighbour Telangana of depriving its people of their legitimate share of Krishna water for drinking and irrigation. Andhra Pradesh, represented by advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki, in a petition drawn by advocate G. Umapathy and settled by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, said Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken on river water management in the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014. It has also ignored the directions of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) constituted under the 2014 Act and directions of the Central government. “Fundamental rights, including right to life of its citizens, are being seriously impaired and infringed on account of unconstitutional, illegal and unjust acts on part of Telangana and its officials, resulting in the citizens of Andhra Pradesh being deprived of their legitimate share of water for drinking and irrigation purposes,” the petition said. The focus of the petition is a Telangana government order of June 28, 2021 notifying that “to tap more hydel generation in the State, the government has taken a decision to generate hydel power up to 100% installed capacity.” The order directed the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Limited (TSGENCO) to hence “generate the hydel power up to 100% installed capacity in the State.” Andhra Pradesh said the notification was issued only days after the Ministry of Jal Shakti in its June 17 communication to the Director (Hydel), TSGENCO, had urged the latter “to stop further release of water immediately through Srisailam Left Power House and follow the water release orders issued by the KRMB, except in case of extreme grid urgency.” “The Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh in this regard has written to the Prime Minister on July 1 and July 7, seeking his urgent intervention in view of serious threat to right to life of tens of millions of citizens of Andhra Pradesh,” the petition noted. The petition also blamed the Centre for not notifying the exact jurisdiction of the KRMB. “This is resulting in illegal acts on part of Telangana and its authorities, creating serious constitutional issues,” the petition pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-govt-moves-sc-against-telangana/article35334205.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUVUR (KRISHNA DT.),||Overflowing Kattaleru stream cuts off A.P.-Telangana road link||Road link to Khammam and Madhira towns in Telangana from Krishna district was cut off as the overflowing Kattaleru Vaagu (stream) submerged the road at Inagadapa village on Wednesday, after heavy rainfall lashed the villages along the inter-State borders. The stream has been in spate for the last two days and flowing over the main road at Thotamula and Inagadapa villages since Tuesday night, said Tiruvuru CI M. Chandrashekar. Police picket Many rivulets and streams are in spate and rain water has entered the houses in some low-lying areas. “Vehicular traffic is disrupted as the vaagu is flowing over the road. We have arranged police pickets on either sides of the vaagu as a precautionary measure,” said Gampalagudem SI V. Satish. Madhavaram, Cheemalapadu, Kambhampadu and other habitations in A. Konduru, Reddygudem, and Tallada mandals were witnessing heavy rain for the last two days. Lambada tribals from the bordering villages in Telangana come for agricultural work at Thotamula, Gampalagudem and other hamlets in Andhra Pradesh. But, the works were suspended due to heavy rain, the locals said, adding that crops were inundated at some villages. Meanwhile, the police have intensified patrolling on the canal and river bunds to prevent villagers from entering the streams and cross the road at vulnerable places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/overflowing-kattaleru-stream-cuts-off-ap-telangana-road-link/article35334256.ece
15 July 2021||TASHKENT,||Afghanistan’s future can’t be its past: Jaishankar||The world will not legitimise a Taliban regime that comes to power in Kabul by force, indicated External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, amid rapid advances made by the militant group on towns and border check-posts in various parts of Afghanistan. Speaking at the “Contact Group” meeting of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe on Wednesday, which also issued a joint statement decrying the violence, Mr. Jaishankar said the future of Afghanistan “cannot be its past”, referring to the previous takeover of the country by the Taliban in 1996, adding that the world “must not let” the new generation of Afghans down. “The world is against seizure of power by violence and force. It will not legitimise such actions,” Mr. Jaishankar told the grouping which included Ministers from Afghanistan, Pakistan, China, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan. Instead, Mr. Jaishankar said, peace negotiations would need to result in an “acceptable compromise” that reflected the Doha, Moscow and Istanbul-Heart of Asia processes, and produced an “end state” that ensured a democratic and neutral Afghanistan free from terrorist attacks on civilians and ethnic groups, and a neighbourhood that was not threatened by “terrorism separatism and extremism”. The representatives of the SCO countries, including Mr. Jaishankar, will travel on Thursday to Tashkent along with representatives of about 40 countries for a “Central and South Asia” connectivity conference that will see Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani take centrestage together for the meeting hosted by Uzbekistan President Shovkat Mirziyoyev. U.S. Special Envoy on Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad will also attend. While the original focus of the conference was to be on projects like the Uzbekistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan railway projects and transit trade agreements, and the Uzbekistan-Iran-India trilateral on the Chabahar project connecting Central and South Asia, the security situation is expected to be at the top of the agenda. Taliban militants have claimed to have taken control of some border check-posts along Iran, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Diplomatic officials here told The Hindu that the Central Asian countries are in particular worried about the possible spillover of violence across their borders with Afghanistan, revival of splinter jihadist groups and refugee influx if situation deteriorates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/future-of-afghanistan-cannot-be-its-past-jaishankar/article35334267.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||ED investigation unjustified, hence not joining probe: lawyer||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh feels that the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) investigation against him, in an alleged money laundering case, is not justified, and hence he is not joining the probe, his lawyer told the press on Wednesday. Mr. Deshmukh’s lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre also alleged that ED’s investigation looks more like “harassment” than a genuine probe. He said the ED had also issued summons to Mr. Deshmukh’s wife Aarti, asking her to appear before it on Wednesday , but she did not do so and wrote to the central agency that she was ready to cooperate with the probe via video conferencing. The ED had earlier issued multiple summons to Mr. Deshmukh, asking him to record his statement. However, the NCP leader had skipped them citing his “vulnerability” to COVID-19 as reason for non-compliance. He has instead offered to record his statement through video conferencing. “Mr. Deshmukh feels this investigation is not justified, hence he is not joining the investigation...Whatever documents the agency wants, it should at least tell us,” advocate Ghumre said. Mr. Ghumre also alleged that ED was selectively leaking information to the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-investigation-unjustified-hence-not-joining-probe-lawyer/article35334838.ece
15 July 2021||Pune,||Heavy rains in Konkan, Marathwada||With the southwest monsoon gradually beginning to show signs of revival, heavy showers were witnessed on Wednesday in Mumbai city, Konkan and Marathwada. At least five people are reported to have died in rain-related mishaps over the past five days, said authorities. One person was struck by lightning in Nanded district, while two died in Hingoli district when their car was washed away in an overflowing stream. Two more died in Raigad district where a number of bridges were submerged.  Senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) official K.S. Hosalikar, head, Climate Research and Services, Pune, said an “orange alert” had been issued for seven districts — Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Jalna, Parbhani and Nanded. Heavy rains with thunderstorms are expected in many places in these seven districts with wind speeds of 30 to 40 km per hour. Parts of Pune, especially ghat areas, may experience heavy showers over the next couple of days. Traffic has completely come to a standstill along the Mumbai-Goa highway owing to landslides in Sindhudurg and Raigad districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rains-in-konkan-marathwada/article35334841.ece
15 July 2021||Chennai,||Haryana ‘excess deaths’ seven times official toll||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Haryana ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (from April 2020 to May 2021) was 60,397, which is 7.3 times the official reported figure of 8,303 COVID-19 deaths for the same period. This high number was largely due to the deaths registered in April 2021 (28,276) and May 2021(46,108). In this period which coincided with the second wave, the excess deaths were around 46,283, compared with the registered COVID-19 tally of 5,148, leading to an undercount factor of 9. The overall tally in Haryana, as of July 12, is 9,556.The excess deaths were calculated based on the month-wise number of deaths registered in the online CRS from January 2018 to May 2021, which was accessed by The Hindu . Not all excess deaths would be related to COVID-19 but a bulk of them are, during the pandemic. The mortality figures registered online for 2018 and 2019 — 1,85,842 and 1,88,910 — were 96.1% and 97.3% of the deaths mentioned in the annual reports on “Vital Statistics in India based on CRS” 2018 and 2019 respectively. The undercount factor (7.3) and the excess deaths for Haryana (60,397) were lower compared with those from Madhya Pradesh (23.8 and 1,92,044) in the same period and for which complete data have been made available so far. Excess deaths have also been estimated for Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat but these figures are only partial, either for some districts (U.P.) or for a limited period (Bihar and Gujarat) or only a smaller portion registered online (Rajasthan).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/excess-deaths-in-haryana-seven-times-official-covid-19-toll/article35334265.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||PNB seeks restoration of assets of Nirav’s firms||The Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Wednesday moved multiple applications before a special PMLA court here, seeking restoration of the assets of two firms owned by fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, accused of duping the bank. The bank submitted the applications before special judge V.C. Barde under the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had earlier confiscated Mr. Modi’s assets worth over Rs. 329.66 crore under the fugitive economic offenders law. The confiscated property includes assets of Firestar Diamond International Private Limited and Firestar International Limited, firms owned by Mr. Modi. Mr. Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, both prime accused in the case, along with others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges for allegedly perpetrating an over $2 billion (more than Rs. 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai. The court has asked the investigating agency to file its reply on July 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pnb-seeks-restoration-of-assets-of-niravs-firms/article35334839.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||June WPI inflation eases to 12.07%||Inflation based on the Wholesale Price Index slowed marginally to 12.07% in June, from May’s record 12.94%, official data showed. The government said the “high rate of inflation” was primarily due to the low base effect — the WPI had seen a year-on-year deflation of 1.81% in June 2020 — and the rise in prices of fuels, including petrol and diesel, and manufactured products. The WPI inched up 0.75% over May’s level, with the fuel and power prices index rising 2.9% from the preceding month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/june-wpi-inflation-eases-to-1207/article35334251.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||SC notice to Centre, U.P. on Kanwar Yatra||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took suo motu cognisance of a media report that the annual Kanwar Yatra is likely to be held from July 25 amid rising fears of a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We were a little disturbed given today’s headline in The Indian Express of July 14 about the ‘Kanwar Yatra’, which is likely to be held from July 25, 2021. This court has taken suo motu cognisance of the newspaper report and thus issues notice to the Union of India and the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to file their early response,” a Bench, led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman, said. The report, excerpts of which were reproduced in the court order, suggests contradicting steps taken by the Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh governments over the conduct of the yatra. While Uttarakhand has suspended the event, arrangements are reported to be in full swing in Uttar Pradesh. PM’s statement The court referred to the recent statment by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that it was up to every individual to prevent the third wave, and there was no room for compromise. “Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant Secretary, Union of India, respond to this news report,” the court ordered. It fixed the next hearing of the suo motu case, titled ‘Alarming newspaper report regarding Kanwar Yatra in State of U.P’, on July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-up-on-kanwar-yatra/article35334262.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Blown to pieces||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blown-to-pieces/article35334259.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,||‘Hold camps to give new ration cards’||Food Minister R. Sakkarapani has asked his subordinates to hold special camps in all 234 Assembly segments to give new ration cards and make corrections in ration cards, for which the people had to run from pillar to post now. When Speaker M. Appavu informed him that a special camp was going to be held in his constituency of Radhapuram on July 15 for giving new smart ration cards and making corrections in the ration cards on the direction by Collector V. Vishnu, he endorsed the plan. “We have planned to organise this camp in the Government Higher Secondary School in Radhapuram where we’ve put in place all the facilities including computers, scanners and printers for smooth conduct of the camp. All officials concerned will participate in the camp to provide ‘one-stop solution’ to any problem pertaining to the ration card like deletion / addition of names in ration card, new address,” Mr. Appavu said. Those who want to apply for new ration cards have been asked to bring the passport size photo of the head of the family, Aadhaar card copies of the head of the family and his wife and copy of any one of bank passbook, LPG book, electors’ photo identity card, house tax receipt, TANGEDCO card or rental agreement with the landlord. Those who got married recently and living in a separate house have been asked to submit their wedding invitation or marriage certificate after deleting the couple’s names from the ration cards of their parents, he said. Mr. Sakkarapani asked the District Supplies Officers of Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari if they had organised or planned to conduct similar camps but they replied in the negative. He asked them to hold similar camp in every Assembly segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-camps-to-give-new-ration-cards/article35334432.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Road turns lake||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/road-turns-lake/article35334709.ece
15 July 2021||new delhi,||Delhi Police fined Rs. 25K for ‘farcical’ probe||A local court here has imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 on the Delhi Police while questioning the fairness of the probe conducted into a case of a man who suffered a gunshot injury in his left eye during the riots last year. “Seeing the matter from any angle, I have not been able to persuade myself about the efficacy and fairness of the investigation carried out in the matter,” the judge remarked, adding that the probe has “been done in a most callous and farcical manner”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-police-fined-rs-25k-for-farcical-probe/article35334639.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,||A.K. Rajan Committee submits report||Former Madras High Court judge A.K. Rajan on Wednesday submitted to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin his report on public response to the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). NEET is the qualifying examination for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses in the country. There has been opposition to it in Tamil Nadu since its introduction. In June, the State constituted the Rajan committee to study whether the NEET had affected the students on the fringes of society and suggest corrective measures. After submitting his report, Justice Rajan told journalists that a majority of the respondents had conveyed their opposition to the NEET. He said the report ran into 165 pages. Resolution likely Based on the report, the government is expected to pass a resolution in the Assembly, demanding that Tamil Nadu be exempted from the NEET, and forward it to the President. The test was introduced in the State in 2016, but it wasn’t until 2018 that it became mandatory. Last year, the State introduced a special reservation of 7.5% of the seats in its pool for government school students. Around 300 students benefited from the decision. This year, the Union Education Ministry has proposed to conduct the NEET on September 12. While the State government is trying its best to seek exemption, it is continuing its training programme for government school students. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian and the Chief Minister have said they do not want the students to suffer in case the assent for exemption is delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ak-rajan-committee-submits-report-on-neet/article35334354.ece
15 July 2021||TASHKENT,||Future of Afghanistan can’t be its past, says Jaishankar||The world will not legitimise a Taliban regime that comes to power in Kabul by force, indicated External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, amid rapid advances made by the militant group on towns and border check-posts in various parts of Afghanistan. Speaking at the “Contact Group” meeting of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe on Wednesday, which also issued a joint statement decrying the violence, Mr. Jaishankar said the future of Afghanistan “cannot be its past”, referring to the previous takeover of the country by the Taliban in 1996. “The world is against seizure of power by violence and force. It will not legitimise such actions,” Mr. Jaishankar told the grouping which included Ministers from Afghanistan, Pakistan, China, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan. Instead, Mr. Jaishankar said, peace negotiations would need to result in an “acceptable compromise” that reflected the Doha, Moscow and Istanbul-Heart of Asia processes, and produced an “end state” that ensured a democratic and neutral Afghanistan free from terrorist attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/future-of-afghanistan-cant-be-its-past-says-jaishankar/article35334638.ece
15 July 2021||Mysuru,||KRS: Sumalatha favours creation of task force||Sumalatha Ambareesh, Mandya MP, has reiterated her concern over the safety of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir and called for the constitution of a task force to oversee its protection. “I will continue to the ‘Save KRS, Stop Illegal Mining’ hashtag till quarrying stops,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krs-sumalatha-favours-creation-of-task-force/article35334307.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Black fungus: Hospitals facing shortage of drug||Families of patients suffering from mucormycosis have been running pillar to post for over a week desperately trying to source Liposomal Amphotericin B. With the drug not available in Bengaluru and other districts, families are coming to the city in the hope that the situation will be better in the capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/black-fungus-hospitals-facing-shortage-of-drug/article35334308.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,||All set for e-bike taxis to take off in State||For the first time, private players, individuals, firms, and aggregators, will be able to run electric bike taxis in cities across the State. The government on Wednesday brought out “The Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi Scheme, 2021” with the aim of improving first and last mile connectivity, reducing carbon emissions, and generating self-employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-set-for-e-bike-taxis-to-take-off-in-state/article35334311.ece
15 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Tea workers get less than living wage’||A study by Oxfam India, a groups of 20 charitable organisations headquartered in Nairobi, and IIT-Bombay said tea plantation workers in Assam get less than a fourth of a proposed ‘living wage’ of Rs. 884.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tea-workers-get-less-than-living-wage/article35334518.ece
15 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Preserve documents on Nandigram polls: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday directed the State Chief Electoral Officer to preserve all documents related to the Nandigram Assembly polls. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has filed a petition before the Supreme Court urging that the case be shifted to another State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preserve-documents-on-nandigram-polls-hc/article35334520.ece
15 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 8,602 fresh COVID cases||Maharashtra reported 8,602 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 6,067 recoveries as the active case tally, which had dipped in the past few days, rose to 1,06,764. However, the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours was low — just 1.76 lakh as opposed to the daily average of 2.30 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-8602-fresh-covid-cases/article35334840.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||No plan to contest for President’s post: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday dismissed reports that he was a candidate for the President’s post. “Reports about me planning to contest for President’s post are absolutely false,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-plan-to-contest-for-presidents-post-pawar/article35334843.ece
15 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Undertrial escapes from hospital||An undertrial, who was admitted to the prisoners ward in the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) Hospital, escaped from police custody on Wednesday morning. The accused, identified as Siddappa.M. Hulagol (22), a resident of Aloor (B) village in Chittapur taluk, was arrested on the charge of murdering Malleshappa Neelkanth on May 14, this year. On June 9, he was admitted to the hospital for a health issue. Brahmapur Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/undertrial-escapes-from-hospital/article35334465.ece
15 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Survey finds 607 severely malnourished children||As many as 607 children were found to be severely malnourished in Kalaburagi district during a surveyby the Women and Child Development Department. The survey covered 2.26 lakh children. Of these, 26,571 children were said to moderately malnourished. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/survey-finds-607-severely-malnourished-children/article35334466.ece
15 July 2021||Srinagar,||Three LeT militants killed in Pulwama||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba militants were killed in an operation in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday. The operation started around midnight after specific information was generated by the Srinagar police about the presence of militants on New Colony Hospital Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-let-militants-killed-in-pulwama/article35334640.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,||Sumalatha for setting up task force for KRS safety||Sumalatha Ambareesh, Mandya MP, has reiterated her concern over the safety of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and called for the constitution of a task force to oversee its protection. “I will continue to use the ‘Save KRS, Stop Illegal Mining’ hashtag till quarrying stops,” said Ms. Sumalatha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sumalatha-for-setting-up-task-force-for-krs-safety/article35334587.ece
15 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sedition charges invoked against agitating farmers||The Haryana police have invoked sedition charges against a group of protesting farmers who allegedly damaged the official vehicle of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa on July 11, during a demonstration against the farm laws. Sirsa’s SSP Arpit Jain confirmed that sedition charges under Section 124A of the IPC had been invoked against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sedition-charges-invoked-against-agitating-farmers/article35334642.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Subramanian to meet Health Minister tomorrow||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian will put forth 13 demands to the Union Health Minister during their meeting in New Delhi on Thursday. Among them will be the demand to establish an AIIMS in Coimbatore. The Minister said he would submit a petition with the demands to the Union Minister. He said the need for allocation of additional COVID-19 vaccine doses too would be brought up with the Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/subramanian-to-meet-health-minister-today/article35334355.ece
15 July 2021||Srinagar,||3 militants killed in Pulwama||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba militants were killed during an anti-militancy operation in Pulwama of south Kashmir on Wednesday, the police said. “The bodies of three LeT terrorists were retrieved from the site of encounter. They were identified as LeT commander Aijaz, alias Abu Huraira, a resident of Pakistan, Javeed Ahmad Rather from Tahab in Pulwama and Shahnawaz Nazir Ganie from Samboora in Awantipora,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The operation started around midnight after specific information was generated by the Srinagar police about the presence of terrorists on New Colony Hospital Road. “The operation was suspended due to darkness while the cordon remained intact. Taking advantage of the darkness, the terrorists tried to escape but couldn’t. In the early hours, repeated announcements were again made to the hiding terrorists to surrender. However, the terrorists opened fire, which was retaliated,” the police said. They said the security forces recovered incriminating material, arms and ammunition, including 2 AK rifles and a pistol, from the site of encounter. Houses damaged Local people said two multi-storey residential houses were damaged in the operation. A curfew was imposed in Pulwama town and the Internet was snapped “as a precautionary measure”. Eyewitnesses said local protesters clashed with the security forces after the operation was called off. However, there were no reports of any casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-militants-killed-in-pulwama/article35334171.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Kharge to lead Cong. coordination efforts||In a significant departure, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has deputed Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, instead of the party’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, to lead the coordination with other Opposition parties. At a meeting of the Congress’s parliamentary strategy group on Wednesday evening, sources said Ms. Gandhi expressed dissatisfaction with the party’s coordination with other like-minded parties during the Parliament session. “She has assigned the responsibility to Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. Usually this charge remains with the floor leader in the Lok Sabha,” a senior party functionary said. Chowdhury to stay The move comes amid intense speculation about the Congress replacing Mr. Chowdhury, with many claiming that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi himself would be stepping into the role. Sources said Mr. Chowdhury would continue to stay on for now. “There was no indication about replacing Mr. Chowdhury for now. As the Lok Sabha leader of the party, he shared his views on various issues,” one of the Congress leaders who attended the meeting said. Better synergy Giving the primary responsibility to coordinate with the allies to Mr. Kharge instead of Mr. Chowdhury is seen as an attempt by the Congress to have a better synergy with the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Chowdhury, who is also the chief of the West Bengal unit, had led the Congress campaign in the State. Though the Congress, which fought the election in alliance with the Left parties, drew a blank, the central leadership effusively praised Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her victory against the BJP in the State. Wednesday’s meeting, which lasted more than 90 minutes, also shortlisted the issues that the party would be taking up in the monsoon session. They included the alleged mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic by the Modi government, repeated hikes in fuel prices, farmers’ agitation and the India-China border situation. The party would also raise the alleged scam in the purchase of Rafale aircraft. The French investigating agency has already launched a probe on it. The meeting was attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and senior leaders A.K. Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, Manish Tewari, Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh, K.C. Venugopal, Kodikunnil Suresh and Manickam Tagore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kharge-to-lead-cong-coordination-efforts/article35334179.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Faridabad tops in Haryana excess deaths||The excess deaths calculated in Haryana were based on the mortality figures registered online. According to the Civil Registration System report for 2019, Haryana registered 100% of all deaths in the State, much of it online. Excess deaths might go up as late registrations are tallied in the State. Not all “excess deaths” would be related to COVID-19 but a bulk of them are, during the pandemic. A look at deaths and causal factors in the CRS available only for the State of Tamil Nadu showed a steep increase in deaths related to causes such as pneumonia during the pandemic period, indicating that COVID-19 related deaths could have been re-classified as such deaths. Excess deaths calculations (and therefore, undercount factors) depend on the method to calculate them: either based on the years for which averages are considered or if a projection based on linear growth of deaths year on year is used. For Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, excess deaths were calculated based on registrations available only for two pre-pandemic years, 2018 and 2019. Haryana’s undercount figures were slightly higher than those for Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Karnataka and Kerala’s figures fall if the linear growth estimation method is used, indicating that better registration in later years has lowered “excess deaths”. Tamil Nadu’s undercount factors do not change much. If the excess deaths for just the six States for whom analysis for the pandemic period between April 2020 and May 2021 based on full data has been done are added up, the total comes to 7,32,698, nearly eight times the official tally recorded in these States (90,577). India’s overall official COVID-19 death toll itself was 4,10,997 as of 8 p.m. on July 13. Among districts in Haryana, Faridabad (6,467), Gurugram (5,908), Hisar (4,859) and Sonipat (3,806) had the highest excess deaths, but the undercount factor for Panchkula, Sonipat, Palwal and Jhajjhar were the highest — 17, 16.1, 15.6 and 15.3 respectively. All numbers correspond to the April 2020 to May 2021 period. Ongoing process Dhruva Chaudhary, Haryana’s nodal officer for COVID-19 and head of the pulmonary and critical care medicine department at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, told The Hindu that audit of all deaths is an ongoing process and is being done across the State. “The discrepancy in deaths is a matter of debate. We have nothing to hide, and all deaths are being reported. The death audit mechanism is a constant process, and we are doing it. Every single death is accountable in Haryana.” Mr. Chaudhary said that as far as the higher number of COVID-19 deaths than officially recorded was concerned “there can’t be a guess work, but I am sure it’s not going to be very high. In Haryana, the data is online. If the number of total deaths has gone up, the proportionate deaths have also gone up.” “I want to make it clear that the State’s Health Department led by Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora did a commendable work to curb COVID-19. During the second wave it was Delhi, which put a huge pressure on Haryana. At that time 60-70% patients in Gurugram and neighbouring areas were from Delhi. The blast was in Delhi and its tsunami impact was felt and heard in Haryana,” said Mr. Chaudhary. A look at the gender break-up of the deaths in the State from 2018 to 2021 shows that the proportion of deaths among women went up marginally from 36.5 during the pre-pandemic years to 37.1% and 39.7% in 2020 and 2021. This was unlike in Tamil Nadu (the only other State for which The Hindu had data available for the pandemic years), where the proportion of women among those dead was close to 40% consistently from 2015 to 2021.  (Based on data compiled and aggregated by Pratap Vardhan, with graphics support by Sumant Sen and inputs from Vikas Vasudeva)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faridabad-tops-in-haryana-excess-deaths/article35334200.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘China impasse must be discussed’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi pressed the Standing Committee on Defence to discuss the India-China stand-off at a meeting held on Wednesday, even as the committee has called off a tour of Pangong lake in Ladakh, which is the flashpoint of the Indo-China conflict. The committee had met on the agenda of “Review of Working of Cantonment Boards”. This was its third meeting on the subject. The committee is headed by BJP leader Jual Oram. Instead of touring the Pangong lake, the committee has now proposed a tour of Army cantonments in Bhubaneshwar and Sikandra for the members. Security threat According to sources, at the fag end of the meeting, Mr. Gandhi said while the issue of Cantonment Boards was important, there were many other significant issues that needed the attention of the committee. “The situation in Ladakh, Mr. Gandhi had pointed out, had not improved in more than a year now. The U.S. Army’s exit and Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan also posed a serious security threat for the country. He added that the committee should discuss the security preparedness of the country,” one of the members said. The BJP MPs did not protest at Mr. Gandhi’s suggestion. The subject “Review of Working of Cantonment Boards,” committee chairperson Mr. Oram said, was selected unanimously during the meeting on subject selection for the year. A way out At this, sources said the Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) Lok Sabha MP Kunwar Danish Ali suggested a way out. “He said that maybe a sub-committee can be formed, which can have an in-depth investigation on the subject, giving ample time to the committee to discuss issues like the Indo-China conflict,” another member said. A few committee members also suggested that the committee meet again on Thursday specifically to discuss the Chinese incursions in Ladakh. Mr. Oram though, sources said, declined to hold such a meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-impasse-must-be-discussed/article35334181.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Is Kishor joining Congress?||A day after poll strategist Prashant Kishor had a meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress circle is abuzz with speculation that he will formally join it. There was no confirmation from either him or top Congress leaders on this issue. The speculation was partly triggered by Archana Dalmia’s tweet, which was later deleted. Ms. Dalmia is the chairperson of the grievances cell of the Congress and a close aide of the Gandhis. “A warm welcome into the Congress family,” she had tweeted. Mr. Kishor has worked with the Congress previously in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. On several occasions, he has made his dissatisfaction with the party’s working style public. Following the Trinamool Congress’s victory in West Bengal, where he closely worked with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) victory in Tamil Nadu, where I-Pac, the political consultancy firm that he is associated with, was handling the campaign, Mr. Kishor, in a series of television interviews, had claimed that he was “quitting this space”. “I do not want to continue what I am doing. I have done enough. It is time for me to take a break... I want to quit this space,” he had told NDTV. He has had a stint as vice-president in the Janata Dal (U). He was expelled from the party for his stand on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-kishor-joining-congress/article35334177.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘LAC impasse is affecting bilateral ties’||The impasse between Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “visibly impacting” bilateral ties “negatively”, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar told Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi as they met in Dushanbe on the sidelines of the SCO meeting on Wednesday. Highlighting the lack of movement in the disengagement process apart from the initial withdrawal of troops around the Pangong lake area earlier this year, Mr. Jaishankar said India had hoped China would “follow through” in resolving issues at the LAC, as had been agreed in a five-point agreement with Mr. Wang when the two Ministers had last met in Moscow last September. While Indian and Chinese troops completed the first round of disengagement in February 2021, withdrawing from areas and posts around the Pangong lake, officials have said China continues to stall talks on withdrawing from the other areas where PLA troops have amassed since April 2020, including at Depsang, Gogra and Hotsprings areas in Ladakh. “[Mr. Jaishankar] pointed out to State Councillor [Mr. Wang] that the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake Area earlier this year had created conditions for resolving the remaining issues. It was expected that the Chinese side would work with us towards this objective. EAM noted, however, that the situation in remaining areas is still unresolved,” a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs said. Ahead of the Foreign Ministers’ meeting, however, both New Delhi and Beijing denied reports of fresh tensions along the LAC. The Army also insisted that the agreements with China have not “collapsed” as claimed in an article published on Wednesday. “Ever since the disengagement agreement in February this year, there has been no attempt by either side to occupy the areas from where the disengagement had been undertaken. There have been no clashes in Galwan or any other area,” the Army statement said. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said he was not “aware of the situation mentioned” in the report as well. Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang “agreed to remain in touch”, as India hoped that “all remaining issues” would be discussed at the next round of Senior Military Commanders talks as decided by the WMCC group on June 25. In contrast to their last meeting in Moscow, there was no joint statement issued by the two sides after the Jaishankar-Wang meeting. According to the Ministry’s statement, Mr. Jaishankar also made it clear that other bilateral relations on other issues could not proceed successfully unless the present LAC situation is resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lac-impasse-is-affecting-ties/article35334183.ece
15 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Modi, Maldivian President hold talks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih on Wednesday “took stock” of bilateral cooperation in a telephone conversation, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. Mr. Modi called the Indian Ocean island nation the “central pillar” of India’s “neighbourhood policy”, and maritime vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region or ‘SAGAR’, the statement said. The call assumes significance at a time when sections within the Maldives have mounted an “#Indiaout” campaign online, criticising India’s engagement with the Solih administration. It also comes amid reported tensions within the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP), with Parliamentary Speaker and former President Mohamed Nasheed, according to Male-based media, telling party colleagues recently that he cannot align himself to President Solih any more due to “ideological differences”. Mr. Nasheed — undergoing treatment in the U.K. after surviving an attempt on his life — was not reachable for comment. The MDP has not commented on the development. “President Solih thanked Prime Minister Modi for the India’s cooperation and support in the fight against the pandemic,” the Ministry said. India has provided three lakh doses — two lakh as a gift and one lakh for commercial procurement — of COVID-19 vaccines to the Maldives. “Both leaders reviewed the progress of the India-supported development projects in the Maldives and expressed satisfaction at the rapid pace of implementation despite the constraints of the pandemic,” the statement said. It made no mention of the proposed consulate in the Maldives’ Addu atoll, which the Indian Cabinet cleared, setting off a controversy in the island nation. India sceptics termed the move “heavy-handed”, in the absence of any official statement on it from the Maldivian authorities. Mr. Modi also conveyed his congratulations to President Solih on the election of Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid as the President of the UN General Assembly, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-maldivian-president-hold-talks/article35334185.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||No room for complacency, says MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday asked the States and Union Territories to make the officials concerned personally responsible for any laxity in the strict enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Blatant violations of COVID-19 norms had been observed in several parts of the country, particularly during the use of public transport and at hill stations, it noted. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, in letters to the States and Union Territories, said massive crowds were thronging market places, violating the norms of social distancing. Consequently, the increase in the “reproduction factor” (an indicator of spread of COVID-19) in some States was a matter of concern. The authorities concerned needed to be made responsible for ensuring COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in all crowded places, besides the hotspots of virus transmission, he said. Careful monitoring There was no room for complacency as the second wave was not yet over. If the norms were not maintained at any establishment, premises and markets, restrictions should be reimposed to contain the virus spread and the defaulters should be held liable for action under the relevant laws, he stated. “You would appreciate that we must guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which creep in as positivity declines. Instead, during the periods of low positivity, efforts must be stepped up to prevent any probable future surge,” he observed. Testing, tracking, treating and vaccination was also stressed upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-room-for-complacency-says-mha/article35334196.ece
15 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana police invoke sedition charges against farmers||The Haryana police have invoked sedition charges against a group of protesting farmers who allegedly attacked and damaged the official vehicle of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa on July 11, during a demonstration against the farm laws and the BJP leaders. Sirsa’s SSP Arpit Jain confirmed to The Hindu that sedition charges under Section 124A of the IPC had been invoked against the accused and an investigation was under way. “So far, no arrests have been made in the case,” he said on Wednesday. The Sirsa police have registered the FIR under Section 124A (sedition), 307 (attempt to murder) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), in which two farmer leaders — Harcharan Singh and Prahlad Singh — have been booked. Apart from them, over 100 unidentified people have been booked. On July 11, the official car of the Deputy Speaker was attacked by a group of protesters raising slogans and waving black flags. During the demonstration, protesters allegedly smashed the windscreen of vehicles by pelting stones. Mr. Gangwa, however, escaped unhurt. Reacting to the FIR, senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Darshan Pal said the government was trying to provoke farmers by taking such steps. “By invoking sedition charges, the government is provoking the farmers. How can sedition and murder charges be justified if a windscreen of a vehicle was broken? “We have already announced that all legislators, including those from the BJP, the Jannayak Janta Party and the Independents who support the laws, will be peacefully boycotted and will not be allowed entry into villages across the State. We will take a call on the issue at a meeting today [July 14].” The SKM is the umbrella organisation of farmer unions which is spearheading the ongoing protest. In an official statement, the SKM said the sedition and other charges have been invoked on the instructions of the State BJP government, which was condemnable. The government is using terrorising tactics against farmers, merely because the farmers had shown black flags to BJP leaders at Sirsa, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sedition-charges-invoked-against-farmers/article35334163.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||India largest source of govt. info requests, says Twitter||India is the single largest source of government information requests during the second half of 2020, accounting for 25% of the global volume, as per the biannual Twitter Transparency Report released on Wednesday. Globally, Twitter received 14,561 such requests for 51,584 accounts in the six-month period from June to December 2020, of which 3,615 requests for 7,762 accounts were from India. For India, this is an increase of about 38% from the first half of the year when the number of such requests stood at 2,613. “Over the past year, we’ve experienced and continue to navigate severe global challenges, including the coronavirus pandemic. We’ve also seen concerted attempts by governments to limit access to the Internet generally and to Twitter specifically,” the company said in a blog. It added that global governments and law enforcement agencies submitted approximately 15% more information requests compared to the previous reporting period. For the June-December period, the compliance rate for government information requests was 30% globally, and 0.6% in India. The second highest volume of information requests originated from the United States, comprising 22% of global information requests. During the period, Twitter received a total of 38,524 legal demands to remove content specifying 1,31,933 accounts. The platform withheld or otherwise removed some or all of the reported content in response to 29% of these global legal demands. For India, the number of legal requests stood at 6,971, up 151% from 2,772 such requests in the first six months of 2020. As a result of legal requests, Twitter withheld 60 accounts and 598 tweets. In addition, 1,310 accounts were either suspended or some content was removed for violating Twitter’s Terms of Service or Twitter Rules. The U.S.-headquartered firm said 94% of the total global volume of legal demands originated from only five countries — Japan, India, Russia, Turkey, and South Korea. “Accounts of 199 verified journalists and news outlets from around the world were subject to 361 legal demands, a 26% increase in these requests since the previous reporting period.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-largest-source-of-govt-info-requests-says-twitter/article35334164.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||India’s neurological disease burden rising||The contribution of non-communicable neurological disorders and injury-related neurological disorders to the total disease burden has more than doubled between 1990 and 2019, said the first comprehensive estimates of disease burden due to neurological disorders and their trends in every State of India published in The Lancet Global Health by the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative and released here on Wednesday. Stroke caused 6,99,000 deaths in India in 2019, which was 7.4% of the total deaths in the country, it stated. The burden of non-communicable neurological disorders was increasing in the country, mainly due to the ageing of the population, the paper noted. “Stroke, headache disorders, and epilepsy are the leading contributors to neurological disorders burden in India.” High blood pressure, air pollution, dietary risks, high fasting plasma glucose and high body-mass index were found to be the leading contributors among the known risk factors for the neurological disorders’ burden. The disorders include non-communicable ones (stroke, headache disorders, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias, brain and central nervous system cancer, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, motor neuron diseases and other neurological disorders), communicable ones (encephalitis, meningitis and tetanus), and injury-related disorders (traumatic brain injuries and spinal cord injuries). The paper found that the burden of many disorders varied substantially across the States. Dr. Lalit Dandona, director of the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative and senior author of this paper, stated that the study, based on collaboration with leading neurology experts in the country, provided policy-relevant insights into the trends of the disorders across the States. “While the burden of infectious neurological disorders has fallen in India, this burden is higher in less developed States. On the other hand, the burden of the disorders related to injury is higher in more developed States. Among non-communicable disorders, stroke is the third leading cause of death, and dementias are the fastest growing disorders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-neurological-disease-burden-rising/article35334195.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||SC to study courts’ role in policy during crises||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it would examine how far courts could intervene in State policy during times of crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic “when collective effort” was required to overcome odds. “Can the court tell the Executive to get the formula [for vaccines] from companies abroad or decide the number of ventilators... These are times of crisis when everybody has to be cautious... Is this when court should get into all this? Executive has the benefit of experts with their expert knowledge... We will hear submissions on how far constitutional courts should go into these matters... How much we should restrain ourselves,” Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari observed orally. Justice Maheshwari said these were times for a “collective effort”. “There are certain norms based on which every institution should function,” he noted. The top court was hearing a plea by the Uttar Pradesh government against a May 17 Allahabad High Court order which described the medical system in smaller cities and villages of the State during the pandemic as “Ram Bharose”. It stayed the High Court order on May 21. The High Court had issued a slew of directions to the government, which included ensuring that nursing homes in the State had oxygen facility for every bed; ensuring availability of ventilators, high-flow nasal cannula facility and beds with bipap machines in every nursing home/hospital and making sure that every nursing home/ hospital that has more than 30 beds compulsorily have an oxygen production plant; and medical colleges in Prayagraj, Agra, Meerut, Kanpur and Gorakhpur provided enhanced facilities like the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute did within four months. Ambulance service The High Court ordered the State to provide within a month at least 20 ambulances in small towns and have at least two ambulances with ICU facilities in every village. It said these arrangements would help “patients from smaller towns and villages to be brought to bigger hospitals in bigger towns” for medical treatment. The State government, in the top court, complained that these directions were impossible to comply with. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had urged restraint on the part of High Courts. He said the May 17 order had encroached into the “arena of governance” and breached the principle of separation of powers. Mr. Mehta, for Uttar Pradesh, said the government catered to a population of over 24 crore. “Despite facing big challenges, the State has been making continuous efforts to control the spread of the pandemic,” he had submitted earlier. The court scheduled the next hearing on August 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-study-courts-role-in-policy-during-crises/article35334203.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Private centres asked to step up vaccination pace||The States knew very well when and in what quantity they would get the doses. The Centre had done this so that they could chalk out the vaccination work up to the district-level by planning properly and people did not face any problem, he noted. In one of his series of six tweets, he stated, “regarding the availability of the vaccine, I have come to know from the statements and letters of various state governments and leaders. This situation can be better understood by an actual analysis of the facts. Useless statements are being made only to create panic among the people. He further tweeted, “The Central government had informed the states on June 19, 2021, about how many doses of the vaccine would be made available in the states in July. Batch wise information is given in advance only. So the states know very well when and what quantity of vaccine doses they will get’’. He said, “If the Centre is already giving this information in advance and yet we see mismanagement and long queues of vaccine takers, then it is very clear what the problem is and who is the reason for it”. He also said, “The leaders who make statements (about vaccine shortage) that create confusion and concern in the media need to introspect whether they have made such a distance from the governance process and related information that they are not aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply’’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-centres-asked-to-step-up-vaccination-pace/article35334165.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||SC to examine plea challenging sedition||“The doctrine of ‘chilling effect’ on speech considers the probability of a legal provision causing psychological barriers in the free exercise of the right... This doctrine had not sufficiently developed in 1962. Even in the U.S., the doctrine was established only as late as 1967… The most concrete pronouncement on a statutory provision causing a chilling effect on speech is as recent as 2015 in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India ,” he submitted. In the judgment, the court had reasoned that without Section 124A, the state would be in jeopardy if the government was subverted. It, however, said that Section 124A would apply only to expressions that either intended to or had the tendency to cause violence were punishable as ‘sedition’. The maximum punishment was life imprisonment. The offence was classified as ‘cognisable’ and ‘non-bailable’.  The petition said Section 124A criminalised expression based on vague terms such as ‘disaffection towards government’ and ‘contempt towards government’. “The provision, by employing phrases like disaffection and contempt toward government, which are incapable of precise definition, causes a chilling effect on speech, constituting an unconstitutional invasion into the right of free speech,” it said. The Kedar Nath judgment had been “impliedly overruled” in a series of judgments by the top court in the past decades. In these orders, the court had clearly held that restrictions on fundamental rights should be for “legitimate purposes” and there should be sufficient safeguards put in place to prevent their abuse by the state. Besides, the burden was on the state to prove that a restriction on fundamental freedoms was “necessary in a democratic society”, it submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-examine-plea-challenging-sedition/article35334166.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Future of Afghanistan cannot be its past’||While the original focus of the conference was to be on projects like the Uzbekistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan railway projects and transit trade agreements, and the Uzbekistan-Iran-India trilateral on the Chabahar project connecting Central and South Asia, the security situation is expected to be at the top of the agenda, given the developments in the past week. Taliban militants have claimed to have taken control of some border check-posts along Iran, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.  Violence across borders Diplomatic officials here told The Hindu that the Central Asian countries gathering for the conference are in particular worried about the possible spillover of violence across their borders with Afghanistan, revival of splinter jihadist groups and a refugee influx if the situation deteriorates. On Wednesday, Taliban claimed it had also taken control of the main Chaman-Spin Boldak crossing with Pakistan, while the Afghanistan government said the attack had been repelled. Countries in the broader region are also expected to express concerns over the safety of personnel and development projects if the Taliban continues its advances and violent attacks. In the past week, India flew out all its personnel from the Kandahar consulate, while Russia pulled diplomatic staff from Mazar-e-Sharif and reports suggested China has also followed suit on evacuating its nationals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/future-of-afghanistan-cannot-be-its-past/article35334167.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drop cases filed under Section 66A: Centre||The Union Home Ministry on Wednesday asked the States and the Union Territories to withdraw immediately the cases registered under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, days after the Supreme Court expressed shock that it was being invoked even six years after it struck down the legislation. Court view The Supreme Court found it “distressing”, “shocking” and terrible” that the provision was still being used to book people, though the court held it as unconstitutional and a violation of free speech in the Shreya Singhal judgment authored by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman on March 24, 2015. Through an advisory, the Ministry asked the authorities in the States and the Union Territories to direct all police stations not to register cases under the repealed provision. “If any case has been booked in your State under Section 66A of the IT Act, 2000, it should immediately be withdrawn,” the advisory said. The Electronics and Information Technology Ministry, through a letter in January 2019, and the Home Ministry, in two letters in January and April 2019, asked them to sensitise the police departments and the local police authorities for strict compliance with the court directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drop-cases-filed-under-section-66a-centre/article35334173.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Subsidy scheme for shipping firms approved||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a subsidy scheme for shipping companies during global tenders for import of government cargo. The scheme will provide a subsidy of Rs. 1,624 crore over five years. The subsidy support varies from 5% to 15% of the lowest bid by a foreign shipping company depending on whether the ship was flagged after or before February 1, 2021, and the age of the ship at the time of flagging in India. However, ships older than 20 years will not be eligible under the scheme, according to the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. The provisions of this scheme will not be available if the lowest bidder is an Indian flagged vessel. “A strong and diverse indigenous shipping fleet will not only lead to foreign exchange savings on account of freight bill payments made to foreign shipping companies but would also reduce excessive dependence on foreign ships for transporting India’s critical cargoes,” a press statement said. The scheme is likely to lead to increase in training opportunities and employment for Indian seafarers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/subsidy-scheme-for-shipping-firms-approved/article35334187.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CPWD again puts off opening of bids||The Central Public Works Department has once again postponed the opening of bids for the construction of and maintenance contract for three buildings of the proposed Common Central Secretariat, which was to take place on Wednesday. The CPWD first floated a tender on April 20, but issued a modified tender on June 2, inviting bids for the construction of and maintenance for five years for the three buildings. The deadline for the submission of bids and opening of bids had been pushed from June 16 to 23 and then to July 14. Once again, the CPWD cited “administrative reasons” for postponing the submission of bids and the opening of bids to July 30. The spokesperson of the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry did not respond to request for comment. As a part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the new Common Central Secretariat to house all Ministries was proposed by the CPWD’s consultant for the project, HCP Design, Planning and Management, in 2019. Out of the 10 buildings proposed, the CPWD issued the tender for the first three buildings to be built at a cost of Rs. 3,408 crore at the site of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpwd-again-puts-off-opening-of-bids/article35334150.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Permanent Commission for 147 women officers||The Army said on Wednesday that 147 additional women officers had been granted Permanent Commission (PC) taking the total number of women officers granted it to 424 out of the 615 officers considered since the landmark judgment by the Supreme Court last year. Following the judgment on grant of PC to women officers in the Army, a special selection board was constituted and 277 women short service commission officers received it after medical scrutiny. Further, in March 2021, the Supreme Court directed reconsideration of some cases of women officers who were not granted PC by laying down revised parameters, a statement from the Army said. “The women officers were reconsidered as per directions of the Supreme Court and fresh results have now been declassified. Consequently, 147 more women officers are being granted PC, taking the total PC granted to 424 out of the 615 officers considered,” the statement said. Results of a few have been withheld for administrative reasons and awaiting outcome of a clarification petition by the government in the Supreme Court, it said. PC to women officers in junior batches has commenced from December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/permanent-commission-for-147-women-officers/article35334154.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Central DA, dearness relief hiked to 28%||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the effective increase of dearness allowance to the Central government employees and dearness relief to pensioners from 17% of basic pay/pension to 28% with effect from July 1. Announcing the decision taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said it was a major decision for the benefit of 48.34 lakh Central employees and 65.26 lakh pensioners. The dearness allowance hike was frozen with effect from January 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he pointed out. “In view of the unprecedented situation which arose due to the COVID-19 pandemic, three additional instalments of DA to Central government employees and dearness relief to pensioners, which were due from 01.01.2020, 01.07.2020 and 01.01.2021, had been frozen,” a government statement said. The increase of 11% reflected the three additional instalments arising on January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021, it said, adding that the actual rate for January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 would remain 17%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-da-dearness-relief-hiked-to-28/article35334155.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Centre invites names for ‘people’s Padma’ awards||The Centre on Wednesday said it was committed to transforming the Padma awards into “people’s Padma”, and asked all citizens to make recommendations and self-nominations for the prestigious honour. In a statement, the Union Home Ministry said online nominations or recommendations were on for the Padma awards to be announced on the eve of Republic Day, 2022. The last date for nominations is September 15. The nominations or recommendations will be received only online on the Padma awards portal, https: //padmaawards.gov.in. The statement said concerted efforts might be made to identify talented persons whose excellence and achievements deserved to be recognised from among women, weaker sections of society, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe people, the physically challenged and all those who are doing selfless service to society. The nominations or recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the Padma portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-invites-names-for-peoples-padma-awards/article35334237.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||SC notice to Centre, U.P. on Kanwar Yatra||The report suggests contradicting steps taken by the Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh governments over the conduct of the yatra. While Uttarakhand has suspended the event, arrangements are reported to be in full swing in Uttar Pradesh. The court referred to the recent statement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that it was up to every individual to prevent the third wave, and there was no room for compromise. “Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant Secretary, Union of India, respond to this news report,” the court ordered. The court fixed the next hearing of the suo motu case on July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-notice-to-centre-up-on-kanwar-yatra/article35334780.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 9,800 crore support for livestock development||The Central government will spend Rs. 9,800 crore on livestock development over the next five years in a bid to leverage almost Rs. 55,000 crore of outside investment into the sector, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) decided on Wednesday. It would do this by merging a slew of schemes into three main programmes, focused on indigenous cows and dairy development, livestock health, and infrastructure development, an official statement said. The CCEA approved the implementation of the special livestock sector package by revising and realigning the various components of the existing schemes in order to boost growth and make animal husbandry more remunerative for the 10 crore farmers engaged in it, said the statement. The commitment of Rs. 9,800 crore over the next five years is expected to leverage an investment of Rs. 54,618 crore, including spending by State governments and cooperatives, financial institutions and external funding agencies. All schemes of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying will be merged into three broad categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-9800-crore-support-for-livestock-development/article35334198.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Mahabali welcomes Vamana||When Vamana goes to the place where Mahabali is performing Asvamedha yaga, Mahabali welcomes Him. He says that Vamana looks like the personification of the fruits of the tapas of Brahmarishis. Mahabali says to Vamana, “My family has been purified by Your arrival. My ancestors will be happy that You are here. You have come during my yaga, and so I am sure I will get all the benefits of the yaga. I have washed Your feet, and therefore my sins will be destroyed. Usually, for a yaga to yield the desired result, havis must be given properly. But I have got the results of my yaga very easily by washing Your feet. I can see that You want to ask me for something. Ask me whatever it is that you seek from me. I can give You whatever you want — whether it is cows, or food, or a girl from a good family for You to marry, fertile villages, elephants or chariots.” Vamana compliments Mahabali on his generosity, elaborated Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. He says Mahabali is so generous, because he comes from a great family. Prahlada was his grandfather, and the learned Sukracharya was his preceptor. None in his family had ever been miserly. None had had any hesitation in giving to others. No one in his family had ever broken a promise. Mahabali’s father Virochana had valued learning, and had always respected scholars. Vamana even has words of praise for Hiranyaksha’s and Hiranyakasipu’s courage and strength! Vamana further says, “You are large hearted to offer me so much, but all I want is land measured with three steps of mine. You are king of the three worlds, and so you are capable of giving me a lot of things. But I have no desire for anything beyond the land I have asked for. A man who has jnana will not ask for anything more than what he needs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahabali-welcomes-vamana/article35334186.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Piyush Goyal appointed RS leader||Commerce and Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal has been appointed the Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha. Former Union Minister Thawarchand Gehlot, who had held that position, has been appointed the Governor of Karnataka. Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday congratulated Mr. Goyal. “Congratulations to @PiyushGoyal ji on being appointed the Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha. He has been entrusted by PM @narendramodi ji with key responsibility. Wishing him continued vigour in the service to the nation,” tweeted Mr. Joshi. Leg-up for Goyal Mr. Goyal had been Deputy Leader of the Rajya Sabha under Mr. Gehlot. This is being seen as a leg-up for Mr. Goyal in terms of political responsibility, as the BJP and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) are not in majority in the House and frequently require support from parties such as the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) to clear important legislation there. It is also a signal from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that despite divesting Mr. Goyal of Railways (the Ministry with a large outlay), he has been entrusted with the job of shepherding the Union government’s Bills through Parliament, especially in a House where it does not enjoy a majority. The monsoon session of Parliament commences on July 19 and is expected to end on August 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/piyush-goyal-appointed-rs-leader/article35334175.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet nod to continue Ayush Mission||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the continuation of the National Ayush Mission as a ‘Centrally-sponsored scheme’ for another five years till 2026. A release noted that the scheme would continue from April 1, 2021, to March 31, 2026, with a financial implication of Rs. 4,607.30 crore to be spent during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-nod-to-continue-ayush-scheme/article35334193.ece
15 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Man thrashed for supporting rape victim||A Scheduled Caste man has alleged he was stripped and beaten up by a group of men belonging to dominant castes in Ghanghola village here for supporting the family of a gang-rape victim. The police said no arrests had been made in the case so far. A First Information Report was registered and 40 people have been named in the case. Ajit Singh, the victim, said he was inside his school office on July 11 when the accused, riding a dozen motorcycles and a couple of cars, reached there and started beating him up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-thrashed-for-supporting-rape-victim/article35334172.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Can exam fees be refunded, HC asks CBSE||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Central Board of Secondary Education whether it would refund the examination fees taken for Class X and Class XII examinations as they stood cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan directed the Central Board of Secondary Education to decide within eight weeks on the petition by Deepa Joseph, mother of a Class X student of a school here, who had paid Rs. 2,100 as fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/can-exam-fees-be-refunded-hc-asks-cbse/article35334157.ece
15 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Preserve Nandigram poll documents||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday directed the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal, to preseve all documents and devices related to Nandigram Assembly polls. The court was hearing an election petition filed by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee challenging the Nandigram election results. The matter is being heard by Justice Shampa Sarkar, after Justice Kaushik Chanda recused himself from the case. “Pending the decision of this case, all documents, election papers, devices and video recordings etc. connected with the election, which is under challenge before this Court, shall be preserved by the concerned authority who is the custodian of the papers and documents mentioned herein above,” the order said. The court also directed that a copy of this order be served on the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal. The matter will come up for hearing on August 12. ‘Shift case’ Meanwhile, leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has filed a petition before Supreme Court urging that that the case be shifted to another State. Mr. Adhikari, who won against Ms. Banerjee from Nandigram by a margin of 1,956 votes, said in the petition that there was pressure on the judiciary in West Bengal. In another development, Ms.Banerjee met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Raj Bhawan on Wednesday. The meeting lasted almost an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/preserve-nandigram-poll-documents/article35334239.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia to hold 2+2 Ministerial meet||India and Russia will hold the first 2+2 Ministerial meeting later this year before a summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev said on Wednesday. On India-Taliban Talks, another senior Russian Embassy official said it was India’s sovereign decision and it was useful to deal with everyone in the region. “Taliban is present in Afghanistan also in a manner it is a party to intra-Afghan talks. Certainly, it will be useful to deal with everyone in the region so that national interests will be better ensured,” said Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin in response to questions. Mr. Kudashev said in a virtual press interaction that the recent visit of External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to Moscow demonstrated the attention both sides were paying to satisfy the common desire to maintain strong dynamics of bilateral high-level contacts, which was especially important in view of the preparation for the next big events planned later this year. “They include both trade and economic as well defence intergovernmental commissions, the first 2+2 Ministerial meeting and, of course, the summit – undoubtedly, it will be a new huge cornerstone of the special and privileged strategic partnership, which is really unique,” he stated. Putin visit The details of a possible visit of Mr. Putin were being discussed, he said. He added that the “epidemiological situation” would be a very important factor. “At the same time, our leaders are planning to jointly participate in BRICS under the Indian presidency, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summits in September as well as the G20 summit in October,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-to-hold-22-ministerial-meet/article35334169.ece
15 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam CM defends police shooting at criminals||Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday said the police will continue to take “extreme action” within the law against criminals as long as he is in-charge of Assam. He holds the Home portfolio too. “Those who defend drug dealers should train them not to escape from custody, snatch arms or attack the police,” he said after Opposition legislators attacked the government for alleged fake encounters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cm-defends-police-shooting-at-criminals/article35334151.ece
15 July 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool to meet ECI on bypolls to 7 seats||A six-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress is likely to meet Election Commission of India (ECI) officials in Delhi on Thursday, urging the commission to hold bypolls to seven Assembly seats in West Bengal. Senior party leader and MP Saugata Roy confirmed this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-to-meet-eci-on-bypolls-to-7-seats/article35334159.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||How many pilots were deployed on Vande Bharat flights, HC asks Centre||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre how many pilots were deployed on Vande Bharat flights to rescue Indian stranded abroad at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak and how many hours they had flown. It also asked how many had been vaccinated so far. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a petition filed by the Federation of Indian Pilots seeking compensation of Rs. 10 crore for the kin of pilots who died of COVID-19 on duty. It demanded that pilots be vaccinated and provided insurance cover. Senior advocate Prasad Dhakephalkar, appearing for the petitioners, said at least 13 pilots had died due to COVID-19. Since pilots were frontline workers working through the pandemic, they should get vaccination and compensation on priority. The Bench said, “We want to know how many pilots are yet to be vaccinated, how many are vaccinated, how many pilots are deployed on Vande Bharat flights…what were their duty hours and so on”. It directed the federation to file an affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-many-pilots-were-deployed-on-vande-bharat-flights-hc-asks-centre/article35334189.ece
15 July 2021||Leh,||Immunity boosters for under 18 in Ladakh||The Ladakh administration on Wednesday decided to give immunity boosters and supplements to those below 18 years to reduce the risk of COVID-19 during a possible third wave of the pandemic. The decision was taken during a review by Lt. Governor, Ladakh, Radha Krishna Mathur, on Wednesday. A drive would also be undertaken to encourage more pregnant women to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/immunity-boosters-for-under-18-in-ladakh/article35334197.ece
15 July 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal extends restrictions till July 30||The West Bengal government on Wednesday extended the curbs put in place during the pandemic but allowed certain relaxations such as the operation of metro services in Kolkata with 50% capacity. “Metro railway services shall operate five days a week with 50% seating capacity and shall remain suspended on Saturdays and Sundays,” a notification issued by the government said. However, local train services will remain suspended. The new guidelines will be in force till July 30, the notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-extends-restrictions-till-july-30/article35334201.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||No plan to contest for President’s post: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday dismissed reports that he was a candidate for the President’s post. “Reports about me planning to contest for President’s post are absolutely false. No discussion on this was held in my two meetings with Prashant Kishore. The result of President’s election is clear, knowing the strength of the Bharatiya Janata Party,” Mr. Pawar said in an interaction with reporters on Wednesday. Mr. Pawar’s name in this connection has been doing the rounds ever since he met Mr. Kishore. Sources in Delhi claimed that he will be the Opposition’s candidate. Earlier, NCP Minister Nawab Malik had said that people with vested interests were planting false news regarding Mr. Pawar. “This topic has not been discussed either inside or outside the party. No election for President’s post has been announced and elections are due in five more States. BJP clearly has the number in its favour. Why would we jump in to the fray?” asked Mr. Malik. Meanwhile, commenting on his meeting with Maharashtra Congress leaders on Tuesday which was not attended by State Congress president Nana Patole, Mr. Pawar said there was no discussion on parties contesting independently. “Each and every party has a right to expand its base and I have no grudge against Nana Patole,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plan-to-contest-for-presidents-post-pawar/article35334147.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||11th extension for OBC panel||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved another six-month extension for the commission appointed in 2017 to examine sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in Central list, making it the 11th such extension. A government statement said the Cabinet approved extension of the tenure till January 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11th-extension-for-obc-panel/article35334152.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Provisions in Finance Act reducing tribunal members’ tenure struck down||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down provisions, introduced in the Finance Act of 2017 through an Ordinance, which affected the tenure and service conditions of Chairpersons and Members of Tribunals. The Tribunal Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance of 2021 had amended Section 184 of the Finance Act of 2017 to fix their tenures at four years. A three-judge Bench reversed the law and confirmed that Tribunal Chairpersons and Members would have a full five-year tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/provisions-in-finance-act-reducing-tribunal-members-tenure-struck-down/article35334156.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||Delay in trials leading to undertrials languishing in jail, says HC||Trials in cases are not being completed on time due to which undertrials are languishing in jail, the Bombay High Court said on Wednesday while reserving its order on a bail plea filed by a 28-year-old man arrested for allegedly being a member of the Islamic State terror group. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar made the observation while hearing a petition by Iqbal Ahmed Kabir Ahmed, challenging a special court order refusing him bail.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delay-in-trials-leading-to-undertrials-languishing-in-jail-says-hc/article35334522.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maha cabinet clears adventure tourism policy||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday cleared a policy to promote adventure tourism in the State. Adventure tourism activities on land, air and water will be developed to attract tourists, according to an official release. Organisers of such activities will have to obtain a temporary registration certificate to start with, and final certificate will be issued only after all safety measures are put in place, the release said. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by CM Uddhav Thackeray.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maha-cabinet-clears-adventure-tourism-policy/article35334524.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins storm drain work||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started executing one of the biggest civic infrastructure projects — construction of stormwater drains in northern part of the city to prevent flooding. The civic body is executing the integrated stormwater drain network running to 770 km under the Kosasthalaiyar Basin project at a cost of Rs. 3,220 crore. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is funding the project. The work has been awarded in 46 packages. L. Nandakumar, Chief Engineer (SWD) of the Corporation, said the added areas of the city in north Chennai were severely affected by the December 2015 deluge because of the absence of stormwater drains. A detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared after studying the rainfall data of 46 years (1971-2016) and by including a combination of macro and micro drain designs by using rainfall of 70 mm an hour. Consisting of several factories and thousands of houses, the loss of property at the Kosasthalaiyar Basin had been estimated at a staggering Rs. 13,000 crore due to floods, he added. The DPR spells out construction of integrated storm drains running to 600 km comprising primary, secondary and tertiary drains along with the renovation of 170 km of the existing dilapidated drains, to prevent water stagnation in Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur zones. The Kosasthalaiyar Basin covers 3,757 square km area. Mr. Nandakumar said since the Kosasthalaiyar Basin had hundreds of waterbodies, the civic body went for bathymetric study (a survey to measure the depth of waterbody) to find out the maximum water holding capacity and digital elevation model (DEM) of the project area, thereby creating 11 watershed zones and 7,300 micro catchment points. The DPR has identified eight major canals (belonging to the Water Resources department) and 71 small waterbodies of the civic body which are part of the project area and serves the Kosasthalaiyar. The project has identified Ambattur, Korattur, and Retteri lakes of the Water Resources Department and Sadayankulam and Kadapakkam lakes of the Corporation and 65 minor water bodies, for renovation and deepening. The rejuvenation of the six lakes and 65 waterbodies would increase the storage capacity to 23 million cubic metres against the present 10 million cubic metres. Pumping stations For the two flood-prone localities of Ernavur and Kargil Nagar, which are on a lower terrain and where evacuating the water through natural gravity is not feasible, the civic body has proposed to build pumping stations, fix shutters at the tail end of the drains and pump out water into the Buckingham Canal. Mr. Nandakumar said the construction work, which was stalled due to the second wave of COVID-19 and delayed by the contractors citing high construction material cost, had resumed after the civic body cracked the whip by issuing notices to the contractors. He said more than 5% of the work had been completed and the project was proposed to be completed within 36 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-begins-storm-drain-work/article35334374.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chola-era temple in Velachery grabs government’s attention||Work to clean the precincts of Sri Vasudevaperumal temple at Ram Nagar in Velachery will be expedited. A large part of the temple is covered with thick layer of dirt. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P. Sekarbabu said on Wednesday that officials had been asked to dig out documents and any information relating to the temple. He said he had visited the temple, which was said to be around 1,000 years old, on the request of the South Chennai Member of Parliament Thamizhachi Thangapandian, who had asked the officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation to clean up the premises. The Minister said they would visit the place once it was cleaned to ascertain what was inside the temple. Mr. Sekarbabu directed the officials to remove encroachments from around four acres of land belonging to Arulmigu Dandeeswarar and Sri Yoga Narasimhar temples. Adjacent to the temple structure, the idols of Sri Vasudevaperumal, Sridevi and Bhoomidevi, Bhrighu Maharishi, Lord Ganesha and that of Saint Ramanuja had been installed inside a temporary structure.  Idols found buried Ananthapadmanabhan, a priest, said the idols were found buried in that area by some devotees. Padmapriya Baskaran of Aalayam Kanden Trust had stumbled upon the temple and idols in 2018 during a recce for a Velachery Local area walk. In the book Early History of Madras Region by K. V. Raman, published in the 1950s, there is a mention about the temple. “He says that it is a Chola-era temple from the 11th-12th Century and that the idols are in a seated position. The book also said the deity was the Vedanarayana Perumal,” Ms. Padmapriya said and added that she was happy that steps were taken to restore the temple, which had over the years been buried under rubbish and debris. “You can find temples from the Chola Era and Pallava antiquities in Velachery, which was earlier known as Vedasreni and Dinachinthamani Chaturvedimangalam,” Ms. Padmapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chola-era-temple-in-velachery-grabs-governments-attention/article35334383.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 2,458 new cases, 55 deaths||The State’s daily COVID-19 case count fell below 2,500 on Wednesday, as 2,458 more people tested positive for the infection, taking the case tally to 25,26,401. Fifty-five people succumbed to it, taking the toll to 33,557. Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore recorded 270, followed by Erode with 175 and Thanjavur with 171. There were 164 cases in Salem. Chennai’s daily count fell to 153, while Tiruppur recorded 146 cases and Chengalpattu 131. As many as 3,021 people were discharged after treatment. These included 414 people in Coimbatore, 231 in Chengalpattu and 227 in Salem. The number of active cases dropped to 30,600, of which Coimbatore accounted for 3,629. There are 2,641 active cases in Erode, 1,968 in Thanjavur and 1,906 in Salem. Chennai has 1,629 patients under treatment. Of the 55 fatalities, Coimbatore accounted for eight, while there were five deaths each in Chennai and Thanjavur. Of the deceased, 35 had co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a 34-year-old man from Perambalur, who was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi on June 6 with complaints of fever for two days and difficulty in breathing for three. He had no co-morbidities. He died on July 11 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The deaths of two people at home were included in the bulletin. An 88-year-old woman from Chennai with fever tested positive for COVID-19 on May 28. She was admitted to a private hospital on May 29 and discharged on June 15. She died at home on June 17. She had diabetes, hypertension, Alzheimer’s disease and bronchial asthma. A 70-year-old man from Chennai, who had hypertension, was admitted to a government hospital with fever and cough on April 20 and discharged on April 28. He died at home on April 30. In the last 24 hours, 1,46,394 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 3,49,73,281. On Wednesday, 2,07,259 people were inoculated. These included 1,12,504 people in the 18-44 age group. As many as 1,71,83,987 people have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-2458-new-cases-55-deaths/article35334369.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five drown in Gummidipoondi||Five persons, including three children, drowned in a temple tank at Gummidipoondi on Wednesday morning. The three children drowned while playing in water and two women lost their lives while trying to rescue them. On Wednesday morning, a few women from Karumbukuppam in Pudhu Gummidipoondi, including three children, went to the Angalamman temple tank in the locality to wash clothes and have a bath. When the children — Narmadha, 12, studying in Class 8, Ashmitha, 14, and Jeevitha, 14, both students of Class 9 — were playing in the water, they were caught in the sludge and cried for help. Ashmitha’s mother Sumathi, 38, and another woman Jyothi Lakshmi waded into the water to save them. But all of them drowned. A few villagers spotted the bodies floating in the pond and alerted the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services and the police. CM announces solatium Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to the families of each of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-drown-in-gummidipoondi/article35334378.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu improves vaccine utilisation rate||Tamil Nadu is improving its COVID-19 vaccine utilisation rate, but lack of adequate supply has been slowing the drive. Right now, the overall vaccination performance against supply stands at 97%, with 10 health unit districts (HUDs) achieving utilisation of 100% or more. From facing vaccine hesitancy earlier, the State is witnessing a growing demand. The need of the hour is increased supply. “Now, we are running with one to two days of stock. Our team can plan vaccination in the peripheral areas if we have the stock for a week. We are not in a comfortable position and we are pushing the stock as and when we get it,” said T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Of the 71 lakh doses allotted for the State this month, 20 lakh doses have so far been supplied. “Right now, our routine is to manage with 3.5 lakh doses to 4 lakh doses. However, we will be in a good position if we have five lakh doses a day,” he said. Data released by the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine showed that as of July 11, the total doses supplied was 1,67,88,460. Of them, 1,62,61,985 doses were administered. Except for Ramanathapuram and Aranthangi, where the performance stood at 85% and 88% respectively, the remaining 43 HUDs recorded over 90%. Ten HUDs have utilisation of 100% or more — Cheyyar (102%), Erode (100%), Karur (104%), Krishnagiri (100%), Nagapattinam (103%), Kanniyakumari (103%), Sivakasi (101%), Tenkasi (102%), Tiruchi (100%) and Tiruppur (104%). Chennai, which received 28,63,750 doses, has utilised 26,96,252 doses, a performance of 94%. Coimbatore and Madurai recorded 97% and 99% respectively. Earlier, in an explainer, the DPH laid down the factors for administration of more doses, against the doses supplied — overfill, dead space in syringe and efficiency of healthcare workers. Each person is administered 0.5 ml. “It is scientifically and technically possible and permissible to vaccinate 11 to 12 persons using a 10-dose vial. This does not affect the accurate dose,” it said. Vaccine manufacturers provided additional doses of 16% to 24% in a 5-ml vial, allowing healthcare workers to administer 11 to 12 doses. Next was the use of syringes with low dead space. “Tamil Nadu uses auto disable syringes that are specially designed for immunisation. This syringe has low dead space,” Dr. Selvavinayagam said. Better awareness From a time when vaccines were wasted with fewer takers, the demand has improved, thanks to better awareness over the months. Officials said the State had earlier accounted for 6% vaccine wastage. “The efficiency of our health workers has improved,” Dr. Selvavinayagam said. Health workers have been asked to utilise the additional dose only if it is the accurate dose and not to take from another vial. M. Sangeetha, Deputy Director of Health Services, Cheyyar HUD, formed a mobile medical team and a static medical team. Each team comprises a doctor, a staff nurse and a health assistant. “This mobile team vaccinates people gathered at a place and moves on to the second spot to ensure that doses are not wasted and the vaccine is administered in the four-hour period. The second team stays at the site to check the post-vaccination well-being of the beneficiaries. This way, we ensure no doses are wasted,” she said. V. Anand Kumar, nodal officer of Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, where 300-350 persons are vaccinated a day, said, “We decide according to the crowd at the vaccination centre. For instance, if we have 300 persons at 10 a.m., we allocate 30 vials. Those coming after 11 a.m. are informed of the need to have 10 persons to open a vial... Some of them wait, while some return the next day. We want to ensure that not a single dose is wasted, and people are co-operative. It is a simple policy but needs to be followed meticulously.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-improves-vaccine-utilisation-rate/article35334371.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veteran communist Sankaraiah turns 100 today||When the Communist Party was banned in India in 1948, N. Sankaraiah, then 26, went underground. He was hiding in the house of a washerman, a party member, in Madurai. Living amid soiled clothes caused him allergy, itching and boils. “As his condition became unbearable, the party secretly shifted him to Chennai for treatment,” recalled S. Narasimhan, son of Mr. Sankaraiah, who turns 100 on July 15. He spent eight years in jail before and after Independence and another three years underground. Student leader Mr. Sankaraiah became a communist party member in 1940 when he was 18. He was a student of American College in Madurai. He functioned as the chairman of the college student union and brought Chief Minister C. Rajagopalachari (Rajaji) to address the students. “The national movement for freedom was at its zenith, and only the Communist Party championed complete independence. It attracted Mr. Sankaraiah, who concluded that a social change leading to a casteless society with economic equality could alone be the solution, and Marxism alone could guide humanity towards this goal,” CPI(M) polit bureau member G. Ramakrishnan said. Intense political activities put paid to the hopes of Mr. Sankaraiah’s father, who wanted him to become a lawyer. He could not complete his degree as he was arrested in 1941 when he was in the final year. After his release, he became the district secretary of the party. He was only 22. Years later, when Mr. Ramakrishnan asked Mr. Sankaraiah about the state of his mind about the arrest that prevented him from obtaining a degree and becoming a lawyer, the veteran replied that he was inspired by his arrest and incarceration for participating in the national struggle. “I did not worry about anything else.” In 1946, he was arrested, along with other communist leaders P. Ramamurthy, A. Balasubramanian, M.R. Venkataraman, K.T.K. Thangamani and Janaki Amma. They were implicated in what came to be known as the Madurai conspiracy case. “They were released only on August 14, 1947. News of their impending release had spread, and a big crowd greeted them,” Mr. Ramakrishnan said. Went with CPI(M) When the party split in 1964, Mr. Sankaraiah joined the CPI(M). He was elected to its central committee. “Today, Mr. Sankaraiah and V.S. Achuthanathan are the only two veterans who are still alive,” Mr. Ramakrishnan said. He became the State secretary of the CPI(M) in 1995 and held that post until 2002. Mr. Sankaraiah was elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 1967, 1977 and 1980. He was a powerful speaker — Congress leader G.K. Moopanar would call him a “roaring lion”. “He keeps himself abreast of political developments by reading newspapers with a magnifying glass. We have subscribed to The Hindu digital edition, and if he wants to read a particular news in detail, I will play the audio for him,” Mr. Narasimhan said. He listens to the film songs of M.S. Viswanathan and Ilaiyaraaja and Carnatic music. “He is also very fond of sports. He wanted me to wake him up to watch Euro Cup last time. But I slept. When I woke up, I saw him watching the match,” recalled Mr. Narasimhan.  Mr. Sankaraiah was elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 1967, 1977 and 1980. He was a powerful speaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veteran-communist-sankaraiah-turns-100-today/article35334389.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vetrimaran signs agreement for movie rights of ‘Vaadivasal’||‘Vaadivasal’, a novel by late writer C.S. Chellappa, is being made into a film by national-award winning director Vetrimaran and he has entered into an agreement with Kalachuvadu, the publisher of the novel and C. Subramanian, the son of Chellappa. The novel is about jallikattu, an ancient Tamil sport, and the taming of the bull ‘Kaari’ by Picchi, whose father Ambulithevan was gored to death by the bull. Vetrimaran, who earlier made writer Poomani’s novel ‘Vekkai’ into the award-winning Dhanush-starrer Asuran , has roped in Suriya for the lead role in the film. “I think this is the first time a proper legal agreement is reached between a publishing house and a film director,” said Kannan Sundaram of the Kalachuvadu, who secured the rights from the family of Chellappa. The novel was originally serialised in Ezhuthu, a literary magazine run by Chellappa, before its publication as a book. “We got the rights in 2001 and the novel has run into 26 editions so far. The protest that took place on the Marina in support of jallikattu also contributed in a big way to its popularity,” said Mr. Kannan. Chellappa, who had a passion for bullfighting, developed an interest in jallikattu when he was in Vathalakundu in Dindigul district. “His maternal uncle had introduced him to the game, and he became hooked to it. He collected every detail of the sport, the life of bull-tamers and how the bulls were reared,” recalled his son Subramanian. Several photos He also photographed jallikkatu and kept hundreds of photographs. “After publishing the novel, he distributed it as a gift to those who subscribed to Ezhuthu magazine,” said Mr. Subramanian. N. Kalyanaraman translated it into English, and it was published with the title ‘Arena’ by the Oxford University Press. Besides the novel, Chellappa had written a few short stories on the subject of bull-rearing and racing. ‘Koodusalai’ is about bullock-cart racing and ‘Pendilanthan’ tells the story about the art of identifying good animals by the curls on their skin. Writer Aravindan, who facilitated the negotiations for the agreement, said though Tamil society celebrated jallikattu and took pride in the sport, there were not many literary works that dealt with the subject except ‘Vaadivasal’. Mr. Subramanian expressed the hope that Mr. Vetrimaran would do justice to the novel and the film would turn out to be a great success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vetrimaran-signs-agreement-for-movie-rights-of-vaadivasal/article35334391.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest three men, detect new method of skimming cards||A new modus operandi of skimming by fraudsters was detected by the city police with the arrest of three men in Kanathur police station limits. The gang allegedly collected card details from hackers on the dark web for a payment and later used them on blank cards. The police were acting on complaints in which the complainants stated that cash had been withdrawn from their bank accounts unauthorisedly. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman constituted a special team to trace the gang involved in this. Following continuous surveillance, the special team nabbed Lala Chandan, 32, of Kakkan Colony, Praveen Kishore, 30, of K.K. Nagar in Tiruchi and Sikkander Badusha, 37, of Begampet, Dindigul. The police also seized skimmer devices and cards from them. The police said the prime accused Lala Chandan and his associates were arrested by the Central Crime Branch of the Coimbatore city police in 2017. He came out on bail and failed to attend court proceedings. He was reported to be absconding since then and was working in spas across several places in the country. He and his associates continued to indulge in stealing card details of customers visiting spas and petrol bunks using skimmer devices. They downloaded the details on blank cards and withdrew the money from ATMs. “During interrogation, the accused said they were not able to access details of cards at ATMs or any other places since they are chip-based. Now, they adopted a new modus operandi through which they procured details of cards from the hackers on the dark web and later used blank cards for withdrawing the cash,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-arrest-three-men-detect-new-method-of-skimming-cards/article35334376.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco altered alignment of conveyor belt in Ennore’||Fishermen of Ennore and volunteers of the Save Ennore Creek campaign on Wednesday alleged that the Tangedco had deviated from the original alignment of the coal conveyor belt for which it had obtained clearance and had filled waterways using dredged material and flyash. Urging the State government to stop the work, they said the construction had caused loss of more than 15 acres of wetland, including 1.1 acres of the Kosasthalaiyar river. If allowed to proceed, this alignment would claim another 2.4 acres of river-spread, including mangroves. “Using a handheld GPS device, we have found that they have deviated from the original alignment,” said a volunteer. According to fishermen, the Konamudukku Kalvai, where the construction is on, is a biologically productive spot. Fishermen have reported a drastic drop in fish catch over the last three months. “We want these encroachments removed, and we want to be fully compensated for the damage done to our source of livelihood,” said R.L. Srinivasan of Kattukuppam village. “Given the encouraging steps taken in the appointment of efficient senior environment and forest staff, we are hopeful that the government will ensure that the law prevails in this case,” Save Ennore Creek campaign and the region’s fishers said in a statement. A few days ago, a three-member team comprising economist S. Janakarajan, Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna and G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal visited the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-altered-alignment-of-conveyor-belt-in-ennore/article35334381.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sleep deprivation rampant among Chennai’s poor: study||Adults of Chennai belonging to low-income families sleep, on an average, only five-and-a-half hours at night despite spending eight hours in bed, according to a study that covered a less studied feature of the lives of the urban poor — sleep. Categorising the finding as “significantly below both time in bed and the recommended [duration of sleep of] 7 to 9 hours,” the study, which was held during October 2017-September 2020, stated that 95% of persons surveyed slept less than seven hours per night and 71% slept less than six hours per night. Though they spent about eight hours per night in bed, their sleep was “highly disrupted,” with 31 “awakenings” (meaning a disruption lasting at least 30 seconds) in a typical night. The study was carried out as part of the State government’s memorandum of understanding with the Abdul Latif Jameel – Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), U.S., using state-of-the-art objective measurements. Naturally, sleep efficiency — sleep per time in bed — was 70%, which was far below the minimum of 85%, as stipulated by sleep scientists, for “high quality” sleep. It was similar to those suffering from disorders such as sleep apnea or insomnia in high-income countries. Among the factors that interfered with the participants’ sleep were environmental conditions such as mosquitoes, noise and heat, and mental and physical distress such as stress, pain and hunger. Dwelling upon the importance of the theme, researchers concluded that “severe sleep deprivation may have serious long-run effects on health and well-being [of people], and calls for policymakers’ and researchers’ attention. More systematic research on sleep in developing countries is needed to establish the external validity of our findings and to study longer-term effects.” The study had two samples — 452 residents in one and 3,833 individuals across randomly-sampled neighbourhoods in the city. Its report was published a few months ago. Drawn from the field of economics, the team of researchers comprised Gautam Rao and Frank Schilbach, Associate Professors of Harvard University and MIT respectively; Heather Schofield, Assistant Professor, University of Pennsylvania; Pedro Bessone Tepedino of the MIT and Mattie Toma of the Harvard. Most of the persons surveyed were unemployed and those who earned more than Rs. 15,000 a month in their current or previous job were excluded from the study. A few other criteria were also taken into account to determine that the participants in the study belonged to low income families. In respect of the smaller sample, the randomised controlled trials (RCT) were done. The persons covered under the broader sample wore, for three nights, actigraph, a wristwatch-like device that reads sleep/wake data from body movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sleep-deprivation-rampant-among-chennais-poor-study/article35334386.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for robbing retired SI||Four persons were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly robbing a retired sub-inspector of his gold chain and ring in Madhavaram police station limits. The police said Srinivasan, 60, a retired sub-inspector and resident of Vinayagapuram in Madhavaram, was riding his bike near Retteri on Monday night when a gang of four men waylaid him. Brandishing a knife, the gang robbed him of his gold chain and a ring and fled the scene. Based on his complaint, the police arrested Dhanaraj, 29, Vijay, 24, Ajith Kumar, 30, and Viji, 22, and recovered six sovereigns of gold chain and two bikes from them. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-robbing-retired-si/article35334375.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers lead awareness and support initiatives in villages||An extensive network of volunteers, working in coordination with primary health centres and government hospitals, has enabled Aid India, an NGO, to carry out COVID-19 relief work in 484 villages across Tamil Nadu. The NGO is now focussing on creating awareness of vaccination and facilitating inoculation camps. While Aid India had worked on welfare initiatives during the first wave, its efforts gathered pace during the second wave, its founder Balaji Sampath said. The organisation concentrated its efforts on villages where it has established education initiatives. Besides volunteers associated with the organisation in each village, several others joined it. “Through our volunteers, we first worked on providing rations to families whose one member had tested positive. Many of them are daily wage labourers, and having to stay at home would impact their livelihood,” Mr. Sampath said. Another area of attention was ensuring transport between remote villages and the nearest hospitals or primary health centres. “For each block we worked at, one vehicle and a driver from the area were engaged for COVID-19-related emergencies,” he said. Aid India volunteers also worked much like the fever survey workers in Chennai: they were equipped with thermal scanners and pulse oximeters, and were constantly in touch with the residents in their areas. Role of coordination “They had a very important part to play in coordinating between the people and hospitals nearby, besides helping to arrange for teleconsultations, provisions and any other home-care needed. The volunteers were routinely trained, and nurses, too, were engaged to help them,” Aid India director M. Damodharan said. Mr. Damodharan said the volunteers were now playing an important role in ensuring that people in their villages got vaccinated. “They start off by preparing a list of persons willing to take the shot, and if the number is large, they help in organising camps and controlling crowds,” he said. So far, 49,859 persons have been vaccinated in the villages where Aid India has been working. Mr. Sampath said the government hospitals and the primary health centres had been very supportive of Aid India’s efforts. The NGO had also opened 12 COVID-19 care centres in partnership with them. “We are working with a holistic approach, wherein all aspects, including the availability of essentials, transport and vaccinations, are covered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-lead-awareness-and-support-initiatives-in-villages/article35334359.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Duraimurugan to lead all-party team to Delhi||Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan is expected to lead a delegation of all legislature parties of Tamil Nadu to New Delhi later this week, call on the Union Minister for Jal Shakti and oppose Karnataka’s plan for a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. Some of the representatives are likely to leave for the national capital on Thursday, while the others are expected to reach New Delhi on Friday, official sources said. “Discussions are on whether each party will send one or two representatives.” The delegation is likely to camp at Tamil Nadu House until it meets the Union Minister. The team is expected to hand over to the Union Minister a copy of the resolutions passed at the meeting of all legislature parties held in Chennai on July 12. “A memorandum is also likely to be handed over...,” a source said. Resolution against dam The meeting, convened by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, unanimously passed a resolution urging the Union government not to accord any permission to Karnataka to construct a dam at Mekedatu. The parties said no construction activity must be undertaken at Mekedatu without permission from the downstream States as ordered by the Supreme Court. They contended that the proposed dam would affected water supply for irrigation in Tamil Nadu. The parties, including the BJP, backed the State government in its efforts to prevent Karnataka from building a dam at Mekedatu. Mr. Stalin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi last month and opposed the proposal. He also wrote to his Karnataka counterpart, urging him against the plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duraimurugan-to-lead-all-party-team-to-delhi/article35334364.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC ruling gives relief to flat owners||Flat or villa owners paying more than Rs. 7,500 a month towards maintenance charges to their residents’ welfare associations must pay Goods and Services Tax (GST) at the rate of 18% only for the amount exceeding Rs. 7,500 and not for the entire monthly contribution, the Madras High Court has ruled. Justice Anita Sumanth quashed an order passed by the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) on June 21, 2019 as well as a consequent circular issued by the Department of Revenue under the Union Finance Ministry on July 22, 2019 since both of them had insisted upon collecting GST for the entire monthly contribution. The judge disagreed with the view taken by the AAR and the Centre. She pointed out that the usage of the term ‘up to’ in two notifications issued by the Centre in 2017 and 2018, under the provisions of the CGST Act of 2017, would make it clear that GST could not be levied for contributions up to Rs. 7,500. The verdict was passed while disposing of a batch of writ petitions filed by Greenwood Owners Association and Oceanic Owners Association from the House of Hiranandani in Egattur, TVH Lumbini Square Owners Association in Purasawalkam and an individual owner Sanjay Kumar Gupta from Mylapore.  The judge quashed an order passed by the Authority for Advance Ruling on June 21, 2019 as well as a consequent circular issued by the Department of Revenue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-ruling-gives-relief-to-flat-owners-from-paying-gst/article35334380.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senator Logistics donates 100 oxygen concentrators||Philanthropists have resumed donating to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to help fight COVID-19. Senator Logistics India will donate 100 oxygen concentrators costing Rs. 1.43 crore. Its managing director Oliver Nees handed over the letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Wednesday. Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian handed over Rs. 77 lakh to Mr. Stalin. The amount was donated by various organisations and individuals. Chennai Nadar Peravai chipped in with Rs. 30 lakh, and district president Ernavur A. Narayanan handed over the sum to the Chief Minister. Nellai-Thoothukudi Nadar Magamai Paripalana Sangam, Chennai Vazh Nadar Sangam and Perambur Vattara Nadargal Aikkiya Sangam contributed Rs. 25 lakh. Tirunelveli Dakshan Mara Nadar Sangam chipped in with a like sum. Kovai and Madurai Nadar Sangam Trusts donated Rs. 20 lakh. Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College secretary K.S. Babai handed over a cheque for Rs. 20 lakh to Mr. Stalin. The Adyar Cancer Institute has donated Rs. 11 lakh, a day’s salary of its doctors and employees. The cheque was handed over by director G. Selvaluxmy. Actor Vadivelu handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh towards CMPRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senator-logistics-donates-100-oxygen-concentrators/article35334362.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fix realistic limits for poll expenditure and ensure adherence, HC tells ECI||The Madras High Court on Wednesday impressed upon the need for Election Commission of India (ECI) to keep a check on election funding. It said that the commission should fix realistic limits of money that could be spent by individual candidates for the elections and also ensure that those limits were adhered to scrupulously. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wrote: “It is common knowledge that contesting an election is an expensive proposition and the clandestine funding of elections is seen by many experts as the fundamental cause for the industry of corruption that is perceived to prevail in the country.” They went on to state: “Though limits as to spending may be fixed by the Election Commission, such limits may not be realistic and it is the bounden duty of the constitutional watchdog to ensure that if limits are prescribed, they are adhered to; or realistic limits are set, and spending by candidates is confined to such limits, with a close scrutiny of the accounts being undertaken.” The judges also stated that greater judicial notice might be necessary for electoral reforms and cleansing the system to rid it of the perceived largescale involvement of black money therein. The court made the observations while disposing of a writ petition filed by B. Ramamoorthy of Vellore district seeking a direction to the ECI to initiate criminal prosecution against former Minister K.C. Veeramani of AIADMK for having allegedly submitted false information regarding his assets while contesting the Assembly election this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fix-realistic-limits-for-poll-expenditure-and-ensure-adherence-hc-tells-eci/article35334420.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami faults DMK government over NEET||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday criticised the DMK government for not taking “proper measures” to scrap the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions, and blaming the previous AIADMK regime, which had taken “honest steps” on the matter, instead. In a statement, he accused the DMK of being “mulish” over the issue and called upon the government to honour the ruling party’s electoral promise on the abolition of NEET. He recalled that even though his government was opposed to NEET, it had got the syllabus revised and experts hired for coaching students. He also recounted how the 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified students from government schools in medical admissions had benefited students and the number of medical colleges in the State had gone up by 17 in the last 10 years. In a separate statement, AIADMK co-ordinator O. Panneerselvam urged the State government to follow up with the Union Education Ministry’s announcement that the Teachers Eligibility Test certification would now be valid for a lifetime for all those who had obtained the qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-faults-dmk-govt-over-neet/article35334366.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly woman treated for severe aortic stenosis using indigenously made valve||An 82-year-old woman, who experienced severe breathing difficulty due to a cardiac condition, successfully underwent a minimally invasive procedure here. She was suffering from severe aortic stenosis (severe narrowing of heart valve that separates left ventricle from aorta). Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre treated her using a transcatheter aortic valve implant (TAVI). TAVI is a technique where a new valve is implanted across the affected valve by a percutaneous technique through a pinhole in the thigh. A multidisciplinary team evaluated the patient and a stent was used to prevent obstruction of blood supply. Intervention cardiologist S. Nagendra Boopathy led the team that performed the surgery. The patient was discharged on June 28. According to a hospital release, the Indian-made valve was being used for the first time outside research. S. Thanikachalam, chief of cardiac centre, said TAVI had become the standard of care for treatment of aortic valve stenosis, providing a safe alternative in senior citizens who were appropriately selected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-woman-treated-for-severe-aortic-stenosis-using-indigenously-made-valve/article35334384.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays order suspending tax official||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court has stayed the operation of an order passed by a single judge directing the State government to suspend a State Tax Officer for having misled the court during the hearing of a case. Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Krishnan Ramasamy granted the interim stay after the officer D. Mukundhan preferred an appeal. His counsel N.G.R. Prasad said the officer initially made a wrong submission. But he then cross-checked the information and informed the court that his previous submission was wrong. It was an inadvertent mistake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-order-suspending-tax-official/article35334357.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||K-pop video tutorial to be out on July 19||The Consulate-General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai has announced that video tutorial classes on K-pop singing and dancing will be released starting July 19 as part of the annual Korean Cultural Week. Dream K-Pop girls, a five-member group, will be sharing 25 self-made videos through which they will introduce their own techniques on K-Pop. The members of Dream K-pop are Rhea Rajkumar, a fourth year MBBS student of the Madras Medical College; R Sruthi, who works in Trade finance; Subiksha Priyal, a first year fashion designing student; Sindhoo Dhana, a software engineer; and Jeson Dagam, a student from Arunachal Pradesh. Deputy Consul-General Hong-yup Lee said the Consulate has launched dance and vocal contests. The entries can be sent todreamkpop1020 @gmail.com. The winners will be knwon on September 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/k-pop-video-tutorial-to-be-out-on-july-19/article35334372.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two groups clash over party office||Two groups claiming rights over the headquarters of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) in Mannady clashed on Tuesday night. The police personnel who intervened were also injured in the clash. The clash was between the groups led by M.H. Jawahirullah and S. Hyder Ali of the TMMK, who used to work together. They subsequently parted ways, and have been functioning separately since. The police said the supporters of one group gathered and opposed the banners and sign boards put up near the party office on Angappa Naicken Street. The other group opposed their removal. On hearing about the commotion, police personnel led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Kodilingam rushed to the spot and attempted to pacify them. A few people damaged banners and a sign board. In spite of police presence, the two groups clashed by attacking each other with stones and wooden logs. Police said cases were registered on the complaints from both sides in North Beach police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-groups-clash-over-party-office/article35334387.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister to put forth 13 demands||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian will put forth 13 demands to the Union Health Minister during their meeting in New Delhi on Thursday. Among them will be the demand to establish an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Coimbatore. The Minister said he would submit a petition with the demands to the Union Minister. Mr. Subramanian said the need for allocation of additional COVID-19 vaccine doses too would be brought up with the Union Health Minister. “Yesterday, the Chief Minister wrote to the Prime Minister, seeking special allocation of one crore vaccine doses to the State. This will be conveyed to the Union Health Minister. We will emphasise the demand for the allocation of more vaccine doses, in proportion to the population,” he told reporters on Wednesday. While the need to start the construction of the upcoming AIIMS in Madurai, immediately, would be stressed, the Minister said they would also seek measures to establish a new AIIMS in Coimbatore. “We will put forth the demand to hold inspections at the 11 new government medical colleges and seek permission to start admitting students,” he said. Mr. Subramanian said the State would also urge the Union Minister to permit the immediate opening of HLL Biotech in Chengalpattu and Pasteur Institute in Coonoor. “We will also ask that the State be exempted from NEET,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-to-put-forth-13-demands/article35334367.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vadivelu tells people to take COVID-19 jabs||Appealing to the general public to take COVID-19 vaccines, actor Vadivelu on Wednesday said people should extend their cooperation to the State government in all the steps being taken against the spread of the pandemic. Handing over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh towards Chief Minister Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to M.K. Stalin, he told reporters that he had already taken both doses. Commending the DMK government for the efforts taken against the spread of COVID-19 and other welfare schemes, he said the entire world was impressed with the actions of the DMK government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vadivelu-tells-people-to-take-covid-19-jabs/article35334421.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Resolve public grievances without delay’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has instructed the Revenue and Disaster Management Department to resolve public grievances on priority basis, especially of those who had submitted petitions under the “Ungal Thoguthiyil Mudhalamaichar” (Chief Minister in your constituency) platform. He also directed the department to ensure that the issuance of online certificates are fast-tracked, without delay. At a review meeting, Mr. Stalin advised the department to strengthen the disaster management structure and be prepared for the monsoon. According to a statement, Mr. Stalin directed the department to increase the number of rain gauges that would help monitoring the showers. Instructions have also been given to have a real-time flood monitoring system in place. Another important point made by the Chief Minister during the meeting was on the creation of an online platform to connect volunteers and those providing relief during crisis. He also said procedures for sanctioning land for industrial and commercial purposes should be simplified and sanctions be given in six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolve-public-grievances-without-delay-says-stalin/article35334361.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI books logistics firm||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a logistics firm and its directors on charges of cheating the Indian Overseas Bank of Rs. 3.75 crore. Acting on a complaint lodged by the bank authorities, the agency’s Economic Offences Wing booked Sarath Logistics and its seven directors on charges of fraudulently availing cash credit limit of Rs. 11 crore from the IOB, Mugalivakkam Branch, to take over existing limit of Rs. 11 crore with Kotak Mahindra Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-books-logistics-firm/article35334377.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Testing of drinking water supply project under way in city||Coimbatore Corporation has started testing the efficacy of the improved drinking water distribution system in Jayaram Nagar, near Telugupalayam. The Corporation had recently completed all the works in a portion of the locality, including giving house service connection and fixing of new water meters. Sources familiar with the development said the Corporation had taken up for the pilot study 74 of the 2,086 water connections in the area, to which it supplied Siruvani water. It started the test since July 1 and in the last 13 days the corporation had found out that not only the supply was good but also the pressure at which it supplied water. Prior to the study, the corporation supplied once in seven to 10 days in the area at one metre to two metres pressure. But now it supplied water 24x7 – that is the residents could use as and when they wanted – while maintaining the pressure between 14 and 18 m. The pressure indicated the height to which water reached, without pumping. Prior to taking up the study, the corporation replaced the old water readying meters. The old metres were of low standard. The new ones were class two, multi-jet meters which showed water consumed with greater accuracy than the old ones, the sources added. In addition to replacing the meters, the corporation had installed bulk water meters at two critical points. The total reading of the two meters should match the total of the 74 meters and if it did not it meant that there was a leakage or it was non-revenue water, the sources explained. The corporation had been studying the water supply, quantity consumed, readings from the meters, etc. and would very soon come out with the findings. Thereafter, it would extend the test area to include all the 2,086 connections in Jayaram Nagar and this would be by the end of September, this year. Though the corporation had first taken up R.S. Puram as the pilot area to test the efficacy of the 24x7 drinking water scheme, it chose Jayaram Nagar because it had completed all the works in the area, the sources said and added that the result from the study would prove that the corporation would be able to supply water 24x7, as and when the residents want. The corporation is implementing the 24x7 drinking water supply scheme through Suez India Pvt. Ltd. in 60 of the 100 wards that constitute the old city area. At Rs. 2,972 crore, the corporation has planned to improve drinking water supply to more than 1.50 lakh households and commercial establishments in such a way that they get water 24 hours a day, seven days a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-of-drinking-water-supply-project-under-way-in-city/article35334767.ece
15 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Take the policies of PM Modi to every individual, Annamalai tells cadre||Newly-appointed State president of the Bharatiya Janata Party K. Annamalai urged the party cadre to work hard to ensure victory in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. He started his roadshow on Avinashi Road in Coimbatore on Wednesday, prior to taking charge at the BJP State headquarters in Chennai on Friday. “We will take the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to every household and every individual,” he said while addressing the cadre. Asserting that the BJP would be “an important alternative force” in the State by 2024, he expressed confidence that a large number of BJP MPs would be elected from the State in the general election. At the Thandu Mariamman Temple, he told mediapersons that as the party’s State president, he would be “first among equals.” Regarding a question on being appointed as the State president in spite of his young age, Mr. Annamalai said age would not be a factor as the party depends on “team efforts” and not on any individual. Hundreds of party cadre gathered for the roadshow on Avinashi Road, leading to flouting of COVID-19 safety protocol. Physical distancing norms went for a toss and many were seen without masks. Mr. Annamalai reached Tiruppur by noon and addressed the cadre near the New Bus Terminus. Criticising the DMK-led State government for opposing NEET and National Education Policy 2020, he alleged that DMK members were being prioritised in the distribution of vaccine tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-the-policies-of-pm-modi-to-every-individual-annamalai-tells-cadre/article35334440.ece
15 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC to operate more ordinary town buses||A week after the State government allowed the operation of buses as part of COVID-19 relaxations, the Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) plans to increase the operation of ordinary town buses in response to the demand. Officials said on Wednesday that 740 TNSTC buses were being operated in the district, which comprises 410 town buses and 330 mofussil buses. Among the 410 town buses, 150 were deluxe ‘red’ buses while 260 were ordinary town buses. Within a few days, the division will increase the number of ordinary town buses in the city to 300, the officials said. Around 1.5 lakh women passengers in the corporation limits avail the State government’s scheme for women to travel free of cost in ordinary town buses every day, according to the officials. With the increase in the number of ordinary town buses, the number of beneficiaries of this scheme would also increase, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-to-operate-more-ordinary-town-buses/article35334771.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bharathiar University gets two patents||The Bharathiar University has obtained patents for two procedures that it has come out with -- one relating to salvaging of metals from solid wastes and the other for use of a fruit tree to treat diabetes. The first patent was for ‘Method for recovery of metals from metal-bearing solid wastes’ by K. Ramachandran, Associate Professor, Department of Physics, and research scholars R. Saravanakumar and P.V. Ananthapadmanabhan. A press release from the University said that industrial and domestic waste contained significant amount of metals, which were difficult to separate. Several thousand tonnes of the waste was generated every year and were dumped without proper treatment, which caused serious health and environmental problems. Though the recovery of metals from the waste helped protect health and environment, there was no effective solution for the recovery as the bio and hydro-metallurgical methods were either slow or produced secondary waste. The team came up with an aluminothermic process that was environment friendly. They mixed aluminium granules with metal-bearing waste to heat it to high temperature to separate the metals. The recovery rate of metals was high and the quality of products improved, said the release. The University had filed for the patent on October 1, 2020 and obtained it on May 18, 2021. The second patent was for the use of Syzygium mundagam (wild jamun fruit tree) in treating diabetes. A team of Professor T. Parimelazagan and research scholar Rahul Chandran studied the tree, isolated active compounds from the tree bark and used it in various tests. The isolated compounds showed promising anti-diabetic activity in pharmacological clinical analysis, said the release. This could be a natural medication with less side effects for diabetes treatment, the release added. The University had filed patent for this research on September 9, 2015 and obtained it on June 25, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathiar-university-gets-two-patents/article35334441.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||District administration to make public vaccination details by 8 a.m.||After finding people waiting in long queues for vaccination and following suggestions, the district administration has revised its vaccination strategy. A release said it would make public by 8 a.m. the places where vaccination would be done and the number of vaccines available at each of the centres. Around 10 a.m., the administration would start issuing tokens at the centres and by 11 a.m., it would start vaccinating people based on the tokens issued. To supervise the vaccination drive, the administration had formed teams comprising staff from Revenue Department, local body concerned and personnel from the police station concerned. While appealing to make use of the facilities made, as per the new strategy, the administration said the teams would ensure that people waiting for vaccination wore mask and maintained physical distance. If people had grievances or complaints, they would do well to dial 1077 to report the issue to the COVID-19 Control Room at the Collectorate, the release added. Coimbatore Corporation sources said the civic body would adopt the same strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-to-make-public-vaccination-details-by-8-am/article35334765.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Issue more tokens for registration’||With just two more days for the Tamil month of Aani to end, registration offices are expected to see a rush on Thursday and Friday. Hence, more tokens should be issued for more people to register documents during these two days, say document writers. According to Easwaran, president of Coimbatore District Government Authorised Document Writers Association, and V. Kannappan, secretary of the association, the sub-registrar offices do registration from 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. every day and 100 tokens are issued every day for each sub-registrar office. This should be increased by 50 or 100 for the next two days so that more people can register, they said. Since not many people will want to register during Aadi, there will be a rush during the two days, they added. A department official said that 100 tokens are issued for each sub-registrar and on normal days less than 100 tokens are used. Even if people take tokens, not all come for registration. But, on auspicious days, more than 100 people come for registration. Coimbatore zone, which includes Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore districts, and Gobi registration district, has more than 50 sub-registrar offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issue-more-tokens-for-registration/article35334769.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for strangulating wife to death||The Saravanampatti police on Wednesday arrested a man who strangulated his wife to death, accusing her of often talking to her male friend over phone. The arrested has been identified as Chellaiah (35), a native of Tirunelveli who has been residing with his wife Umadevi (28) and two sons, aged six and four, at V.G. Rao Nagar near Ganapathy. The police said that Chelliah used to quarrel with his wife, accusing her of talking with her male friend over phone. The family was residing at Avarampalayam, where Chellaiah ran a scrap dealership. They moved to V.G. Rao Nagar after Chellaiah suspected that his wife was getting close to a youth from Avarampalayam. Police said Chellaiah picked up a quarrel with his wife on Tuesday night. The quarrel continued and the man strangulated his wife with her saree around 12.30 a.m., said the police. Saravanampatti inspector said that Chellaiah was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-strangulating-wife-to-death/article35334774.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plastic surgery camp today||Kovai Medical Center and Hospital will hold a plastic surgery camp on Thursday in view of the World Plastic Surgery Day. The hospital said in a release that patients could have free consultation on general plastic surgery and burns, microvascular reconstruction surgery and cosmetic surgery. The camp would be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at KMCH on Avinashi Road. For more details, contact at 73393-33485.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plastic-surgery-camp-today/article35334775.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept., police take out rallies to educate people on dealing with elephants||The Forest Department with the support of Coimbatore Rural Police took out rallies in places near Mettupalayam on Wednesday to create awareness among the public on how to deal with wild elephants that stray from forests.  The rallies were held in the wake of recent incidents wherein some people threw firecrackers at a tusker nicknamed Baahubali that regularly strays into human habitations near Mettupalayam for crop raiding. Forest Range Officers (FRO) of Mettupalayam, Sirumugai and Karamadai forest ranges and the Inspector of Mettupalayam police station led the awareness activity. The rallies were taken out from Black Thunder to Odanthurai, Dasampalayam and Kurumbanur village areas. Mettupalayam FRO C. Palaniraja said the main objective of the activity was to educate the public on dealing with elephants that come to villages for crop raiding. Farmers were advised not to chase wild elephants on their own. “We have urged the public not to hurl fire crackers at wild elephants to chase them. They have been asked to contact the Forest Department upon spotting elephants in human habitations and farms. We have also urged them not to crowd at places where wild elephants are spotted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-police-take-out-rallies-to-educate-people-on-dealing-with-elephants/article35334444.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Committees formed to ensure labour welfare’||The State government has formed committees involving stakeholders to ensure labour rights are protected, said Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan. The Minister held a review meeting here on Wednesday. He said that the construction workers labour welfare board and unorganized sector workers welfare board have more than 3.23 lakh people as members in the district. The officials have been instructed to issue identity cards and other benefits to the members at the earliest. Mr. Ganesan also visited two private textile units and interacted with the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committees-formed-to-ensure-labour-welfare/article35334442.ece
15 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Railways conduct drill||Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway on Wednesday organised a drill at Madukkarai Railway Station to test the Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) communication equipment installed in the Accident Relief Train (ART). A press release said that ART is a dedicated train formation used in disaster management operations, which utilises VSAT facility to relay the data collected from the site to a central hub through a dish antenna. During the exercise held on Wednesday, the video data of relief operations pertaining to a derailment (look like) spot in Madukkarai were successfully transmitted to the Railway Board in New Delhi, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-conduct-drill/article35334764.ece
15 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Scholarship||Sarojini Damodaran Foundation has invited applications for Vidyadhan scholarship for economically backward students. The annual family income should be below Rs. 2 lakh. Those eligible can apply online by logging intowww.vidyadhan.orgbefore August 15, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scholarship/article35334772.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE / TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Do not approach middlemen at Sub-Registrar Offices: Minister||The public must not approach middlemen at Sub-Registrar Offices and must, instead, approach the officials directly, said Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy in Tiruppur on Wednesday. Making surprise visits to three registration offices in Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts, the Minister urged the officials to ensure that the public were able to register documents without any trouble. Mr. Moorthy conducted a surprise inspection at the Integrated Sub-Registrar Office at Neruperichal in Tiruppur and the Sub-Registrar Office at Avinashi. Interacting with some of the residents on the office premises in Neruperichal, he said the public must co-operate to reduce the influence of middlemen in Sub-Registrar Offices. He said the public could lodge a complaint with the control room of the Registration Department if they were being asked to approach middlemen. In a press release, Mr. Moorthy said those persons at Sub-Registrar offices, who were not associated with the Registration Department, would be identified and strict action initiated against them. He also warned officials who were involved in irregularities of departmental action. The State government had initiated steps to simplify the process of registration for the public within a few months, he said. The Integrated Sub-Registrar Office at Neruperichal, in the outskirts of the city, was less accessible for the residents of Tiruppur, he said. This grievance would be communicated to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for appropriate action, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-approach-middlemen-at-sub-registrar-offices-minister/article35334437.ece
15 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Inform public the date of distribution of water: Collector||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini reviewed the distribution of potable drinking water through local bodies here in the district. Close on the heels of the just concluded visit of the Minister for Urban Development and Water Supply K.N. Nehru to Dharmapuri, which witnessed complaints of poor water distribution and mixing of ground water with the treated Hogenakkal water, Ms. Dhivyadarshini directed local bodies to ensure efficient distribution of potable water. Holding a review meeting with the local bodies including municipalities, town panchayats, panchayats, the Collector called upon the local bodies to refrain from handling water shortage by mixing ground water with the treated water from the Hogenakkal drinking water project. Further, local bodies shall put in place a mechanism to inform public of the date of distribution of water. The mixing of treated, purified water with the ground water and distribution of such water would contribute to various illness and the local bodies shall ensure that treated water is distributed at an announced date. Further, public shall be made aware of the judicious use of treated water from Hogenakkal pipelines only for consumption purposes. The Collector also directed local bodies to inspect illegal connections and regularise them by collecting the unpaid taxes. Jal Jeevan Mission Further, wherever overhead tanks were required, the same shall be floated as a proposal for construction under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-public-the-date-of-distribution-of-water-collector/article35334447.ece
15 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Kerala woman’s claims are untrue’||The special police team, which has gone to Kannur district in Kerala to inquire into the rape case lodged by a 40-year-old woman has found that she was not married to Dharmaraj as claimed in her complaint to the Director General of Police. A reliable source monitoring the investigations said here on Wednesday that the special team comprising an ADSP held an inquiry with the woman and others. After claiming that she was raped, the woman, had got admitted in the Government Hospital in Kannur but the doctors found no signs of injuries. The special team also gathered that the woman, who had claimed that she was married to Thangaraj was incorrect. Two persons including the woman had come to Palani and checked into a lodge on June 19. The man, who had showed his Adhaar ID card, revealed himself as Thangaraj. After a wordy altercation between them on that night reportedly after taking liquor, the lodge owner directed the couple to vacate the room. The woman claimed that she was forcibly raped by some persons and that her husband was also robbed. When she approached the police station in Palani, the personnel treated her in an inhumane manner, she complained and demanded action. Treating the complaint sent to the DGP Kerala, who had forwarded it to TN DGP, the Palani police registered a case. The source said that the woman was already married and had four girl children. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rape-case-kerala-womans-claims-not-true-say-police/article35334399.ece
15 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Main works on new bus terminal in Erode to commence on September 1||With the Rs. 39.56 crore modernisation and improvement works at the Corporation’s Central bus terminus is to commence on September 1, temporary bus stands are expected to function on Solar and Chikkaiah Naicker College (CNC) premises at Veerappanchatiram. The terminus is spread over 12 acre at the heart of the city and has two entry and two exits and was opened to the public in 1973. Buses to other States, inter-district and intra-district and mini buses were also operated from the premises. Hence, the premise was busy throughout the day as commuters were demanding improvement of basic amenities. Under the Smart City Mission programme, the Corporation has proposed to modernise the terminal at Rs. 15.97 crore, carry out improvement works at Rs. 9.48 crore and construct additional parking facilities and mini bus shelter at Rs. 14.14 crore and tenders were floated and work orders issued. The civic body served notices on 34 merchants in September, 2020, to vacate their shops for demolition so that construction of the new complex could begin. However, shopkeepers filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court against the notice saying that lease agreement ends only on March 31, 2025. The court ordered that implementing projects is the policy decision of the government and asked them to vacate the shops by March 31, 2021. Foundation stones for the works were laid in January this year and preparatory works have begun. Since buses could not be operated during the work period of 24 months, the corporation held meetings with the police and transport department. It was decided in the meeting to temporarily shift the bus stand to Solar where the corporation owns 51.4 acre land and on the college premises. Rural bus stand The proposal to shift the bus stand to the rural bus stand at Anakalpalayam was ruled out. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the two locations are found to be viable and the proposal would be taken up with the Collector for further discussion. “Preparatory process for commencement of works at the bus stand have begun”, he added. Officials said that buses from Karur and Muthur routes would be diverted to Solar while buses from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Sathyamangalam and Mettur would be diverted to the college premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/main-works-on-new-bus-terminal-in-erode-to-commence-on-september-1/article35334449.ece
15 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers encouraged to raise double crop||Farmers in the hilly areas of Kadambur and Gundri were encouraged to carry out double cropping in a year for optimum utilisation of their land. The State government had proposed to increase the total crop area by 11.75 lakh hectares and also increase net cropped area from 60% to 75%. Also, it had emphasised on doubling the crop from the present 10 lakh hectare to 20 lakh hectare while it had targeted to achieve food production of 125 lakh tonnes. Hence, to check whether areas under cultivation in hill areas are accounted for, S. Chinnasamy, Joint Director of Agriculture, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department along with Deputy Directors A.N. Asaithambi (Farmers Training Centre) and R. Sivakumar, Assistant Directors Mariyappan and Manikandan inspected fields at Basunavapuram, Iruttipalayam, Karalayam, Gundri, Anilnatham, Mahalithotti, Makkampalayam and Arigiyam in the hills. Most of the land was located near the reserve forest area and farmers depend on rain for carrying out farming activities. Mr. Chinnasamy said that for the current year 2021-22, food production target has been fixed at 3.36 lakh tonnes and hence necessary steps were taken to achieve it. He said that during the summer rain in the hills, farmers cultivate gram varieties and ragi as a first crop that can be harvested within 90 days. “For rainy season, they cultivate other crops as a second crop”, he said and added that agriculture officers were asked to account for the crops. The team also inspected a drip irrigation system installed at a farm land at Arigiyam village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-encouraged-to-raise-double-crop/article35334452.ece
15 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Over four lakh persons vaccinated in Erode||A total of 4,92,338 persons were vaccinated in the district as of Wednesday morning. Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine officials said that due to low stock of vaccines, around 2,000 were vaccinated on Wednesday while vaccination would not be done on Thursday due to inadequate stock of vaccine. Only 940 doses of Covishield and 220 doses of Covaxin were available on Wednesday, they added. Regarding RT-PCR tests, officials said that 11,03,970 samples were tested so far in the district. Of the 2,500 active cases in the district, 1,676 persons are in home isolation while the number of containment areas was 40 in rural areas and three in urban areas. Of the total 2,047 bed strength at government hospitals, 1,384 beds were vacant, including 1,153 oxygen beds and 87 ICU beds, they added. In private hospitals, of the total 4,889 beds, 3,376 were vacant. Officials said that of the total 6,674 beds at 38 Covid Care Centres, only 593 were occupied while 6,081 beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-four-lakh-persons-vaccinated-in-erode/article35334458.ece
15 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 175 cases||Erode district reported 175 new cases, taking the tally to 91,472. While 193 persons were discharged, 2,641 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 164 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 91,371. While 227 persons were discharged, 1,906 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, rising the toll to 1,521. Namakkal district reported 66 cases taking the tally to 46,205. While 78 persons were discharged, 821 continue to be under treatment. One person died, rising the toll to 434. Krishnagiri recorded 43 cases and one death, while 65 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 644 as of Wednesday. A total of 40,844 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 42 cases and one death, while 78 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 690 . As of date, a total 25,539 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-175-cases/article35334450.ece
15 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on July 23||A circle-level Dak Adalat will be conducted in the office of the Chief Postmaster General, Tamil Nadu Circle, Chennai, at 11.30 a.m. on July 23. Customers may send their grievances on postal services to M. Vijayalakshmi, Assistant Director, Office of the Chief Postmaster General, Tamil Nadu Circle, Chennai 600 002 and also email topg.tn@indiapost.gov.inwith subject Dak Adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-july-23/article35334453.ece
15 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to installation of new electric lines, power supply under Kavindapadi sub-station will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 15, 17, 19 and 22 at Perumapalayam, Pattakalipalayam, Sundarapuram, Kalichettipalayam, Pandiyampalayam, Kolathupalayam, Vellangkovil, Pethampalayam, Sengodampalayam, Kolandanvalasu, Moolakarai, Velampalayam, Vaikalpudur, Sathyapuram, Nichampalayam, Neelacoundanpalayam, Avarankattur, Ayyampalayam, Marapalayam, Odathurai, Andipalayam and Palapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35334454.ece
15 July 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Fuel price hike has cascading effect on essentials: Cong. MP||Congress cadre carried out a cycle rally in Krishnagiri condemning the fuel hike by the Union government here on Wednesday. The protests were led by A. Chellakumar, MP, who rode a bullock cart with a garlanded cylinder as a symbolic act indicating that the fuel price hike had a cascading effect on essential commodities. Speaking on the sidelines, Dr. Chellakumar said, the price of fuel has seen a fall by 3 % in the international market since the BJP assumed power. However, despite the fall in the price of crude oil in the international market, the price of petrol and diesel has been hiked by the Narendra Modi-led government, forcing a cascading effect on the price of commodities. He also alleged that the BJP ruled states are provided with excess vaccination while other states are left in the lurch. “Free vaccines was proposed first by the Congress leader Rahul Gandhi but the Modi government sought to profiteer from the vaccines,” the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-has-cascading-effect-on-essentials-cong-mp/article35334446.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take steps to develop Madurai Airport: High Court tells State||Taking note of the fact that approval from the Union Cabinet was required in order to notify or upgrade the status of the Madurai Airport as an International Airport and the matter was yet to proceed in this regard, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court disposed of a batch of petitions seeking international status for Madurai airport. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi said that the court took notice of the fact that the authorities had held talks on the expansion of Madurai airport. The court hoped that earnest steps would be taken towards the acquisition of land for the expansion of the airport and also the extension of the runway. The batch of public interest litigation petitions sought direction to the Centre and the State to notify or upgrade the status of the Madurai airport as an international airport. Apart from this, the petitioners also sought a direction to the authorities to take necessary steps towards the additional infrastructure. The judges said that extension of the runway at the Madurai airport could be taken up. This would enable the airport to handle large aircrafts and heavy air traffic. The next step will be to declare the airport an international airport and following this other infrastructure facilities would follow, the court said. The petitioners said that the facilities at Madurai airport matched or were superior to those at some international airports in the country. But, the airport was yet to be notified as an international airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-develop-madurai-airport-high-court-tells-state/article35334428.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Devotees will soon see a rejuvenated Saravana Poigai||With the construction of separate washing and bathing ghats for local residents and with a Detailed Project Report being readied by the HR & CE department, devotees and pilgrims visiting the Tiruparankundram Subramaniaswamy Temple can soon look forward to clean and healthy environment to offer pooja and take a dip in the temple tank. The decision to initiate the pilot project for the temple tank water purification was taken up by the HR&CE department before the pandemic broke-out. “The Saravana Poigai is a 5.5 acre sprawling and 12-feet deep tank and holds minimum six feet water round-the-year. It stores rain water and also the run-off from the adjoining hills,” said AD(Engineering), Mr Siva Muruganantham. Contamination The water was contaminated because local residents, due to lack of facilities, used the tank for washing clothes and bathing. Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore facilitated the funds under MPLAD to deal with one part of the project-- construction of separate dhobi ghats and sanitary facilities for men and women. Madurai Collector Dr.Anees Sekhar has inspected the completed work and the facilities are slated for inauguration soon. The Collector also reviewed the proposal for simple aeration by installing compressor pumps in the temple tank that would help clean the waters with nano-bubble technology, according to nuclear scientist Dr.J Daniel Chellappa, who was called in last year to provide technical support in assessing the quality of water. “It is a multi-disciplinary effort where officials of TNEP, TNPCB and PWD are also involved. The electric unit will be set up soon to power the aeration process. Within six months, the Saravana Poigai tank water should be crystal clear,” he told The Hindu . The HR&CE was also sensitising the public through paintings and posters around the temple on how to maintain the purity of the water. Besides detergents flowing into the water, chemicals from puja rituals and also with 1,200-plus pilgrims taking a dip daily add to the problem. No sewage mix “Due to high COD and BOD (Chemical and Biological Oxygen Demand), there was no aquatic life and fish were found dead frequently indicating contamination water,” said Dr. Chellappa. Luckily, the e-coli level was within permissible range indicating there was no sewage mix in the water. “The dissolved oxygen level can thus be increased through aeration,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-will-soon-see-a-rejuvenated-saravana-poigai/article35334823.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Deal with usurers with an iron hand’||DGP C. Sylendra Babu on Wednesday said the police would deal with anti-social elements, including usurers and those conducting kangaroo courts, with an iron hand. The DGP reviewed the law and order situation with senior officers from the south zone at the office of the Commissioner of Police, Madurai City. Following heinous crimes reported in a few southern districts in the recent past, including the murder of a building contractor in Thalaiyoothu in Tirunelveli district two days ago by an armed gang, Mr. Sylendra Babu told officers to deal with anti-socials as per the law. “If warranted, detain habitual offenders under the Goondas Act,” he said. Similarly, complaints against katta panchayat (kangaroo court) and those exploiting gullible people by lending money at exorbitant rates of interests should be booked. “Do not show any leniency,” was the message he conveyed to the officers. The DGP also pointed to the rising complaints of ganja sale. SPs in the district should form exclusive micro teams and based on intelligence inputs, ganja sellers should be detained, he said. Mr. Sylendra Babu presented cash awards to 18 two-wheeler patrol teams of personnel in Madurai City and Madurai Rural District for their commendable work. The DGP also gave away Rs. 50,000 to the family of SSI Jothiraj of Theni, who has been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deal-with-usurers-with-an-iron-hand/article35334356.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects biogas unit at farm||District Collector S. Aneesh Sekar inspected a farm in Muthupandipatti in Usilampatti union here on Wednesday, where farmers used garbage to produce biogas. Addressing the mediapersons, the Collector said that the couple- Maharajan and Silambuselvi- have taken a great initiative by converting garbage into biogas. The biodegradable waste collected from Usilampatti municipality and panchayat areas was being brought to the farm. The waste was crushed and mixed with cow dung to produce biogas in the correct technique and the gas was used for cooking. The farmers were doing this project on a pilot basis and it has turned out to be successful. “We are planning to bring these farmers under one Central government scheme to undertake this project on a large scale,” said the Collector. Mr. Aneesh Sekar said that other farmers must also take such initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-biogas-unit-at-farm/article35334819.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||City hospital uses ‘silk vista’ technique to treat brain aneurysm||The doctors at the Hannah Joseph Hospital in Madurai have successfully treated a 48-year-old patient who had a history of intermittent severe headache and giddiness for the last four months by using the endovascular low profile flow diverter treatment otherwise known as ‘silk vista’. Speaking to reporters, hospital chairman and managing director M. J. Arunkumar, who is also the director and head, neurosciences department said that the MRI brain and MRA of the patient was normal. The patient, when subjected to a digital subtraction angiography with 3D rotational angiogram for the brain to trace the exact cause, showed a saccular aneurysm (blood vessel bulge) in the left internal carotid artery, one of the main arteries supplying the brain. Dr Arunkumar said that ‘silk vista’ was introduced for endovascular treatment of brain aneurysms for the first time in southern States. A team of doctors, radiologists and anesthetists including Satheesh Grahadurai, N. Arunkumar and P. Ramasankari, performed the procedure successfully. Explaining further, he said, that this angiographic technique was so advanced that it was performed without opening the skull to repair the aneurysm. The patient was discharged on the seventh day without any neurological deficits. The doctors said a brain aneurysm is a sac or a bulge in the wall of an artery supplying the brain that balloons out and is filled with blood. Probably, 1 in 50 people have a brain aneurysm and every 18 minutes, a brain aneurysm ruptures across the world. This leads to haemorrhagic stroke, coma and even death. To a query, Dr Arunkumar said that brain aneurysms was common in adults between 30 and 60 years and was more seen in women than in men. The warning signs were severe headaches, blurred or double vision, pain in the eyes and sometimes paralysis of the limbs and difficulty in speaking, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-hospital-uses-silk-vista-technique-to-treat-brain-aneurysm/article35334820.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs Kanniyakumari authorities to seal fish processing unit||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed Kanniyakumari district administration to lock and seal a fish processing and fish oil manufacturing unit that was said to be functioning without permission. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the authorities to take steps on the petition filed by F. Anderson Xavier of Killiyoor. He said that the fish processing waste from the unit was causing harm to the environment. The waste was dumped in open places, along the seashore and also the sea. This not only affected the marine environment, but also the people living in the area. They complained of breathing and skin related issues, he said. Following an inspection by the authorities, it was found out that no permission certificate was obtained to operate the unit. Though steps were taken to seal the unit, the owners of the unit prevented the authorities from doing so and closed the premises. Several representations have been sent to the authorities by the villagers to lock and seal the unit. The authorities concerned should take appropriate steps to permanently close the fish processing unit taking into account the welfare of the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lock-seal-fish-processing-unit-hc/article35334422.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP leader H. Raja seeks anticipatory bail||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader H. Raja moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday seeking anticipatory bail, apprehending arrest by Thirumayam police, Pudukkottai district. The News Editor of RSS South Union V. Suryanarayanan also sought anticipatory bail. Thirumayam police booked the case against Mr. Raja and seven others after they got into an altercation with the police. The police denied permission to the BJP cadre to erect a stage on the road during Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations in 2018 in Thirumayam, citing a High Court order. Following this Mr. Raja verbally abused the police. In a video that went viral, Mr. Raja could be seen verbally abusing police officers and he also went on to pass derogatory remarks against the High Court. The Madras High Court initiated suo motu contempt proceedings for the remarks passed against the court. The court closed the contempt proceedings after he apologised to the court. Thirumayam police have filed a chargesheet against the accused. The Judicial Magistrate of Thirumayam summoned them to appear before the court on July 23. The petitioners claimed that they did not commit any offence and sought anticipatory bail. They said that if they were arrested, their reputation would be damaged. Justice G. Chandrasekharan adjourned the hearing in the case to July 16. Time was sought by the State to respond in the case. A counsel also made mention before the court to file an intervening petition. Granting time to file the petition, the case was adjourned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-leader-h-raja-seeks-anticipatory-bail/article35334398.ece
15 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 126.85 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,708 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.34 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,056 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,151 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was (in mm): Periyar dam 26, Gudalur 17.4, Thekkadi 14.4, Shanmuganathi dam 5.3, Sathaiyar dam 5, Kodaikanal 2 and Uthamapalayam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35334431.ece
15 July 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death||Sivathanu, 71, retired tahsildar of Santhanchettivilai in Kottar, was beaten to death on Wednesday. He was taking care of his nephew Vigneshwar Ram, 36, a mentally ill person. Vigneshwar Ram used to get money from Sivathanu. When he asked for money on Wednesday, Sivathanu told him that he had no money. Vigneshwar Ram allegedly attacked him fatally. The Kottar police were informed. Vigneshwar Ram was arrested. The body was sent for a post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death/article35334821.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘AINRC, BJP should urge Centre to stop dam work’||The All India N R Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party should use their good offices to prevail upon the Centre and Karnataka government to stop construction of Mekedatu dam and a bed dam over Markandeya river, a source of the Thenpennai river downstream, Congress Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam has said. In a statement on Wednesday, he said the construction of dams by Karnataka government would destroy agriculture activity in Karaikal and Puducherry. The construction of bed dam over the tributary of the Thenpennai river would impact farming as well as cause acute water shortage in Puducherry, Mr. Vaithilingam added. Advice to BJP leaders “The BJP leaders from the Union Territory often would visit Karnataka to meet their leaders. They should use the opportunity to brief them about the damage the dams would cause,” he said. Mr. Vaithilingam also urged the government to take necessary steps, including legal measures, to prevent Karnataka from going ahead with the project.  The construction of bed dam over the tributary of the Thenpennai river will impact farming as well as cause acute water shortage. Government needs to take necessary steps, including legal measures, to prevent Karnataka from going ahead with the projects||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ainrc-bjp-should-urge-centre-to-stop-dam-work/article35334696.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Street play to raise awareness on COVID-19 in U.T. from today||A street play portraying the dreaded coronavirus as a stalker-killer that prowls crowded markets and care-free gatherings is all set to hit the rural trail across Puducherry on Thursday. With minimal costumery or props, songs and a few dance steps, the 40-minute presentation is a collaboration of the Health Department’s Covid War Room, Svarnim initiative of Sri Aurobindo Society (SAS) and Pondicherry Science Forum (PSF). It aims at raising awareness among rural communities on the imperative of vaccination to ward off the COVID-19 threat and minimise the consequences of an anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The 12-member troupe, all volunteers with the SAS and comprising a diverse mix of medical professionals, Ph.D holders and a nutritionist, is led by R. Senthil Kumar, and will perform every evening at 20 villages under the Bahour PHC from July 15 to 21. “The storyline has been conceived in an FAQ format and addresses the common misgivings villagers had expressed during our tele-consultation sessions we conducted for the war room,” said S. Ramachandran, programme coordinator, PSF. As a final dress rehearsal of the ‘COVID-19 vaccination awareness street theatre’ got under way at the Sri Sankara Vidyalaya open auditorium on Wednesday, a woman cast as the villain of the piece in the form of the virus is depicted lurking behind unsuspecting victims and infecting those who are lax in adherence to safety practices. With all humour The play has been written with earthy dialogues and just enough humour to entertain rural street theatre audiences and not subdue the seriousness of the message. For instance, at a vegetable market place where an asymptomatic woman engages in chit-chat with an acquaintance — ironically they are discussing how someone they know caught COVID — the “lady virus” lurking behind one of them shouts out encouragement for the two to get closer to each other. The virus soon hops on to the second woman, then another and then another as the skit shows how easily the highly transmissible virus spreads in a crowded setting if adequate precautions are not followed. In another scene, a doctor demystifies the COVID-19 vaccine with the reassurance that no beneficiary had died or negligible few had reported adverse reactions. He dispels myths of inoculation interfering with the ability to conceive and addresses the safety concerns about vaccination expressed by a village community. Why, even pregnant woman can gain protection against COVID-19 for herself and baby through vaccination, the doctor says, providing the updated policy of the Health Ministry on inoculating mothers-to-be. Stress on collective will The play ends with all the artistes joining hands and chorusing the all-important message of overcoming the pandemic through collective will. “We hope the programme will motivate rural communities to opt for the two-dose vaccination to protect themselves and society at large,” said T.P. Raghunath, director of Svarnim of SAS. The play, including songs, was conceptualised by a group of theatre exponents such as Gopi, Deva Pattabirman, Mayakrishnan and Vinayagam. The effort is supported the  National Council for Science and Technology Communication , Department of Science & Technology. The SAS also plans a post-exposure survey in about 7,500 households under Bahour PHC that caters to a population of about 30,000 spread across 20 hamlets, said Mr. Ramachandran and R. Ramesh of the PSF. The opening act on Thursday is at 4.30 p.m. in Soriankuppam followed by performances at Kuruvinatham Mariamman Koil and Kuruvinatham Periyar Nagar. On subsequent days, the troupe will perfom at a host of community sites such as Irunsalai, Irulansandaimadam, Seliamedu, Aranganur, Pinchikuppam, Adhingapet, Kudiyirippupalayam, Keezhparikkalpet, Arachikuppam and Kummundamedu. “Depending on the reception the play gets, we would like to tour more villages in other regions,” Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-play-to-raise-awareness-on-covid-19-in-ut-from-today/article35334698.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door vaccination launched||The Health Department has launched door-to-door vaccination at select PHCs from Wednesday. A press note from T. Arun, Health Secretary, said that in addition to the regular PHC vaccination personnel, all private medical colleges are requested to depute five vaccination teams for door-to-door counselling and vaccination. These teams would comprise two staff nurses or at least one nurse and a nursing student. The Health Department has assigned PHC teams in the locations close to the respective Medical Colleges as follows: Kosapalayam to PIMS, Lawspet to MGMCRI, Mettupalayam to SLIMS, Reddiarpalayam to AVMC, Mudaliarpet and Muthialpet to SVMCH. The schedule will run from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. One death recorded Meanwhile, the Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death, 121 new cases from 6,088 tests, and 177 recoveries on Wednesday. Puducherry reported the only death taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,772. The test positivity rate was 1.99%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.40%. The active cases in the Union Territory stood at 1,327. The cumulative tally in the Union Territory is 1,19,302 cases against 1,16,203 recovered patients. Of an estimated 14 lakh tests administered so far, over 11.96 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the total number of persons vaccinated aggregated to 6,14,335, including 37,646 healthcare professionals, 22,944 frontline workers and 4,35,579 members of the public. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,506 with 39 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total of 46,012 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 416. In Ranipet district, 30 cases were reported positive. In Tirupattur district, 25 new cases were reported on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 74, taking the total tally to 50,936.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-vaccination-launched/article35334691.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||French National Day celebrated||Lise Talbot Barré, French Consul General, led the 232nd anniversary celebrations of French National Day that marks the storming of the Bastille fort-prison this day in 1789 to trigger the historic French Revolution. Ms. Barre laid a wreath at the Monument aux Morts, (French War Memorial) on the Beach Road in homage to soldiers martyred in World War I. K. Muralidharan, Deputy Collector representing the government, also paid floral tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/french-national-day-celebrated/article35334693.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Allow all religious festivals: BJP||A BJP delegation led by party’s Puducherry president V. Saminathan on Wednesday called on Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in his chamber and requested him to allow all religious centres to organise their festivals after following COVID-19 norms. Mr. Saminathan said the delegation requested the Chief Minister to allow all religious institutions to organise festivals at their places of worship. The institutions should be mandated to conduct the festivals following all COVID-19 protocols. The Chief Minister has agreed to consider the demand after holding consultations with officials, he told journalists, adding that the festival season of all religions was set to start in a few days from now. Home Minister A. Namassivayam, party legislators A John Kumar, PML Kalyanasundaram and Richard John Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-all-religious-festivals-bjp/article35334689.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Liquor prices to hit a high||The Excise Department has imposed a flat 20% special excise duty on all liquor brands, whether IMFL, foreign manufactured or imported ones. T. Sudhakar, Deputy Excise Commissioner notified that the hike on the maximum retail price of the liquor brands takes effect on Thursday after the proposal was approved by the Lt. Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-prices-to-hit-a-high/article35334694.ece
15 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector releases Annual Credit Plan for Pudukottai district||The Annual Credit Plan prepared for Pudukottai district for the financial year 2021-22 envisages a total credit outlay of Rs. 5,610.83 crore, an increase of Rs. 332.90 crore over the previous year's plan. Agriculture and allied activities have been earmarked Rs. 4,424.15 crore, while the MSME sector has been allotted Rs. 262.61 crore and Rs. 924.07 crore for other sectors. Prepared by IOB The Annual Credit Plan has been prepared by Pudukottai Lead Bank — Indian Overseas Bank — considering the facts and figures of the previous year's performance in line with the Potential Linked Credit Plan of NABARD and also the directions of Reserve Bank of India in respect of government sponsored schemes. Collector Kavitha Ramu released the Annual Credit Plan at a function organised in Pudukottai on Tuesday, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-releases-annual-credit-plan-for-pudukottai-district/article35334414.ece
15 July 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Golden Jubilee of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 celebrated||The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ (victory flame) to mark the golden jubilee of India’s success in liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971 was brought to the INS Parundu Naval Air Station from INS Kattabomman Thoothukudi. Station Commander Captain Venkatesh R. Iyer said on Wednesday that the flame would be taken to prominent establishments and to the dwellings of some of the war veterans, who had participated in the war 50 years ago. It was an effort made to recognise and honour the valour, bravery and sacrifices of the brave soldiers of the Indian Armed Forces in the 1971 war and an opportunity to rejoice as well as celebrate the occasion throughout the country with full fervour. The victory flame was lit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 16, 2020 from the eternal flame of the national war memorial, New Delhi. This marked the beginning of the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory over Pakistan, which led to the liberation of Bangladesh. The conflict was a result of the Bangladesh Liberation war, when Bangladesh was fighting to seek freedom from Pakistan. In 1971, Pakistan army began to commit genocide on innocent Bengali population in Bangladesh. The actual war between India and Pakistan began when Pakistan launched air strikes on 11 Indian air bases. These attacks forced India to retaliate against Pakistan. On December 16, 1971, the Indian Armed forces achieved a stellar and historic victory over the Pakistan armed forces which led to the creation of Bangladesh and the largest military surrender in conventional war after World War II. Capt. S. K. Menon, Executive Officer, received the team with the entire station saluting the victory flame. The insertion ceremony and other events were conducted in a ceremonial parade at the base station following COVID-19 protocols. Asked about the development activities at the INS Parundu base station, Capt, Iyer said that apart from the surveillance by the Navy, expansion works in the station too were under way. Collector honours The officers from the INS Parundu brought in the golden flame in a decorated vehicle to the Collectorate. Led by Lt Com. Arul Jeevan Kani, the flame was kept at the premises and Collector J. U. Chandrakala, Additional Collector K. J. Praveen Kumar, DRO Kamatchi Ganesan, Assistant Director (Ex-servicemen welfare) S Mathialagan and among others honoured and took a salute. Later, the officials took it to the residence of a jawan who had participated in the 1971 war, a press release said. The victory flame would reach Madurai on Friday and would be taken to Chennai the following day, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-jubilee-of-indias-victory-over-pakistan-in-1971-celebrated/article35334404.ece
15 July 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Ranipet highway to be under two-wheeler police patrol||Key routes such as the Benguluru Highway (NH:48) and the Madras-Kochi Road will soon be safer, as the Ranipet district police have rolled out 26 high-powered two-wheelers to patrol highways and arterial roads within its limits round the clock. The vehicles were flagged off on Wednesday by Superintendent of Police (SP) Om Prakash Meena at the district police office in Ranipet. Named “Garuda”, the two-wheeler police patrol programme will strengthen the existing five-jeep patrol services, preventing highway robberies and other crimes within the newly-carved district. On average, each two-wheeler patrol team, with two officers on duty, will cover around 10 km in three shifts, every day. Initially, the motorcycle patrol will be carried out in major towns like Arcot, Arakkonam, Wallajah, Ranipet and Sholingur. They will later be extended to the rural pockets in the district. However, the primary function of the two-wheeler patrol in the district is to monitor movements of vehicles and people on major national highways like the Bengaluru Highway and State highways that connect Ranipet with its neighbouring districts like Tiruvannamalai and Tiruvallur. “The two-wheeler patrol also helps police personnel reach narrow lanes and crowded places in the district. It helps better surveillance in the district,” said Mr. Meena. At present, the district police patrols 250 km every day with its decades-old jeeps. Among them, the Benguluru Highway between Pilayar Kuppam and Poonumani Pattarai in Ranipet is the longest, with a distance of 48 km, followed by the Madras-Kochi Road, with 26 km, which comes under the Ranipet police district limits. Separate police teams have been formed from each police station to carry out two-wheeler patrolling. A high-level team led by the SP will monitor the teams on a daily basis. The SP also launched a free 24-hour helpline (9498180972) to help victims register complaints from their homes. As and when the police control room and station house officers concerned receive calls from victims, including women and children in distress, information will be passed on to the nearest patrol team to attend to it immediately. Two-wheeler patrol teams are expected to reach the complaint spot in five minutes of receiving the alert from the control room. Deputy Superintendent of Police K.T. Pourani, Inspector (Law and Order) Soloman Raja and Inspector (Traffic) Mukeshkumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ranipet-highway-to-be-under-two-wheeler-police-patrol/article35334687.ece
15 July 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects Collectorate building work in Ranipet||The on-going construction of the District Collectorate in Ranipet was inspected by Public Works Department Minister E.V. Velu on Wednesday. He urged officials to complete the work by the end of the year. Spread over 13.40 acres, the new four-storey Collectorate complex, which comes under Wallajah taluk near the Bengaluru Highways (NH 48), will consist of at least 25 departments including revenue, rural development, animal husbandry, agriculture, social welfare, labour, tourism and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE). The ground floor of the new complex will have public facilities such as banks, ATMs, post office, grievance redressal hall, R.O water taps and toilets and ramps for the disabled. The work began in October last year. “Such small public offices in the new complex will help visitors to get things done quickly,” said A.R. Gladstone Pushparaja, District Collector, Ranipet. Among other things, the complex, being built at a cost of Rs. 118.20 crore, will also have separate cabins for officials of various departments, conference room, LED lights, CCTV cameras and creche. The entire complex will be solar powered to encourage the use of clean energy among officials and visitors. The complex will also have a large landscaping, small parks for children, playground, tiled walkers’ path and rainwater harvesting system. Currently, more than 500 workers, including 25 engineers, are working on the new building with 45% of the total work completed. Similarly, work on the Rs. 109.71 crore District Collectorate Complex in Tirupattur is in full swing with more than 50% of the total work completed. The new building will be a seven-story complex on 2.92 lakh sq.ft plot at the centre of the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-collectorate-building-work-in-ranipet/article35334685.ece
15 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Surrender arms without licence within a week: Salem SP||The district police have asked people to surrender guns without licence to the nearest police station within a week and warned of action if they failed to do so. Addressing the media after launching the Women Helpline 181 here on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said that possession of arms without licence was an offence and asked people to hand over their arms immediately. “Action will be initiated against those who fail to surrender guns,” he warned. He said that 33 rowdy elements have been arrested so far. During the COVID-19 pandemic, 1,193 cases were registered against illegal arrack brewing and distilling, while 1,229 persons were arrested. Over 5,000 litres of liquor procured illegally for sales were seized. The SP said that monitoring has been intensified to prevent liquor smuggling from Karnataka. A total of 120 vehicles seized by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing would be auctioned soon, he added. Mr. Sree Abhinav said that women in distress can lodge complaints at the helpline that would function round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surrender-arms-without-licence-within-a-week-salem-sp/article35334456.ece
15 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers demand salary dues||Conservancy workers staged a sit-in-protest on the corporation office premises here on Wednesday urging the civic body to settle their outstanding dues. Over 5,000 workers, both permanent and temporary, employed in all the 60 wards were paid monthly wages. But, over 150 workers claimed that salary was not paid to 2,500 permanent workers in the past three months. They wanted their dues to be settled at the earliest. They said that since they did not receive their salary, they were unable to pay house rent and also fulfil their basic needs. “We risk our lives during the COVID-19 pandemic and the corporation fails to pay even our salary”, they said. Likewise, they said that though deduction towards their Provident Fund was made regularly, the amount was not credited to their PF account. They blamed the officials for the wrongdoings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-demand-salary-dues/article35334460.ece
15 July 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||‘Poll for left-out local bodies will be held before Sept. 15’||The State Election Commission is taking steps for conducting polls for the uncovered local bodies before the deadline stipulated by the Supreme Court, Minister for Rural Development K.R. Periyakaruppan has said. He visited the district on Wednesday to inspect development works. Speaking to reporters after holding a review meeting at Tenkasi Collectorate on Wednesday night, he said the Supreme Court had set a deadline of September 15 for conducting election for the left-out local bodies of Tamil Nadu and the State Government would ensure its compliance by conducting the polls before the deadline. Though the district of Tenkasi had been blessed with good water resources, some areas of the district did not have copious groundwater and situated far away from the river. The State Government would implement credible drinking water schemes for these hitherto neglected areas very soon. The minister, who handed over welfare assistance worth Rs. 9.35 crore to 1,892 beneficiaries, said that the ‘Periyar Samaththuvapuram’ houses would be given facelift soon. Earlier, he inspected a few ongoing and the completed development projects in the rural Tenkasi on Wednesday. After inspecting the bridge constructed near Kalingapatti on the Sankarankovil – Thiruvenkatam Road at a cost of Rs. 1.73 crore, he reviewed the progress of two rural livelihood programmes for women at Kalappaakulam. While inspecting the road being re-laid between Thalavaipuram and Poigai on at a cost of Rs. 1.37 crore under the Tamil Nadu Rural Roads Scheme, he asked the officials to ensure the quality of the road by sending samples taken from the road on completion of the work. “Only after ensuring the quality and obtaining quality certificate for the road from an authorized institution, the bill should be sanctioned,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-for-left-out-local-bodies-will-be-held-before-sept-15/article35334425.ece
15 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of Budget, Agriculture Minister begins consultations with farmers||With the State government deciding to present a separate Budget for agriculture, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, M.R.K. Panneerselvam has embarked on a State-wide consultative exercise with farmers representatives to elicit their suggestions. Mr. Paneerselvam, who held a consultative meeting with farmers representatives of the Cauvery delta districts here on Wednesday, said the State’s decision to present a separate Budget for farmers had kindled lot of interest and the Budget would “meet the expectations of the farmers.” Briefing reporters after a marathon meeting lasting over five hours, Mr. Paneerselvam said he would hold similar meetings in other regions covering all districts across the State to elicit the suggestions of the farming community. Mr. Paneerselvam disclosed that farmers at the meet expressed their views on various issues including ensuring remunerative prices for farm produce, increasing productivity and use of technology. “The suggestions from farmers will be compiled and presented to the Chief Minister,” he said. To a query, he said steps had been taken to move paddy procured through Direct Purchase Centres to storage godowns swiftly to prevent the grains from being drenched in the “unseasonal rain.” Based on instructions from the Chief Minister, he and the Minister for Food and Civil Supplies held a meeting with Collectors of about 20 districts to discuss the issue. Till Tuesday, about 70,000 tonnes of the 1.57 lakh tonnes of paddy procured by TNCSC were moved to safe locations. The rest of the stock would also be moved within a few days. In an attempt to find a permanent solution to the problem, mobile paddy dryers were being procured by the Agriculture Department for use by farmers. Tarpaulins would also be supplied. Senior farmers leader and general secretary of Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association Mannargudi S.Ranganathan, who participated in the meeting, said he had suggested strengthening of the Agriculture Engineering Department to improve farm mechanisation by making available farm machinery at the firka level. P.R. Pandian, president, Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu, urged the government to constitute State, district and union level committees comprising farmers to advise the government on implementation of agriculture-related schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-budget-agriculture-minister-begins-consultations-with-farmers/article35334401.ece
15 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 volunteers honoured||Collector K. Senthil Raj on Wednesday honoured 36 students, 30 volunteers and 12 non-governmental organisations for joining hands with the district administration in serving the COVID-19 patients when the first two waves were threatening the district. “Without any expectation, you served the infected persons in government hospitals, control rooms and took the relief materials to the people in containment zones. As you joined hands with the official machinery, we could control the ‘first and second waves’ of COVID-19. Caution Though the number of fresh cases has come down, there should be no room for complacency in following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. If we can wage a sustained and disciplined fight against this viral infection, we can easily neutralize even the ‘third wave’,” he said. District Revenue Officer Kannapiraan, Assitant Collector (training) Srutanjay Narayanan, Dean, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Nehru were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-volunteers-honoured/article35334424.ece
15 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||19 motors seized||Officials on Wednesday seized 19 motors fitted in the drinking water connections. After being pumped from the infiltration wells sunk in the Tamirabharani near Vallanaadu, drinking water for residents living in the corporation limits is supplied through 30 overhead tanks across the town. Since pumps have been fitted in more than 70% of the drinking water connections for drawing water, residents living in the tail-end area do not get sufficient water.    The water level in Papanasam Dam on Wednesday stood at 115.75 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 886.81 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 75.35 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 65 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.    Sivathanu, 71, retired tahsildar of Santhanchettivilai in Kottar, was beaten to death on Wednesday. He was taking care of his nephew Vigneshwar Ram, 36, a mentally ill person. Vigneshwar Ram used to get money from Sivathanu. When he asked for money on Wednesday, Sivathanu told him that he had no money. Vigneshwar Ram allegedly attacked him fatally. The Kottar police were informed. Vigneshwar Ram was arrested. The body was sent for a post-mortem.    Skeletons of a six-year-old male elephant was found near Karuppanadhi Dam on Wednesday. Forest personnel said it might have died a few weeks ago. A postmortem was done and samples were sent for analysis. District Forest Officer Gowtham said the animal might have died naturally as there was no injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-motors-seized/article35334756.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Now, Covaxin is biggest crowd-puller in Tiruchi||Large crowds gathered to get the second dose of Covaxin after a fresh consignment arrived in Tiruchi district after a long wait. Around 2,000 doses were allotted for the district, while at least 4,000 people gathered at vaccination centres, officials said. Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, has been in short supply and much in demand as the time interval between two shots is 28 days compared to Covishield’ss 84. A. Hakkim, emergency physician in charge of the inoculation drive within city limits, says crowd control seems to be a bigger problem than convincing people to get the jab. “When we announce that a specific vaccination centre has a stock of 700 doses, at least 2,000 people gather there,” he points out. Officials are forced to send them away and arguments occur, he adds. At Kalaiarangam and Jamal Mohammed College, Covaxin was administered to 1,400 people. “Many think that this is the best time to get vaccinated as the number of cases are low. But that does not allow overcrowding,” he says. Several act as proxy. “They make excuses that they are there on behalf of an aged relative, but they end up allowing more than 10 people to cut the queue. Seeing this, others pick up a fight. And then there are those who demand special treatment,” he lists out. Reopening of offices and workplaces has also led to increase in people rushing to get the jab. “Some organisations have begun to insist on vaccination certificates and even go as far as deducting the employee’s salary or medical allowances. To avoid this, people are rushing to get the vaccine,” a senior official in the civic body said. Covaxin is preferred due to shorter waiting time between two doses, the official adds. The possibility of a fake vaccination racket also looms large. With vaccines in short supply, Dr. Hakkim predicts that the crowds would continue to throng vaccination centres until restrictions are imposed. “They complain about crowds, but they do not follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, which is disheartening,” he rues. Meanwhile, 245 travel agents, tour guides and others attached to the hospitality industry were vaccinated at a special camp organised at the Hotel Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-covaxin-is-biggest-crowd-puller-in-tiruchi/article35334410.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Safety protocols fly out of the window||Blatant violation of COVID-19 protocol by crew members of State-operated buses and passengers is now a cause for concern. As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), all drivers and conductors of public transport vehicles must wear masks. Similarly, passengers should strictly adhere to COVID-19 protocol while travelling in buses. In addition to them, buses must be sanitised frequently and passengers must beasked to apply hand sanitisers before being allowed to board buses. Though most of the guidelines were duly followed in the first few days of resumption of bus services, most of the crew members and passengers seemed to have thrown caution to the wind by failing to wear face masks. While a section of passengers leaves their masks at home or keep them in their bags, others wore masks to cover their chin. A visit to Central Bus Stand indicated that less than half the passengers and commuters adhered to COVID-19 safety protocol. Many could be seen without face masks and some wore them improperly. As far as bus crew members were concerned, almost all of them had masks. But many of them failed to cover their mouth and nose. Similarly, most of the conductors did not seem to insist that the passengers wear masks before allowing them into the buses. “Public transport is an important source of virus transmission. But many do not seem to bother to follow the safety protocol. Only one- third of the passengers preferred to follow the safety protocol. It will not serve the purpose even people like me dutifully follow the protocol when many others have thrown caution to the wind,” said M. Selvakumar, a passenger travelling from Dindigul to Tiruchi. Though the government had made it clear that bus crew and passengers should follow the safety protocol, there was no mechanism to check the transgressions of passengers. The same situation prevailed in city buses too. Though bus crew members were asked to limit passengers up to 50% of the capacity, the rule was flouted by many vehicles. When contacted, a senior official of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) in Tiruchi toldThe Hinduthat bus crew members had been strictly instructed to wear masks. While a bus crew member was booked for the violation, a few others were cautioned. The official said bus crew members had been time and again warned that COVID-19 cases would surge again if the safety protocol was not followed properly. Ticket-checking examiners had been asked to inspect whether the passengers were wearing masks properly, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-protocols-fly-out-of-the-window/article35334408.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Miyawaki technique gaining ground in many areas||The Japanese urban forestry technique of Miyawaki is fast gaining popularity in Tiruchi district. Not many would have imagined that the method would catch the imagination of the people in a big way when 10,000 saplings were planted on 1.25 acres of land owned by Ranganathaswamy Temple on South Devi Street in Srirangam about a year and a half ago. S. Vaidhyanathan, who was Assistant Commissioner of Tiruchi Corporation, initiated the drive with the support of a few individuals. The saplings grew to a height of more than 10 feet within three months. Now, the number of plants raised under the initiative has gone up to 5.93 lakh in Lalgudi revenue division alone. The saplings have been raised on vacant sites and land belonging to the government, Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and railways. In the initial stages, school and college students were roped in for planting. When officials found it difficult to source volunteers for the project after educational institutions closed down due to COVID-19, they began to engage the services of workers of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. It cost between Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 20 lakh to raise each urban forestry depending on the size of the land and number of trees. To a large extent, the expenditure has been shared by businessmen, traders and prominent citizens, who volunteered to support the intiative. Lalgudi, Samayapuram, Kallakudi, Poonampalayam, Inam Samayapuram, Irungalur, Konalai, Venkatachalapuram and Pallapuram are among locations where urban forestry has been raised with people’s participation. Mango, guava, tamarind, vempu , sapota , lemon, vaagai and poovarasam loom large among the planted species. The plantations have turned into dense forests with trees growing reaching a height of more than 15 to 20 feet, turning the environment lush green. “Individuals and organisations who sponsored the initiative deserve appreciation. It has been observed that more than 90% of the saplings have grown to trees,” says Collector S. Sivarasu. It has been decided to plant four more lakh saplings within two to three months in and around Lalgudi, he adds. “The urban forestry at Poonampalayam, where 50,000 plants have been raised, has emerged as a model. Besides adding beauty to the area, it is a walkers’ paradise for locals,” says S. Vaidhyanathan, Revenue Divisional Officer, Lalgudi. Mr. Vaidhyanathan says steps have been taken to raise 1.5 lakh saplings on 12 acres of land belonging to a temple at Thachankurichi. Saplings have been sourced from various places in the State. Also, a few more sites have been identified to increase the total number of plants to 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miyawaki-technique-gaining-ground-in-many-areas/article35334868.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 446 new cases, 16 deaths||The central region reported 446 fresh cases for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The region reported a sudden increase in the number of deaths reported of the viral infection, as 16 people succumbed to the illness according to the COVID-19 bulletin. In Thanjavur district, five patients succumbed to COVID-19, while three died in Tiruchi. Two deaths each were reported in Perambalur and Tiruvarur districts. Karur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts reported one death each, while no COVID-19 deaths were reported in Ariyalur. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of cases amongst the central districts even as it reported a slight dip compared to the previous day. A total of 171 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Tiruchi reported a further dip with 94. This is the second consecutive day that the district reported less than 100 fresh positive cases. The seven other districts in the region reported less than 35 fresh COVID-19 cases. In Mayiladuthurai district, 34 patients tested positive, while it's neighbouring district Nagapattinam reported 32. Pudukottai district reported 31 and Tiruvarur, 27. In Ariyalur, 28 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported and in Karur, 16. Meanwhile, Perambalur district reported the lowest number of fresh cases among the central districts with 13 patients reporting COVID-19 positive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-report-446-fresh-cases-16-deaths/article35334412.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||They kept the ovens going during lockdown||Bread has literally been the lifeline for the Rehabilitation Centre for Blind Women (RCBW) in Mannarpuram. The centre has been running the bakery non-stop during the lockdown. A newly refurbished premises of the bakery was inaugurated recently. “We were able to supply bread, tea buns and other baked items at a time when other commercial bakeries were closed. Our staff have all been vaccinated, and we follow standard safety and hygiene procedures. We were using only one industrial oven at first, but we are able to produce more after repairing another oven, and adding two mechanical kneaders,” Vimala Moses, honorary superintendent and project director of the centre, told The Hindu . Established on July 14, 1975 by noted ophthalmologist and philanthropist Joseph Gnanadhickam (founder of Joseph Eye Hospital), RCBW provides vocational training to visually challenged women in the age group of 18-35 years. The bakery’s renovation was completed with funds from Help the Blind Foundation of Hong Kong, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), which supports university education for the visually challenged, and other well-wishers. The new premises was formally inaugurated over the weekend, and is expected to sell its wares through a small cafeteria adjoining the bakery kitchen. Like the weaving unit, and the tailoring section situated within the RCBW campus, the bakery is staffed by sighted and visually impaired workers. The kneading, proofing and baking of the dough is taken care of by sighted bakers, R. Victoria and Emina, while six visually impaired students help out with cleaning and preparing the pans and packaging the goods for sale. All the food items are free of chemical preservatives.Bulk orders for institutions and private occasions are also undertaken by the home. The reasonably priced goods like bread, coconut buns, puffs and biscuits earn the centre around Rs. 2,500 per day. Customers can collect their orders directly from the centre while they enjoy the aroma of freshly baked bread and buns wafting through the rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-kept-the-ovens-going-during-lockdown/article35334870.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vendors around Gandhi Market get alternative site||Street vendors plying their trade around Gandhi Market have been temporarily allocated space inside Diamond Jubilee Ground opposite to the market. The decision was taken at a meeting organised by city police with a section of vendors and office-bearers of AITUC here on Tuesday. In an attempt to ease congestion and ensure free flow of traffic, police removed all platform and pushcart vendors operating along Thanjavur Road, Vellamandi and nearby areas in the market area recently. Following the nearly hour-long talks on Tuesday, it was decided that 54 vendors would be permitted to conduct business inside a portion of the ground. The vendors were advised to approach the Corporation to obtain identity cards. They were also asked to pay rent for the allocated space to Corporation contractors. It was also decided at the meeting that the vendors should not indulge in business in any other area and cause hindrance to vehicular movement. Those violating the decision should abide by the legal action taken by law enforcers. Further, it was also decided that the vendors should abide by all actions taken by the Corporation in the near future. The meeting was presided over by the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Fort Range (law and order), R. Mahendran. Assistant Commissioner of Police-Traffic (South) A. Murugesan, police officers, AITUC district general secretary K. Suresh, AITUC district president S. Siva, Tiruchi District Street Vendors Association president A. Ansardeen and a section of vendors participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vendors-around-gandhi-market-get-alternative-site/article35334413.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New TCC chief takes charge||P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman on Wednesday assumed office as Commissioner of Tiruchi City Corporation. His predecessor, S. Sivasubramanian, who was transferred and posted as Commissioner of Dindigul Corporation, handed over charge to him. Mr. Rahuman, a native of Ilayangudi in Sivaganga district, was Regional Director of Municipal Administration in Chengalpattu. He worked as Commissioner of various municipalities including Kancheepuram and Ramanathapuram. He was Commissioner of Kancheepuram when Athi Varadar festival was conducted in 2019. Besides taking all possible steps to improve civic infrastructure of the city, he said he would devote his time and energy to implement development works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-tcc-chief-takes-charge/article35334406.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||More police force to be deployed to prevent ration rice smuggling||Asserting that smuggling of rice and kerosene meant for public distribution system would be dealt with an iron hand, Minister for Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection R. Sakkarapani has informed that additional police force would be involved in preventing illegal transport of these essential commodities to other States, especially Kerala. Speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting here on Wednesday to review the performance of the Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection with the officials from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts, he said the Chief Minister had agreed to deploy more police force for preventing smuggling of ration rice and kerosene to other States. A senior police officer in the rank of Superintendent of Police, who had been stationed in Madurai, would be placed in Tirunelveli so as to effectively check the smuggling of ration rice or kerosene to Kerala from Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts. When he was informed about the smuggling of kerosene being given to the boats at subsidized cost and the fuel meant for PDS to Kerala by boats, he said that due measures would be put in place to check this illegal trade. He promised to look into the illegal transport of ration rice being taken to Kerala from Kanniyakumari district via 7 routes as ‘rice flour’ after grinding it in the mills in Kanniyakumari district. As Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj mooted the idea of digitizing the check-posts with modern surveillance gadgets to check the smuggling of essentials, Mr. Sakkarapani accepted it immediately saying that it would be considered positively. Referring to the brown-colour rice being sold in the ration shop, he said the paddy being purchased from the farmers at the direct procurement centres should have the maximum moisture of 17% while the previous government had purchased 14 lakh tonnes of paddy with even 25% moisture. Consequently, this rice with high moisture content, on getting hulled in the rice mills, was brownish in colour. “We are yet to start purchasing any paddy from farmers. The rice we are transporting now to the ration shops is what was purchased with higher moisture content and stocked by the previous regime. Even then, the Chief Minister has asked us to sell only the fine variety rice being liked by the cardholders,” he said. On opening the paddy direct procurement centres, he said the State government has proposed to open 2,608 DPCs across Tamil Nadu with priority being given to the delta districts. The officials had been instructed to open the DPC wherever it was required. “The officials should ensure the shifting of the paddy procured in the DPC to the nearest godown immediately or cover it properly without getting drenched by rains,” he said. He informed that the government had set a target of constructing buildings within two years for ration shops which were functioning from rented buildings. Either from the MLA or MP constituency development fund or the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme that permits construction of godown under this fund could be utilized for this purpose. Speaker M. Appavu, who presided, said cardholders living the villages with less than 100 ration cards had to travel for more than 2 km to reach the ration shops. “Most of these villages are ready to provide building for the ration shop and even the electronic scales. The minister may consider this goodwill gesture and open part-time ration shops in those villages wherever the buildings are given for running ration shops,” he said. He said the Collectors had been asked to inspect at least ten ration shops a month to ascertain the problems prevailing in the ration shops and the quality of the essential commodities being sold there. “We also welcome the elected representatives to inspect the ration shops randomly to check the quality of our products and the service,” he said. Minister for Fisheries Animal Husbandry Anita R. Radhakrishnan, Commissioner for Civil Supplies Ananthakumar, District Collector V. Vishnu, MPs S. Gnanathiraviam of Tirunelveli and Vijay Vasanth of Kanniyakumari, MLAs M. Abdul Wahab of Palayamkottai, G.V. Markandeyan of Vilaathikulam and M.R. Gandhi of Nagercoil participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-police-force-to-be-deployed-to-prevent-ration-rice-smuggling/article35334434.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vikas engine test conducted||Indian Space Research Organisation has successfully conducted the third long duration hot test of Vikas engine, which is to be used in the ‘Gaganyaan’ programme with liquid propellant. The Vikas engine is to be used in the core liquid stage L 110 of GSLV Mk III vehicle for ISRO’s prestigious ‘Gaganyaan’, which is designed for India’s human spaceflight programme. The engine was fired for 240 seconds at the engine test facility of ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) at Mahendragiri. The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test, a tweet from ISRO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vikas-engine-test-conducted/article35334426.ece
15 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Women, transgender persons can travel for free in only 11 buses in the Nilgiris||Women and transgender persons can travel for free in only 11 of the 320 TNSTC buses operating in the Nilgiris district. Transport officials said the scheme was implementable in only six designated "town buses" in Udhagamandalam and five buses in Coonoor, and for none of the buses in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks. The remaining 309 buses have been designated as mofussil buses, officials said. S. Manogaran, a Coonoor-based activist and president of the Coonoor Consumer Protection Association, said that the number of government buses operating within the towns of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri had been reduced by the TNSTC in the last few years, and that 110 private mini buses had been given permission to operate within town limits. “These buses charge a minimum fare of Rs. 10 per ticket,” said Mr. Manogaran in a petition calling for increasing the number of town buses plying in the Nilgiris. In other districts, town buses are allowed to operate for a distance of 30 km from the nearest town, but that is not the case in the Nilgiris, where TNSTC town buses operate only for a distance of 10 km within town limits, he alleged. In a list of demands, Mr. Manogaran called for increasing the number of town buses. He also called for a reduction in the number of permits issued to private mini buses, and called for limited stop service (LSS) buses to charge the same amount for tickets from passengers as that of regular service buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-transgender-persons-can-travel-for-free-in-only-11-buses-in-the-nilgiris/article35334779.ece
15 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing wife, mother-in-law||The Manaloorpettai police on Wednesday arrested a man on charges of murdering his wife and mother-in-law at Murukkampadi. The accused, Murugan, an autorickshaw driver, in a drunken state murdered his wife and mother-in law over a family dispute, police said. The incident happened on Tuesday night, the police said adding they managed to arrest the culprit from his relative’s house on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-wife-mother-in-law/article35334688.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A.K. Rajan Committee submits report on NEET||Last year, the State introduced a special reservation of 7.5% of the seats in its pool for government school students. Around 300 students benefited from the decision. This year, the Union Education Ministry has proposed to conduct NEET on September 12. While the State government is trying its best to seek exemption, it is continuing its training programme for government school students. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian and the Chief Minister have said they do not want the students to suffer in case the assent for exemption is delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ak-rajan-committee-submits-report-on-neet/article35334419.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||270 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 270 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that eight more persons from the district died of the disease in the last few days. The district’s death toll stood at 2,116. According to the department, the district had 3,629 active cases of COVID-19. As many as 414 persons recovered from the disease. Tiruppur district reported 146 new cases, taking the overall tally to 86,044. The Health Department reported two new deaths, taking the toll to 808. A total of 1,557 patients were active cases in the district. A total of 164 patients were reported to have recovered in the district on Wednesday. In the Nilgiris, 68 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 29,625.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/270-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article35334777.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hold monsoon session in Belagavi, Kore urges govt.||The former member of the Rajya Sabha and KLE Society Chairman Prabhakar Kore has demanded that the State government hold the monsoon session of the State legislature at the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi. He also demanded that successive governments hold sessions for at least 30 days a year in Belagavi. People of the region are unhappy about the government failing to hold sessions for the last two or three years. The main objective of holding sessions here is to discuss issues related to North Karnataka. It is sad that the government has failed to hold sessions, he said. KLE Society had organised one such legislature session on its premises even before the Suvarna Soudha was built. Following this, there were demands that Belagavi should be made the second capital of the State and that offices of senior State-level officers be shifted to Belagavi. The spirit behind this effort should be preserved and sessions should be held here, he said. Mr. Kore recalled the efforts in getting the Suvarna Soudha built. He lamented that it was ironical, however, that the the original objective has been forgotten. The sessions were shorter and the attendance of legislators was low. It seemed as though legislators were using sessions to go on tours of nearby places. The government should take up construction of a legislators home complex, a functional canteen in the Suvarna Soudha and an officials quarters to ensure regular conduct of legislature sessions here, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hold-monsoon-session-in-belagavi-kore-urges-govt/article35334470.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Reopening of colleges only after students are vaccinated: Minister||Colleges will start after vaccination of students, teachers and staff is completed, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in Hubballi on Monday. The State government has not taken a decision yet on reopening colleges. However, the department is making preparations for reopening, keeping in mind the fact that they may open once the vaccination process is completed, he said. “The process of reopening colleges and universities is fraught with challenges. However, how long can we go on like this? Life should be back on track as soon as possible. We have to take enough safety measures and aim at reopening colleges. In this regard, universal vaccination of all college students is the only way ahead,” he said. He denied the charge that the government has neglected its duty of vaccinating citizens. On the one hand, “we are vaccinating people and on the other, we are equipping hospitals to treat larger number of patients,” he clarified. There are over 6,000 beds for COVID-19 patients in government hospitals. “We are appointing over 2,000 doctors, para medical staff and group D staff. All this will help us better manage the epidemic,” he told journalists on his arrival in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reopening-of-colleges-only-after-students-are-vaccinated-minister/article35334474.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dalit Yuva Sanghatane stages protest||Members of the Karnataka Dalit Yuva Sanghatane staged a protest in Belagavi on Tuesday against price rise. The protestors walked from Rani Channamma Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and shouted slogans against the Union government and the State government. They said that the government’s failure to reduce taxes on fuel and also failure to control prices of food and other essential commodities had made the lives of the poor very difficult. “The poor are driven to suicide. But the government has taken no steps to help them out,’’ they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalit-yuva-sanghatane-stages-protest/article35334467.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Focus on tier 2, tier 3 cities||The State government’s Beyond Bengaluru policy will focus on the growth of the IT sector in tier 2 and tier 3 cities, Deputy Chief Minister and IT and BT Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said in Hubballi on Monday. The Hubballi region has been given prominence under Beyond Bengaluru and several industries have already been set up in the region. Some industries are also being set up due to the Electronic System Design and Manufacturing policy, he said. Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM) will help attract investment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-tier-2-tier-3-cities/article35334473.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man booked on the charge of killing his daughters||The police have booked a resident of Kangrali Khurd village on the charge of killing his daughters by poisoning them on Wednesday. The police suspected that he was upset over rumours of black magic being carried out near his house. Anil Chandrakant Bandekar (35) consumed poison after poisoning his daughters Anjali (8) and Ananya (4), when his wife was not home. Later, his wife who saw that her daughters were dead but her husband was writhing in pain, called her neighbours who alerted the police. Anil Bandekar was shifted to the District Hospital where he is recovering. Assistant Commissioner of Police Narayan Rao Baramani said that the motive behind the offence is not known. “We have filed a case against the accused in the APMC Police Station and investigation is on,” he said. Some villagers told the police that the family was depressed following rumours that some enemies had performed black magic in front of their house. They told us that Anil Bandekar was depressed. More details will be available in a few days, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-on-the-charge-of-killing-his-daughters/article35334478.ece
15 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Take charge||The former member of the Belagavi City Corporation Pushpa Parvat Rao took charge as president of the Rotary Club of Belagavi Darpan, an all-woman club. Soumya Patil took charge as secretary and Lakshmi Chavali as the treasurer. The installation ceremony was held in Belagavi on Tuesday. Komal Kollimath took over as vice -president and Roopali Janaj as joint secretary. Asha Patil, Seema Doni, Savita Hebbar, Vijaylakshmi Mannikeri, Meena Patil, Surekha Mummigatti, Jayashree Patil and Sheela Patil took charge as directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-charge/article35334471.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All set for e-bike taxis to take off in State||For the first time, private players, individuals, firms and aggregators, will be able to run electric bike taxis in cities across the State. The government on Wednesday brought out ‘The Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi Scheme, 2021’ with the aim of improving first and last-mile connectivity, reducing carbon emissions, and generating self-employment opportunities. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday released a booklet on the scheme and interacted with various aggregators and manufacturers of e-bikes. Flat rate Operators can provide the service for a distance of 10 km, and charge a flat fare in two slabs, first up to 5 km and the second from five to ten kilometres. Pillion riders or passengers shall be offered the most direct and shortest route. The distance of the journey travelled by the hirer shall be measured on the basis of an odometer fitted on the bike. The fare shall be collected on the basis of distance and not on the basis of journey time, stated the booklet. Operators must provide helmets to the pillion rider booking the service and the rider must wear a jacket with reflective colour marked as ‘electric bike taxi’. Riders must have valid DLs and the service provider must check the antecedents of riders. In case of an individual, the applicant shall submit the antecedents report from the Police Department at the time of filing application for licence. The scheme also states that the name and phone number of the service provider or individual and bike driver must be painted on the wheeler or firmly affixed on the exterior of the body of the vehicle. Age limit Minors below the age of 15 will not be allowed to use e-bike taxi service. The pillion rider can carry only a normal size backpack or handheld briefcase of reasonable weight while riding. The scheme has also made it mandatory to carry a first-aid box in the vehicles. GPS tracking of vehicles shall be adopted by the service provider having more than 50 bike taxis and links or feeds shall be shared with enforcement or administrative authority whenever required. The former principal secretary of the Transport Department Anjum Parwez said, “The government has also interacted with operators such as Ola, Uber, Rapido, Bounce and other manufacturers. During the interactions, many suggestions have come from the representatives. This scheme is also aimed at individuals running e-bike taxis and generating income in the coming days.” The scheme will come into effect after it gets notified in the gazette. Approvals needed The approval of the State transport authority is required for private players to operate more than 100 e-bikes. The Regional Transport Authority can give approval of up to 100 bikes. Individuals need to approach the jurisdictional secretary of RTA for a license. Exemptions offered The CM said the State government will give tax and permit exemptions to those running e-bike taxis. Officials have said that in Bengaluru, more than five players have shown interest in operating e-bike taxi services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-e-bike-taxis-to-take-off-in-state/article35334329.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Black fungus treatment: Hospitals face shortage of drug||Rakesh Kakol, an engineer with Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd., has been running pillar to post for over a week desperately trying to source Liposomal Amphotericin B for his colleague who is suffering from mucormycosis. But so far, he has not been able to get his hands on the potentially life-saving drug. “Even Bowring Hospital, where my friend is admitted, doesn’t have stock of Liposomal Amphotericin B,” he said. The shortage of the drug is not limited to Bengaluru alone. Rangareddy from Raichur whose brother Anjaneya, 37, a lineman by profession, is admitted to a government hospital in the district, said, “The drug supply is very sporadic, it comes to our district once every four or five days. The treatment has been prolonged and my brother’s condition is worsening because of lack of medication,” he said. With the drug not available in other districts as well, families are coming to Bengaluru in the hope that the situation will be better in the State capital. While COVID-19 cases may have come down drastically, the number of active mucormycosis cases is still high. At present there are 2,462 cases of black fungus in the State. Bengaluru Urban has the highest number of active cases at 851 as on Wednesday. However, the availability of Liposomal Amphotericin B has consistently not kept pace with the number of active cases. As on Wednesday, the State has a stock of 5,100 vials, sources in the Health and Family Welfare Department said. “A patient needs at least five vials every day. Clearly the available stocks are woefully inadequate,” said a senior doctor at a government hospital in the city, who did not wish to be named. H.S. Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said the number of active mucormycosis cases hasn’t fallen sharply yet as the duration of treatment for the infection is much longer. “There is a severe shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B medicine in the State. On an anecdotal basis, we feel only 30% of the demand is being met, pushing several patients into desperation. The supply of the medicine has been a problem from day one and hasn’t been fixed at all,” he said. Trade regulations PHANA has tried to import the medicine from abroad, but since the Union government has regulated its trade, private players are not allowed to import stock. “We made several applications, but have been turned down. Either the government must import adequate quantities or allow private players who can to do so,” he said. Inadequate alternatives Most hospitals are making do with using either Amphotericin injections, that are said to be nephrotoxic or Posaconazole, a drug said to be less than 30% effective for treating the infection. “We are treating most patients with Posaconazole, but its not very effective. Even when successful, the recovery is very slow, which may lead to other complications,” said Dr. Prasanna.  There is a severe shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B medicine in the State. On an anecdotal basis, we feel only 30% of the demand is being met, pushing several patients into desperation. The supply of the medicine has been a problem from day one and hasn’t been fixed at all. H.S. Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-fungus-treatment-hospitals-face-shortage-of-drug/article35334315.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many schools to give mock SSLC exam a miss||With a majority of Class 10 students unwilling to take the risk and travel to centres to give the mock Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination, many school managements, both government and private, have decided not to hold a dry run. The State government has scheduled these examinations on July 15 and July 17. H.K. Manjunath, president, High School Assistant Masters’ Association, said that they have requested the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) to make the test mandatory in only one or two schools in the taluk. “Many schools are not conducting the test as we do not want to lose the gains we have made in curtailing the COVID-19 pandemic. There is no need for schools to encourage crowding during these times,” he said. Students are also unwilling to risk contracting COVID-19 days before the SSLC examination scheduled on July 19 and 22. D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that most private schools have already conducted mock examinations online. “We have given detailed instructions to students on how to attempt the examination. There is no need to put students’ health at risk during the pandemic,” he said. Not compulsory V. Anbu Kumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that it was not compulsory to hold the mock test and the decision on whether to do so should be left to the school headmaster. “School managements or teachers cannot force any student to come and attend the mock examination,” he said. Schools that do wish to go ahead with a dry run can call only 15 students per day and a maximum of six students can be seated in each classroom. “Students can also take the mock test from their homes,” sad Mr. Kumar. Hall tickets Meanwhile, many parents have complained to the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board alleging that private schools are not issuing hall tickets to their children due to non-payment of fees for the 2020-2021 academic year. Letter to govt. The All India Democratic Students’ Organisation, Karnataka State Committee in a letter to the State government has urged officials to intervene immediately and resolve the issue in the interests of students and parents. “Students are writing exams in midst of tremendous mental pressure, this move only increases their mental agony,” the organisation said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-schools-to-give-mock-sslc-exam-a-miss/article35334335.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New PHCs in at least 20 wards by July-end||Of the 198 wards in the city, only 141 have Primary Health Centres (PHCs) that are in the forefront of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) COVID-19 vaccination programme. To ensure that all wards have one dedicated health centre, the civic body is set to establish PHCs in the remaining 57 wards. In all probability, at least 20 new PHCs will be established by the end of July. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep told The Hindu that the civic body had sought funds from the State government to the tune of Rs. 2 crore per PHC. A proposal has been sent to the government. Initially, there were only 85 PHCs originally under the BBMP in the three core zones. There were 56 centres in the five outer zones that were still under the jurisdiction of the Bengaluru Urban district. However, in the wake of the pandemic, the State government handed over the 56 PHCs to BBMP. The exercise to identify suitable locations for the PHC in the remaining 57 wards began last year. The State government had also given its in principle approval to the BBMP to establish the PHCs in these wards in rented premises on a temporary basis and had sanctioned Rs. 10 crore for the same. Mr. Randeep admitted that following the second wave of COVID-19, the exercise had taken a backseat. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that the identification of the sites where these centres can be permanently housed is in progress. “We require some capital infrastructure and recurring budget for their operations. Setting up PHCs in 57 wards is part of the medical infrastructure upgradation plan,” he said. The civic body had decided to set up the PHCs in rented buildings as an immediate step wherever possible. “We are looking at buildings where they can be housed permanently or sites where the buildings can be constructed. In locations where civil works are required, the PHCs will be established in rented premises,” said Mr. Randeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-phcs-in-at-least-20-wards-by-july-end/article35334318.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Modi govt. rubbing salt into the wound by keeping prices high’||All India Congress Committee spokesperson Supriya Shrinate has said that high prices are rubbing salt into the wound, especially during an unprecedented pandemic, as people battle both the virus and the Narendra Modi-led government’s “callous mismanagement of the economy”. Addressing reporters at the party office in Bengaluru, she said the latest reading of inflation figures is alarming. Retail inflation was nearly 6.3%, well above the RBI’s target of 6%. The urban consumer price index (CPI) has risen from 5.91% in May to 6.37% in June. Core inflation (which excludes both fuel and food) has moved up steeply in a month from 5.5% to 5.8%. Food inflation was at 5.58%. Pulses inflation was at 10.01%. Fruits inflation was at 11.82%, while oils and fats inflation was at 34.78%. Mismanagement of the economy by the Centre had rendered many people jobless, reduced wages, and left many impoverished. Instead of putting money in the hands of people, the “insensitive government” is forcing them to pay higher prices for basic goods, she said. The Congress leader claimed that 23 crore people had slipped below the poverty line, undoing almost all the good work done by the UPA government, which pulled 27 crore people out of poverty during its 10-year tenure. Nearly two crore people lost their jobs in April and May, she said, adding that 97% people were earning lower wages today. Indians have been forced to withdraw almost Rs. 1.25 lakh crore out of their provident fund, she claimed. She said high-import duties make some essential imports, such as palm oil and pulses, expensive, resulting in higher retail prices. Multiple and high rates of GST for goods of daily use, such as toothpaste, soap and tea, are burdening the common man. The Congress wants the Union government to immediately bring relief to people by reducing the prices of petrol, diesel, and LPG. The party will raise the issue of high inflation burdening the common man in the forthcoming session of Parliament, said Ms. Shrinate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-govt-rubbing-salt-into-the-wound-by-keeping-prices-high/article35334337.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Monsoon gains steam, red alert sounded in parts of Karnataka||The southwest monsoon that has covered the entire country has also gained steam in Karnataka, with many parts of the State being issued red, orange, and yellow alerts for the coming days. This week, red alert (extremely heavy rainfall) has been sounded for all of Coastal Karnataka (Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada) and parts of South Interior Karnataka (Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu) for July 17. Orange alert (very heavy rainfall) has been issued for many parts of the State for Thursday and Friday, including all of Coastal Karnataka, and on Friday and Saturday for parts of North Interior Karnataka, including Belagavi, Dharwad, and Haveri. Yellow alert, indicating heavy rainfall, has been issued to parts of North Interior Karnataka and South Interior Karnataka for Thursday. India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru, director C.S. Patil said on Wednesday too, most parts of the State recorded widespread rainfall, with the chief amounts being recorded in parts of Coastal Karnataka. “Under the influence of existing systems, Coastal, North Interior and South Interior Karnataka are expected to experience widespread rainfall till July 18,” he said. “Bengaluru is very likely to experience rain with maximum temperature of 25°C and minimum temperature of 20°C during the next two days. Surface wind would be strong and gusty at times,” he added. The monsoon had slackened recently, worrying large sections, especially the agricultural sector, as deficit rainfall was reported in many parts despite the State as a whole recording 12% more rainfall than usual in June as per IMD data. But the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre had said that between June 26 and July 2, rainfall across the State was 58% below normal. The prolonged rainless days had seen standing crops in parts of the State withering, sowing under rainfed conditions affected, and reduced inflow into the major reservoirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monsoon-gains-steam-red-alert-sounded-in-parts-of-karnataka/article35334339.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||REVA offers 100% fee waiver to COVID-19-affected||REVA University has taken the initiative to waive 100% tuition fees for the academic year 2021-22 for students who lost parents or breadwinners in the family to COVID-19. It also extended this initiative to students who apply to any of its 50+ UG courses this academic year. In a release, P. Shyama Raju, Chancellor, stated, “The university was founded with a mission to give back to society and empower youth and this initiative is aligned with that. The pandemic has posed numerous challenges to educators and the student community, but it should not take away the right and opportunity of every child to be educated. Our fee waiver aims to mitigate the situation.” Vaccination drive REVA has also launched a free mega vaccination drive for students, employees and their dependent families. Besides this, it has also upgraded the health facilities at REVA Health Care Centre to meet any emergencies that might arise, the release added. Commenting on these initiatives, Dr. Raju stated, “The pandemic has hampered normalcy, but the university is determined to ensure that members of the REVA family are less affected.” “During the first wave, the university had also launched JeevaSethu, a ventilator conceptualised and built by the faculty and students of REVA. The technology for the ventilator was supported by REVA and has benefited hundreds of families during the second wave, when there was paucity of beds and ventilators,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reva-offers-100-fee-waiver-to-covid-19-affected/article35334316.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL penalises metro passengers||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has formed five teams comprising home guards, security staff and officials to crack down on commuters who are not wearing masks or following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Though Namma Metro resumed services on June 21, the BMRCL started penalising violators from July 1. From July 1-12, it collected fines amounting to Rs. 2.82 lakh. During the same period, cases were booked against 1,148 passengers. “There is a provision to impose a penalty of Rs. 250, and we are following this, as per protocol, to contain the spread of COVID-19,” said B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO of BMRCL. This is not the first time BMRCL has cracked down on violators or imposed fines. Prior to Namma Metro services shutting down during the second wave of COVID-19, BMRCL had fined commuters for not wearing masks. From March 24 to April 27 this year, more than Rs. 4.34 lakh was collected as penalty and cases were booked against 1,747 passengers. Since resuming operations in June, BMRCL has been increasing services gradually, keeping in mind the guidelines of the Karnataka government, said Mr. Chavan. The number of train trips operated, which was 150 initially, has crossed 200 per day. The number of commuters crossed 1.18 lakh on July 12. On the first day of resumption of services, nearly 42,000 passengers had travelled on Namma Metro. Last week, the figure crossed the one lakh mark. The number is likely to increase with further relaxation in COVID-19 lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-penalises-metro-passengers/article35334321.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for possessing pistols||The Banaswadi police arrested three history-sheeters and recovered three country-made pistols and 24 rounds of ammunition from them. The accused have been identified as Fayazulla, 32, Syed Siraj Ahmed, 42, and Mohammed Ali, 32. Over half a dozen criminal cases are pending against the accused. “They sourced the weapons from their contact in Shirdi, Maharashtra,” said an officer. Fayazulla was arrested twice before under the Arms Act, 1959, for selling country-made weapons. “He was remanded into judicial custody but managed to come out on bail,” the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-possessing-pistols/article35334326.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Missing man reunited with family after 3 years||A 27-year-old person diagnosed with schizophrenia and incoherent speech problems at a rehabilitation centre in the city was for nine months before he could identify himself. Once he was able to communicate and reveal his identity, the staff tracked his family to a remote village in Malda, West Bengal. They were reunited a few days ago. The victim was found unconscious on the road last year and was taken to the Nimhans. Diagnosed with schizophrenia and incoherent speech problems, he was treated for six months after which the jurisdictional Siddapura police relocated him to the Sumana Ellen Trust, a rehab centre for addicts and patients with mental illnesses at Vironagare. After three months of treatment, he slowly regained his ability to speak, and said his name was Jinarul Mia. It took another month before he identified his native village as Baburbona. N. Lakshminarayana, who runs the trust, found the village online . He contacted the local police, but they were not able to help. When it was confirmed that Jinarul was from West Bengal, Mr. Lakshminarayana sought the help of a few migrant labourers from that State. Some of them met him and reportedly travelled to his village to make inquiries. Their efforts paid off, and in June this year they managed to trace his family. A video call was organised and Jinarul was able to meet his family, who identified him by a missing toe in the right leg. His family told Mr. Lakshminarayana that Jinarul, who was working as a labourer in Delhi, suffered from psychological problems and went missing three years ago. They were physically reunited a few days ago, and took him home. “It was a miracle that Jinarul recovered and revealed his name and hometown,” said Mr. Lakshminarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/missing-man-reunited-with-family-after-3-years/article35334328.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ISRO conducts third long-duration hot test for Gaganyaan programme||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Wednesday successfully conducted the third long-duration hot test of the liquid propellant Vikas engine for the Gaganyaan programme, the country’s first manned mission to space. The test was done for the core L110 liquid stage of the human rated GSLV MkIII vehicle, as part of the engine qualification requirements for the Gaganyaan programme, the space agency said in a statement. The engine was fired for 240 seconds at the test facility of ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC), Mahendragiri, Tamil Nadu, said the statement. The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test, it said. The objective of the Gaganyaan programme is to demonstrate the capability to send humans to low earth orbit onboard an Indian launch vehicle and bring them back to earth. Union Minister of State (Independent charge) of Space, Jitendra Singh said in February this year that the first unmanned mission is planned in December 2021 and the second unmanned one in 2022-23 followed by the human space flight demonstration. Four Indian astronaut-candidates have already undergone generic space flight training in Russia as part of the Gaganyaan programme. ISRO’s heavy-lift launcher GSLV Mk III has been identified for the mission. Formal announcement of the Gaganyaan programme was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day address on August 15, 2018. The initial target was to launch the human space flight before the 75th anniversary of India’s independence on August 15, 2022. ISRO is also taking the help of French, Russian and US space agencies in some of the crucial activities and supply of components, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/isro-conducts-third-long-duration-hot-test-for-gaganyaan-programme/article35334330.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court rejects plea against pension for SECs||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday rejected a PIL petition questioning the legality of payment of pension to the State Information Commissioners (SECs). The court said Section 16(5)(b) of the Right to Information Act, 2005, makes it clear that SECs are entitled to salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service same as that of the Chief Secretary to the State government, and hence, they are also entitled to pension on the lines of that payable to Chief Secretary. A Division Bench passed the order while rejecting the petition filed by social activist G.B. Athri, a retired wing commander of the Indian Air Force. The petitioner had filed the petition in 2017 questioning a notification issued by the State government in January 2013 on pension payable to the SECs. It was contended in the petition that RTI Act has no provision for payment of pension for the SECs and decision of the government to pay the pension has caused huge loss to the State exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-rejects-plea-against-pension-for-secs/article35334341.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah demands session in Belagavi||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged the BJP government to convene the State legislature session at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi to discuss COVID-19 management, financial situation of the State, vaccination drive, and allegations of corruption. The Congress leader wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Monday stating that as per Sections 3 and 4 of the Karnataka Conduct of Government Business in the State Legislature Act, 2005, a session should be called in July. Citing rules, he said at least four legislature sessions should be held in a year – 15 days in January, 20 days in March, 15 days in July, and 10 days in November. The government convened a session for 31 days in 2020, and for 20 days in 2021. Mr. Siddaramaiah said after the BJP came to power it had not conducted a session in the border district of Belagavi. The session was not held in Belagavi owing to floods in 2019 and COVID-19 in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-demands-session-in-belagavi/article35334342.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Children born out of void marriages eligible for compassionate job’||Children born from all void or voidable marriages, irrespective of the personal laws applicable to their parents, are eligible for compassionate appointments in government service, said the High Court of Karnataka. The court said it is constrained to make these observations in order “to protect the children born out of void and voidable marriages under any of the personal laws applicable in India or the Special Marriage Act, 1954, irrespective of whether the personal law confers such legitimacy or not”. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, while analysing a verdict of the apex court on the right of a child born out of void and voidable marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act for compassionate job, has found it necessary to examine the right of a child born out of a void marriage irrespective of the personal laws of parents. In this exercise, the Bench found that even under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which is not relatable to any personal law and it is a species of a uniform civil law applicable to marriages of persons irrespective of the religion they may belong to, there are concepts of void and voidable marriages. Deemed legitimate Also, the Bench said, both the Hindu Marriage Act, which is a personal law for Hindus, and the Special Marriage Act, recognises a child born out of a void or voidable marriage deemed to be a legitimate child. The Special Marriage Act is an example of legislation which is driven towards the Uniform Civil Code envisaged under Article 44 of the Constitution of India, the Bench said. And so, “it is just and necessary to protect the rights of the children born from all void or voidable marriages and extend the benefit of the rules or regulations concerning compassionate ground appointments to all such children, de hors , the personal law applicable to them in the context of the marriage being void or voidable under the said personal law”, the Bench said. The Bench said that though it is for Parliament to legislate on the conferment of legitimacy on children born out of the void or voidable marriages under the personal law other than the Hindu Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act, as under these two laws such legitimacy is conferred, “children born out of void and voidable marriages under other personal laws, where there is no provision for conferment of legitimacy, must also have equal protection insofar as the appointment on compassionate basis is concerned”. ‘Child has no role’ “...no child is born in this world without a father and a mother. A child has no role to play in his/her birth. Hence, law should recognise the fact that there may be illegitimate parents, but no illegitimate children,” the Bench observed while directing Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. to consider the application of one K. Santhosha of Kanakapura taluk for appointment under compassionate basis. Santhosha was born out of second marriage of his father, Kabbalaiah, who was employed as a lineman with the KPTCL, during subsistence of his first marriage. On the death of his father in 2014, Mr. Santhosha, who was only 19 years of age then, applied for compassionate job but his application was rejected on the ground that he was ineligible for being the son of the second wife. Meanwhile, the Bench said the KPTCL’s norm run counter to Section 16 the Hindu Marriage Act and also Articles 14, 15(1) and 16(1) as well as the Directive Principles of State Policy of the Constitution concerning children, which would include all children, whether legitimate or illegitimate, to have equal opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-from-void-marriages-eligible-for-compassionate-job/article35334306.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anjum Parwez appointed BMRCL managing director||The State government, on Wednesday, appointed senior IAS officer Anjum Parwez as the new Managing Director of the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL). Mr. Parwez will relieve Rakesh Singh who has been holding the post as concurrent charge for over three months. Mr Parwez is a principal secretary ranking officer and is transferred from the Transport Department. He told The Hindu that expediting the ongoing phase II Namma Metro project will be his priority. Challenges ahead The new MD has various challenges before him including the timely execution of the metro tunnel network between Dairy Circle and Nagawara which has faced several hurdles in the past, resumption of metro work between Kalena Agrahara and Swagath Cross Road that was stalled and expediting much delayed 58-km Outer Ring Road - Airport metro line to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). “After taking the charge, I will study the developments in the Namma Metro project and measures will be taken to expedite the ongoing projects. Focus will also be given to integrating various modes of public transport in the city, thereby shifting people using private modes of transport to public transport,” he said. With BMTC Mr. Parwez, a 1994 batch IAS officer, has also worked as the MD of the Bangalore Metropolitan Road Transport Corporation (BMTC). Senior IAS officer Rajender Kumar Kataria has been placed in concurrent charge of principal secretary of the Transport Department, the post that fell vacant after Mr. Parwez’ transfer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anjum-parwez-appointed-bmrcl-managing-director/article35334319.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools told not to skip online Kannada classes||The State government has pulled up private schools that have not conducted online Kannada classes, which are compulsory. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, on Wednesday, said that private unaided schools will face stringent action if they fail to follow the Kannada Language Learning Act 2015. Online campaign The issue was flagged by the Kannada Development Authority which informed the Minister that a group of parents whose children study in a private school were campaigning on social media against the management’s decision to teach Kannada. Acting upon this, Mr. Kumar said that there was no question of compromise in the matter and that every school had to teach Kannada as first or second language to students right from Class 1. He directed officials of the department to issue a circular immediately to schools affiliated to both state syllabus as well as central syllabus. KDA chairperson T.S. Nagabharana, who met Mr. Kumar on Wednesday, had also written to the department officials asking them to ensure that schools are following the rules. Written complaints Department officials said that if parents submit written complaints that the school managements are not teaching Kannada, they will initiate action against the managements after first issuing a show cause notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-asked-not-to-skip-online-kannada-classes/article35334333.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farm loan waiver for COVID-19 victims||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar has said that the government will soon announce waiver of Rs. 79.47 crore in loans borrowed by 10,187 farmers in the State who died of COVID-19. Loans borrowed from apex, district credit cooperative banks, and primary agricultural cooperative societies would be waived, he said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would formally announce the decision in three or four days, Mr. Somashekar said. In 2020-21, the Minister said, 25.67 lakh farmers borrowed loans totalling Rs. 17,108 crore. Of the 25.67 lakh farmers, the Minister said, 10,187, who borrowed loans from cooperative banks, succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-loan-waiver-for-covid-victims/article35334309.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Get study done on turtle nesting ground’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State to appoint the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, Chennai, to conduct a study on whether any part of the Honnavar port development project area falls under turtle nesting ground. Also, the court directed the government to ask the Uttara Kannada Deputy Commissioner to inspect, along with the officers of the Survey Department, to find out whether the port project location has been changed contrary to the original location for which environmental and other clearances were granted in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/get-study-done-on-turtle-nesting-ground/article35334481.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,990 new cases, 45 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,990 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,76,587. Of these, 400 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 45 deaths, the toll rose to 35,989. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,537 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 28,06,933. The State now has 33,642 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.59%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.26%. As many as 1,24,494 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 99,525 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,62,93,105.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1990-new-cases-45-deaths-in-karnataka/article35334322.ece
15 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four of family die of suspected food poisoning||Four persons of a family died while another one is undergoing treatment in a hospital following suspected food poisoning at Isamudra village near Bharamasagar in Chitradurga taluk on Tuesday. The deceased are Thippa Naika, 45, his wife Sudhabai, 40, his mother, Gundibai, and daughter Ramya, 16. His son Rahul, 21, is undergoing treatment in Davangere. They had ragi mudde, rice, and sambar for dinner on Monday. Within half an hour, they had erratic bowel movements, forcing relatives to rush them to the government hospital at Bharamasagar. From there, they were taken to the district hospital at Chitradurga, where Sudhabai and Gundibai died. Later, the remaining three were shifted to a private hospital in Davangere. While Thippa Naika died on the way to Davangere, Ramya, who was preparing for SSLC examination, died in the hospital late in the evening on Tuesday. Rahul is in the intensive care unit. The doctors suspect food poisoning. Among six members in the family, Rakshitha, 19, did not suffer any health complications. She is the only one who did not have ragi mudde. G. Radhika, Superintendent of Police in Chitradurga, told The Hindu that food sample had been collected from their house for forensic tests. “We have booked a case under Section 174C of the IPC for further investigation” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-of-family-die-of-food-poisoning/article35334350.ece
15 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Make full use of mega Lok Adalat on Aug. 14’||The early disposal of cases through Lok Adalat will help the courts concentrate on criminal cases which require more time to clear, Shivanna, Principal District and Sessions Judge of Hassan, has said. At a press conference in Hassan on Wednesday, Mr. Shivanna appealed to the public to make better use of the Mega Lok Adalat to be held in all courts of the district on August 14. The courts had so far identified 2,522 cases, which could be settled through compromise in the Lok Adalat. There could be more than 12,000 such cases in the district. “We will identify such cases and make efforts to clear them through compromise. Once a case is settled in Lok Adalat in the presence of both the parties and their advocates, it is final. There will no option to appeal. This allows the parties enjoy the benefits by clearing long-pending cases”, he said. The process of clearing cases through compromise will save valuable time for the courts. “We can utilise the time to handle other cases, which cannot be settled through compromise. Gradually, the pendency will also be cleared. Hence, the litigants should make use of the opportunity to clear the cases”, he said. COVID-19 The court proceedings have not yet returned to normalcy in Hassan district. The number of cases to be heard in each court has been restricted to 40 in a day. The litigants are asked to attend proceedings only if their presence was absolutely required. Mr. Shivanna said, “We are taking all precautionary measures to avoid spread of the infection due to large gathering of people on the court premises. Everybody is screened before entering the court complex. May be in the coming days, restrictions on visitors could be relaxed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-full-use-of-mega-lok-adalat-on-aug-14/article35334605.ece
15 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Conduct more field visits to assess progress of works, officials told||District in-charge secretary for Dharwad and Administrator of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Ravikumar has asked officials to conduct more field visits to assess the progress at the ground level and not restrict themselves to office rooms. Chairing a virtual review meeting of Karnataka Development Programmes (KDP) on Tuesday, Mr. Ravikumar pointed out that because of COVID-19 and lockdown, development works had slowed down. Some of the departments had not been able to achieve the targets given to them, he said. Mr. Ravikumar emphasised the need for officials to go the extra mile to ensure that the development works are completed at the earliest. Especially, officials of the Health, Education and Women and Child Welfare departments should take keen interest in implementing flagship programmes, he said.  With SSLC examination scheduled to be held soon, the officials of the Social Welfare Department should immediately take steps to get hostels ready and ensure that they are made available to students three days prior to the examination. On complaints regarding spurious seeds and fake fertilizer, he asked the agriculture officials to conduct surprise checks to check such illegalities. All those involved in cheating farmers should be booked and it should be followed by stern legal action, he said. Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat B. Susheela briefed about the arrangements made to distribute nutritional food kits to students suffering from malnutrition. She said that 71 such students are being monitored by the Women and Child Welfare Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conduct-more-field-visits-to-assess-progress-of-works-officials-told/article35334468.ece
15 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Truckers to launch ‘Jis Ka Mal, Uska Hamal’ in Dharwad today||Fed up with what they termed as continued apathy of the government in checking the soaring fuel prices and continued hike in toll and insurance premiums, truckers from Dharwad district have decided to launch “Jis Ka Mal, Uska Hamal” protest on Thursday. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday, Dharwad Lorry Owners and Transportation Association president and former Mayor Iqbal Jawali said that apart from hike in diesel prices, increase in toll and vehicle insurance premiums and monthly “payment” to the police had pushed the truckers into deep trouble. Mr. Jawali said that as a practice, truck owners used to get loading and unloading of consignments done on their own without charging anything from customers. But due to severe economic crisis and the continued rise in prices had left truckers high and dry and they are not in a position to pay headload workers (hamalis) for loading and unloading goods. “Therefore, the association has decided to launch ‘Jis Ka Mal, Uska Hamal’ policy on Thursday. Customers or owners of goods should themselves bear the expenses towards headload workers (hamalis),” he said. Pointing out that transportation charges have not been revised since 2005, he said that it was the same as fixed in 2005. “While diesel prices have skyrocketed, transportation charges have remained the same as when diesel price was Rs. 45 per litre,” he said. To a query, he clarified that this new policy or protest whatever one can call it, has already been put into practice in several States. Dharwad district too will follow suit starting Thursday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truckers-to-launch-jis-ka-mal-uska-hamal-in-dharwad-today/article35334477.ece
15 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Exhibition events are banned’||In the wake of event organisers beginning preparations for exhibition-cum-sale events, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has clarified that under Unlock 3.0, any type of exhibition-cum-sale events have been banned. Referring to a Silk Mela being publicised in a section of the media, Mr. Patil has said that no such event will be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition-events-are-banned/article35334480.ece
15 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad: 29,464 students to write SSLC exam||The Department of Public Instruction has made elaborate arrangements for the smooth conduct of SSLC examination on July 19 and 22 and has set up 161 centres for 29,464 students in Dharwad district. Elaborating about the arrangements made, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohankumar Hanchate has said in a press release that in each examination block 12 students would be allowed to appear for the exam with a 6 feet distance between them. There are a total of 413 schools in Dharwad district, including 119 government schools, 140 private aided schools, and 154 private unaided schools. From these schools, 15,912 boys and 13,552 girls would appear for the examination. Mr. Hanchate has said that with the help of Health Department staff, help desks would be set up at all the examination centres. In all these help desks, Health Department staff, physical education teachers, NCC, and Scouts and Guides volunteers would screen the students with thermal scanners and pulse oximeter. After initial screening, all the students would be provided with masks and hand sanitisers, which had been provided by Union Minister Pralhad Joshi’s ‘Kshamata Samsthe’. This apart, light breakfast and beverages would be provided with the help of ISKCON, he has said. Mr. Hanchate has appealed to students to be present at the examination centres by 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-29464-students-to-write-sslc-exam/article35334485.ece
15 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Screen children extensively for COVID-19 before schools reopen, says B.C. Patil||Anticipating the third wave of COVID-19, Minister for Agriculture and Koppal in charge B.C. Patil has directed the district administration to conduct extensive screening of children before the opening of schools. “The academic year is going to start shortly. At the same time, there is a possibility of COVID-19 third wave which, according experts, might hit children. You need to summon children before the schools reopen and check their health. Both teachers and parents need to take utmost care of the children to protect them from the third wave. The Health Department should make preparations to expand their paediatric facilities to treat children with COVID-19,” Mr. Patil told the district administration during a quarterly KDP meeting that he chaired at the district administrative complex in Koppal on Wednesday. Expressing dissatisfaction over the improper distribution of fertilizer in the district, Mr. Patil said the district had a stock of 690 tonnes of fertilizer and its distribution was not going on properly. “There is no dearth of fertilisers in the district. Yet, farmers are not getting it due to improper supply. Agriculture Department officials should take immediate steps to ensure proper distribution of fertilizer as per the need... There are problems in the payment of crop insurance amount also,” Mr. Patil said. Complaints of illegal sale and overpricing of liquor in the district was also discussed in the meeting and Mr. Patil held the Excise Department officials responsible for it. Deputy Commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor, zilla panchayat Chief Executive Officer Fouzia Taranum, and probationary IAS officer Hemanth N. were among those present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/screen-children-extensively-for-covid-19-before-schools-reopen-says-bc-patil/article35334484.ece
15 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Survey finds 607 severely malnourished children||As many as 607 children were found to be severely malnourished in Kalaburagi district during a month-long survey conducted by the Women and Child Development Department. The survey covered 2.26 lakh children aged less than five and of these, 26,571 children were said to moderately malnourished and 607 severely malnourished. Anganwadi workers conducted the survey to screen malnourished children as part of the Integrated Child Development Scheme. Anganwadi staff also counselled the children’s mothers. They explained how important a balanced diet was for their children and created awareness on the adverse effects of nutrient deficiency. In all, 2,26,376 children were screened through anthropometric measurement, which plays a crucial role in tackling malnourishment, during the door-to-door survey across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-finds-607-severely-malnourished-children/article35334479.ece
15 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State to get four crore doses in 45 days||The State will get four crore vaccine doses in the next one-and-a-half months, said Health and Family Welfare, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar in Hebri of Udupi district on Wednesday. Talking to reporters after inaugurating a medical oxygen generation plant at the Hebri Community Health Centre, Dr. Sudhakar said that barring a few days of disruption in supply, the State, on an average, has been vaccinating three lakh people per day. A total of 2.6 crore people have been vaccinated in the State so far. The Union government will supply 1.5 crore vaccines in the next few days and a total of four crore vaccine doses will be available by the end of August, he said. The Minister lauded the efforts put in by health workers in Udupi district, which stood second in terms of vaccinating 45% of the population with first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Bengaluru tops with the highest number of people vaccinated with first dose. Emphasising on the need for people to take both doses of vaccine, Dr. Sudhakar said: “You will be safe if you receive both doses.” He added that people should continue to wear masks, maintain social distancing and avoid mingling in crowded places. “COVID-19 has not yet gone. We need to rigorously follow the preventive norms and prevent the third wave of infection,” he said. The second wave of COVID-19, he said, has made the State government establish oxygen generation plants in district hospitals, taluk hospitals and community health centres. A total of 186 oxygen generation plants are being established across the State. While 50 plants are being set up using funds granted under PM-CARES Fund, 40 are being set up by the State government. As many as 67 plants are being set up by corporate bodies using the Corporate Social Responsibility funds and 28 by Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers. One among the 28 plants was in CHC, Hebri, he added. MLA lauded Symbolically launching the Vaatsalya scheme to cover 40,000 children aged less than 15 in Karkala and Hebri taluks of Udupi district on Wednesday, Dr. Sudhakar lauded Karkala MLA V. Sunil Kumar’s initiative to prevent likely infection of children from the third wave of COVID-19, if any. Vaastalya scheme involves health check-up camps in the two taluks to identify children with malnutrition, congenital disorders and other health problems. “We will identify these children and make arrangements for their treatment at government hospitals,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said. Apart from government health staff, doctors from Kasturba Medical College and K.S. Hegde Medical Academy are being involved in this exercise, he said. The drive, which started on June 29, will go on till August 15. Health check-up camps are being held at 220 government schools and 230 anganwadi centres. The children covered will get immunity boosters and other health supplements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-get-four-crore-doses-in-45-days/article35334833.ece
15 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard sensitises fishermen on security and safety aspects||Indian Coast Guard, Karnataka, conducted a community interaction with fishermen in Sasihitlu here on Tuesday to sensitise them on the safety and security aspects while in the sea. During the interaction, the fishermen were sensitised about the security scenario and the important role they play as the country’s eyes and ears while in the sea. In addition to 20 fishermen, personnel from the Fisheries Department, Coastal Security Police and Customs Department attended it, a Coast Guard release said. They were encouraged to share information on any untoward or suspicious activities they may come across while in the sea with the Coast Guard on toll free number 1554. The fishermen were also briefed about various safety precautions to be adhered to while operating in the sea, including the use of safety equipment and gears. They were advised to carry all life-saving equipment, boat registration papers, including biometric identity cards and Aadhaar cards, during their fishing expeditions and also operate in groups or buddy systems so that they can help each other during an emergency. The Coast Guard officials also sensitised them on the need to adhere to weather warnings and the importance of collecting weather updates prior to proceeding to sea. The Coast Guard personnel demonstrated and briefed about various life-saving equipment, distress alert transmitters and life jackets. The fishing community was also apprised of the role of Coast Guard and job opportunities in the service. They were also made aware of the Union government’s flagship programme, Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-sensitises-fishermen-on-security-and-safety-aspects/article35334826.ece
15 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State to seek income tax exemption for coop. institutions||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar said here on Wednesday that he will meet the new Union Minister for Cooperation Amit Shah in Delhi later this month and request him to exempt the cooperative institutions from paying income tax. Addressing presspersons, the Minister said that the Union government, led by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), had imposed income tax on profit earned by cooperative institutions. It is coming in the way of the growth of cooperative institutions nurtured by cooperatives. Instead of paying income tax, profit-making cooperative institutions can pay dividend to its members who are the backbone of cooperative bodies. He will appeal to the Union government to do away with the system of paying income tax and revert to the old system as many a cooperative institution is operating on no-loss no-profit basis. Mr. Somashekar said that a software will be developed to link the apex bank, district central cooperative banks and primary agricultural credit cooperative societies (PACCS) in the State. The Union government will share 60% of the total cost of the project and the State will bear balance of the cost. The State has reserved about Rs. 198 crore for the proposed project. When these three categories of cooperative institutions are linked, it will be easier to know all details on disbursement of loans, recoveries and other payments. In addition to the apex bank, there are 21 district central cooperative banks and 5,400 PACCS in the State. Earlier, the Minister participated in a function organised by South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank to disburse various types of loans, including those for fishermen and self-help groups. The SCDCC Bank also launched an initiative to exempt the kin of its loanees who have died due to COVID-19 from re-paying loan amount to an extent of Rs. 1 lakh. According to the bank, as many as 154 of its loanees have died due to COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary and chairman of SCDCC Bank M.N. Rajendra Kumar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-seek-income-tax-exemption-for-coop-institutions/article35334829.ece
15 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for assault on policemen||The Urwa Police arrested a man and a woman on the charge of assaulting two police personnel and misbehaving with a police inspector in the police station on Wednesday. The police gave the names of the arrested as John Sequeira and Novel Sequeira. The police said that in a case of non-payment of maintenance charges by Novel Sequeira, members of apartment owners association had a fight with her. This led Novel Sequeira’s daughter to file a complaint with the Urwa Police accusing an association member of harassing her, while the latter filed a complaint against Novel Sequeira and her daughter under provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in May this year. After a series of talks, the dispute was resolved and the two parties decided to withdraw their complaints at the police station. Novel Sequeira came to the police station with John Sequeira, who acted as her legal advisor, on Wednesday. The two reportedly misbehaved with the police inspector in the latter’s chamber. After coming out of the chamber, they reportedly assaulted woman police constable Pooja Hiremath. They also reportedly assaulted head constable Narayana who tried to prevent the attack on Ms. Hiremath. Ms. Hiremath and Mr. Narayana were admitted in the Government Wenlock Hospital. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and other police officers met the injured police personnel in hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-assault-on-policemen/article35334831.ece
15 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exhibition||Weaves and Crafts Expo launched an exhibition at Hotel Woodlands here on Tuesday. It will go on till July 23. There are a wide variety of saris, dress material and handicraft items. The fair displays products of weavers, artisans and craftsmen without the interface of middlemen. Collections from 20 States are on sale. There is 20% discount on handlooms and 10% discount on handicrafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition/article35334827.ece
15 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No power supply||Power supply in Central Railway Station, University College area, Police Lane, PWD Building, Commercial Tax Office Building, Kerala Samaja Road, Old Kent Road, BR Karkera Road and Dhoomappa Compound in the city will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday. It is for maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-supply/article35334834.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sumalatha favours constitution of task force for safety of KRS||Sumalatha Ambareesh, Mandya MP, has reiterated her concern over the safety of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir and called for the constitution of a task force to oversee its protection. “I will continue to use the ‘Save KRS, Stop Illegal Mining’ hashtag till quarrying stops,” said Ms. Sumalatha. She visited the dam built across the river Cauvery in Srirangapatana taluk on Wednesday and interacted with officials of the dam authorities and Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. She told media persons there was lack of coordination among different departments as the dam engineers were focussed only on its structural stability and water management, while the police were engaged in routine security aspects. “There was no single entity vested with the authority for the overall safety of the dam and hence, I will seek a coordinated task force comprising members of different departments who will meet regularly to review the overall safety of the dam,” said Ms. Sumalatha. She said issues related to quarrying was not within the purview of the Irrigation Department and the dam authorities while the police was concerned only with the presence of unauthorised persons. In reply to a question, Ms. Sumalatha said she had raised a larger issue of the overall safety of the dam and had not aired mere concerns over physical cracks which were repaired through grouting. “I am concerned about the long-term safety of the dam,” she added. Hinting that she favoured for a quarry ban within 20 km radius of the KRS until the trial blasts were conducted for testing its impact, Ms. Sumalatha said she had spoken to Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani and even Mandya district in-charge Minister Narayana Gowda had recommended the blanket ban. Ms. Sumalatha said her concern for KRS dam was not a political ploy and was based on inputs and feedback provided by technical experts. “I raised the issue in Parliament in 2019 during a debate on the dam safety Bill,” she added. She said it was strange that a person raising a concern for everybody’s good is being pilloried by vested interest groups who have put the safety of the dam in peril. “It is like the culprit calling the police thief,” she said, citing a Hindi proverb. The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and farmers from Mandya expressed support to Ms. Sumalatha and were at the dam site during her visit. KRRS Mandya president Kempugowda said farmers have been raising their voice against quarrying since 20 years. “KRRS former president late K.S. Puttanaiah raised the issue in the Assembly and fought against quarrying. As it was a genuine cause, farmers are supportive of Ms. Sumalatha,” said Mr. Kempugowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sumalatha-favours-constitution-of-task-force-for-safety-of-krs/article35334349.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State waging war on narcotics: Bommai||Minister for Home Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said Karnataka has declared a war on narcotics and has destroyed seized drugs valued at Rs. 50 crore. Only 60 per cent of the seized narcotics had been destroyed and the remaining would be destroyed after getting clearances, he added. “The narcotics that used to be seized in five years had been seized in one year. It’s the highest seizure of drugs. The challenge is the synthetic drugs and the clampdown is on,” he said. Addressing presspersons in Mysuru, Mr .Bommai said drug peddlers are coming up with newer modus operandi and had started peddling narcotics in ordinary posts. The peddling was done in different forms that were recently detected by the police. More than 15 to 20 foreign nationals, especially from African countries, had been arrested in drug cases in the last one year. The Minister said the Mysuru police had been told to replicate the model of Bengaluru police, working closely with banking institutions for thwarting fraudulent schemes and economic offences. “They (the police) were able to prevent frauds of nearly Rs. 40 crore.” Mr .Bommai said crimes have gone up by 15-20 per cent after the lockdown was eased. It could be robberies, dacoities, chain snatching and others. Chain snatching cases are also being reported in rural areas of Mysuru. “I have told the officers to step up patrolling to prevent crimes post-lockdown.” Rs. 200 cr. allotted Police reforms and infrastructure development have received greater emphasis, he said, adding that a sum of Rs. 200 crore had been released for the construction/renovation of nearly 100 police stations in the State. “Some are in bad shape and a few others don’t have their own buildings.” He said the police officers had been told not to intervene in civil disputes but intervene only when they become law and order issues. In land disputes, the DCs or tahsildars should be alerted and police cannot mediate. Recruitments This year, 4,000 constables and 1,000 PSIs are being recruited, Mr. Bommai said, adding that 14,000 recruitments had been done in the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-waging-war-on-narcotics-bommai/article35334609.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Union government directs States to expeditiously implement Forest Rights Act||There is a new ray of hope for thousands of Adivasis and other forest-dwelling tribes in the State on the implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 — also called the Forest Rights Act (FRA) — which recognises their rights to forest resources for livelihood and other needs. This follows a joint communique issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the Ministry of Tribal Affairs calling for expeditious implementation of the Act by all the States “in letter and spirit”. The communique, dated July 6, also directs the State Tribal Welfare Department and Forest Department to jointly work out a strategic framework in consultation with the Department of Rural Development to ensure extension of benefits under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the National Rural Livelihood Mission to forest dwellers. The Forest Department has been instructed to take up projects for value chain additions, including capacity building of primary collectors, promote new harvesting methods, and storage, processing and marketing of non-timber forest products, under schemes implemented by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. There is a thrust on initiating agroforestry, horticulture, medicinal plantation and more under various schemes of the government to help the livelihood of forest rights holders besides improving the forest and tree cover. NGOs working on tribal issues said the joint communique was an acknowledgement that the implementation of FRA so far was not only tardy, but also ineffectual. “This is evident in the joint statement which states that despite considerable lapse of time since the Act came into force, the process of recognition of rights was yet to be completed,” said S. Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED), an NGO working on tribal rights and related issues. He said there could be not less than 70,000 to 80,000 Adivasis in Karnataka and only about 30,000 of them had applied for benefits under FRA. However, the total number of applications filed under the FRA from both Adivasi communities and other traditional forest dwellers could be around 2.5 lakh in the State, he added. But there are other concerns over the development as the Centre has abdicated its responsibility by stating that the “State governments are responsible for implementation of the Act and issues related to it need to be resolved at the State level”.  “Our experience when it comes to dealing with the State government does not inspire confidence as a majority of the applications filed under FRA were rejected by the authorities on questionable grounds, which led the Supreme Court to order eviction of such applicants from the forests,” said Mr. Sreekanth. But subsequently, the order was stayed by the court itself and the State was directed to review the applications and file a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-government-directs-states-to-expeditiously-implement-forest-rights-act/article35334347.ece
15 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Nugu lift irrigation project gets clearance||The drought-prone villages in Nanjangud taluk are set to receive drinking water as the government has issued administrative clearance for the Nugu lift irrigation project besides sanctioning Rs. 80 crore towards its implementation. The tenders for the project will be finalised shortly and marks the fulfilment of a long-pending demand of the local people. The project entails pumping water from the Kabini river near Chamegowdanahundi in Sargur. Nanjangud MLA B.H arshavardhan said about 2.4 tmc ft of water will be available to meet the drinking water requirements of the people in the region. About 100 villages in the taluk will benefit from the project including Masage, Kalihundi, Singaripura, Srinagar, Hedetale, Geekalli, Devarsanahalli, Uppanahalli, Hosuru, Kodinarsipura, Horalvadi, and Malluru. The project will also help replenish some of the important water bodies in the region including Narasambudhi lake, Kalale Cheluvamba lake and six other lakes. This will also help replenish the ground water situation in the region which tends to drop during summer. A Rs. 17 crore solar power generation plant has also been approved and this is expected to generate 2 MW of power to meet the local needs. The Nugu reservoir is located near Beerval spread over 18,511 acres and has a catchment area of 984 sq km. The reservoir can impound and store 5.44 tmc ft of water and helps irrigate nearly 20,000 acres of land. This includes 1,471 acres in H.D. Kote taluk and 16,639 acres in Nanjangud taluk. In the absence of adequate water in the tail end of the command area, crops cultivated on nearly 10,000 acres of land tend to wither and farmers suffer financial loss every year. Besides, 40 lakes in the region tends to go dry as a result of which there is drinking water scarcity that plagues both human and cattle population. The commissioning of the new project is expected to end water scarcity on a permanent basis. The Narasambudhi lake in the taluk is one of the biggest water bodies in the region and nearly 50 villages depend on it for irrigation purpose. Once the project is commissioned the region may also witness a sea change in its economic fortunes, according to Mr. Harshavardhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nugu-lift-irrigation-project-gets-clearance/article35334610.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State to overhaul police training to stop hi-tech crimes: Bommai||Police training in the State will soon be overhauled to help officers adopt modern technologies to prevent hi-tech crimes, said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday. He told reporters in Mysuru that cybercrimes and economic offences are on the rise, posing a serious threat. The officers need to become tech-savvy and speedily crackdown on cybercrimes. The existing modules at the training academies need to be modernised, comprising topics on new-age technologies for foiling economic offences that are now posing as a greater challenge. Mr. Bommai, who was in Mysuru to participate in the passing out parade at Karnataka Police Academy here, said the ADGP (Training) had been asked to engage experts for reforming the police training modules that focuses on new-age crimes and methods to thwart them. A report from the expert committee will be submitted in three months, he added. Plans are afoot to establish a training academy on the lines of National Defence Academy (NDA) for periodic training of middle-level officers, including PSIs and constables, to fill the gaps and make policing self-motivated, the Minister said. Border surveillance On the surveillance at the inter-State borders, Mr. Bommai said the SPs in the border districts, including Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar, had been asked to coordinate with the Deputy Commissioners and the DHOs to strictly enforce SOPs at the check-posts to prevent COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-overhaul-police-training-to-stop-hi-tech-crimes-bommai/article35334345.ece
15 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ashok to seek report on dam’s safety||Revenue Minister R. Ashok said here on Wednesday that he would seek a report on the safety of KRS dam from officials in Mandya district. He was reacting to the concerns aired by Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh over the issue. He would also visit Mandya in due course and seek first hand information from the local officials. Mr. Ashok said experts have already stated that there were no cracks in the dam and one should lend credence to their views and not that of others. “Though the Ministers concerned have issued clarification regarding the safety of the dam the issue is being raised constantly and has created a fear psychosis in the minds of people living in the downstream of the dam.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashok-to-seek-report-on-dams-safety/article35334606.ece
15 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Epigraphists to stage protest today||Epigraphists in Mysuru and rest of India will stage a silent protest in their offices on Thursday in protest against the restructuring of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The restructuring has given a short shrift to the epigraphists and some of the existing posts have been surrendered, according to the department officials. Though they made representations to the authorities to highlight the importance of epigraphy in the study of India’s history, the restructuring has ignored the role of epigraphy, according to former epigraphists who have since retired from the department. They pointed out that in the new scheme of things there was more importance to horticulture and gardening rather than deciphering the inscriptions and publishing them so as to fill gaps pertaining to the country’s past. Seventyposts have been created to recruit horticulturists including 55 horticultural assistants. But not a single post related to epigraphy has been notified.  For a country the size of India, there are only 5 epigraphic assistants for field survey and deciphering the inscriptions. While the headquarters of the Epigraphy branch is in Mysuru, there are regional offices in Nagpur, Lucknow and Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/epigraphists-to-stage-protest-today/article35334607.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Traffic fines to be used for road safety||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that permission had been sought from the Finance Department for making use of fines collected for traffic violations for road improvement, junction development, and road safety measures. Rs. 300 cr. available In Bengaluru city alone, fines of Rs. 100 crore had been collected and around Rs. 300 crore was available in the State. “As the fines are transferred to the consolidated funds, it is taking time to get back the amount for such works. Therefore, the Finance Department has been requested for direct use of fines,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-fines-to-be-used-for-road-safety/article35334343.ece
15 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Minister Shankar meets dead farmer’s family||Horticulture and district in-charge Minister R. Shankar on Tuesday met the surviving member of the family of farmer Bheemaraya, who, along with his wife and four children, drowned in a farm pond in Doranahalli village in Shahapur taluk on June 28 this year, and consoled them. Mr. Shankar, who reached Doranahalli to meet the bereaved family, appealed to farmers not to take the extreme step for whatever the reason may be. “The State government is standing behind farmers under difficult times. I assure all benefits to Bheemaraya’s family members and his daughter Chandrakala has been given a job in the Shahapur CMC. And, a compensation cheque for Rs. 5 lakh has been given and Bheemaraya’s mother Shantamma has been sanctioned old age pension,” the Minister added. Meanwhile, Mr. Shankar wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking release of compensation to the dead farmer’s family from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Raja Amareshwar Naik, MP, Venkatareddy Mudnal, MLA, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-shankar-meets-dead-farmers-family/article35334476.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Children from void marriages can get compassionate job’||And so, “it is just and necessary to protect the rights of the children born from all void or voidable marriages and extend the benefit of the rules or regulations concerning compassionate ground appointments to all such children, de hors , the personal law applicable to them in the context of the marriage being void or voidable under the said personal law”, the Bench said. The Bench said that though it is for Parliament to legislate on the conferment of legitimacy on children born out of the void or voidable marriages under the personal law other than the Hindu Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act, as under these two laws such legitimacy is conferred, “children born out of void and voidable marriages under other personal laws, where there is no provision for conferment of legitimacy, must also have equal protection insofar as the appointment on compassionate basis is concerned”.  “...no child is born in this world without a father and a mother. A child has no role to play in his/her birth. Hence, law should recognise the fact that there may be illegitimate parents, but no illegitimate children,” the Bench observed while directing Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. to consider the application of one K. Santhosha of Kanakapura taluk for appointment under compassionate basis. Santhosha was born out of second marriage of his father, Kabbalaiah, who was employed as a lineman with the KPTCL, during subsistence of his first marriage. On the death of his father in 2014, Mr. Santhosha, who was only 19 years of age then, applied for compassionate job but his application was rejected on the ground that he was ineligible for being the son of the second wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-from-void-marriages-can-get-compassionate-job/article35334336.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-woes/article35334324.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Representing India||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/representing-india/article35334332.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gone with the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gone-with-the-wind/article35334836.ece
15 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Vaccine for expectant women||“Mathrukavacham”, a State-wide campaign to vaccinate all pregnant women against COVID-19, will be held at 36 centres in the district on Thursday. The Health department had made arrangements for vaccinating 4,000 pregnant women in the district through spot registration, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. Vaccination would not be provided to others on the day. The department would inoculate the pregnant women at all government hospitals after 3 p.m. every Wednesday for those who were not able to attend the campaign, Dr. Renuka said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-for-expectant-women/article35334507.ece
15 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Customs raids Thillankeri’s house||Customs officials have been conducting a raid on the house of Akash Thillankeri, a close associate of Arjun Ayanki who was arrested in the Karipur gold-smuggling case, from Wednesday morning. The raid at Akash’s house at Thillankeri in the district comes against the backdrop of his association with Arjun. The inspection is being carried out by officials from the Kannur Customs office after they reportedly received information that all arrested in the Karipur gold smuggling case have links with Akash. Special Correspondent writes from Kochi: Akash, a ‘person of interest’ in the Karipur gold smuggling case, has been asked to appear before the Cochin Customs on Friday. Customs officials on Wednesday issued him a notice to be present before the Preventive wing of the agency.  Meanwhile, a trial court here remanded Ajmal to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-raids-thillankeris-house/article35334574.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CNG saves day for car owners hit by skyrocketing fuel price||The skyrocketing price of petrol and diesel has resulted in vast number of car owners retrofitting CNG kits in their vehicles, since their operational cost works to roughly one-third of that of petrol cars. The opening of around a dozen CNG-vending outlets in Ernakulam district, four in Thissur and two (one of them set for commissioning shortly) in Alappuzha, has further catalysed the shift to this alternative fuel. Among the early birds who opted for the retrofitment of CNG kit in their cars was Irshad Moopen, a city-based laywer. “I installed a CNG kit in my car three years ago when CNG cost Rs. 46 per kg, after the car had covered 60,000 km. Even as its price rose to Rs. 56 per kg, its fuel efficiency is over double that of petrol, while there was no adverse impact on the car’s performance.” “Despite CNG vending stations beyond Ernakulam district still hard to find, I can well switch over to petrol when the gas level is low. The imported CNG kit and its retrofitting back then cost Rs. 52,000, following which the alteration was endorsed by the MVD in the car’s registration certificate,” he added. The fuel price hike, with petrol hovering at over Rs. 102 a litre, has resulted in more and more people opting for conversion to alternative fuels, said Santosh Thomas of City Gas Car, which retrofits CNG and LPG kits in three and four-wheelers. “A litre of petrol now costs Rs. 46 more than a kg of CNG. This is in addition to CNG returning a fuel efficiency of 24 km, as compared to around 15 km of petrol for the same type of car. This makes a CNG car more energy efficient than a two-wheeler that runs on petrol. The lowering of pollution is yet another advantage of both CNG and LPG. Between them, CNG returns more fuel efficiency,” he said. While the base rate for CNG retrofitting is around Rs. 50,000, that for LPG is around Rs. 40,000. Ernakulam RTO P.M. Shabeer said that his office (which is one among the dozen RTO/Sub RTO offices in the district) has been receiving applications to retrofit CNG in three to four cars every day, during recent months. “Many others call to enquire about the application process. The retrofitting of kit is endorsed in the RC book on payment of a nominal fee. CNG is very economically priced for now, and adheres to the existing emission norms,” he said. Green fuel However, green fuel enthusiast Sibi Mathai, an entrepreneur whose firms maintain premium buses of KSRTC and many other RTCs, cautioned that CNG too is polluting. “The smoke that is emitted may be colourless but has high particulate matter. But no doubt it is very affordable now and could help sustain the economy during testing times. Still CNG could well be a stop-gap energy source, till electric vehicles become affordably priced. This is a reason most car manufacturers are investing in R and D for electric than CNG-run cars,” Mr. Mathai said.  A litre of petrol costs Rs. 46 more than a kg of CNG. Besides, CNG returns a fuel efficiency of 24 km||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cng-saves-day-for-car-owners-hit-by-skyrocketing-fuel-price/article35334807.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Steps to make Marine Drive walkway neat, safe for visitors||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) will install waste bins on Marine Drive walkway, and the waste, removed daily, will be segregated and processed by the health wing of the Kochi Corporation. CCTV cameras will be installed in the area and they will be linked with the police’s surveillance system. Police aid-posts will also be set up there and patrol will be intensified. Maintenance work on toilets and other facilities will be completed by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) immediately. Visit to the walkway will be limited to 9 p.m. and cycling and use of vehicles on the walkway will be banned. The decisions were taken after Mayor M. Anilkumar, District Collector Jafar Malik and CEO of CSML Afsana Parveen visited the Marine Drive, which has been beautified under the CSML’s initiative. However, the dumping of waste in the area, frequented by walkers, has been a major cause for complaints. Residents in the apartments near Marine Drive have taken up an initiative to clean up the walkway. Women have been at the forefront of the initiative to clean up Marine Drive. GCDA chairman V. Salim, corporation standing committee chairpersons T.K. Ashraf and J. Sanilmon, and division councillor Manu Jacob were part of the team that visited the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-make-marine-drive-walkway-neat-safe-for-visitors/article35334798.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MVD plans road safety audit||Having done a preliminary drive to identify objects that hamper safety of road users, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has planned another round of road safety audit as part of a comprehensive drive to clear the carriageway and footpaths of such obstructions and haphazardly parked vehicles. This comes in the wake of the Kerala High Court directing stakeholders concerned to remove safety hazards and pull down advertisement boards and other materials that distract motorists, from across the State. Both the Enforcement RTO (Ernakulam) and the Ernakulam RTO had deployed squads to identify them and initiate remedial measures. Ernakulam RTO P.M. Shabeer said that while most other safety hazards could be removed at short notice, removing electric posts and transformers that dangerously protruded into the carriageway, or hampered safe movement of pedestrians on footpaths, would take time. “A micro-level auditing has been planned on roads where such obstacles abound. They will be taken up with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and other departments concerned, following which a compliance report will be submitted to the Chief Secretary for being forwarded to the High Court.” “We have also taken action against 600 motorists who parked their vehicles on footpaths, or in a way that obstructed the movement of vehicles. e-challans have been generated, and their owners will get the message stating the penalty in their cell phones. Only after they remit the fine will they be able to avail of any other service of the MVD. A special combing operation will be done in the city during the coming days, since traffic snarls are on the increase,” he added. On who will bear the expense of relocating transformers and posts away from the road, Mr. Shabeer said either KSEB will have to bear it or funds available with district-level Road Safety Authority (RSA) could be used for this based on an estimate provided by KSEB. In many places, cables from posts and transformers obstruct road users. In the case of KSEB, it has been found that many transformers on the tarred carriageway do not have reflective stickers or lighting to make them visible. A high-ranking KSEB official said all regional offices had been directed to install reflectors and paint white and black lines on transformers and posts to make them visible. “We are willing to relocate them if the RSA or the agency which owns the road bears the requisite expenses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-plans-road-safety-audit/article35334808.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District second in pass percentage||Ernakulam district came second after Kannur in the overall pass percentage in the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. The district recorded an overall pass percentage of 99.80 while the figure for Kannur was 99.85. The corresponding figure last year was 99.3%. A total of 31,490 students became eligible for higher studies. Out of these, 15,428 were girls while the number of boys was 16,068. A total of 7,790 girls won A Plus in all subjects while the number of boys was 3,819. The number of students who appeared for the exam in the district was 31,553. In the Aluva education district, 12,016 students became eligible for higher studies. Nearly 6,200 of them were boys while the number of girls was 5,816. About 10,600 students in Ernakulam education district became eligible for higher studies. Of this, 5,366 were boys while the number of girls was 5,277. In Kothamangalam, 5,390 students were eligible for pursuing Plus One programmes. The number of boys was 2,772 while the corresponding number of girls was 2,626. About 3,470 students in Muvattupuzha became eligible for higher studies (boys - 1,770; girls-1,704). Among those who scored A Plus in all subjects, the number of students figuring under the Aluva region was 4,740 while Ernakulam had 3,515 such students. The corresponding figures in Kothamangalam and Muvattupuzha were 2,003 and 1,358.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-second-in-pass-percentage/article35334805.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant children put up sterling show||Children of migrant workers in Ernakulam, who received a boost through the “Roshni” academic enhancement programme, came out with flying colours in the SSLC examination. Five of the 18 such students in SNHS, Thrikkanarvattom, won A Plus in all subjects. They were part of the Roshni project initiated by the district administration for the academic enhancement of children of migrant workers. The students included Sakshi Rajpurohit, Vivek Kumar, Vishnu Prasanth, Noor Alam Khan, and Roshan Kumar. “It’s a proud moment for us as these children won A Plus in all subjects. Nearly 140 children of migrant workers are enrolled in Classes 1 to 10 in our school,” said Bindu J., Headmistress. “The educational volunteers under the Roshni project had helped the students in achieving this success,” she said. Kishan Chand, a student of Govt. HSS, Muppathadam, was on cloud nine after the results were published. He won A Plus in all subjects. “I am planning to take the bio-maths combination for Plus One class. My ambition is to become a doctor,” he said. Shyam Dhav Saroj, his father, said that he wanted his son to pursue his higher studies and secure a good job. A pani puri vendor, Shyam had settled here two-and-a-half decades ago. “We are now staying in Pathalam,” he said. Four children of migrant workers in VHSS, Irumpanam, won A Plus in all subjects. They included Kabitha Kandi, Sujatha Kandi, Mahendar Thakurdas, and Ubaidulla Ansari. The Roshni project had hit a roadblock in the new academic year as the revised funding proposal did not receive the support from the district administration. Nearly 40 educational volunteers associated with the project had not received their salary from November last to March this year owing to the deadlock. The General Education Department had sought a report from the authorities on how to resume the project. About 1,250 children of migrant workers enrolled in Classes 1 to 7 across 40 government and aided schools had received the benefit of the programme amidst the pandemic situation last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-children-put-up-sterling-show/article35334802.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Gaps in online learning a worry for Plus Two students, finds survey||Students in Plus Two classes continue to face learning and digital gaps amidst the ongoing online classes, according to a survey on higher education scenario in pandemic times carried out by the State chapter of the All India Students’ Association (AISA). Many students were staring at low-speed internet and lack of financial resources to recharge mobile devices used for accessing online sessions. Insufficient data pack and poor connectivity remain a major hurdle for several students, especially those belonging to the economically weaker sections of society, pointed out the survey. Survey in 11 schools Students in select 11 government schools in the State responded to the survey held in the last week of June. “The students were able to download only a section of the learning material shared online due to insufficient data pack. The authorities were trying to bridge the digital divide by making available digital tools and infrastructure. However, the question is whether students belonging to economically weaker families and the marginalised sections have the financial resources to utilise these tools,” said Zeon Mendez, member of AISA, who had interacted with the students. Students have reported gaps in the learning outcome too. The lack of interactive learning remains a concern as teachers were also often under pressure to complete portions under the demanding situation. “It is evident while learning subjects like Maths that have concepts requiring interaction with teachers. Those who have come from a Malayalam medium background were finding it difficult to follow the new curriculum taught in English,” they said. Worries over exams The decision to hold Plus One exams in September has added to the stress of students as they have to attend Plus Two sessions and prepare for Plus One exams. Students said that they will have to defer writing of notes and assignments in Plus Two classes as considerable time was needed to prepare for Plus One exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/learning-gaps-in-online-classes/article35334497.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Software giant to make Kochi hub||SOTI, a Canada-based software giant, has chosen to turn Kochi into its South Indian headquarters. The 18,000 sq.ft state-of-the-art office is set to turn operational at the SmartCity Kochi campus at Kakkanad by September. The company has already recruited 80 people from over 8,000 students in 200 colleges. The test for another round of campus recruitment drive will be held on August 5. SOTI offers high-end technology solutions that reduce the cost and complexity of business-critical mobility and the Internet of Things. It boasts of a clientele of over 17,000 major enterprises from diverse fields ranging from aviation to telecommunications. “We chose the city as our South Indian hub for three reasons—exceptional talent pool, superior infrastructure, and low attrition rate. Kerala has an attrition rate of less than 10% compared to the industry average of over 20%,” said Joseph Samuel, Vice President, SOTI. SOTI is planning to expand to more South Indian States by anchoring in Kochi. The company also offers a unique six-month internship programme to students with a stipend of Rs. 25,000 per month. The same test is conducted for both job applicants and potential internees. “Candidates have the option to choose between internship or employment. After the internship period, it will be converted into a full-time employment and the aspirants will get the rare opportunity to work on cutting-edge research projects,” said Mr. Samuel. SOTI offers freshers a starting pay package of Rs. 7 lakh a year. While declining to divulge investment plans, he said SOTI was fully committed to make more investments and do more recruitment. “We are here to stay and our investments are way ahead of our present requirements. We go for the cream de la crème of talents since our company is into superior technology that manages the mission critical operations of our global clientele. Candidates with good coding skills, who thinks critically and analyse logically, are the ones whom we are looking for,” said Mr. Samuel. He was full of praise for the support the company received from the SmartCity Kochi authorities since the process was set in motion in 2019. As all the requirements were met by the SmartCity Kochi authorities, the company did not have to deal with the bureaucracy at any stage. Mr. Samuel, however, said that the company had been a beneficiary of the private-public collaboration behind SmartCity Kochi, in which the government had a stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/software-giant-to-make-kochi-hub/article35334800.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Minister’s visit to set ball rolling for mangrove research centre||Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian will visit the Puthuvype Fisheries Station on Thursday. The Minister will assess the facilities at the station before considering a proposal for setting up a world-class centre for mangrove research and development there. The fisheries station, under the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos), is spread over 50 acres and is home to a large collection of mangrove plants. The station is being considered as the venue for establishing a centre for research and is home to several local varieties of brackish water fishes and crabs as well as water birds that include migratory birds.  Extreme weather conditions, like high waves eroding the coast of Kerala in places like Chellanam, have drawn the attention of scientists to the use of bio-shields to protect the coast. Mangroves are considered the most important safety wall against sea erosion. The Fisheries Station on Puthuvype island has 12 of the 15 mangrove plants found across Kerala. It has also 66 of the 75 related species of plants. Model village Meanwhile, the proposal for turning Chellanam into a model fishing village is expected to be submitted to the Minister on Thursday. The Kufos authorities had invited the public to submit suggestions on the project. Vice Chancellor Riji K. John said suggestions from the public and experts would be submitted to the Minister. The proposal will also include the responsibilities of the university and other agencies involved in the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministers-visit-to-set-ball-rolling-for-mangrove-research-centre/article35334811.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A contactless trip to northeast and Ladakh during the pandemic||A 60-day trip to the northeast and Ladakh during a pandemic may sound outrageous. Two youngsters from the city have chosen to do exactly that as they are about to set off from Vytilla on Friday. Travelling, they claim, have restarted across the country and is safe when undertaken in adherence with the COVID-19 protocol. “We have opted an overlanding trip with a foldable tent assembled atop our car. It has been designed aerodynamically with weight equally displaced and a ladder to climb inside. We will also be cooking. Such a contactless trip avoiding hotels for stay and food is, in fact, educative on how to travel during a pandemic,” said Ambarish V.M., an engineer and travel buff. Two years ago, he had carried out a motorcycle trip to Kashmir passing through 21 States. Self-made unit Since overlanding units are not domestically available and are largely imported, the youngsters decided to make one on their own. While an imported unit costs anywhere between Rs. 1.50 lakh and Rs. 2 lakh, they could make one with around Rs. 40,000 thanks mainly to the support of their friends who were into welding and allied services. “It took us around 15 to 20 days to design and make it. We then did a trial trip to Munnar for a week and the tent held up quite good. Then, as we were about to set out on our trip, came the second lockdown,” said Sreejith V.C., an automobile consultant who has chosen to share the adventure with his close friend. They are planning to camp overnight either at petrol pumps or some idyllic and safe open spaces along the way. “We have scheduled our destinations for each day and plan to cover on an average 500-600kms a day,” said Ambarish. The duo plans to use the trip for creating awareness about vaccination and even distribute masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-contactless-trip-to-northeast-and-ladakh-during-the-pandemic/article35334573.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man gets 10-year RI for sexual assault of siblings||The Additional District and Sessions Court for the trial of cases relating to atrocities and sexual violence against women and children on Wednesday sentenced a man to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment on charge of aggravated sexual assault on minor siblings. The convict was identified as Ismayil P. I, 38, of Thrikkakara North Village. Judge K. Soman found him guilty under Section 9 (m) (aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The convict was sentenced to five years’ rigorous imprisonment each for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl and her 11-year-old brother. Since there were two victims, the convict will have to undergo the imprisonment terms consecutively. He will also have to pay a fine of Rs. 20,000. Public prosecutor P.A. Bindu appeared in the case. The case registered by the Kalamasserry police was that the convict had summoned the siblings to his rented house on the pretext of playing a movie for them and then sexually assaulted them on the evening of October 10, 2017. As per the police case, he had sexually assaulted the children on more than one occasion and had shown the boy pornography. However, the court dismissed the charge that the victims were assaulted multiple times based on the girl’s statement. The convict’s claim that he was being framed by the parents of the children for a quarrel in the past was also dismissed by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-10-year-ri-for-sexual-assault-of-siblings/article35334813.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vaccine shortage hits camps for migrant workers in district||Hardly three weeks after its launch, the District Labour Department has been forced to temporarily suspend the organisation of anti-COVID vaccination camps for migrant workers on account of vaccine shortage. Since its launch in June 24, the department has vaccinated 8,187 migrant workers in 34 camps, which were predominantly organised in areas with a sizeable population of migrants. As per the department database, there are 80,000-odd migrant workers in Ernakulam, while activists working in the field claim that it is only a fraction of the actual numbers. At 2,727, Perumbavoor accounted for the maximum number of migrant workers to receive the first dose of the vaccine. “While the ALOs did the registration, migrant workers were brought to the vaccination camps either by local body members or their employers. We are assisted by the National Rural Health Mission authorities in their vaccination,” said Faizal P.M., District Labour Officer, Ernakulam. Meanwhile, 96 transgender community members in the district have so far been vaccinated. In a one-day camp held on Wednesday, 46 members were vaccinated, while another 50 were vaccinated in a camp organised by a private hospital earlier. “Since the community is highly mobile, we cannot give an exact number of the members who remain to be vaccinated. So far, 104 community members have been issued transgender ID cards in Ernakulam, while another 12 applications are pending,” said Subair K.K., District Social Justice Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-shortage-hits-camps-for-migrant-workers-in-district/article35334812.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 1,894 more COVID cases||Around 1,894 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. As many as 1,839 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 52 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 9.38% in the district. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Paingottur (91); Thrikkakara (75); Pallipuram (62); Chellanam (40); Vengola (40); Maradu (39); Puthenvelikkara (37); Vyttila (37); Kizhakkambalam (36); Nayarambalam (34); Kuttampuzha (32); Thevara (31); Mulavukad (31); Kumbalanghi (30); and Thiruvaniyoor (30). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Kalady, Puthrika, Elanji, Ernakulam South, Ramamangalam, Chakkaraparambu and Pambakuda. Around 13,287 persons in the district are under treatment after testing positive, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-1894-more-covid-cases/article35334814.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directs registration of pet ownership||The State government shall ask local authorities to issue public notices asking owners of animals to register the ownership of the animals and obtain licence, the Kerala High Court directed on Wednesday. A Division Bench of Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice P. Gopinath issued the order while considering a case related to the recent killing of a pet dog in Thiruvananthapuram. The government can prescribe the forms of licences and fix a fee for the registration/licensing. The registration/licensing of all such animals shall be completed within six months. In future, the animal owners shall register their pets within three months of acquiring them, the court directed. The court asked the Director General of Prosecution to inquire into a report that there were attempts to pressurise the owners of the killed dog to withdraw the complaint. The State government shall explore the possibility of adopting the public-private partnership model for setting up animal shelters and allied infrastructure, as mandated by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act. The government could make use of the facilities currently maintained by the various animal welfare organisations in the State, by offering them financial and infrastructural support, the court ordered. Remove posters The court directed the government to ensure that posters put up in public locations, including the various government institutions, veterinary hospitals, and panchayat/municipality offices directing the pet owners to deny food and water to community dogs are removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-directs-registration-of-pet-animals/article35334495.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on theft charge||The Muvattupuzha police on Wednesday arrested a man on the charge of theft. The arrested man was identified as Abdul Abid, 27, of Wayanad. Two gold chains weighing three sovereigns from children who were asleep and a mobile phone were stolen in the morning hours of July 4. He was nabbed from Thodupuzha by a special investigation squad. The police have launched a probe against mobile phone shops who used to buy stolen mobile phones from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-theft-charge/article35334799.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Varsity suspends teacher over missing answer scripts||Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, has suspended an Associate Professor in the Department of Sanskrit Sahitya in connection with the reported loss of 276 answer scripts of the third semester M.A. examination for nine subjects held in November last. Police complaint The teacher has been suspended pending an inquiry by a Syndicate committee. A police complaint has been filed to inquire into the incident and recover the answer scripts, said a release issued by the varsity on Wednesday. Dr. K.M. Sangameshan, suspended for the alleged loss of the answer scripts, was the chairperson of the exam evaluation. The reply submitted by him on the loss of the answer scripts was not satisfactory as per a Syndicate decision held on Wednesday. The meeting recommended a detailed inquiry into the incident. Allegations denied Dr. Sangameshan denied the allegations while stating that he had handed over the grade sheet and answer scripts to the Head of the Department along with a covering letter on March 17. There was proof to confirm that the letter was prepared in the department computer. The answer scripts were also collected by a staff member of the examination wing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-suspends-teacher-over-missing-answer-scripts/article35334803.ece
15 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Film producers to shift work to other States||The demand for government nod to resume shooting of Malayalam films in the State amidst the COVID-19 situation is getting louder. A week after the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce made a concerted appeal on behalf of the trade bodies in the industry, the Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) on Thursday requested Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to give the green signal to the shooting of movies that has been suspended following the second wave of the pandemic. The delay in permitting shooting of movies in tune with the pandemic protocol had forced the producers to shift the work to States such as Tamil Nadu and Telangana. This included actor Mohanlal’s movie to be directed by actor Prithviraj, it said. Workers in trouble The federation said in a communication on Wednesday that in the neighbouring States film shooting had resumed. The Kerala government had permitted shooting of television serials. But no decision had yet been taken to permit film shooting. Hundreds of workers in the industry had lost their livelihood owing to the continuing deadlock induced by the pandemic, it said. Inordinate delay B. Rakesh, producer and treasurer of the Kerala Film Producers’ Association, said that the producers would have no option but to shift shooting to other States if there was an inordinate delay in getting permission for resuming the pending works. “I am now planning to shoot the pending few portions of my forthcoming movie Meri Aawaz Suno in Nagercoil,” he said. “We had already assured the government that the shooting can held in the State by strictly adhering to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Health Department,” he said. Permit at least 50 Filmmaker Vidhu Vincent urged the authorities to permit shooting of movies with a crew of at least 50 persons. “There are hundreds who work in the industry on daily wages. Their lives have been hit hard following the continuing uncertainties. Only a few in the frontline have the financial strength to weather the crisis,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-producers-to-shift-work-to-neighbouring-states/article35334496.ece
15 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Miyawaki forests come up across State||With miniature urban forests taking roots in 12 locations across the State, the Kerala Development and Innovative Strategic Council (K-DISC) has completed the first phase of its Miyawaki afforestation programme. While some districts have already developed dense biodiverse woodlands, small green islands of varying sizes are flourishing bit by bit in some other spots. “We have completed the first stage and now we are planning to conduct an environmental impact study to assess difference in various parameters, including air quality. The study will be conducted in all sites after one year,” says K.T.Shakeela, assistant programme manager, K-DISC. Sites Among the 14 districts, Wayanad, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam were excluded while Ernakulam and Thrissur have two sites each. “Districts such as Wayanad and Idukki were not considered since they have a comparatively larger green cover,” she adds. Though the project took off by 2019 end, the planting process in all districts was completed only recently. “As on now, we have one-and-a-half-year-old micro-forests to healthy 3-month-old patches. The project got delayed due to COVID-19, but now the planting has been completed. But they need regular nurturing and grooming till the three-year incubation period is over,” says Hari Prabhakaran, director and CEO, Nature’s Green Guardian Foundation (NGGfn), implementing agency of the project. The Munakkal beach in Thrissur, Andalurkavu in Kannur, Bhatt Road in Kozhikode and the Asramam biodiversity heritage site in Kollam are some of the locations where the project is being implemented. A method popularised by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, the fast-growing native vegetations are expected to become self-sustaining ecosystems after a particular time frame. Cultivated using organic methods, the saplings grow tall and thick, generating a lush habitat for pollinators, including butterflies and bees. “If we do not choose the indigenous species, their growth will deteriorate and we always add fruit-bearing trees to attract birds and insects. You cannot replicate the same forest in all sites and we have included some rare varieties. We started the project in consultation with Mr. Miyawaki and two of his team members had visited all our sites,” he adds. Apart from removing carbon footprints and improving terrestrial biodiversity, the project also aims to encourage ecotourism. Tourism potential “The project has great tourism potential as it develops natural woodlands inside urban pockets. We are recreating the serenity of forests in an urban area and it will definitely attract tourists and nature enthusiasts,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/miyawaki-forests-come-up-across-state/article35334557.ece
15 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Containment steps intensified in Kollam||With several wards in nearly 60 local bodies in the district declared containment zones, the district administration has stepped up enforcement measures as part of COVID-19 containment. The district panchayat has distributed antigen kits in all 68 grama panchayats along with masks, sanitisers, pulse oximeters and post-COVID-19 Ayurveda and homoeo medicines. One of the mobile units of the Health Department has been covering the colonies of Veliyam, a containment zone in Kottarakara. A team from Vappala Familiy Health Centre that include a doctor, staff nurse and lab technician has been visiting homes to collect samples while the West Kallada grama panchayat is planning to start oxygen parlours in 14 wards. All works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) have been suspended temporarily at Kareepra. The authorities are conducting regular inspections in cashew factories. A COVID-19 test campaign for autorickshaw and taxi drivers and MGNREGS workers are currently in progress. The local body is also focusing on households, public places and colonies, moving positive cases to the domiciliary care centre functioning at Government Higher Secondary School, Kuzhimathicadu. Ward-level vigil groups, panchayat helpdesk and war room are functioning 24x7 in Anchal panchayat. The care centre at Poruvazhi panchayat has 30 beds and the local body has intensified testing in all wards. The authorities are providing the provision for transportation. A 24x7 helpdesk is also operating in the panchayat. The Chavara block panchayat has been disinfecting the houses of COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine. Tele-medicine facility is available to all persons will health issues. Mynagappally, Pathanapuram and Kottankara are the other local bodies that have intensified containment measures. Collector’s warning Meanwhile, District Collector B. Abdul Nasar has said that strict action will be taken if any irregularities are found in the vaccine administration process. At present vaccination is progressing in tribal areas along with old age homes and Scheduled Caste colonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/containment-steps-intensified-in-kollam/article35334560.ece
15 July 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Kollam’s tally up by 1,154||The district reported 1,154 cases of COVID-19 and 1,937 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,149 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI and four health workers. Kollam district currently has 31,373 persons under observation. A total of 2,872 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday. 804 in Kottayam As many as 804 persons tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, 799 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 8.45%. With 67 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pananchikkad, which recorded 46 cases. As many as 836 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases to 5,067.  449 in Pathanamthitta A total of 449 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta on the day. Of this, 448 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases was yet to be ascertained. The TPR was 8.1%. With 21 cases, Konni reported the highest number of cases, followed by Enadhimangalam with 18 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed five more lives in the district. With 331 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,447 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollams-tally-up-by-1154/article35334565.ece
15 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSWDC loans||The Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC) is providing low interest loans to women from Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts. The form is available on www.kswdc.org. Call: 0471-2328257, 94960 15006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kswdc-loans/article35334555.ece
15 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||SSLC: students shine brightly||The Kottayam revenue district registered a pass percentage of 99.75 in this year’s SSLC examinations, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. As many as 19,685 students, including 9,688 girls, attended the examinations held in March 2021. Of these, 19,636 students are now eligible for higher studies. A total of 6,020 students, including 4,012 girls, secured A+ in all subjects. Among the four educational districts, Pala, where 1,654 students had appeared for the examinations, recorded the highest pass percentage of 99.97. Kanjirappally educational district, where 5,284 students attended the examination, reported the lowest pass percentage at 99.56. Kottayam, where 7,796 students attended the examination, registered 99.72% pass with 7,774 qualifying for higher studies. Kaduthuruthy, which had the lowest number of students at 1,027, recorded 99.91% pass. In terms of overall pass percentage, Kottayam was positioned fourth after Alappuzha. In Pathanamthitta The Pathanamthitta revenue district, meanwhile, registered a pass of 99.73%. As many as 10,369 students, including 4,979 girls, attended the examinations. Of these, 10,341 have become eligible for higher studies while 2,616 students, including 1,744 girls, secured A+ in all subjects. Among the two educational districts, Thiruvalla where 3,711 students had appeared for the examinations recorded the highest pass percentage of 99.84. Pathanamthitta educational district, where 6,658 students attended the examination, reported 99.67% pass. In terms of overall pass percentage, Pathanamthitta was positioned sixth. 99.77% in Alappuzha Alappuzha district has registered a pass percentage of 99.77. Of the 21,968 students who attended the examination, 21,917, including 11,245 boys and 10,672 girls, have qualified for higher studies. A total of 127 schools, including 45 government, 76 aided and six unaided institutions, bagged 100% pass in the examination. As many as 6,020 students, including 4,012 girls and 2,008 boys, bagged A+ in all the subjects. Kuttanad has emerged as the best performing educational district with a pass percentage of 99.9. Of the 2,047 students who appeared for the examination from Kuttanad, 2,045 qualified for higher studies. It is followed by Alappuzha (99.8%), Cherthala (99.76%), and Mavelikara (99.69%). 99.25% in Kollam Kollam reported a pass percentage of 99.25. As many as 30,777 candidates, including 15,791 boys and 14,986 girls, had appeared for the examination and 30,547 among them qualified for higher studies. In 2020 the pass percentage was 99.08. A total of 9,701students from government, aided and unaided schools secured A+ in all subjects. They include 3,421 boys and 6,280 girls.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kollam bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-students-shine-brightly/article35334564.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Talks between traders, Collector fail||Talks between sections of traders and the Kozhikode district administration on Wednesday afternoon on the former’s demand to permit opening of shops on all days failed to make headway. The dialogue was initiated on the directions of the Chief Minister against the backdrop of protests and subsequent arrest of Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) functionaries on Monday. Traders, especially those from S.M. Street, the main commercial area in Kozhikode city, had claimed that restrictions to contain the pandemic had hit business. They are allowed to open shops on Friday alone, as the city has been included in the ‘C’ category where the test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 is between 10% and 15%. During the talks on Wednesday, traders stuck to their demand to allow them to open shops throughout the day till the end of the Bakrid season. KVVES secretary K. Sethumadhavan pointed out that the TPR-based restrictions were unscientific. Kerala Vyapari Vyavasi Samiti president V.K.C. Mammad Koya said traders had not been given any financial assistance to tide over the crisis triggered by the pandemic. Traders are of the view that the decision to open shops in protest from Thursday was taken at the State level, and that there is no point in discussing it at the district level. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, however, told them that Kozhikode was on the verge of a third wave of COVID-19. There are around 16,000 active cases from the district, and it is in the third spot in that category. The daily TPR has been going up in the past three days. As many as 1,415 people have died in the district so far. Precautions will have to be taken, he said. Senior police officials and officials of the Health Department were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-between-traders-collector-fail/article35334504.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Keralites in war-ravaged Afghan returning||With the United States Armed Forces largely departing from Afghanistan, hundreds of Indian expatriate workers, many of them Keralites, have started returning home. Sources said the process of repatriation had commenced last year itself after a majority of them had been laid off or forced to resign from companies when the U.S. began closing military bases as part of the Taliban peace deal in March last. The U.S. Will begin the final withdrawal on May 1, to be completed by September 11, the 20th anniversary of 9/11. An estimated 5,000 Indians were employed in several U.S. and European companies that provided multifunctional support and logistics work for the U.S. military troops in Afghanistan. Now, they are back home after working at the bases at Bagram, Shindand, Kandahar, the Helmand Province, and Hemland River Valley. Conflict zone “It was a real lifetime and threatening experience in a conflict zone. But now I am happy to return home and permanently be with my family after a nine-year stint in Afghanistan,” said Sunny (name changed), who returned a week ago. For many, Afghanistan, even though battle-scarred, has been another key emigrant region after the six-decade-old Gulf dream faded. “The companies offered attractive salary depending on expertise and qualification on jobs ranging from HR, IT technicians, laundry service and food services support. The payment in U.S. dollars is made weekly or fortnightly. Food and accommodation were free. Some companies provided danger money up to 35% of the salary,” Jijo, another returnee, said. Currently, a few U.S. companies have started deploying manpower and resources in other bases in West Asia, including battle-damaged Iraq. But not all are lucky to be hired. Nevertheless, other companies have also set up units in Dubai in the UAE.  “We thought the key workforce would be relocated to the Gulf region to support the services of remaining American and NATO troops. Now the mission has been called off after the U.S. top commander in Afghanistan General Scott Miller relinquished his post on Monday. That means, we will be flying out shortly, ” a source said. Until 2014-15, the Indian Embassy did not have comprehensive data about Indians expatriates in Afghanistan as manpower recruiters via sub-contractors signed up candidates and flew them out of bases in the Gulf sector. Afterwards, all of them had to acquire an Afghan work visa. “Previously the salary offered was also higher. Ex-servicemen and those employed with the police force and prison department in India, who took extended leave even up to 5-10 years, sought for positions in Afghanistan, ” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralites-in-war-ravaged-afghan-returning/article35334571.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two-day testing camps in Kozhikode from today||Mega COVID-19 testing camps will be held across Kozhikode district on Thursday and Friday even as 2,022 fresh cases were reported here with a daily test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.41%. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran, who held a review meeting here on Wednesday, said detecting and isolating suspected patients was the only way to stop community spread and reduce TPR. Only then the ongoing category-wise restrictions could be lifted. The Minister urged symptomatic people, those who have an infected person at home, people who interact with a cross-section of society such as traders, and those who had visited hospitals for treatment or health check-ups to mandatorily present themselves at the testing camps. These events are held at primary health centres, community health centres, family health centres, taluk hospitals, and the district hospital. Symptomatic people and those who have infected persons will have to undergo RT-PCR tests, and others may go for antigen tests. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said 10,000 RT-PCR tests and 20,000 antigen tests would be held every day. Mobile medical units too have been kept ready. The tests will begin at 9 a.m. In the Kozhikode Corporation, the centres are JDT Complex, Vellimadukunnu, S.K. Hall, Puthiyara, Tagore Centenary Hall, Samudra Auditorium, and the health centres at Elathur, Cheruvannur, Nallalam, and Beypore. Others are the health centres at Ramanattukara, Feroke, and Koyilandy, a release said. Meanwhile, the DMO said 1,984 people got the infection through local transmission, while the source of 32 others was not known. As many as 13,370 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 372 locally acquired infections, Olavanna 87, Narikkuni, and Vadakara 56 each, Puthuppady 49, Koyilandy 46, and Thalakkulathur 42. As many as 1,080 people recovered from the infection, and the active caseload from the district rose to 16,382.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-day-testing-camps-in-kozhikode-from-today/article35334505.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic delays third phase of PMAY-LIFE project||The third phase of PMAY- LIFE housing project in the Kozhikode Corporation, which started around 10 months ago, has received an overwhelming response from the public, despite COVID-19 restrictions. The online applications were invited from those who did not own land to build houses. In the previous two phases, the corporation had accepted applications only from those who had the required land. However, the opposition in the corporation council had recently alleged that the verification of applications was going at snail’s pace. Opposition leader K.C. Shobhita said that though around 9,000 people had applied, data entry was yet to be completed. She demanded that the corporation come clear on action taken for the realisation of the project and accused it of neglecting landless people. Meanwhile, the civic body claimed that the verification process remained incomplete owing to non-availability of manpower during the pandemic times. Public Works Standing Committee chairman P.C. Rajan said of the 9,275 people who had applied, only 4,175 had submitted the required documents proving their eligibility. The applications of those who applied later have not been verified. The corporation is also finding it difficult to identify suitable land for the project. “Unlike in the previous phases, we need to provide them completed houses, and not just funds to build them. At present, we are looking for plots where we could build apartment complexes,” Mr. Rajan said. The corporation owns around two acres at Naduvattom near Beypore. However, soil testing has been delayed. Another plot has been identified at Chelavoor, for which negotiation is in progress. There are also plans to acquire land from the Housing Board. “We have no fund issues. We are also allowed to avail loans, if need be,” Mr. Rajan said, adding that around 3,000 beneficiaries had been granted the first instalment of funds from the first and second phases of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-delays-third-phase-of-pmay-life-project/article35334500.ece
15 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Governor must be proactive on public issues: Sreedharan Pillai||Ahead of the Union Cabinet reshuffle a week ago, when President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi told Mizoram Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai that he would be shifted from the landlocked State in the northeast, the latter intrinsically gave the same reply to both of them, “I leave the decision to you, Sir.” Little did Mr. Pillai realise that he would be transferred to take up the gubernatorial post in Goa that goes to the Assembly polls in February next year. But he says his appointment has nothing to do with the high-stakes electoral battle in the tiny State on the west coast. “A Governor should not indulge in politics. But that does not mean he should not be proactive on public issues,” Mr. Pillai, while referring to the Kerala Governor’s hunger strike against domestic violence and dowry death, told The Hindu on Wednesday. However, sources said his role in Goa would be bigger, perhaps, in the coming months though. He will take the oath of office on Thursday. Mr. Pillai has earned accolades for building bridges between the BJP’s Kerala unit and various Church denominations, but it failed to take off electorally for the party in the Assembly elections. Christians constitute over 25% of the population of Goa. “For me, Goa is a showpiece State of the country with better social solidarity, legal equality, high per capita income, rapid urbanisation, and popular tourism destinations,” Mr. Pillai said. 21-month stint According to sources, the Prime Minister’s Office was impressed with Mr. Pillai’s 21-month stint in Mizoram for turning the tide in the anti-Centre sentiments of the Mizos. From the public backlash of boycotting the 70th Republic Day celebrations in 2019, he ensured that people wholeheartedly celebrated the Republic Day in subsequent years. That Mr. Pillai, as a compulsive writer with 135 books in Malayalam and English to his credit, had been able to strike a chord with people was evident when he published his first anthology of poems in English, Oh, Mizoram , which was released by Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi. Incidentally, many had attributed his removal as BJP State chief a few months after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and appointment as Governor to a forced exile. Nevertheless, it was Mr. Pillai’s well-grounded rapport with the Church that brought three Cardinals, George Alancherry, Baslios Cleemis, and Oswald Gracias, to meet the Prime Minister in January this year. He had also been instrumental in seeking the intervention of the Prime Minister in settling differences between the two factions of the Malankara Church. “The first step in the peace process has been successful. Now, efforts will have to continue further. But the factions should climb down from their rigid stands to amicably end the dispute,” Mr. Pillai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-should-be-proactive-on-public-issues-sreedharan-pillai/article35334494.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||From land of urus comes one made of coconut leaf stems||When the outbreak of the pandemic affected his livelihood, Shiju Ellora did not lose heart. Instead, the makeup and tattoo artist from Beypore turned his attention to his interest in crafting. A miniature uru that adorns his drawing room is the result of his artistic pursuit during the lockdown and is winning him accolades. Mr. Shiju made the uru , traditional ships for which Beypore is renowned the world over, using the midrib of coconut leaves ( eerkkil ). “I started working on the uru six months ago. The finishing works were done recently,” he said. He used around 55,000 eerkkil , carefully polished, for the purpose. The uru , in four storeys, is about 4.5-feet-long, two-feet-wide and 2.5-feet-high. Ornamental lights have been added to the structure. Mr. Shiju has made several such attempts in the past. An exhibition of his sculptures made using sawdust was held at the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Art Gallery in Kozhikode a few years ago. He used matchsticks to create miniatures of the Eiffel Tower, the Burj Khalifa and the Leaning Tower of Pisa. One of his sculptures of Vaikom Muhammad Basheer on a single piece of wood now adorns the writer’s home ‘Vailalil’ in Beypore. “I have enough art pieces at home to set up an art gallery of my own. It is my dream now,” said Mr. Shiju, adding that he would like to impart knowledge of the craft to children through the gallery. At present, the artist is in the process of exploring another medium, newspaper, for his next sculpture of a dragon and an eagle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-land-of-urus-comes-one-made-of-coconut-leaf-stems/article35334499.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Weekly TPR high in most local bodies||The weekly test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 is above 15% in six of the seven municipalities and 24 of the 70 grama panchayats in Kozhikode district, and strict restrictions will be in force in these places for the next seven days. A release said here on Wednesday that the weekly TPR for the district had been recorded at 13.5%. Those with a TPR above 15% and included in the ‘D’ category are Koyilandy, Ramanattukara, Vadakara, Koduvally, Feroke and Payyoli municipalities, along with Karassery, Thamarassery, Kayanna, Kavilumpara, Vanimel, Narikkuni, Kodiyathur, Arikkulam, Puthuppady, Thikkodi, Kakkur, Nanmanda, Kakkodi, Velam, Peruvayal, Kattippara, Thalakkulathur, Omassery, Villiappalli, Kaadalundi, Changaroth, Chorod, Kizhakkoth and Madavoor grama panchayats. Category ‘C’  The local bodies with a TPR between 10% and 15% (‘C’ category) where lockdown-like restrictions would be in force include the Kozhikode Corporation. The other local bodies in this group are Purameri, Onchiyam, Chemanchery, Thooneri, Ayancheri, Meppayur, Chathamangalam, Maruthonkara, Unnikulam, Kuttiyadi, Eramala, Nadapuram, Valayam, Kayakkodi, Kodenchery, Kottur, Narippatta, Moodadi, Kuruvattur, Kunnamangalam, Nochad, Thiruvambady, Olavanna, Maniyoor, Perumanna, Azhiyoor, Chelannur, Thiruvallur, Kunnummel, Panangad and Atholi grama panchayats. Mavoor, Perambra, Cheruvannur, Keezhariyur, Chekkiad, Thurayoor, Ulliyeri, Balussery, Koodaranhi, Koorachund, Chakkittappara, Koothali, Chengottukavu and Naduvannur grama panchayat, and Mukkom municipality are in Category ‘B’ with a TPR is between 5% and 10%, where a semi-lockdown will be in place. Normal social life would be allowed in Edachery grama panchayat where the TPR is below 5% (Category ‘A’).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weekly-tpr-high-in-most-local-bodies/article35334506.ece
15 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Corpn. to resume street vendor survey||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is resuming a survey of street vendors in the city as part of the 100-day action plan of the State government. The survey aims at identifying every person involved in street vending in the city, providing them certificates/identity cards so as to ensure their rehabilitation. Field visits Corporation officials will conduct field visits on July 16 and 23 to collect the details directly from street vendors. Those who already possess the identity cards provided by the corporation need to furnish it before the officials when they visit. The vendors should produce documents such as Aadhaar card, bank pass book, driving licence, voter ID card or ration card during the survey. The corporation had conducted a similar survey in 2015 and registration of street vendors started in 2017. Of the 2,030 street vendors identified in the first survey, identity cards were provided to 1,682 deserving persons, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-resume-street-vendor-survey/article35334509.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Aid to be distributed to differently abled||The Kerala State Handicapped Persons Welfare Corporation is distributing equipment to differently abled people across the State from Friday. Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu will inaugurate the initiative in Kozhikode on Thursday at the collectorate 10 a.m. Equipment is distributed under the corporation’s Subhayatra project to ensure freedom of movement for differently abled people, while digital hearing aids are being supplied to hearing impaired persons under the programme named Shravan. Under the Kazhcha programme, smart phones are distributed among visually impaired people. Besides, assistance worth Rs. 20,000 is distributed under the Hasthadanam project for children of the age group of 12 to 18 with serious disabilities. Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, will preside over the function in which Mayor Beena Philip and district panchayat vice president M.P. Sivanandan will be the guests of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-to-be-distributed-to-differently-abled/article35334501.ece
15 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Abducted man found abandoned||The police have reportedly recorded the statement of a Gulf returnee from Koyilandy in Kozhikode, who was allegedly abducted from his house on Tuesday morning. He was found abandoned with bruises at Kunnamangalam later in the night. According to the police, Ashraf, 37, of Oorallur, son of Mathoth Meethal Ahmed, was abducted by a gang from Koduvally involved in gold smuggling. One of his legs has been fractured. He was shifted to the Koyilandy taluk hospital after a medical examination at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abducted-man-found-abandoned/article35334502.ece
15 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||A friendship that built a bulwark of religious amity||When P.K. Warrier breathed his last on Saturday, it brought an end to a great era in the fabulous history of communal harmony in Malappuram district. Together with former Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) chief Syed Mohammedali Shihab Thangal of Panakkad, Dr. Warrier stood in the forefront and built the bulwark of the famed communal camaraderie that the district currently enjoys. Rare cordiality Both of them shared a rare cordiality between them and inspired each other in their drive for the upkeep of the region’s social fabric. The number of institutions and establishments they inaugurated together in Malappuram district is far too many. Dr. Warrier used to zestfully accept the invites he got whenever he was told that Shihab Thangal was there. Although Shihab Thangal was 15 years younger to Dr. Warrier, the mutual respect they shared was so profound that people even knew their tastes for food and punctuality. The organisers always anticipated their early arrival for the functions, as both Thangal and Dr. Warrier shared an impeccable penchant for punctuality. Knowing their tastes, people served them exotic dates and cashew nuts, which they ate in delicious morsels. Rarely did Dr. Warrier drink tea from outside. And rarely did he decline tender coconut juice whenever offered. “Dr. Warrier was a great disciplinarian in his personal life, especially in his food habits,” said M.T. Ramakrishnan, Arya Vaidya Sala’s public relations officer, who accompanied Dr. Warrier on many an occasion. However, Shihab Thangal was not such a martinet in personal food habits. “His quiet, mellowed nature made him rarely say no to what people offered him, no matter if it was tea or snacks,” said Thangal’s widow Shareefa Ayesha Beevi. Both Thangal and Dr. Warrier also shared a fondness for car journeys. After trying out several cars, both had settled for Toyota Camry in their autumn days. When Thangal left ‘graphite metallic’ (yellowish brown) Camry at Kodappanakkal’s porch, Dr. Warrier’s ‘attitude black’ Camry was resting at Kailasamandiram when he was consigned to flames on Saturday evening. Good driver too In his salad days, Dr. Warrier was a good driver too. He even drove trucks on different occasions. He enjoyed long drives in such cars as Fiat, Ambassador, and Tata Estate before laying his hands on Camry. For about seven decades, Dr. Warrier carefully carried the torch of communal harmony lit by his uncle and Arya Vaidya Sala founder P.S. Varier. The entrance to Kailasamandiram, the headquarters of the 119-year-old institution, and the Viswambhara Temple inside the compound remain testimony to it. While the gate sports the symbols of Muslim, Hindu and Christian faiths, the temple inside does not discriminate against any faith. Until the last, Dr. Warrier religiously followed the practice of giving Onapudava to the Muslim families who have been traditionally supplying herbs to the Arya Vaidya Sala. The baton has now been passed over to Dr. Warrier’s nephew, P. Madhavankutty Varier, whose secular perspectives, kindheartedness, and refined character have already won him much popularity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-friendship-that-built-a-bulwark-of-religious-amity/article35334492.ece
15 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||High-speed Net soon for tribal hamlets||The Jan Shikshan Sansthan (JSS) is joining hands with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to provide high-speed Internet connectivity to tribal hamlets in the far-flung areas of Nilambur forest. The new project using long-distance Wi-Fi technology and 5 Ghz open frequency will provide 100 mbps Internet connectivity to Palakkayam, Vettilakkolly, and Ambumala tribal colonies in the pilot phase. NABARD has offered to give Rs. 5 crore to the project as part of the bank’s 40th foundation day celebrations. The JSS will chip in Rs. 2 crore. The three tribal hamlets in Chaliyar grama panchayat were chosen for piloting the project after P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP and chairman of the JSS, adopted that village. An organisation named C 4 Social Computing will provide the technology. A base station will be set up at Indira Gandhi Memorial Model Residential School at Nilambur. High-speed Internet reaching the base station will be extended through long-distance Wi-Fi technology to the tribal colonies by erecting small towers in between. “Using this technology, we can soon ensure steady and high-speed Internet connectivity to all tribal colonies in Nilambur forest,” said Mr. Wahab. “We are planning to complete this project in 10 days,” he said. Batteries using solar power or the electricity will have to be set up in the tribal settlements to ensure uninterruptible power for the antenna system to function all the time. Mr. Wahab said the long-distance Wi-Fi technology was cost-effective and it could be expanded and extended to any region in Malabar. At present, Wayanad district has the biggest Wi-Fi network in the country. NABARD’s district development manager Mohammed Riyas handed over the deed of consent to Mr. Wahab at a function held here on Tuesday. Mr. Riyas said services like telemedicine, counselling and health awareness classes could be held by using the same technology. NABARD Kerala Chief General Manager P. Balachandran inaugurated the function. Lead Bank manager P.P. Jitendran, JSS director V. Ummer Koya, and Samad C. spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-speed-net-for-tribal-hamlets/article35334511.ece
15 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Added sheen to Binsha’s A+||Binsha V.T. of P.K.M.I.C. High School, Pookkottur, was jubilant on Wednesday when the SSLC examination results were announced. The A+ she secured in all subjects had an added sheen to it, because she was a COVID-19 patient when she took the examination. “I had a severe headache and throat pain when I took the exam alone on the school’s stage. Apart from the exam tension, I was worried about my health and my family’s health,” she said. The school authorities had made all possible arrangements for her to write the examination in isolation. Binsha said her confidence level had been low because of the circumstances. Not expected “I did not expect to get A+ in all subjects,” she said. Soon after the results were announced, her father Mahaboob V.T., who runs a tiles shop at Machingal, near here, joined her with sweets. Binsha is not alone in securing full A+ after writing the examination while being in quarantine. But for her friends, her achievement was sweeter than theirs. Several of them called her and congratulated on her colourful victory. Binsha wants to become a schoolteacher, and she is keen to pursue her higher secondary in one of the schools in Malappuram. “My dream is to become a teacher, a teacher who can inspire others,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/added-sheen-to-binshas-a/article35334576.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||Pinarayi meets Gadkari||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday met Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari and discussed various development projects in the State. As many as 11 roads in Kerala would be included for upgrade under the second phase of the ambitious Bharatmala project. Besides, a stretch of the Kannur airport road would be upgraded into national highway, according to a release issued by the State government after the meeting held in the national capital. A programme for the highways sector, the Bharatmala project focusses on optimising efficiency of freight and passenger movement across the country by bridging critical infrastructure gaps. This is being done through effective interventions, including development of economic corridors, inter-corridors and feeder routes, and coastal and port connectivity roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-meets-gadkari/article35334579.ece
15 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Plan to tap Konni’s tourism potential||With its green-topped hills, picturesque waterfalls, remote villages, rich wildlife and lush forests, the obscure countryside of Konni is seeking to put itself on the global tourism map. An expert team, led by travel documentary filmmaker Santosh George Kulangara, will soon come up with a master plan for developing Konni as a major ecotourism destination. The team has carried out a preliminary inspection of local attractions across the region, which comprises 11 grama panchayats. “The plan is to cash in on the natural heritage of Konni, which is much beyond the Konni elephant camp, Adavi or even Gavi. The very fact that it is one of the very few regions in the State that receive rainfall almost everyday makes it an ideal location for green tourism projects,” explains an official with the Forest Department. According to him, the expert committee has suggested developing two tourism circuits by dividing the Konni and Gavi regions. Pilgrim circuit In Konni, it has sought construction of more treetop huts in Adavi, besides developing tourism infrastructure to cater to waterfalls inside the forests. The rock formations that dot the forest fringes, including Rakshasanpara at Kalanjoor and Anjumanapara in Enadhimangalam, too will be included in the Konni circuit. The possibility of establishing a pilgrim circuit by combining the places of worship inside the forests is also being examined. The tourism circuit in Gavi, meanwhile, will combine the villages of Seethathodu and Chittar, besides the water reservoirs of Kakki and Karikkayam. Amenities The department will open accommodation units in association with the District Tourism Promotion Council. “Once we have rediscovered these villages, international visitors could follow in droves,” observed K.U. Janeesh Kumar, MLA, who leads the initiative. The expert team is slated to submit its master plan to the State government in two months, he says. “A meeting of the government agencies and private parties will be convened for discussing its implementation. The project will generate at least 1,000 jobs in the first phase and up to 3,000 with a full-scale operation of both the circuits,” added the legislator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-tap-konnis-tourism-potential/article35334562.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Traders drop plan to open shops from today||Retail traders have withdrawn the ultimatum that they would open for business on all days from July 15 despite COVID-19 regulations and the Statewide lockdown on weekends. T. Nazirudeen, president, Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES), told the media in Kozhikode on Wednesday evening that the decision to open shops from Thursday had been called off as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had invited the traders for talks in the State capital on Friday. “We are expecting to have detailed talks. If the decisions are favourable to us, we will go ahead with it. If they are against us, we will resume the protest,” Mr. Nazirudeen said. “I spoke to Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member, and the Chief Minister’s Office. Then the Chief Minister called me in the evening. He has agreed to discuss our concerns in detail on Friday,’’ he added. The traders’ protest is against the pandemic control regulations that permit non-essential shops to open only on alternate days. The weekend lockdown has deprived retailers of holiday shoppers, they said. The shuttering has caused severe loss of business and lengthy workforce lay-offs. Family-run neighbourhood convenience stores are the worst hit. Most run on credit extended to neighbours. When their debtors fail to pay, many shops have no option but to board up. Traders have argued that clamping down on shop timings and working would cause crowding during the limited business hours. Traders warned The Chief Minister had on Tuesday warned traders not to rebel against pandemic regulations. The second wave has not abated. The third one is possibly knocking at Kerala’s doors. The government could ill afford to allow any relaxations that would potentially jeopardise the State’s fragile pandemic situation, he had said. The Opposition threw its weight behind the KVVES. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran interpreted Mr. Vijayan’s statement as threatening. “The Chief Minister has challenged traders who are at their wit’s end and trying to cope with the crippling loss of income,” he said. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheeshan asked Mr. Vijayan to show more empathy towards traders. The government had said that the current restrictions would continue undiluted till July 20. The government has extended shop timings till 8 p.m. in localities where the average test positivity rate is below 15%. The retail sector can open only on alternate days. However, banks can admit customers on all weekdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The government would allow electronic shops to open on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-drop-plan-to-open-shops-from-today/article35334578.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lone bid for canal revamp taken||In clearing a Rs. 25-crore proposal for the 'desilting and reconstruction' of Amayizhanjan Canal passing through the capital city, the State government has been compelled to accept a lone bid at a higher rate reportedly due to the urgent nature of the work and the lack of other takers. Last week, the Cabinet cleared a proposal for undertaking the work on the canal stretch from Kannammoola to Akkulam. A July 9 order issued by the Water Resources Department accepting the bid by a Palakkad-based firm, reportedly the lone bidder, noted that most of the contractors were reluctant to take the work up. The work involves side protection works and dredging, KWA sewerage line connection and conveyance of silt to a disposal site. The bid placed by M/s Cheeran Structurals for Rs. 24.8 crore has been accepted. The order noted that while it is 36.7% higher than the estimated PAC (probable amount of contract) of Rs. 18.13 crore reported by the Chief Engineer (Irrigation and Administration), tenders had been called for the work thrice and only this firm evinced interest. ''The unhygienic and filthy contents of the Amayizhanjan Thodu are causing serious health issues to the public. Most of the contractors are reluctant to take up the work. Though the government issued administrative approval over 15 months ago, nothing happened on the ground level. Since this is an urgent work, the government has been drawing criticism for the lack of effective action in mitigating the causes for floods. Besides, the quoted rate is only 12% above the Local Market Rate,'' the order noted. According to the department, the work was twice e-tendered, in May and July last year, but only the Palakkad firm had bid. The work was again tendered in December 2020, but only the same firm had shown up. Deal this week ''We expect to sign the agreement this week,'' said Alex Varghese, Chief Engineer (Irrigation and Administration). The nature of the wastes that need to be removed from the canal could have been a deterrent for other firms, he said. As per the approval given by the Cabinet, the government also plans to purchase a silt pusher machine that will be used for desilting canals, including Amayizhanjan Canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lone-bid-for-canal-revamp-taken/article35334849.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital district posts 99.16% pass in SSLC examination||The district recorded a pass percentage of 99.16 in the SSLC examination, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. This was 0.22 percentage points up from last year’s (98.94%). As many as 9,909 students in the district secured A+ grade in all subjects. The pass percentage in Attingal educational district was 98.99, in Thiruvananthapuram 98.98 and Neyyattinkara 99.54. Of the 34,179 students who appeared for the examination from the district, 33,891 became eligible for higher education. Of them, 17,134 were boys and 16,757 girls.As many as 3,788 students secured A+ in the Attingal educational district; 2,953 in the Thiruvananthapuram educational district; and 3,168 in Neyyattinkara. The subject in which maximum number of students secured the A+ grade was IT – 34,164. Only 15 students did not get A+ grade in the paper. As many as 159 of the 269 schools had 100% results. St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Pattom, presented the maximum number of students for the examination were – 1,711. Among the government schools that had 100% pass are Government HS, Chala; Govt. Model HSS for Boys, Chala; Government Girls HSS, Karamana; Government HS for Girls, Dhanuvachapuram; Government HS, Sreekaryam; Government HSS, Pettah; Government VHSS, Pettah; Government Model HSS, Venganoor; Government HSS for Girls, Malayinkeezhu; Government HSS, Balaramapuram. In the aided sector, the schools with 100% success included St. Goretti’s HS, Nalanchira; RKD NSS HS, Sasthamangalam; St. Philomena’s Girls HS, Poonthura; St. Roch’s HS, Thope; RR VHSS, Kilimanoor; NSS GHSS, Dhanuvachapuram; VHSS for Girls, Thiruvallam; St. Joseph’s HSS, Thiruvananthapuram; St. Mary’s HSS, Vettucaud; and LMS HSS, Vattappara. In the unaided sector, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vazhuthcaud; Carmel Girls HSS, Thiruvananthapuram; Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nalanchira; St. Therese’s Convent Girls HSS, Neyyattinkara; Cordova FMHS, Poonthura; Nirmala Girls HSS; Christ Nagar English Higher Secondary School; St. Thomas, Mukkolakkal, Lourdes Mount HS, Vattapara; SHCHS, Anchuthengu; and Crescent HS, Nedumangad, had 100% results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-posts-9916-pass-in-sslc-examination/article35334846.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Celebrating the expressions of non-binary identity||It was around three years ago that 35-year-old Harry Harris understood they (one of the pronouns used by a single person whose gender identity is non-binary) were non-binary — people who do not identify within the traditional gender binary of male or female. Till then, it was a struggle for Harry. “In my childhood, I never understood what was happening as I had not seen any gender expression other than male or female.” Though too young to have any gender identity, Harry had gender expressions that did not fit within the man/woman binary. Adolescence, particularly, was a very confusing time. Harry says non-binary people here may realise their gender identity quite late owing to the lack of non-binary representation in society, be it in families, books or films, unlike in many foreign countries. Harry, a co-founder of Queerythm, a community-based organisation for LGBTIQ people, says that only after the collective was registered and meeting people and listening to people’s experiences did they get clarity on gender identity. “Only by relating with them can non-binary people identify their gender identity.” Prijith P.K., president of Queerythm, says many non-binary individuals may identify themselves wrongly, as there is little awareness of non-binary. Even within the LGBTIQ community, there is little understanding of gender fluidity. Ending discrimination Queerythm, he says, is launching a week-long programme on creating awareness on non-binary people within and outside the LGBTQ+ community and ending the discrimination faced by them, coinciding with International Non-binary People’s Day that fell on Wednesday. Writer Lasar Shine and poet Adi was set to kick-start the programme with a conversation on ‘Non-binary representation in literature.’ On Thursday, Queerythm member M.K. Balamohan will give a talk on ‘Introduction to non-binary gender.’’ Chithira Vijayakumar, writer, gives a talk on non-binary sexualities on July 16. On July 17, Harry Harris will talk on discrimination faced by non-binary people. Lebin Thathapally will speak on ‘Process of identifying non-binary coming out’ the next day. Paras Dogra and Ritu will converse on family support on July 19. On the final day, Jasmine Jai will speak on ‘Love and life of non-binary people.’ The events will be held on Google Meet at 7 p.m. on all days.  Prijith P.K. says many non-binary individuals may identify themselves wrongly as there is little awareness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrating-the-expressions-of-non-binary-identity/article35334852.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSHEC calls for a State policy on academic research||The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has recommended to the government the formulation and implementation of a State policy on academic research to create a research culture and an environment conducive for research. The advisory body also called for the modification of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations to address the problem of shortage of research guides and, thereby, enhance seats for PhD programmes. A six-member expert panel chaired by council executive body member J. Rajan, which studied the problems of researchers in the State, observed that the decision — by adopting UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil/PhD degrees) Regulations, 2016 — to disallow retired faculty from being research supervisors had adversely affected research in State universities. While the superannuation age for university and college teachers in Kerala is 60 and 56 respectively, it is 65 in many other States. Besides, the faculty in Central universities have an opportunity to become Emeritus Professor and thereby receive an extension of five years. The panel opined research pursuit, and not retirement age, should be the criteria while permitting research supervisors to guide scholars. They also urged the Central government to enhance financial support to spur research and innovation. Centres of Excellence While welcoming the State government’s intention to establish 30 Centres of Excellence in State universities, the council urged both the Centre and the State to develop provisions for bringing mandatory industry-university interface for research. The curriculum of universities should be suitably designed to enhance such linkages. The KSHEC also advocated strengthening research directorates in universities to coordinate academic research and reduce delay in research-related procedures. The council also flagged the lack of uniform procedure in governing various activities, including admission, commencement and tenure of research, and fellowship. Fellowships Finding that the inordinate delay in the distribution of research fellowships and scholarships has affected many researchers, the expert panel urged the State government to adopt immediate steps to streamline the procedure for their disbursal, similar to the system implemented for the direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes. Time-bound action has also been sought for the evaluation of PhD theses and declaration of results. Teaching grants In a bid to ensure financial independence among researchers, the council also recommended providing them teaching or research assistant grants to cover their fees and subsistence requirements. They proposed tasking PhD students with taking tutorials for undergraduate students and assisting them with regular obligatory essay writing. It would also improve the overall quality of higher education in the State, stated the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kshec-calls-for-a-state-policy-on-academic-research/article35334752.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s infra progress must be model for State, says Riyas||The basic infrastructure development in the capital should become a model for the State's development plans, said Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Wednesday. He was speaking during an online overview meeting of the public works and tourism projects in the district. The Minister said officials should ensure that the developmental activities in Thiruvananthapuram should be carried out in a time-bound manner. People's representatives had come forward with positive suggestions. Necessary steps would be taken after considering these, he said. Officials concerned explained the various ongoing projects in the district during the meeting. MLAs spoke on the progress of the projects in their respective constituencies and also brought to the Minister's attention issues concerning the plans. Similar meets Mr. Riyas said the progress of the projects in the district would be assessed in similar overview meetings once every four months. Education Minister V. Sivankutty, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, MLAs K. Ansalan, M. Vincent, C.K. Hareendran and G. Stephen were among those present in the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capitals-infra-progress-must-be-model-for-state-says-riyas/article35334855.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District registers 1,133 new cases||The COVID-19 caseload in the district went up by 1,133 cases on Wednesday, while the test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 8.2%. The district reported 837 recoveries on the day and the number of active cases stands at 10,012. Contact transmission accounted for 1,050 of the new cases. The day's list also included three health workers. The number of people in quarantine in the district rose to 32,480 with the addition of 2,181 people on Wednesday. The district administration has issued a revised list of local bodies where restrictions based on the TPR will be in force for one week from Thursday. Local bodies in the district have been classified into A (average TPR below 5% — areas with low spread), B (between 5 and 10% — areas with moderate spread), C (10-15% - areas with high spread) and D (TPR above 15% — areas with critical spread) categories. Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and the municipalities of Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara are in the B category, while Attingal and Varkala have been classified C. The panchayats of Mudakkal, Tholicode, Andoorkonam, Karumkulam and Vettoor are D category locations. 100% attendance Public offices, PSUs, companies, commissions, corporations and autonomous institutions in the A and B category locations can function with 100% attendance, and those in C category locations with 50% attendance. Banks can function on five days a week, while July 17 (Saturday) will be a holiday. Places of worship in A and B category local bodies can allow a maximum of 15 people for rituals by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Examinations are permitted in places with all four categories on all days, including Saturday and Sunday. Supermarkets in A, B and C category locations will be allowed to function on weekends for home delivery. Weekend lockdown The existing weekend lockdown measures will continue in the district. These measures will be applicable on all days in D category locations. Autorickshaws will be permitted in B category locations, also with a maximum of two passengers. Visitors from other States arriving in the district should produce an RT-PCR negative certificate. In A and B category areas, hotels and restaurants can function till 9.30 p.m. for takeaway and home delivery of food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-registers-1133-new-cases/article35334858.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR at 10.03% as 15,637 more test positive||The State reported 15,637 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 1,55,882 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate inthe State on Wednesday was 10.03%. New cases continue to show a rising trend in many northern districts, giving rise to apprehensions that there could be a resurgence in cases even whilst the second wave is plateauing. Seven districts are reporting new cases between 1,000 and 2,000. The active case pool, which had last month gone below one lakh patients, has been rising steadily for the past two or more weeks and on Wednesday stood at 1,17,708. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 12,974. Death toll There seems to be no let-up in COVID deaths either, even though the pressure on the health system has eased. An average of 100 deaths are still reported in the State on a daily basis. The cumulative case fatality rose to 14,938 with the State adding 128 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official toll on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID rose to 2,373, taking the number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe infection currently in hospitals to 24,610. ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, have remained more or less unchanged for the past two weeks and rose slightly to 1,985, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also went up to 724 on Wednesday. The cumulative case burden now stands at 31,03,310 cases. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,030, followed by Kozhikode 2,022, Ernakulam 1,894, Thrissur 1,704, Kollam 1,154, Thiruvananthapuram 1,133, Palakkad 1,111, Alappuzha 930, Kannur 912, Kottayam 804, Kasaragod 738, Pathanamthitta 449, Wayanad 433, and Idukki 323 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-at-1003-as-15637-more-test-positive/article35334585.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Date extended for IT infra survey||The Kerala State Higher Education Council has extended the deadline for submitting entries for the ongoing survey of IT infrastructural facilities in higher educational institutions in the State to July 30. The online survey is being undertaken to assess such facilities and technology-enabled learning environment in universities, and government, aided and private colleges. Institutions have been urged to complete the questionnaire on the council web-portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/date-extended-for-survey/article35334512.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NABARD sanctions four projects in State||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has launched four projects to be implemented by various agencies across the State. The package was sanctioned to mark the 40th foundation day celebrations of the bank. The first project with a grant assistance of Rs. 18.50 lakh for the evaluation of vaccine against the bacterial disease ‘Riemerellosis’ in ducks was sanctioned to the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Thrissur. Wireless connectivity A grant assistance of Rs. 5 lakh has been sanctioned as the second project to provide long-distance wireless connectivity to tribal settlements in Nilambur in Malappuram district. The project to be completed in 10 days will be executed through an NGO Jan Shikshan Sansthan (JSS), Malappuram, with the support of the Centre for Social Computing as technology partner. For fishermen The third project involves up-skilling of 90 young fishermen in the repair of outboard motors of fishing vessels and is sanctioned to the South Indian Federation of Fisherman Societies with a grant assistance of Rs. 4.50 lakh. NABARD has also sanctioned four training programmes with a grant assistance of Rs. 15 lakh to the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme under the State government for a graphic designer programme and AWS (Amazon Web Services) Cloud programme for 290 trainees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nabard-sanctions-four-projects-for-state/article35334510.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU appointment row: KSU blocks VC’s car||Protesting Kerala University’s appointment of a Sanskrit Professor as Editor of the Malayalam Lexicon, activists of the Kerala Students Union (KSU) on Wednesday attempted to block Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai’s car. KSU workers waved black flags at him as he was about to reach the university premises in the morning. Five KSU activists rushed to the vehicle and attempted to block its way, in front of the AKG centre, located near the university. Police swung into action, removing the protesters from the spot. The five of them were arrested and taken to the Armed Reserve (AR) camp. The protest was against the appointment of H. Poornima, a Professor in the Department of Sanskrit General, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, on deputation as Editor of the Lexicon. Whistle-blower group Save University Campaign Committee, a whistle-blower group, had alleged nepotism in the appointment of Prof. Poornima, wife of R. Mohanan, the Officer on Special Duty to the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The group had accused the university of modifying the criterion for the appointment in violation of the university norms to suit the applicant. Prof. Poornima had, however, dismissed the allegations and pointed out that she was appointed on the basis of a thorough selection procedure.  KSU workers wave black flags at Vice Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-appointment-row-ksu-blocks-vcs-car/article35334854.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fifth outlet of Kerala Chicken in district soon||With a capacity of 8,000 chicken a week, Kudumbashree’s Kerala Chicken project is making steady progress in the district. Its fifth outlet in the district will be inaugurated in Kollayil grama panchayat soon. Since its launch a few years ago with the objective of bringing quality chicken to consumers, the Kerala Chicken project has undergone quite a few changes. Introduced in association with the Animal Husbandry Department, it involved providing day-old chicks from Kepco (Kerala State Poultry Development Corporation) and the agency buying the poultry back at a fair price when the birds are nearly 45 days old. Branded outlets Kudumbashree then launched Kudumbashree Broiler Farmer Producer Company Ltd. to link all stages of the project, from production to sales. Steps were taken to make available broiler chicken under the brand name Kerala Chicken through branded marketing outlets. Today, four such outlets operate under the Kudumbashree district mission at Nagaroor, Venjaramoodu, Pullampara, and Tholicode. Nearly 2,500 chicken are sold through these outlets and the remaining through the outside market. 32 farms now Thirty-two farms in the district have signed agreement with Kudumbashree for the integrated farming project. Day-old chicks are provided to the farms by Kudumbashree Broiler Farmer Producer Company Ltd. Food and medicine are also supplied by the company. After 40-45 days, the birds are bought back by the company and the farmers are paid as per the feed conversion ratio (FCR). Farmers can earn anywhere between Rs. 4 to Rs. 13 on 1 kg of chicken, say Kudumbashree officials. Loans of Rs. 1.5 lakh at 4% interest for two years are also provided to the farmers as community investment fund. Kudumbashree is targeting launch of 50 farms in the district this year, according to Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fifth-outlet-of-kerala-chicken-in-district-soon/article35334863.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Increased testing drive today and tomorrow||Alarmed over the steadily rising COVID-19 case graph, the Health Department is yet again organising an augmented testing drive on Thursday and Friday, when 3.75 lakh tests will be done, focussing on those areas where disease transmission has been sustained and special vulnerable groups at high risk of contracting COVID. In a statement here on Wednesday, Health Minister Veena George said the idea was to identify pockets where new cases were being reported continuously and new segments of population and areas where new cases are reported. The results of the testing drive would be analysed for planning further containment measures. This time, the focus will be on testing those with influenza-like illnesses; Severe Acute Respiratory Infection; those with diabetes, hypertension and other chronic diseases; those less than 45 years but who have regular or increased social interactions; unvaccinated persons above 45 years; those who have been in contact with known COVID patients; all persons who come to OP clinics; and those who come to non-COVID clinics (as per doctor’s instructions). The testing population would also include pregnant women, care-home inmates and children from areas where Delta and Delta Plus variants were reported. The general public is also being encouraged to walk in for COVID tests. Both RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests would be employed and the former would be done in each district as per the capacity in districts. All test results are to be entered in the LDMS portal within 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increased-testing-drive-today-and-tomorrow/article35334586.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held for hurling bomb||The Nedumangad police on Wednesday arrested three persons on charges of hurling a country-made bomb at a house last month. The accused were identified as Pinki (25) and Anand (26) from Karakulam and Sumesh (26) from Thekkummoodu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-hurling-bomb/article35334847.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Phone threat to Minister: one arrested||The Cantonment police on Wednesday arrested a 50-year-old man who had allegedly made a threatening call to Minister for Devaswoms and SC/ST and Backward Classes Welfare K. Radhakrishnan. The accused has been identified as Ajithkumar from Vattiyurkavu. According to the police, he was arrested from the office of a charitable society, of which he is an office-bearer. Mr. Radhakrishnan had revealed on Tuesday that he had received a death threat on his land phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phone-threat-to-minister-one-arrested/article35334848.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination for the pregnant from Friday||The district-level inauguration of Mathrukavacham, a COVID-19 vaccination programme for pregnant women, will be held on Friday. The inauguration will be held in the presence of District Collector Navjot Khosa at the Women and Children Hospital, Thycaud, at 10 a.m.  Pregnant women can take the vaccine any time during the pregnancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-the-pregnant-from-friday/article35334853.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Submit plaints on Corpn. staff to Mayor||The public can now submit complaints regarding the city Corporation's employees directly to Mayor Arya Rajendran. The complaints about employees of the health, revenue or engineering wings at the main office or the zonal offices can be submitted through e-mail or the Mayor's complaint redressal system. Ms. Rajendran said in a press release on Wednesday that action would be taken on valid complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/submit-plaints-on-corpn-staff-to-mayor/article35334856.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strengthen preventive steps: Minister||Local bodies should strengthen preventive measures against Zika virus spread, said Minister for Local Self Government M. V. Govindan on Wednesday. People should take care to keep their homes and immediate environments free of mosquitoes. One day every week should be observed as a 'dry day' for undertaking cleaning activities, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strengthen-preventive-steps-minister/article35334859.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mar Ivanios remembered||The commemoration of Mar Ivanios, the first Metropolitan Archbishop (Thiruvananthapuram) of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church and the architect of the Reunion Movement, was held at the St. Mary’s Cathedral at Pattom here with 10 Metropolitans holding lighted candles taking part in a perambulation. Evening prayers were also held. The ceremonies were scaled down in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. Major Archbishop Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis led the perambulation. He will also preside over the mass to be held on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mar-ivanios-remembered/article35334570.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Energy meter calibration lab set up at EMC||Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty inaugurated an energy meter calibration laboratory at the Energy Management Centre (EMC) here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said the new facility would be an asset for the State at a time when efforts were on to switch over to smart meters. Online applications Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, Power Secretary B. Ashok and Director, EMC, R. Harikumar were among those present. Consumers can submit online applications for calibrating meters. The laboratory is equipped with calibrating 20 single-phase meters or 10 three-phase meters a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/energy-meter-calibration-lab-set-up-at-emc/article35334860.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Byelections in 15 wards on August 11||Byelections in 15 local body wards in nine districts would be held on August 11, the State Election Commission said on Wednesday. Polling will begin at 7 a.m. and conclude at 6 p.m. The votes will be counted on August 12. The byelections are scheduled in 11 grama panchayat wards in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur districts; one block panchayat ward in Malappuram district and one municipality ward each in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Wayanad district. The model code of conduct has come into force from Wednesday. The notification will be issued on July 16. July 23 is the last date for submitting papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/byelections-in-15-wards-on-august-11/article35334568.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSRTC online ticket booking via PhonePe||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) online ticket reservation (online.keralartc.com) can be done through PhonePe too. If traveller’s transactions done through UPI (Unified Payments Interface) fail or tickets get cancelled, the money will be refunded within 24 hours. There are no payment gateway charges for using the PhonePe service, the KSRTC said in a statement here on Wednesday. On the first day of the service, 134 people booked their ticket through it, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-online-ticket-booking-via-phonepe/article35334580.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC mains exams in Oct., Dec.||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has published the calender for the mains examinations of various posts with Class 10 as the basic qualification. The mains examinations, which are scheduled to be held on October 23, 30 and from December 1 to 11 this year, are being conducted after dividing the 192 posts for which preliminary examinations were conducted into different categories based on the nature of the job. The PSC has also prepared a revised syllabus for the different categories of jobs, which is available in the syllabus link under the examination calender on the PSC website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-mains-exams-in-oct-dec/article35334581.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall likely till Friday||Heavy rainfall is likely to continue in the State till Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put eight districts on yellow alert on Thursday, given the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. The districts are Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. The other districts can expect light to moderate rainfall, the IMD indicated in a Wednesday evening update. Several central and northern districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall till Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rainfall-likely-till-friday/article35334582.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New Executive Director for Kudumbashree||P.I. Sreevidya on Wednesday assumed charge as Kudumbashree Executive Director. She was earlier director of the Scheduled Caste Development Department. Ms. Sreevidya replaces Harikishore S. who has been posted as Industries and Commerce director. A 2010 IAS cadre officer, Ms. Sreevidya was Deputy Commissioner at Coorg in Karnataka when she came to the State on an inter-cadre deputation back in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-executive-director-for-kudumbashree/article35334567.ece
15 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records 99.31%, Palakkad 99.35% pass||Thrissur district has recorded 99.31% pass in the SSLC examination, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. Though the pass percentage has increased by 0.38 compared to last year, the district was pushed to tenth from ninth in terms of overall pass percentage. For higher studies In all, 35,158 students, including 18,000 boys and 17,158 girls, are eligible for higher studies in the district. Only 244 students failed in the examination. Of the 264 schools in the district, 177, including 40 government, 107 aided, and 30 unaided schools, registered 100% pass. Last year, 155 schools had secured full pass. A total of 11,960 students, including 8,063 girls and 3,897 boys, won A+ in all subjects. The maximum number of 4,328 students got A+ in all subjects in the Irinjalakuda education district, with 2,832 girls and 1,496 boys securing the achievement. In Palakkad Palakkad registered 99.35% pass in the SSLC examination. Out of the 38,770 students who wrote the examination in the district, 38,518 passed. When 19,522 of them were boys, 18,996 were girls. As many as 9,083 students secured A+ in all subjects in Palakkad district. More than two-thirds of them were girls. When 6,460 girls secured full A+, only 2,623 boys got that achievement. Mannarkkad educational district stood on top with 99.63% pass, followed by Ottapalam with 99.49% and Palakkkad with 99.12%. In Palakkad educational district, 17,505 passed this year’s SSLC. When 8,881 of them were boys, 8,624 were girls. As many as 4,069 got A+ in all subjects. In Ottapalam educational district, 6,198 boys and 5,988 girls passed the SSLC. There were 2,838 full A+. In Mannarkkad educational district, 8,827 students passed. When 4,443 of them were boys, 4,384 were girls. There were 2,176 full A+ in Mannarkkad. ( With inputs from Palakkad bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-records-9931-palakkad-9935-pass/article35334679.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kannur records highest pass percentage in SSLC exam||Kannur district came first in the State with the highest pass percentage of 99.85 in this year’s SSLC examination when the results were released on Wednesday. Out of a total of 45,433 students who appeared for the examination from Kannur, Thalassery and Taliparamba education districts, 34,481 qualified for higher studies. In the district, 11,816 students, including 4,140 boys and 7,676 girls got A + in all subjects. Kasaragod Kasaragod district registered a pass percentage of 99.74% in SSLC examinations. This is 1.13% more compared to last year’s results. Meanwhile, 4,366 students got A + in all subjects. Of the 19,337 students who appeared for the examination in the district, 19,287 qualified for higher education. Wayanad Wayanad district secured a pass percentage of 98.13% in the SSLC exam with 46 schools achieving the honour of having all students passed in this academic year as against of 95.04% in 2020-21 academic year. Kozhikode Kozhikode district recorded a pass percentage of 99.68 when results of the SSLC exams were declared on Wednesday evening. The district improved its position by reaching the seventh slot compared to the previous year when it had slipped to the 13th position in the State. Of the 44,573 people who appeared for the exams, 44,430 cleared them. Among them 22,548 are boys and 21,882 are girls. A total of 14,363 students got A plus in all subjects, of whom 9,381 are girls and 4,982 are boys. A total of 136 schools recorded cent per cent pass, including 43 government schools, and 65 aided schools. Malappuram Malappuram district registered a pass percentage of 99.39. The district had several firsts. While the largest number of students in the State took the SSLC examination in Malappuram, the largest number of students passed too was in Malappuram. The largest number of students who secured A-plus in all subjects was also in Malappuram. When 76,014 students appeared for the exam in the district, 75,554 passed. While 37,280 of them were girls, 38,274 were boys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-records-highest-pass-percentage-in-sslc-exam/article35334490.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Say ‘no’ to dowry, Governor tells girls||Mr. Khan said he would be writing to Vice Chancellors seeking the introduction of this measure. The undertaking would also empower the university concerned to cancel the degree if later on it was found that the student had become party to the crime of dowry, he said. “A degree from an educational institution is not meant to increase your price in the marriage market,” he said. Mr. Khan declared his intention to write to people’s representatives requesting them to avoid marriages where dowry had changed hands. If such a transaction had indeed taken place, they should decline the invitation. “They also should make it public that this is the reason why they are not attending, despite receiving the invitation,” he said. He urged girls to say 'no' to marriages where the groom's family was demanding a dowry. The problem of dowry was not confined to Kerala alone. The State, with its admirable social indicators in literacy and health, should take the lead in the fight against it, he said. The Governor's decision to join the fast had come as a surprise to many and had triggered an intense debate. Speaking to the media on Wednesday, Mr. Khan said his decision to join the fast was “above party politics.” No such motive existed, he said. “This is not a partisan issue. Politicians, non politicians and everybody are concerned with this issue,” he said, adding that he had discussed the matter with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who was ''enthusiastic about it.'' Leaders of the Opposition too have lent his support to it, he said. The Kerala Police is pro-active in pursuing dowry-related cases. “I can vouchsafe for this,” he said. “But law alone or the police alone, cannot end this (the practice of dowry). We need some action on the part of the people. We have to appeal to the conscience of the people,” he said. Mr. Khan started his fast at 8 a.m. at the Raj Bhavan and arrived at the Gandhi Bhavan here for a prayer meeting at 4.30 p.m. He concluded the fast by sipping lemon juice at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/say-no-to-dowry-governor-tells-girls/article35334751.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Strict enforcement||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-enforcement/article35334796.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protocol in protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protocol-in-protest/article35334810.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unrewarding wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unrewarding-wait/article35334681.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bullish demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bullish-demand/article35334862.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Highlighting a cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/highlighting-a-cause/article35334584.ece
15 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die as motorcycles collide||Two persons were killed when their motorcycles collided at Gollapalli in Parigi Mandal of the district late on Tuesday night. While 25-year-old Govind Reddy died on the spot, the other rider identified as Harish, 31, died while being treated at the NIMHANS in Bengaluru early in the morning. Govind Reddy, hailing from Nasanakota, was coming to Hindupur, while Harish, hailing from Nadimpalli, was going to Somandepalli and their vehicles collided in the darkness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-as-motorcycles-collide/article35334650.ece
15 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study says vaccination is efficient by over 90%||Medical officers in Chittoor district, who conducted a study on the efficacy of the COVID vaccine at various COVID hospitals and COVID Care Centres, observed that of the 700-plus positive cases studied, only three patients who took two doses of vaccine were found to be infected with the virus. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer (Deputy DMHO) P. Ravi Raju and pulmonologist in the Government Hospital, Puttur, P. Amarnatha Reddy told The Hindu that close to 80% of the COVID positive cases which had surfaced in the second wave were of people who were not vaccinated even once. The officials said that among those who took the first dose of vaccine, it was observed that they were infected within a few days after vaccination. Those who had completed a regimen of more than a month in the first dose and a couple of weeks after the second dose were found to be “absolutely safe” from the virus. The medical officers observed that the COVID positive patients who took the two doses remained mostly asymptomatic at the COVID Care Centres. “None of them had developed any serious complications. Almost all of them had approached us for early discharge, or with a request to allow them to do some voluntary work in the COVID centres. However, due to COVID rules, they were restricted to isolation,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. The officials said that certain sections of people still had apprehensions about the COVID vaccine, and such segments should immediately shed their doubts and come to the vaccination centres. N-95 masks helpful “In the second wave, it is further found that some medical and paramedical staff and sanitation staff were infected not at the COVID hospitals or centres, but due to the contacts at home and at public places. COVID safety norms such as wearing N-95 masks and using sanitisers were found to be extraordinarily helpful in keeping the institutional virus spread at bay,” Dr. Amarnath said. In view of the threat of a third wave, the medical officials said that the ongoing campaign to promote compulsory wearing of face masks and observing physical distance would be intensified. “Since a few days, there is a mood of relaxation in the public, who are found not wearing face masks and not maintaining physical distance. These practices against COVID norms should be tackled immediately,” DR. Amarnath added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-says-vaccination-is-efficient-by-over-90/article35334653.ece
15 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swift police response saves woman after murder attempt||Swift action by the police helped in saving a 21-year-old woman who was reportedly battling for life after being allegedly strangled by her husband at Reddivaripalle village of Piler mandal on Wednesday. A farm worker couple Rajendrachari (30) and Sailaja (21) used to have frequent quarrels, accusing each other of extra-marital relationships. On Wednesday morning, Rajendrachari allegedly strangled Sailaja with a rope. Assuming that she had died, he reportedly wrapped her in a blanket and dumped the bundle under a cot in his residence. Rajendrachari locked the house and fled the spot. He called a relative at Piler to say that he had murdered Sailaja, and was coming to Piler to surrender before the police. The relative immediately informed Circle Inspector (Piler Urban) A. Sadiq Ali about the issue. The Circle Inspector despatched a team of constables to the village, 8 km from Piler. Breaking open the doors, the police unwrapped the victim and were getting ready for conducting the inquest, while a special team was already on the job of tracking the accused. Much to his surprise, one of the constables found a weak movement in the woman’s feet, though she was unconscious. She was immediately rushed to the government hospital at Piler, where she was resuscitated, and was later shifted to SVRR Governemnt Hospital at Tirupati for critical treatment. Mr. Ali said the accused was arrested while he was trying to board a bus near Piler. The accused was sent for remand. Woman ‘ends life’ In another incident, a married woman Sailaja (31) of Neerugattuvaripalle locality of Madanapalle town allegedly committed suicide by hanging to a hook in the ceiling at her residence. The police said that a family dispute was behind the woman’s extreme step. A case has been registered and further investigation is on. Those battling suicidal thoughts can Dial 100 for guidance and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swift-police-response-saves-woman-battling-for-life-after-murder-attempt/article35334654.ece
15 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. stages stir against fuel price hike||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) working president N. Tulasi Reddy on Wednesday staged a stir against the hike in petrol and diesel prices here, as part of the nation-wide call given by the high-command. They led a cycle rally from the party office to the Gandhi Bomma circle, raising slogans against fuel price hike. Earlier, police foiled the party’s attempt to hold “vanta varpu” stir in front of the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-stages-stir-against-fuel-price-hike/article35334651.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||India’s National Plastic Surgery Day gets global acceptance||The concept of observing July 15 as National Plastic Surgery Day in India has been adopted by the leaders of top bodies in the speciality across the globe as the World Plastic Surgery Day. The Association of Plastic Surgeons of India (APSI) announced the decision in a statement on Tuesday. The concept was discussed in a meeting of the presidents of plastic surgery associations of various countries organised by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons recently. The decision on observing July 15 as the World Plastic Surgery Day came after the APSI’s current president Rakesh Khazanchi spoke about the success of the National Plastic Surgery Day in India at the World Council of Leaders, a body consisting of the presidents of all national associations, and all agreed to celebrate July 15 as the World Plastic Surgery day. Coimbatore-based plastic surgeon S. Raja Sabapathy introduced the concept of the National Plastic Surgery Day when he was the APSI president in 2011 to create awareness of plastic surgery. Every plastic surgeon in the country did one free surgery to mark the inaugural year. “Plastic surgery originated from India and Sushruta is hailed by all as the founder of plastic surgery. Now we can also be proud that from India we conceptualised World Plastic Surgery Day,” said Dr. Sabapathy, Chairman, Division of Plastic Surgery, Hand Surgery, Reconstructive Microsurgery and Burns at Ganga Hospital, Coimbatore. He said the day was created to spread awareness on areas where plastic surgeons can play a great role but are often missed due to lack of awareness. Some such fields were diabetic foot ulcers where a contribution by a plastic surgeon can prevent amputations and lymphedema (elephantiasis) where they can help to reduce the size of the legs, he said.  Plastic surgery originated from India and Sushruta is hailed by all as the founder of plastic surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indias-national-plastic-surgery-day-gets-global-acceptance/article35334218.ece
15 July 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job chart for women police soon||Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) of Police, Eluru Range, K.V. Mohan Rao has appealed to the Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (GMSKs), who are being absorbed into Police Department as women police, to take steps for protection of women. The DIG, who participated in a meeting with the women police on Wednesday, said a job chart would be prepared and necessary training would be given for women police personnel soon. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, at a recent meeting in Vijayawada, had said the GMSKs would be absorbed into Police Department and they would be treated as women police personnel. The women police met Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang and thanked the government for recognising their services and taking them as women police personnel. “We asked the willingness of the women police for coming into Police Department, and majority of them expressed happiness. Police are collecting opinion from the new recruits in the Secretariats,” Mr. Mohan Rao said. Many women police were having M.Tech, B. Tech, MBA, MCA, B.Ed and post-graduation qualifications in different streams. The department would utilise the services of women police in different wings, he said. “The women police sought allotment of some cadre, utilise their services in technical wings, give them police uniform, allot clerical cadre for them, and many of them said they will work from Secretariats on behalf of the Police Department. The opinions would be sent to DGP,” Mr. Mohan Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-chart-for-women-police-soon/article35334270.ece
15 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Target set to increase aquaculture production to 12 MT per annum||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said aquacultures hubs are being set up in the State to benefit both the farmers and the coustomers. The government has set a target of increasing the aquaculture production in the State from 4.36 lakh metric tonnes per annum at present to 12 metric tonnes per annum. Reviewing progress of the works undertaken by the Animal Hunsbandary and Fisheries Department on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said achieveing the target would ensure the availability of aqua products to customers at affordable prices, while the farmers would get fair prices. He asked the officials to expedite the land acquisition for the aquaculture university proposed in the State and hold discussions with the Central Government pertaining to providing insurance to the aqua sector. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that awareness should be created on the integrated aquaculture labs and quality checkings. “The government has already launched 14 such labs and 21 more will be launched in November. The labs should be linked with the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). There should be no adulteration in aqua seed and feed. Animal feed and other related products should be available at the kiosks in RBKs,” he said. Cage fish culture The officials informed the Chief Minister that works pertaining to five fishing harbours and one fish land centre had been started. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked them to focus on cage fish culture and mariculture and prepare an action plan to make farmers move forward in this regard. The officials were told start cage fish culture and mariculture in three locations each as pilot projects. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said each mandal should be considered as a unit and the required veterinary dispensaries should be set up. The mandals without dispensaries should be mapped. He asked the officials to prepare an action plan for the implementation of Nadu-Nedu programme in veterinary hospitals and determine the infrastructure facilities need be developed. Amul Palavelluva project The officials informed the Chief Minister on the progress of Andhra Pradesh Amul Palavelluva project. The programme has been started in Prakasam, Kadapa, Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari districts and will be extended to Vishakapatnam and Anantapur districts in August, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/target-set-to-increase-aquaculture-production-to-12-mt-per-annum/article35334670.ece
15 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM students’ remote auditing startup making waves||A startup called OurEye.ai launched by Sourav Sanyal, Miran Junaidi, and Saurabh Ghanekar - all computer science students at SRM University-AP, is making waves in the remote auditing and monitoring sector with pre-existing CCTV-IP infrastructure. “OurEye.ai is all about creating a whole new world of remote auditing and monitoring with pre-existing CCTV-IP infrastructure. It is a real-time video analytics platform that enables enterprises to supercharge their business with video analytics which transforms and solves numerous operational problems across a variety of sectors such as F&B, hospitality, workplace safety and manufacturing. The virtual video auditing solution provides data on certain critical metrics on hygiene/safety and quality,” said Miran. OurEye.ai, since its inception, has analysed over 5,000 hours of video feeds across enterprises in India and the U.S. OurEye.ai has also successfully raised $120 million from top venture capitalists and high-ranking angel investors. OurEye.ai has a variety of industry partners such as Microsoft for Startups, NASSCOM and AWS for Startups.  “OurEye was developed at NextTech — we built the best projects, had fun innovating with technology every single day. NextTech Lab is the first-ever lab in India to be awarded the prestigious QS Award by the Wharton School of Business,” said Sourav. University president P. Sathyanarayan congratulated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-students-remote-auditing-startup-making-waves/article35334272.ece
15 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen plant inaugurated||An initiative taken up by the district administration to fill the gaps in oxygen supply in rural areas was fulfilled on Wednesday as an oxygen manufacturing plant sponsored by ITC-ABD was inaugurated at Sattenapalli here on Wednesday. District Collector Vivek Yadav, who had taken the initiative to convince ITC-ABD to set up Oxygen manufacturing plants at Sattenapalli and at Macherla, said the new plants would fulfil the demand for oxygen in rural areas. Member of Parliament, Narsaraopet , Lavu Srikrishnadevarayulu said that ITC had done good service during the pandemic and wanted the company to do more in education and health sectors. The ITC-ABD could adopt government schools and turn them into model schools, he said. MLA Ambati Rambabu said the initiative was noble as a major firm was involved in philanthropy in rural areas. Joint Collectors A.S. Dinesh Kumar and P Prasanthi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-plant-inaugurated/article35334878.ece
15 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu visiting State only to sling mud at govt.: Minister||I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Wednesday criticised TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for trying to gain political mileage even while visiting his party leaders. The Minister was reacting to Mr. Naidu’s statements during his visit to the city on Tuesday. Addressing the media, Mr. Venkataramaiah said that Mr. Naidu was visiting the State only to sling mud at the government. The State government had effectively tackled the COVID-19 situation in both the phases and stood second in the country in controlling the pandemic, the Minister said. “Though the Union government, the Niti Aayog and the WHO have lauded the measures taken by the State, Mr. Naidu and his party members are unable to accept it. Right from establishing testing labs to increasing oxygen bed capacity, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has spared no efforts in checking the spread of the virus,” he said. Stating that people wouldn’t have rejected Mr. Naidu had he kept his poll promises, Mr. Venkataramaiah said that the TDP leader had given over 600 assurances to the people in the run-up to the 2014 elections and fulfilled hardly any of them. However, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had fulfilled over 97% of the promises in 20 months of coming to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-visiting-state-only-to-sling-mud-at-govt-minister/article35334671.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food processing policy okayed||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the food processing policy of the State government with the aim to promote export-oriented food processing units in anticipation of increased foodgrains production every year. In the first phase as per the policy, at least 10 food processing zones will be established over 500 to 1,000 acres which will be scaled up to 10,000 acres by 2024-25. Entrepreneurs interested in setting up processing units in them will be offered incentives. The government will acquire land for the zones and allot the same to applicants according to eligibility norms. An investment of Rs. 25,000 crore, direct employment to 70,000 people and indirect for another three lakh people was targeted. ‘Plug and play’ facility at sheds constructed by the government will be provided for SCs, STs and minorities. The government will provide opportunities for setting up units for SC and ST women from rural areas. Rice mills, ancillary units of rice products and processing units of pulses, oilseed, flowers, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish, poultry, dairy and dairy products were proposed to be sanctioned in the zones. A buffer zone up to 500 metres would be set up around the zones which will be barred for human dwelling or constructions. The last date for applications has been extended from July 12 to July 31. The Cabinet meeting noted that a conducive atmosphere for food processing was created in the State due to stepped-up production in agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries sectors on account of increased storage capacity of irrigation sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/food-processing-policy-approved/article35334660.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mosque opens its doors to post-COVID patients||People who have recovered from COVID-19 and are still battling health issues can look at Masjid Muhammadi in Rajendranagar here. The mosque is now offering free post-COVID services as most patients who require long term care are already financially and emotionally exhausted, said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of the Helping Hand Foundation (HHF). HHF along with Rotary Club of Hyderabad Deccan and SEED USA have set up a 40-bedd isolation facility at the mosque. They have received oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, and other medical resources in donation. Since coronavirus cases are on the downward slide and current patients are able to find admission at government hospitals easily, the medical resources are being used to attend post-COVID patients. Apart from attending to issues such as breathlessness, fatigue, diarrhoea, body pains and other complications which need oxygen support, the facility will also offer physiotherapy, nutrition and medical management. Patients would be attended on daycare and in-patient basis. Senior internal medicine consultant, P. Shafi said they also plan to provide out-patient services to over 150 people a day and admit other post-COVID cases too. Govt. centres Post-COVID care is also offered free of cost at some government hospitals. Post-COVID Clinic is functional at District Hospital in King Koti where doctors from general medicine, pulmonology (respiratory issues) and psychiatry offer consultations from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. on weekdays. People who recovered from COVID but suffering from respiratory issues are approaching doctors at the Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda. Professor of pulmonology at the hospital, M. Narender said that around 20% to 30% of the patients who get admitted at the hospital have post-COVID complications such as lung mucormycosis, fibrosis, cavity, or infections involving lungs. Although separate post-COVID clinics have not been set up at other government hospitals, the doctors there do attend patients with complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mosque-opens-its-doors-to-post-covid-patients/article35334658.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist leader surrenders before Telangana police||Nearly 18 months after CPI(Maoist) Central Committee member Ravula Srinivas alias Ramanna died of ill-health, his son and Maoist leader Ravula Ranjith, alias Srikanth, 23, surrendered before the Telangana police on Wednesday. Ranjith’s mother M. Savitri, also a Maoist leader who was in-charge of Kistaram Area Committee in neighbouring Chhattisgarh, is still working with the Maoists. DGP M. Mahender Reddy, announcing the surrender of Ranjith and presenting him a demand draft for Rs. 4 lakh for rehabilitation, appealed to Maoist leaders to join the mainstream. Ranjith was allegedly involved in four major attacks on security forces between 2018 and 2021 in which 58 security personnel were killed. Addressing a press conference, the State police chief said Ranjith had realised, following his father’s death, that it was futile to sail with the outlawed Maoists. Attracted by the government’s comprehensive surrender policy, he decided to quit the party though it did not permit him. “I appeal to all 14 Telugu persons who are members of the Maoist Central Committee to join mainstream of life by effectively using Telangana government’s surrender policy,” the DGP said. Referring to COVID-19 cases among Maoists, Mr. Reddy said many of those affected with the virus lost their lives due to lack of timely medical treatment. In the backdrop of COVID-19 continuing to affect people,It would be better for the Maoists toif They should quit their revolutionary path and get treatment and save their lives, he said. Sharing details of the feedback from Ranjith, who declined to speak when presented before media, on Maoist movement, the DGP said the surrendered Maoist was not aware how many Maoist CC members were affected by Coronavirus. He, however, knew some members of the platoon he was working with contracted the virus. Ranjith told the police that Maoist movement was on the decline. “I could notice that every month five or six persons join the party while five to 10 persons quit the revolutionary path without informing the party,” he was quoted as saying by the State police chief. The recruitment of new cadre in Maoist party had come down, the DGP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-leader-surrenders-before-telangana-police/article35334209.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank security guard opens fire on employee, injures him||A bank security guard allegedly opened fire on an employee and injured him at a commercial hub here on Wednesday after the latter repeatedly teased him over a period of time, police said. He fired three rounds, of which one round hit the man and two, the wall, a senior police official said. The injured man, an outsourced employee, was rushed to a nearby hospital by some of the bank staff members, police said. The man is out of danger. The security guard has been taken into custody, police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-security-guard-opens-fire-on-employee-injures-him/article35334219.ece
15 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers review construction of houses||Housing Minister Ch. Sriranganadha Raju on Wednesday said that immovable assets worth Rs. 4 lakh crore would be created across the State if the construction of the 31 lakh houses was completed under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ (housing all the poor) scheme. Along with Mr. Raju, Ministers Dharmana Krishna Das, P. Viswaroop, and Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, AP Housing Corporation Managing Director N. Bharat Gupta, and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy reviewed the status of constructions in the housing layouts in the district. Addressing the media after the review meeting, Mr. Raju said, “Sand will be supplied free of cost to those constructing the houses under the scheme through which 17,000 Jagananna Colonies are being created across the State.” ‘A special drive is in progress to ensure supply of sand during the monsoon without any hurdle,” he said. The government had spent Rs. 12,000 crore for gathering land for the house sites, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-review-construction-of-houses/article35334700.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISRO police frame-up case takes a curious turn||The ISRO frame-up case booked in connection with the alleged custodial torture of former space scientist Nambi Narayanan took a curious turn on Wednesday with counsel of one the accused submitting documents of land transactions allegedly involving the de facto complainant and his son and some of the senior officers involved in the investigation of the espionage case. Sasthamangalam Ajith, counsel for two retired policemen arraigned as accused in the police frame-up case, submitted details of what he claimed to be land transactions between Mr. Narayanan and the wife of a former senior Kerala Police officer, a former Central Bureau of Investigation Joint Director, an official of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, and some persons who were “suspected to be relatives of certain officers in the administration of justice”. It was while filing a bail application of the former police officer at the Kerala High Court that counsel submitted the documents, which the accused had submitted before the CBI court, Thiruvananthapuram, earlier. 12 acres The documents appeared to suggest that Mr. Narayanan transferred around 12 acres in Tirunelveli to the wife of the former Kerala Police officer. A sale deed was executed by Mr. Narayanan as power of attorney holder of the wife of the officer. A telephone bill for Rs. 45,498 for the telephone installed at the house of Mr. Narayanan was also among the documents submitted. C. Unnikrishnan, counsel for Mr. Narayanan, said the latter had facilitated the purchase of land for his friends. The land transactions, which took place a decade after the CBI closed the case, had nothing to do with the espionage case, he said. The court posted the case for Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isro-police-frame-up-case-takes-a-curious-turn/article35334211.ece
15 July 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sister Lucy may have to vacate convent, says HC||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday orally suggested to Sister Lucy Kalappura, who was expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC), that she may have to vacate from the convent in Wayanad in view of her security. Appearing in person, the nun argued that if evicted, she had no place to go. She submitted to the court not to evict her from the convent. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan said the order of police protection granted last year by the High Court could not continue any longer if she intended to continue at the convent. He said if she continued to stay at the convent, which had made allegations of indiscipline against her, the conflicts with the staff or authorities there would also continue. Sister Lucy said while she had the police protection she had confidence to venture out and whenever there was any conflict with the convent authorities, like the kitchen or dining area being closed for her, the police came to her aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sister-lucy-may-have-to-vacate-convent-says-hc/article35334212.ece
15 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants ‘recce’ house of TDP leader’s follower||Unidentified persons had done a recce of the house of Ravichandra Reddy, a staunch follower of TDP leader Bhuma Akhila Priya, at Govindarajupalle of Sirivella mandal in the district on Wednesday. When the villagers chased the vehicle, the miscreants abandoned it and fled. As part of their attempt to divert the attention of the people and not give any scope for doubt, the miscreants had written the name of Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy prominently on the vehicle’s wind shield. An SUV, which had the registration number of a Hyderabad-based two-wheeler, was used to recce the house of Mr. Ravichandra Reddy, an accused in a murder case. Allagadda Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Rajendra received a complaint from Mr. Ravichandra in this regard. Villagers tried to intercept it, but the miscreants escaped by speeding the vehicle, the police said. The vehicle was later found abandoned close to the forest near Rudravaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreants-recce-house-of-tdp-leaders-follower/article35334661.ece
15 July 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka MP seeks task force for KRS safety||Sumalatha Ambareesh, Mandya MP, has reiterated her concern over the safety of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir from the threat of illegal mining and called for the constitution of a taskforce to oversee its protection. She visited the dam built across the river Cauvery in Srirangapatana taluk on Wednesday and interacted with officials of the dam authorities and Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-mp-seeks-taskforce-for-krs-safety/article35334221.ece
15 July 2021||Polavaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rising floods in Godavari push tribal families to hilly areas||Many tribal families have trekked up the hilly areas and erected temporary sheds to protect themselves from rising floods and backwaters in the Godavari. Flood water has entered several habitations due to incessant rain in the catchment areas. The Koya and Konda Reddy tribal families have urged the government to make arrangements to shift them to R&R Colonies . The severity of flood will be more this year due to complete closure of the coffer dam, they fear. Men and women are clearing bushes on the hills and erecting temporary huts. They are carrying essential items, kerosene and other material along with them. “Every year, we shift to the hills when the flood level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam crosses the second warning level (48 feet). But this year, due to the backwaters, many villages are under a sheet of water even before the river witnessed floods,” says Madakam Swathi, a resident. Road link cut off Road connectivity to about 19 habitations has been cut off in the Polavaram mandal as the backwaters have inundated the Kothur causeway. As flood water has entered a few hamlets in Velerupadu, Kukunur, Devipatnam, Buttaigudem and other mandals, the residents are using boats to move from one place to another. “This year, the flood fury will be more due to the backwaters. Normally, we face floods from the mid of July. But this year, thousands of families have started vacating their houses in June itself. The flood is rising when the water level at Bhadrachalam is just 10 feet,” says P. Narsaiah of Polavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rising-floods-in-godavari-push-tribal-families-to-hilly-areas/article35334664.ece
15 July 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Greenfield Highway work has begun: MP||MP Margani Bharat has said that works pertaining to the Rs. 800-crore Greenfield Highway project proposed between Devarapalli in West Godavari district and Suryapet in Telangana have commenced under the aegis of the the Rajamahendravaram Project Implementation Unit of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has granted the 162-km highway (new NH-365BG) as part of the economic corridor project under the Bharatmala Pariyojana, aiming at connecting Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with a robust road infrastructure that can support the vehicle speed limit of 100 km per hour. The total project cost is Rs. 2,600 crore. “The first phase work of the Greenfield Highway work has commenced . It will reduce the distance between Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam via Khammam by nearly 100 kms. It will give a fillip to the tourism sector and improve economic development along the road,” said Mr. Bharat, who is also the chairman of the MPs’ Road Safety Committee (MPRSC) of West Godavari district. Land acquisition A decision has been taken to appeal the State government to grant Rs. 55 crore required for land acquisition in West Godavari district for the highway project, said Mr. Bharat, adding that 31 villages that would be affected by the road project would be offered fair compensation. The MP said that the 69-km Kovvuru-Gundugolanu road project (NH-216 (A) was nearing completion in West Godavari and expected to be completed by October. The road would reduce the distance between Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam by 40 km, he said after reviewing the project status. “The new road infrastructure being developed by the Centre will give economy a boost, apart from contributing to the all-round development of the district. The reduced travel distance will ensure faster cargo movement, said Mr. Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/greenfield-highway-work-has-begun-mp/article35334673.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Northern districts keep Kerala tally high||There were 15,637 fresh COVID-19 cases in Kerala on Wednesday, when 1,55,882 samples were tested with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.03%. New cases were showing a rising trend in many northern districts even as the second wave was plateauing. Seven districts reported new cases between 1,000 and 2,000. On Wednesday, active cases stood at 1,17,708. There was no let-up in COVID deaths either, even though the pressure on the health system eased. Cumulative case fatality rose to 14,938 with the State adding 128 deaths. The cumulative case burden was 31,03,310. Malappuram district reported the highest new cases at 2,030, followed by Kozhikode 2,022, Ernakulam 1,894, Thrissur 1,704, Kollam 1,154, Thiruvananthapuram 1,133, Palakkad 1,111, Alappuzha 930, Kannur 912, Kottayam 804, Kasaragod 738, Pathanamthitta 449, Wayanad 433, and Idukki 323. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,990 new cases, taking the total to 28,76,587. With 45 deaths, the toll rose to 35,989. The State was managing 33,642 active patients. The TPR for the day touched 1.59%.  10,187 farmers died Karnataka Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar said the government would soon waive Rs. 79.47 crore in loans taken by 10,187 farmers, who died of COVID-19.  In Telangana, the case spike in Khammam district continued with 96 persons testing positive on Wednesday. For the past three days, Khammam’s daily numbers shot past Greater Hyderabad region, which recorded 72 fresh infections on Wednesday. On the whole, the State logged 749 new cases and five deaths. Other districts posting high cases were Karimnagar (58), Warangal Urban (55) and Nalgonda (54). No case was detected in Narayanpet on the day while only one person tested positive in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, according to the bulletin issued by the Health department. The cumulative case tally was 6,33,895, of which 10,203 were active. The death toll was 3,743. 15 deaths in A.P. Andhra Pradesh reported 15 more deaths and 2,591 new infections on Wednesday. The cumulative tally and death toll rose to 19,29,579 and 13,057 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 25,957. The daily TPR of 90,204 samples was 2.87%. Chittoor reported four deaths, Prakasam three, East Godavari and Srikakulam two each, Anantapur, Kurnool, Vizianagaram and West Godavari one each. One-third of the new infections were reported in two districts of East Godavari (511 cases) and Chittoor (349). They were followed by West Godavari (266), Prakasam (251), Visakhapatnam (220), Guntur (219), Kadapa (217), Krishna (190), Nellore (162), Anantapur (69), Srikakulam (62), Vizianagaram (46) and Kurnool (29).  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Vijayawada bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/northern-districts-keep-kerala-tally-high/article35334207.ece
15 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Say no to wedding if dowry is sought, Governor tells girls||Universities will be asked to seek an undertaking from students that they will not be party to the crime of giving or accepting dowry, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said. Students will be required to give the undertaking before accepting their degrees and diplomas, the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of universities, said while participating in a fast organised by Gandhian organisations here on Wednesday against the practice of dowry. To write to VCs Mr. Khan said he would be writing to Vice Chancellors seeking the introduction of this measure. The undertaking would also empower the university concerned to cancel the degree if later on it was found that the student had become party to the crime of dowry, he said. “A degree from an educational institution is not meant to increase your price in the marriage market,” he said. Mr. Khan declared his intention to write to people’s representatives requesting them to avoid marriages where dowry had changed hands. If such a transaction had indeed taken place, they should decline the invitation. “They also should make it public that this is the reason why they are not attending, despite receiving the invitation,” he said. He urged girls to say 'no' to marriages where the groom's family was demanding a dowry. The Governor's decision to join the fast had come as a surprise to many and had triggered an intense debate. Speaking to the media on Wednesday, Mr. Khan said his decision to join the fast was “above party politics.” No such motive existed, he said. Role of police The Kerala Police are pro-active in pursuing dowry-related cases. “I can vouchsafe for this,” he said. Mr. Khan started his fast at 8 a.m. at Raj Bhavan and arrived at Gandhi Bhavan here for a prayer meeting at 4.30 p.m. He concluded the fast by sipping lemon juice at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/say-no-to-wedding-if-dowry-is-sought-governor-tells-girls/article35334216.ece
15 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new Zika virus cases reported in Kerala||Even as no new cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection were reported from the capital district or anywhere else in the State on Wednesday, the Health Department is bracing for fresh cases that may crop up from scattered locations the following days, given the phenomenal rise in vector density across districts. Now that clinicians are aware that cases with fever and rashes, which are negative for dengue and chikungunya (CHK) could be ZIKV, it is likely that more samples would reach the labs for testing in the coming days. Health officials accompanying the Central team on field visits in the capital said that Aedes (mosquito) density had reached explosive proportions in many places. The reports from vector surveillance units in other districts were no different. All health field staff have been fully engaged in COVID-related activities since the past one-and-half years to the exclusion of all other routine work, including vector control. The quiet arrival of Zika is just an example of how other diseases can silently take a foothold in the community when COVID-19 hogs all attention. “A chunk of the lab-confirmed cases reported till now are epidemiologically linked to the private hospital at Anayara or is within a 3 km radius of it. However, apart from the fact that the first lab-confirmed case was detected here, there is no way of ascertaining how or where this pathogen was introduced first,” said a senior official. Silent transmission The case of the 41-year-old pregnant woman at Sasthamangalam seems unrelated to the Anayara cluster and she has no travel history. “We are fairly certain that there are many undetected or unreported cases in the community and given the high density of Aedes mosquitoes everywhere, silent transmission would have been taking place for quite a while. Even if these cases reached clinicians, no follow-up would have been there or patients would not have reported back as the infection is mild and self-resolving,” he pointed out. As there are plenty of arboviral diseases, co-infections are quite common, making it easy for ZIKV cases to be missed. While the immediate reaction of the Health Department has been to dismiss ZIKV as just another vector-borne disease of little consequence to the general public (except pregnant women), epidemiologists have warned that the social and economic implications of ZIKV could be quite far-reaching and complicated. “The establishment of the virus here can lead to other nations issuing travel advisories against visiting the State, which can seriously affect tourism. The Health Department should go beyond fire-fighting exercises and launch genetic-sequencing to identify the strain as well as instituting permanent surveillance measures,” they said. The Health Department has established a Zika control room. Health Minister Veena George, who attended a special review meeting on Zika here, said that strong containment measures had been launched.  Health officials accompanying the Central team on visits here says Aedes density reached explosive proportions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-new-zika-virus-cases-reported-in-kerala/article35334217.ece
15 July 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police question Kerala BJP chief in Kodakara heist case||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has said the ongoing investigation in the Kodakara black money robbery case is politically motivated and meant for demeaning the image of his party. He was speaking to mediapersons after an interrogation by an special investigation team (SIT) at the Thrissur Police Club on Wednesday. The SIT called Mr. Surendran for interrogation as it found that Dharmarajan who brought the money had spoken to the BJP president over phone. It was reported that Dharmarajan had called from a SIM taken in the name of Surendran’s son soon after the robbery. Many BJP workers and leaders, including M.T. Ramesh, C. Krishnakumar, P. Sudheer, A. Nagesh, M.S. Sampoorna, and district president K.K. Aneeshkumar, were present to express solidarity with the State president. They greeted him with party slogans when he came out of the police club. The police had blocked both sides of the road leading to the police club with barricades. “A weird kind of investigation is going on. It is strange that the police are interrogating people on the basis of the call detail record of the petitioner. At the same time, they are not investigating the contacts of the accused,” Mr. Surendran alleged. Reiterating that the party had no link with the case, Mr. Surendran said he had explained whatever he knew. “I am cooperating with the interrogation,” he said, adding that the police were trying to protect the interests of their political bosses. Condemns Condemning the attack on women and children in the State, he said it was for the first time that a Governor was participating in a hunger strike in protest against the attack on women. The State government was in the dock. The Governor’s agitation was a reflection of people’s emotion against the failure of the government, he said. Supporting the traders’ agitation, Mr. Surendran said the traders were agitating for their livelihood. The Chief Minister was threatening the traders who wanted to open shops to make a living. If the traders decided to open their firms, the BJP would support them. he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-question-kerala-bjp-chief-in-kodakara-heist-case/article35334214.ece
15 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||With secretariat at Tirumala, residents hope for a change||For around 5,000 people settled at Tirumala, availing benefits of any welfare scheme used to be a hassle until recently as they had to travel to Tirupati. But now, the setting up of a village secretariat here has rekindled new hopes among the residents. It is after five decades that they are given an opportunity to reap the benefits of the welfare schemes. As per official sources, it was in 1964 that the pilgrim town was declared a notified Panchayat with TTD Executive Officer as its president. But no elections were organized till date. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD), in course of implementation of its plan of widening the roads and developing the town, had acquired all the private properties under the Land Acquisition Act and shifted the displaced families to Thati thopu, Mangalam and Sapthagiri Nagar on the outskirts of Tirupati. Some of them, who were owners and who were averse to moving to Tirupati, were rehabilitated at Balaji Nagar at Tirumala. By the year 2004, the acquisition of private properties was almost completed. Since then, people here have been deprived of any benefits under any of the government-sponsored schemes. Their plight was brought to the fore when local legislator B. Karunakar Reddy raised the issue on the floor of the Assembly. Speaker Tammineni Sitaram had then questioned whether there really existed any local population at Tirumala. Mr. Karunakar Reddy had also taken up the issue to the notice of the Chief Minister before finally getting the nod for the setting up of the village secretariat. The TTD has recently allocated a cottage at its ‘D’ type quarters temporarily for the setting up of a secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-village-secretariat-coming-up-at-tirumala-residents-hope-for-a-change/article35334655.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD ritual to alleviate COVID-induced slump||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced that it would perform a ritual called ‘Kanakambara Sahita Kotimallepushpa Mahayagam’ at Tiruchanoor Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple for nine days starting July 16. The ritual is aimed at seeking relief from the financial crisis gripping the country in the last 18 months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ankurarpanam, the initiatory ritual for the religious fest, will be performed on July 15 from 6 p.m. Though the event will be performed in private, devotees can participate ‘virtually’ via online mode by paying Rs. 1,001 for the Seva ticket, on which two persons will be allowed. The tickets will be released on the TTD website on July 15. The event will be telecast live on SVBC between 10.30 a.m. and 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-ritual-to-alleviate-covid-induced-slump/article35334657.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official makes surprise visit to secretariats||Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Gireesha said the secretariat staff should render services in a responsible manner in order to reach the government schemes to beneficiaries. Making a surprise visit to secretariats on Wednesday, Mr. Gireesha called the staff a ‘vital link’ between the denizens and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/official-makes-surprise-visit-to-secretariats/article35334656.ece
15 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rural women police told to reach out to community||Members of the rural women protection groups, who have now been elevated to the rank of police constables, have been told to reach out to the beleaguered women in the villages and work for their safety. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, who met all the 36 women constables under the Alipiri police limits on Wednesday, said it was a great opportunity for them to work for a better society. Saying that they formed a bridge between the government and women, the SP told them not to be afraid of cracking the whip on perpetrators of wrongdoings and assured them that the department would be on their side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rural-women-police-told-to-reach-out-to-community/article35334649.ece
15 July 2021||UNDRAJAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants snatch Rs. 50,000 from DWCRA group women||Thieves allegedly snatched away Rs. 50,000 cash from two Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas(DWCRA) Group women, while they were returning from a bank at Velivennu village in West Godavari district. Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinath said the accused accosted the women, who drew Rs. 9 lakh of Satyavathi Group from a nationalised bank on Monday, on a motorcycle. At first, the miscreants tried to snatch the cash bag from the women who were walking in a street. But when the victims retaliated, the thieves fled away with Rs. 50,000 cash bundle which fell on the road from the bag. CCTV footage After the women filed a complaint at the police station, the Undrajavaram police registered a case and observed the CCTV footages of the area where the incident took place, Mr. Srinath said. Vehicle identified “We have identified the vehicle used for the offence. Miscreants resorted to similar offence at Tadepalligudem 10 days ago. Police will arrest the thieves soon,” the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreants-snatch-rs-50000-from-dwcra-group-women/article35334269.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanskrit’s influence on Telugu undeniable: Education Minister||Sanskrit, which is the origin of several Indian languages, has an undeniable influence on Telugu, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said on Wednesday. Hence, the State government will ensure popularisation of both Telugu and Sanskrit by taking up reforms, research and training programmes through the A.P. Telugu and Sanskrit Akademi, the Minister said at a press conference which was attended by the Akademi chairperson Nandamuri Lakshmi Parvathi. The Minister defended the renaming of the Telugu Akademi as Telugu and Sanskrit Akademi and pointed out that a Government Order (G.O. 31) was released to this effect after the issue was discussed in the Assembly and approved by the Cabinet. Taking exception to criticism levelled by Opposition parties, the Minister said that the Telugu Akademi was completely neglected under the TDP regime. “In its five-year rule after the bifurcation of the State, the TDP did not take up the issue even once with the Telangana government. It did not bother to do anything about the assets belonging to the Akademi nor about the payment of salaries to its employees. Even printing of the school textbooks went into the hands of private persons,” Mr. Suresh alleged. The Minister said that the government was keen on reviving the former glory of the Akademi and said that after a legal battle with Telangana, the court had ordered distribution of the Akademi’s properties in a ratio of 52:48. The State was to get assets worth Rs. 200 crore, as per the court order, Mr. Suresh said, adding that the first round of talks between the State officials and their counterparts from Telangana had already been held on asset distribution. Recalling that the Telugu Akademi was established in united Andhra Pradesh in 1968 for the advancement of Telugu language, he said it was further developed by former Chief Minister N. T. Rama Rao. “But during the erstwhile TDP rule, it was completely debilitated,” the Minister said. Accusing the Opposition parties of resorting to a misinformation campaign, the Minister said the proposed introduction of English as a medium of instruction in schools was not aimed at neglecting Telugu language. “We will not compromise on development of Telugu language at any cost,” he said Ms. Lakshmi Parvathi said the Opposition parties’ contention that the move would result in neglect of Telugu language was far removed from the truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanskrits-influence-on-telugu-undeniable-education-minister/article35334275.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping needy girl students find financial assistance||To enable girl students fully explore their academic potential, the Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions’ Society (APSWREIS) has embarked on a drive to promote higher education among girls by helping them utilise the many scholarships sponsored by the governments, corporate companies, NGOs and individuals. “There are many scholarships for students coming from the less privileged sections, but not many are aware of them. We are trying to identify such scholarships, especially the girl student-centric ones, and helping the young learners utilise them for their academic growth,” said Bandi Navya, secretary of the society. In the 2019-20 academic year, as many as 89 girl students, who completed Class 12 from the social welfare schools run by the society in the State and enrolled for a graduation course, were selected for Santoor Women’s Scholarship, which offers a stipend of Rs. 24,000 per annum till the completion of the course. “Currently, our students have applied for 11 different scholarships from Classes 5 to 12 and also the recently-passed out batch of students,” said Ms. Navya, informing that besides, nine girl student-centric scholarships had also been identified. “We are awaiting the release of notifications for them,” she said. The annual stipend ranges from Rs. 9,000 to Rs. 75,000 and 4,500 students had applied for these 11 scholarships with the support of the district office, school staff and parents. The secretary said efforts were on to encourage more students to apply. The 11 scholarships are Jyoti Prakash (COVID Crisis) Support Scholarship Programme and Digital Bharati Covid Scholarship, applicable for COVID-affected students from Class 1 up to graduation, students who have either lost their parent (s) since January 2020 or if the earning member of the house lost their job during the pandemic. Keep India Smiling Foundational Scholarship is for students of Class 11 (Junior Intermediate), HDFC Bank Parivarthan’s ECS Scholarship is for students of Classes 6 to 12 (Inter final year), HDFC Bank Parivartan’s ECS Scholarship for UG and PG Students and Dr. Abdul Kalam Scholarship for Medical/Engineering Aspirants is for students who have completed Class 12 (Intermediate final year) aspiring to pursue medical and engineering courses. The girl student-centric scholarships include AICTE Pragati Scholarship for Girls, Santoor Women’s Scholarship, Tata Housing Scholarships for Meritorious Girl Students, Glow and Lovely Career Foundation Scholarship, Begum Hazrat Mahal National Scholarship Scheme for Minorities Girls, L’Oreal India for Young Women in Science Scholarship, Post-Graduate Indira Gandhi Scholarship for Single Girl Child, Legrand Scholarship Programme and Dr. Reddy’s Foundation Sashakt Scholarship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-needy-girl-students-find-financial-assistance/article35334268.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate reaches 97.98%||The State reported 15 COVID deaths and 2,591 new infections in 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative tally and death toll increased to 19,29,579  and 13,057 respectively. The recovery rate reached 97.98% as the recoveries increased to 18,90,565  with 3,329 recoveries in the past day. The number of active cases came down to 25,957.  The daily positivity rate of the 90,204 samples tested was 2.87% . Chittoor reported four deaths while Prakasam reported three and East Godavari and Srikakulam reported two each. Anantapur, Kurnool, Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported one each and five districts reported no death in the past day. One-third of the new cases were reported from East Godavari (511 cases) and Chittoor (349). They were followed by West Godavari (266), Prakasam (251), Visakhapatnam (220), Guntur (219), Kadapa (217), Krishna (190), Nellore (162), Anantapur (69), Srikakulam (62), Vizianagaram (46) and Kurnool (29). More than two-thirds of the active cases are from six districts —East Godavari (4,394), Chittoor (3,526), Prakasam (2,865), West Godavari (2,763), Krishna (2,732) and Nellore (2,345). All other districts have not more than 2,000 active cases, and Anantapur, Vizianagaram and Kurnool together have 1,361 active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,71,149), Chittoor (2,25,491), West Godavari (1,66,351), Guntur (1,65,416), Anantapur (1,55,275), Visakhapatnam (1,50,501), Nellore (1,30,392), Prakasam (1,25,440), Kurnool (1,22,709), Srikakulam (1,19,658), Kadapa (1,08,588), Krishna (1,04,761) and Vizianagaram (80,953).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-reaches-9798/article35334667.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PAC Chairman asks govt. to disclose bank loan details||A day after Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy rubbished the allegations made by Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman Payyavula Keshav that sums in excess of Rs. 41,000 crore remained unaccounted for, the latter has asked the government to provide the details of bank loans it has availed. The TDP leader wrote a a letter to Principal Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat in this regard on Wednesday. Referring to Mr. Rajendranath’s assertion that the government was ready to provide the information sought by the PAC, Mr. Keshav sought to know whether the Andhra Pradesh Development Corporation had availed any loans? If so, the details thereof. “Provide the information regarding the loans availed by the Corporation from various banks. Also, furnish a copy of the agreements agreed upon with the banks. What was the government guarantee given to such loans? Also, provide a copy of the information placed before the Assembly regarding the loans and government guarantee,” Mr. Keshav said in his letter. The TDP leader, however, did not seek any information regarding the Rs. 41,000 crore. Meanwhile, the TDP MLC Ashok Babu said that Finance Minister evaded a straight reply as to ‘why their government had bypassed the treasury account?’. A war of words has been going on between the government and the Opposition parties over the Principal Accountant General’s letter to the government regarding the expenditure of Rs. 41,000 crore. Mr. Keshav recently met Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan and submitted a memorandum urging him to take the necessary steps for a full-fledged audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). He alleged that there were no vouchers, receipts and bills for Rs. 41,043.08 crore spent by the government. The Finance Minister, however, said that there were records for all expenditure incurred by the government. He even blamed the Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS) introduced during the previous TDP government for the ‘confusion’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pac-chairman-asks-govt-to-disclose-bank-loan-details/article35334675.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTF urges govt. to scrap contract postings||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation on Wednesday demanded that the State government do away with contract system and recruit teachers as permanent employees. Federation president K. Bhanu Murthy said the 2,193 candidates of the 2008-DSC batch were appointed as contract employees with minimum wages. They were made to sign bond papers with several pre-conditions before they were given their appointment orders, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aptf-urges-govt-to-scrap-contract-postings/article35334273.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 IPS officers transferred||The State government transferred 13 IPS officers. Orders to this effect were issued on Wednesday. Prakasam, West Godavari and Rajamahendravaram Urban districts got new Superintendents of Police. Additional SP, Krishna district, Mallika Garg has been transferred and posted as Prakasam district SP. Rahul Dev Sharma, Group Commander, Greyhounds, has been transferred and appointed as West Godavari SP, in place of K. Narayan Naik Visakhapatnam DCP-1 Aishwarya Rastogi has been transferred and posted as Rajamahendravaram Urban district SP, in place of Shemushi Bajpai, who has been posted as SP (V&E). Vikrant Patil, DCP-2, Vijayawada Police Commissionerate, has been transferred and posted as Commandant, 5th APSP Battalion, Vizianagaram. R.N. Ammi Reddy, who is waiting for posting, has been posted as AIG, Law and Order, in the Andhra Pradesh Police Headquarters, Mangalagiri. Koya Praveen, SP, Police Transport Organisation, has been transferred and posted as OCTOPUS SP. Rahul Dev Singh has been appointed as Superintendent of Railway Police, Vijayawada. Krishna district Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), ASP, Vakul Jindal, has been transferred and posted as SP (CMSG-Intelligence). Ajitha Vejendla SEB ASP, Visakhapatnam, has been posted as APSP 6th Battalion Commandant, at Mangalagiri. Garud Sumit Sunil, SEB ASP, East Godavari district, has been appointed as Commandant APSP 3rd Battalion, at Kakinada. Gowthami Sali, SEB ASP, Kurnool district, has been transferred and posted as DCP-1, Visakhapatnam Police Commissionerate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-ips-officers-transferred/article35334662.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interlinking of rivers only solution, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of “enacting a new drama” on the Krishna water dispute. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had mocked when the TDP opposed the diversion of Godavari waters to the ayacut in the Krishna basin as the idea was detrimental to Andhra Pradesh. It was proposed to divert the Godavari water to the Srisailam reservoir across the Krishna. He gave a deaf ear when the TDP said that the upper riparian State would take advantage of it. Now, the TDP’s stand is vindicated,” he said. Mr. Naidu was speaking in Machilipatnam on Wednesday, after calling on the family of former Minister Kollu Ravindra and paying tributes to his father-in-law and senior party leader Nadikuditi Narasimha Rao who died recently. Stressing the need for interlinking all major rivers in the State, Mr. Naidu said it was the only permanent solution to the farmers’ woes. “The government should focus more on irrigation projects,” he added. “The popular opinion is that the Chief Ministers of both the Telugu States are having an understanding. Why doesn’t Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy talk to his Telangana counterpart?” Mr. Naidu asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interlinking-of-rivers-only-solution-says-naidu/article35334674.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Department of Posts’ door-to-door campaign||The Department of Posts, A.P. Circle, Vijayawada, has started a door-to-door campaign to enable village-level government and non-government officials like teachers, Revenue, Medical and Health, Gram Sachivalaya officials and village/ward volunteers to open small saving scheme accounts. The campaign will be on till July 22. A statement released on Wednesday by the Assistant Post Master-General said the department was extending choices and opportunities to the general public and gram panchayat level officials to open short and long term investments in small saving schemes without any additional or hidden charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/department-of-posts-door-to-door-campaign/article35334873.ece
15 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left leaders confined to homes||Ahead of the second municipal council meeting on Thursday, the police have reportedly confined leaders of CPI and CPI(M) to their houses after serving notices citing Section 144 of Cr.P.C. and Section 30 of Police Act in force in the city. The Left party leaders announced that they would lay siege to the VMC office protesting against the hike in property tax and levying of user charges, on Thursday. CPI(M) senior leader Ch. Babu Rao said that police personnel were deployed outside the houses of CPI(M) floor leader Boya Satya Babu and others on Wednesday night. Meanwhile, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi announced that a special council meeting would be held to discuss the hike in property tax under G.O. 198, on July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-leaders-confined-to-homes/article35334876.ece
15 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power sector staff brace for nationwide strike on Aug. 10||Power sector engineers and employees in the State are bracing for a nationwide strike called by the National Coordination Committee for Electricity Employees and Engineers on August 10 to protest against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021. The A.P. State JAC said the Bill has been listed for passage during the monsoon session of Parliament instead of being referred to the Standing Committee on Energy. The Electricity Act, 2003 allowed the privatisation of generation through delicensing and it now appears to be the turn of power distribution to be put in private hands, it said. The engineers and employees of A.P. power utilities will hold protest meetings on July 19 in the run-up to the proposed strike , the JAC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-sector-staff-brace-for-nationwide-strike-on-aug-10/article35334668.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water bodies turning into death traps||Waterfalls, ponds and streams in the rural as well as Agency areas of the Visakhapatnam district are turning into death traps for the visitors. From January 2020 to June 30 this year, over 130 people drowned in various water bodies in the district limits. In 2020, the rural and Agency areas reported about 82 drowning deaths. While in the first six months of 2021, as many as 48 people drowned. A number of unrecognised waterfalls in the Agency have been witnessing most of the drowning incidents. Visitors, particularly youngsters, are falling prey after venturing into the water bodies either for swimming or while taking selfies at dangerous points. They have been ignoring advice of police officials not to visit waterfalls. Sariya waterfalls in Ananthagiri police station limits, close to Devarapalle town, is said to be one of the dangerous waterfalls in the Agency. The Ananthagiri police have arranged fencing to ensure visitors do not enter the waterfalls. The warning board arranged at the waterfalls at the venue reads that about 70 people drowned in the waterfalls in the last few years. “Sariya waterfalls is also known as Bahubali waterfalls in the region. Nature lovers tend to visit the beautiful water body. But, many make risky stunts in water. Though we have arranged boards and fencing, many do not heed the warning. Some locals also guard the waterfalls and warn the visitors, but several youth stand at dangerous positions and take selfies,” said former Sub-Inspector of Ananthagiri police station K. Sudhakar. Similarly, many water bodies in G.Madugula, Pedabayulu, Munchingputtu, Paderu, Ananthagiri and Chintapalle mandals reported drownings. “Most of the waterfalls and streams do not have basic precautionary measures for the tourists as they are unrecognised. Since many of them are located in interior regions, rescue operations get delayed when drownings were reported. This is also a reason for the deaths,” said a senior police officer working in the Agency. A few officials said that unlike major beaches in Visakhapatnam city, beaches in the rural areas of the district do not have protection. They lack community guard system and public addressing system, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-bodies-turning-into-death-traps/article35334887.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP will raise VSP issue in Parliament, says Vijaya Sai||YSRCP national general secretary and MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has said that the party will raise the issue of privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) during the monsoon session of the Parliament, apart from staging protests in New delhi against the decision of the BJP-led Central government. “From the very beginning, the YSRCP has been against the privatisation of the steel plant and we stick to that stand even now,” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy told the Media here on Wednesday. The MP said the YSRCP would approach all allies of the NDA government and the Floor Leaders of the Opposition parties in both the houses before raising the issue. “Protests will be staged inside the Parliament and in New Delhi. We have spoken to all trade union leaders irrespective of party affiliations, and the employees of the VSP. All will be in Delhi during the Parliament session and a two-day protest will be staged at the Jantar Mantar,” he said. The MP pointed out that a resolution against the privatisation move had been passed in the Assembly and communicated to the Centre. “We will fix appointments with Union Minister for Steel Ram Chandra Prasad Singh and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. We, along with the trade union leaders and the leaders of VSP struggle committee, will apprise them of the situation,” he said, adding that privatising loss making units is not a solution . He reiterated that the VSP could be turned into a profitable PSU, if the loans were converted into equity to reduce the debt and interest burden, and captive iron mines were allotted. “The mines need not be allotted in Chhattisgarh or Bihar. There is sufficient iron ore reserve in Salur of Vizianagaram district. We will try to impress upon the Centre on this,” he said. Merger proposal He said the merger of the VSP with NMDC or SAIL, would be proposed in the Parliament. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said a meeting was held and future action plan was discussed. Trade union leaders including Ch. Adinarayana (AITUC), Mantri Rajsekhar (INTUC) and Ayodhya Ram (CITU) said they would join the protest in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-will-raise-vsp-issue-in-parliament-says-vijaya-sai/article35334677.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram rehab colonies lack basic facilities: Somu||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju has alleged that the rehabilitation colonies that are being built for the evacuees of the Polavaram project lack basic facilities. He also demanded that the State government release funds immediately and take reimbursement from the Centre later. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Veerraju said that officials claim that 76% of the project has been completed. But only 22% of Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package is distributed, he added. He said that the evacuees have been requesting the government to take up the project only after providing the complete R&R package, compensation and also completing the construction of houses. He questioned what stopped the YSR Congress Party to spend Rs. 4,000 crore for the package and later seek reimbursement from the Centre. He said that the government should not only focus on completing the project, but also give top priority to the R&R package considering the issues faced by the evacuees in East and West Godavari districts. He alleged that the houses and roads being constructed in Devipatnam area in East Godavari district and the rehab colony are of very poor quality. He alleged that the roofs were leaking during rains. Mr. Veerraju demanded that the State government release Rs. 1.25 lakh subsidy, which it is supposed to pay on each house being constructed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-rehab-colonies-lack-basic-facilities-somu/article35334893.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Regional Dak Adalat in city on July 28||The 103rd Dak Adalat of the Visakhapatnam region will be held at the office of the Post Master General at MVP Colony in the city on July 28. Specific personal and individual grievances relating to postal services will be heard by the adalat. General policy matters are outside the purview of the adalat. The complaints/grievances of the above nature from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, may be sent to W. Nagaditya Kumar, Assistant Director, O/o the Post Master General, Visakhapatnam Region, Visakhapatnam-17, so to reach him by July 23. The letters and envelopes should be superscribed with the words ‘103rd Dak Adalat.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/regional-dak-adalat-in-city-on-july-28/article35334883.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draft plan: time given till month-end to file objections||The deadline for submission of suggestions and objections on the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Development Authority (VMRDA) Draft Master Plan-2041 has been extended to July 31. The last date was extended by the government based on the representations received from elected representatives and the citizens. VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao appealed to the citizens of Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts to submit their suggestions and objections to prepare a Master Plan, which could meet the needs of future generations. The draft master plan can be seen on the VMRDA website, offices of VMRDA, GVMC, Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation, MRO and MPDO offices. Interested persons can see the master plan at the location convenient to them and submit their suggestions and objections on the VMRDA website:www.vmrda.gov.inor through email at:vmrdamp2041 @gmail.comor through post or through mobile on 9866076938. Those who wish to see high definition mobile compatible master plan maps through WhatsApp can contact 9866076938. A total of 1,553 suggestions and objections are received so far through Google website, email and drop boxes, so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/draft-plan-time-given-till-month-end-to-file-objections/article35334884.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 220 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 220 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,51,013. Consecutively for the second day, the daily infection count was more than the number of recoveries in the district. The district seems to have been witnessing an increase in COVID-19 cases, after 419 infections being recorded in the last 48 hours. Meanwhile, the number of discharges since the last two days was 219. The active cases, which were 1,933 on July 12, increased to 2,132 on Wednesday morning. Around 150 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. The number of discharges have increased to 1,47,843, which is approximately 97.9 %. The death toll stands at 1,038 as no death was reported in the last 24 hours. ‘No need to panic’ According to District Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, there is a slight increase in the positivity rate from 3% to 4.5 % in the last two days. “Though we cannot say that the third wave has begun, we can say that the second wave is yet to subside fully or die down,” he added. He said that there was no need to panic and things were under control. According to sources in the Health Department, at least 5,000 tests are being conducted daily in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-220-new-covid-cases/article35334885.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man murdered at NGOs Colony||A 37-year-old man was allegedly murdered by unidentified persons at NGOs Colony in Madhurawada area here on Tuesday night. The incident reportedly occurred when he was on an evening walk with his wife. The deceased was identified as K. Satish, a native of Eluru. According to Inspector of Police, PM Palem police station, Ravi Kumar, Satish was working as a financial freelancer in Dubai along with another man named Sudhakar Reddy. His wife who is a native of PM Palem, Visakhapatnam, had come back to the city from Dubai in August 2020. To see her, Satish had visited Visakhapatnam in February 2021. But was unable to return due to the lockdown. According to the complaint lodged by the family members, Satish had been reportedly receiving threat calls from Sudhakar Reddy for the past few weeks. Sudhakar Reddy was also reportedly asking Satish to return to Dubai. The police suspect that Satish and Sudhakar Reddy might have some financial disputes. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-murdered-at-ngos-colony/article35334886.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City gets new DCP||The State government has transferred three IPS officers from the city. DCP (Law & Order - I) Aishwarya Rastogi was transferred and was posted as SP, Rajahmundry (Urban). IPS officer Gowthami Sali will be the new DCP (L&O-I). Additional SP Ajitha Vejendla and Additional SPRahul Dev Singh were also transferred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-gets-new-dcp/article35334890.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth drowns in Sariya waterfalls||A 20-year-old youth reportedly drowned in Sariya waterfalls under Ananthagiri police station limits in the Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday evening. The deceased was identified as the Nagendra Kumar, an ITI student from Pendurthi. According to the police, Nagendra Kumar along with his friend visited Sariya waterfalls on Tuesday evening. He reportedly slipped into the falls and went missing. The police could not trace him on Tuesday night. The police along with swimmers resumed search on Wednesday morning and the body was traced at around 10.30 a.m. Locals said that due to the recent rains water flow is very heavy and they have been advising tourists not to venture into waterfalls. However, tourists have been ignoring the advice, they said. The body was shifted to the hospital for post-mortem and a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-drowns-in-sariya-waterfalls/article35334888.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-month yoga course to begin today||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, is conducting a two-months online/offline certificate course on ‘Advanced yoga therapy’ and the classes would start from July 15. Head of the Department K. Ramesh Babu said that interested candidates can enrol their names by contacting 799 3241 701/ 9398019922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-month-yoga-course-to-begin-today/article35334889.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oppn. parties misleading people on slum survey’||YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy alleged that the Opposition parties are intentionally misleading people over the slum development survey. He said that the State government wants to give house pattas to all the poor in the place where they are residing and also to provide all basic amenities in the localities. The MP along with Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and a few others inaugurated an arch and a newly-constructed road at Durga Nagar, Ward No 89,in the city. Speaking to the media on Wednesday, Mr. Vijaya Sai said that YSRCP government plans to make Visakhaptnam a slum-free city . Anakapalle MLA G. Amarnath, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-parties-misleading-people-on-slum-survey/article35334891.ece
15 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14-year-old boy drowns in check dam||A 14-year-old boy reportedly drowned in a water body near Kommadi area her on Wednesday. According to sources in the police, Anand (14), a resident of YSR Colony, Kommadi, went to a check dam near his colony. It was learnt that Anand didn’t know swimming. But he entered into the waters with a large piece of thermocol sheet, hoping that it would keep him afloat. The body was fished out by the locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-year-old-boy-drowns-in-check-dam/article35334894.ece
15 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector releases annual credit plan||District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has urged bankers to play a vital role in the development and implementation of the welfare schemes in the district. Mr. Hari Jawaharlal was speaking after formally releasing the Rs. 6,749 crore annual credit plan for the year 2021-22, here on Wednesday. He said the credit plan would extend a helping hand to the agriculture, and small and medium scale industries. Lead Bank Manager M. Srinivas and NABARD District Development Manager P. Harish said that banks were willing to provide more loans this year. DRDA Project Director Sunil Rajkumar and General Manager of Vizianagaram Industrial Center K. Prasada Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-releases-annual-credit-plan/article35334702.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balancing-act/article35334875.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reckless riding||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reckless-riding/article35334277.ece
15 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Taliperu reaches full capacity||Continuous heavy rain over the past 48 hours in Taliperu river’s upper reaches pushed up the water level in Taliperu reservoir at Pedamidisileru village in Charla mandal to its brim on Wednesday morning. Almost all the forest streams including Chintavagu and Rotenthavagu were in spate as heavy rain lashed the Taliperu’s catchment areas straddling the forest region in the upstream of Taliperu, a tributary of the Godavari, for the second consecutive day. The inflow into the Taliperu reservoir from the upper reaches hovered at 8,720 cusecs on Wednesday morning. Excess water of 11,248 cusecs was released downstream by lifting as many as 16 crest gates of the reservoir, after the water level increased to 73.49 metres as against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 74 metres at 9.30 am on Wednesday, sources in the Irrigation Department said. The Taliperu reservoir, the medium irrigation project considered as the lifeline of farmers in Charla and Dummugudem mandals, has an ayacut of little over 24,000 acres. It caters to the irrigation needs of farmers of the two border mandals in Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency. Meanwhile, the water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam rose to little over 16 feet owing to substantial inflows from the upper reaches of the river. In Khammam district, the Munneru river received heavy inflows from its catchment areas in the erstwhile undivided Warangal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/taliperu-reservoir-reaches-its-full-capacity/article35334744.ece
15 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Dammakka Yatra at Bhadradri||The historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam will host Dammakka Seva Yatra, the annual religious event, on July 24. The event is held every year in July in honour of Pokala Dammakka, a tribal woman of the bygone era known for her unswerving devotion to Lord Rama, the presiding deity of the 17th century temple.  The temple authorities decided to hold the Dammakka Seva Yatra in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocols. It was decided to organise Sri Govindarajaswamy tirukalyanotsavam under the aegis of the Endowments Department at Govindaraja Mandapam (Thatha gudi) in Bhadrachalam on July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dammakka-yatra-at-bhadradri/article35334746.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC declines to stay e-auction of land at Kokapet||Telangana High Court on Wednesday declined to pass an order staying e-auction of land parcels, slotted to be held on Thursday at Kokapet and Khanammet on the city outskirts by the government. Giving consent to the government to proceed with the e-auction, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy posted the PIL petition to Thursday for further hearing. The plea was filed by former MP and BJP leader Vijayashanthi seeking to stay Government Order (GO) 13 issued on this June 10 proposing to sell land parcels at Kokapet and Khanammet to generate a revenue of nearly Rs. 50,000 crore. Senior counsel Niranjan Reddy appearing for Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) informed the court that the impugned GO 13 was issued in continuation of GO 191 of 2015 pertaining to sale of government lands. Standard Operating Procedures for such sale of lands emanated from GO 191, he said. The GO 191 was already challenged and a division bench of the HC had earlier upheld it stating that government had rights to adopt a policy to sell lands which were not useful to the public. The petitioner’s counsel T. Rajesh contended that while GO 191 aimed at creating a land bank of 1,000 acres in the present case, the government was intending to sell lands through e-auction. The CJ sought to know why the government aimed at creating a land bank of 1,000 acres when it cannot protect its own lands located in prime locations. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said the State Cabinet had decided to mobilise resources by selling lands through e-auction. Even the Central government was taking similar decisions. Both the State and the Central governments were vested with the power to do so, he argued. The GO 191 states that government intended to sell vacant lands which were not useful to the public. Moreover, the government said its lands located in prime areas were prone to encroachment. “When government is apprehending that its own lands can be encroached upon, why is it creating a land bank?” the CJ sought to know. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy wondered, “How the government can create land bank when it cannot protect its own lands”. Replying to a query from the bench, the AG made it clear that there were no other such e-auction of lands in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-declines-to-stay-e-auction-of-land-at-kokapet/article35334725.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State logistics policy approved||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the logistics policy of the government with the aim to provide international market to agricultural and industrial goods produced in Sate. The meeting felt the need to promote logistics sector in view of commercial activity picking up due to expansion of agriculture and setting up of food processing units. Therefore, it was decided to develop basic infras in logistics sector involving warehouses, cold storages, dry ports and truck dock parking. A major dry port (multi modal logistics park) over 1,400 acres will be set up in the State in public-private partnership mode. Two integrated container depots on the lines of the existing one at Sanatnagar would be set up to promote exports. Ten more logistics parks will be established like the one at Batasingaram. A Centre of Excellence for skill development in logistics sector will be set up. The Cabinet mandated the industries department to strive for investments worth Rs. 10,000 crore with development of logistics. It will created one lakh direct jobs and two lakh indirect employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-logistics-policy-approved/article35334737.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amit Shah to campaign for Huzurabad bypoll||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is slated to participate in the election campaign for the Huzurabad bypoll in which former health minister Eatala Rajender will be contesting under the saffron flag. This was indicated by Union Minister for Tourism & Culture G. Kishan Reddy after he met Mr. Shah accompanied by TS State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Vivek Venkatswamy and the newly joined Mr. Rajender and E. Ravinder Reddy in New Delhi on Wednesday. This is the first meeting for the former health minister after he joined the party. Mr. Shah was briefed about the prevailing political situation in TS, the proposed ‘mahapadayatra’ of Mr. Sanjay Kumar next month, the campaign plan for the Huzurabad byelection and so on. Later, in the evening the leaders, were also scheduled to call on the newly appointed Union Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav. They also participated in the Bonalu festivities at the TS Bhavan. Bandaru swearing in Meanwhile, all these leaders were invited for the swearing-in ceremony of Bandaru Dattatreya as Haryana Governor on Thursday. In a separate statement, senior leader P. Sudhakar Reddy urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to call for an all-party meeting to discuss the Krishna water row with the Andhra Pradesh government and take suggestions. The irrigation projects of AP could make north Telangana a desert and deny drinking water to the twin cities, he claimed and questioned the government silence on the inundation danger to Bhadrachalam due to the Polavaram project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amit-shah-to-campaign-for-huzurabad-bypoll/article35334735.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After 3 weeks, flood discharge at Almatti, Narayanpur resumes||Discharge of flood from Almatti and Narayanpur reservoirs has resumed after a gap of about three weeks on Wednesday improving the prospects of Srisailam, one of the two inter-State reservoirs of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, as inflows into the two upstream reservoirs increased to nearly 60,000 cusecs and 25,000 cusecs by evening. For the second day in a row, Mahabaleshwar and Agumbe, the catchment areas of Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers, respectively recorded heavy rainfall. Agumbe recorded nearly 14 cm rain and Mahabaleshwar 6.4 cm during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. The two areas recorded heavy rain on four days each during the last one week. As a result, the inflows into Almatti, which were only about 10,000 cusecs at 6 p.m. on Tuesday have gone up to 60,000 cusecs by 6 p.m. on Wednesday allowing discharge of flood through power generation. The storage in the reservoir was 95.5 tmc ft against its capacity of 129.7 tmc ft. The discharge at Almatti has also allowed flood release at Narayanpur in the downstream through the spillway and power generation. Discharge of flood at Narayanpur is likely to start reaching Jurala from Thursday noon. Inflows into Jurala were at 5,500 cusecs at 9 p.m. on Wednesday. The flood from upstream is also expected help resume hydel generation at the reservoir after gap of nearly two weeks. Meanwhile, flood into most of the reservoirs in the Godavari Basin in Telangana has also improved on Wednesday as heavy rains continued in the local as well as the upstream catchment areas in Maharashtra. Sriramsagar was getting a flood of nearly 79,000 cusecs at 9 p.m. on Wednesday as the storage crossed 54 tmc ft against its capacity of 90.3 tmc ft. The Central Water Commission has forecast increase in inflows into Sriramsagar as over 1.22 lakh cusecs of flood was being discharged as at 6 p.m. at the upstream Balegaon high-level barrage in Maharashtra,. The authorities at Yellampally Barrage have also started discharging flood at its storage reach near its capacity of 20.2 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-3-weeks-flood-discharge-at-almatti-narayanpur-resumes/article35334729.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank security guard opens fire on employee||An armed security guard working at the State Bank of India, Gunfoundry, on Wednesday opened fire on a bank employee after a verbal altercation broke out between the two. According to Abids police, the incident happened around 3.30 pm. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P. Viswa Prasad said that accused Sardar Khan (54) is an ex-serviceman from Warangal. He has been working at the bank for around nine years. Khan was reportedly talking to the victim, identified as Surendra, an outsourcing employee, discharging duties similar to those of Group IV employees. Surendra had a habit of taunting Khan in a jocular manner. However on Wednesday, Khan allegedly was offended and in a fit of rage, opened fire with his pump-action shot gun. The victim sustained injuries on the left side of his torso. “Khan fired three rounds from his single barrel shotgun. Two hit the wall, and the pellets from the third hit and injured Surendra. He was taken to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderguda. Doctors said he is out of danger,” Mr. Prasad told The Hindu . Soon after the firing was reported, police rushed to the scene and cordoned off the area. The entrance of the bank was closed, and Clues team too, arrived at the spot. Police booked an attempt to murder case against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-security-guard-opens-fire-on-employee/article35334707.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Excise officials promoted||Officials in the Telangana Prohibition and Excise Department are relieved and jubilant as they have received much awaited promotions. A total of 50 people in the department are promoted to various positions starting from Additional Commissioner to Excise Superintendent. Four days ago, a news report was published in these columns that there was deep discontent among officers over long delays in the promotions. And that they were agitated after a GO dated May 6 promoting only 12 people. Citing The Hindu news report, State Prohibition and Excise Minister V Srinivas Goud on Sunday requested Special Chief Secretary (Commercial Tax and Excise) to issue a GO effecting promotions to all eligible officers as approved in the Departmental Promotion Committee. “We have received the orders granting promotions,” sources said. The officers are promoted to the posts of Additional Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner, and Excise Superintendent. The GOs granting promotions are dated May 6. “So there will be no conflict of someone else having more seniority,” sources said. The Excise Minister, thanking the Chief Minister, said postings to the promoted officers will be issued shortly. “The Minister has said the vacancies in the Excise Department will be filled by TSPSC in a short period,” a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/excise-officials-promoted/article35334791.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Tried my best to retain Eatala’||Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that he made efforts till the last minute to keep former Minister Eatala Rajender in the party fold but the latter’s intention to leave the party was clear once he publicly announced his decision not to meet Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. In an informal interaction with media after presiding over the TRS party general secretaries meeting here, Mr. Rama Rao defended the CM’s decision to order for a probe against Mr. Rajender stating that it was done so with the evidence clearly against him. A Chief Minister will not order a probe based on a complaint from an unknown person, he said. Mr. Rama Rao said the Chief Minister showed a lot of patience despite Mr. Rajender finding fault with State government’s decisions taken in the Cabinet. “If he claims differences with Chief Minister had existed since five years, why did he continue in the Cabinet,” he asked. Mr. Rajender is making baseless allegations against the party and asked him to introspect on what the party had done to him ever since he joined the TRS. ‘No sympathy for Eatala’ Stating that bypoll in Huzurabad will be between political parties and not individuals, he said TRS was strong in the at area even before Mr. Rajender joined the party. His quitting will not make any difference to the party and there will be no sympathy for him though he is trying to evoke sentiment, Mr. Rama Rao said. Ridiculing the BJP that it was harping on sensationalism with silly political statements, he asked BJP president Bandi Sanjay the reasons for his padayatra. Opposition parties have no issues to fight against the state government and that is why they are raking up the unemployment issue, Mr. Rama Rao said. Earlier, Mr. Rama Rao reviewed with the general secretaries the party activities on the political front apart from membership drive, construction of party offices in all districts and working on enhancing the party image. Speaking to the media later, MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said RS is the biggest regional party in the country with 61 lakh members. It showcases how strong the roots of the party are. He said digitalisation of membership will be completed soon. He said the party offices in 24 districts were completed and the work is over 95% in the remaining seven. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao will inaugurate the offices in all the districts. He said there was no alternative to TRS in Telangana given its popularity through schemes like free power for farmers, Rythu Bandhu and Kaleshwaram project. The Chief Minister has announced 50,000 recruitments soon and this would address the demands of the unemployed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tried-my-best-to-retain-eatala/article35334739.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Yet another drama on recruitments: Sravan||AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan has alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao comes up with ‘recruitment drama’ during the elections and the 50,000 jobs being touted now are yet again to fool the unemployed youth. At a press conference here, he said similar announcements were played out in the media before the Dubbaka, GHMC, Nagarjunasagar and the Graduate MLC elections and later conveniently forgotten. With the Huzurabad elections in mind similar drama was being played. He reminded that the government had issued GO No 124 in August 2018 directing officials to come up with all the details relating to job vacancies in Telangana and gave them 36 months. Again on March 24, 2021, Chief Secretary directed all departments to come up with the complete details about vacancies department-wise, cadre wise and district wise. But there was no clarity on it even till now. Mr. Sravan said it had been more than seven years since TRS came to power and not even one Group I notification and DSC notification had been released. While there were 4.91 lakhs sanctioned government posts in Telangana, the Biswal Committee identified 1.91 lakh vacancies as only 61% of employees were on rolls in the State. How could IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao claim that the government had filled 1.32 lakh jobs, he asked. He demanded a white paper on the vacancies existing in Telangana and unemployment allowance promised during 2018 elections. Mr. Sravan also claimed that the government was neither filling government jobs nor encouraging self-employment. Since Telangana Rashtra Samithi assumed power just Rs. 219 crore had been disbursed through BC Finance Corporation. While 3.32 lakh BCs applied, 38,355 beneficiaries were given loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yet-another-drama-on-recruitments-sravan/article35334741.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior couple filling potholes, what is GHMC doing, asks HC||Expressing dissatisfaction over the condition of roads in the State capital, Telangana High Court on Wednesday observed that Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) authorities should be ashamed that an elderly couple is spending their savings on filling potholes on Hyderabad roads. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the officials to furnish a report on the status of roads in 30 circles of the six zones in GHMC. The direction was issued after the HC suo moto took up as PIL petition a news report in a newspaper over retired employee Gangadhar Tilak, 73, and his wife Venkateshwari, 64, spending his pension money on filling potholes. When the hearing began, GHMC standing counsel Krishna Reddy informed the court that officials and staff of the civic body were working round-the-clock to beautify the city roads and construct flyover bridges. Not agreeing with his contentions, the bench cautioned the counsel against making such claims. The HC would appoint advocate commissioners to study the road condition and ascertain facts. “Then punishment would be awarded to those who passed on misleading information about the good condition of the roads,” the bench said. The bench wondered what the authorities were doing when the couple was going around the city and filling up the potholes. “Why should they not be paid wages when they are doing the work supposed to be done by the officials and spending their own money,” the bench asked. When it sought specific information about the length of the roads in the city and their conditions, the GHMC counsel said details were not readily available. Rain argument The bench found fault with the GHMC counsel for claiming that heavy rains were damaging the roads. It observed that it rains across the world but the authorities should be prepared well in advance and get the road repair works done. There was no point in blaming the rain god while neglecting maintenance of roads, the bench opined. The matter was posted to July 20 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-couple-is-filling-potholes-what-is-ghmc-doing-asks-hc/article35334715.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Portion of heritage site razed by owners||Exactly 100 years after it was built, a portion of the Khusro Manzil in Lakdikapul area was brought down by its current owners. It is a Grade III heritage site under Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) zonal regulations. “The HMDA has not given permission for its demolition,” said Arvind Kumar, Principal Secretary of the Municipal Administration & Urban Development, when contacted for a comment. While the front portion with the modified Corinthian columns and decorative entablature are intact, a swipe from an earthmover brought down a portion on the right side at the rear part of the building. It was an intervention by nearby residents that ensured that the building was not completely razed. “We rushed there as it is a heritage building and cannot be demolished without permission. When we asked to see the permission, the builders said they were yet to get it from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC),” said Shrikant, resident of a building that overlooks the heritage site. The Khusro Manzil, built on a hill overlooking the city with a clear view of Charminar as well as the Golconda Fort, was completed in 1920. It was built by Khusro Jung Bahadur, son of Afsar ul Mulk, who must have been 30 years old at that time. “The columns are a modification of the Corinthian order. The projected balcony has floral ornamentation which is very neo-classical. While usually columns are used freely, this building uses semicircular arches to bridge between columns,” says Sibghat Khan, an architecture student explaining the merits of the building. After the residents’ intervention, the builders claimed that they were clearing the land behind the building. “The total area is about 7,000 square yards. We are planning to build six-storey and seven-storey residential apartments here. We have got all clearances. We are awaiting GHMC permission,” informed an official of the construction company. The earthmover operator, who left the place in a hurry after residents reacted to the demolition, said the earthmover model (L&T 200) is mainly used to bring down buildings and not flattening land. While rumours about demolition of the Khusro Manzil have abounded, it remains to be seen whether the building will survive this effort.  We are planning to build six-storey and seven-storey residential apartments here. We have all clearances. We are awaiting GHMC permission. Builders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/portion-of-heritage-site-razed-by-owners/article35334721.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘HMDA layout falls right inside Osmansagar catchment area’||In a revised missive to the Chief Justice of High Court Hima Kohli, activist and General Secretary and spokesperson of the Socialist Party (India) Lubna Sarwat alleged that the HMDA layout at Kokapet, where online auction of plots is scheduled for Thursday, falls right inside the catchment area of the Osmansagar reservoir. Compromises inflow HMDA’s plotting in Kokapet layout would compromise inflow channels into a water body Suruni Kunta, which drains into the Osmansagar, which goes against GO 111 prohibiting any construction in the catchment area of the reservoir, the activist’s letter said. Juxtaposing the HMDA plotted area with the HMDA Master Plan for 2031, Ms. Sarwat said the area which was to be demarcated as conservation zone and bio-conservation zone according to GO 111, has now been declared as Multi Purpose Zone and Special Development Zone. Drawing another violation to the CJ notice, the letter said the Plot No. 7 under the auction is right on the Balkapur nala which once provided drinking water to the Hussainsagar. The plot with one acre extent falls inside the conservation zone as per the Index of the Master Plan, besides encroaching upon the Balkapur nala and its buffer zone, the letter also mentioned. The area demarcated for the 400 kV electrical substation within the layout is right on the Balkapur nala and its buffer zone, and also extends into the bio-conservation zone, the activist contended, producing the physical map of the Survey of India issued in 1999 which showed the Balkapur nala and its bund. Golden Mile layout of 1.65 acres, part of the online auction, runs along the Balkapur Nala as per the HMDA auction maps, but on the ground, the nala is filled up. The map does not mention the nala width nor its buffer zone or bund besides proposing 30 meter road on both sides of what is demarcated as the nala, the petition mentioned. Map ambiguity This pushes the map into ambiguity, said Ms. Sarwat, comparing the map with the Master Plan for 2031 and the SOI topo sheets. Requesting orders for declaration of the auction as illegal, Ms. Sarwat also prayed to the Chief Justice for directions to identify, notify and restore the inflow channels and FTL buffer zone of Suruni Cheruvu, to restore Balkapur nala and its buffer zone, and for declaration of the Special Development Zone as Conservation Zone or Bio Conservation Zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmda-layout-falls-right-inside-osmansagar-catchment-area/article35334726.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||President’s Gold medal for Nizamabad doctor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan presented the President of India’s Medal and Certificate to Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS)-Nizamabad chairman Neeli Ramchander at a special function held at Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. He won the prestigious President of India’s Red Cross Gold Medal of the Society for 2017-18 and certificate for humanitarian services rendered in Red Cross. Presenting the award, Ms. Soundararajan appreciated his relentless services as IRCS functionary. This is the first award to IRCS State branch after the formation of Telangana. Secretary to Governor K. Surendra Mohan, IRCS representatives Madan Mohan Rao, Vijayachander Reddy, EC member E.V. Srinivasa Rao, IRCS functionaries Bussa Anjaneyulu and Thota Rajashekar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/president-gold-medal-for-nizamabad-doctor/article35334717.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Contractual lecturers seek regularisation||The University Teachers Association Contract Telangana State has represented to the Vice-Chancellors, demanding regularisation of services of contractual teachers, implementation of the 7th PRC and extension of all benefits on par with regular teachers. Assistant Professors (contract) of 11 universities have been working against budgeted sanctioned vacant posts for over 20 years, the representation said, adding that any future recruitment in the universities should be done only after their services were regularised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contractual-lecturers-seek-regularisation/article35334718.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet sub-committee to be formed on farm issues||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to constitute a nine-member sub-committee to finalise storage of paddy in anticipation of another record production this season, milling, marketing and setting up of agro-based industries. The panel to be headed by Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy will have as members Mr Gangula Kamalakar, Mr. T. Harish Rao, Mr. K.T. Rama Rao, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy, Mr. Puvvada Ajay Kumar, Ms. Sabita Indra Reddy, Mr. V. Prasahant Reddy and Mr. S. Jagdish Reddy. It was also decided at the meeting of the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, to offer investment support of Rs. 26,000 per acre in the first year, and Rs. 5,000 in the second and third years for oil palm cultivation. The farmers should be motivated to grow the crop over 20 lakh acres in 2022-23. To gain knowledge in oil palm cultivation, a team of Ministers, public representatives and officials will tour Costarica, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and other countries where the crop was extensively grown. A release said the meeting instructed agriculture department to shift foodgrains for milling as soon as they were produced and supply wherever there was demand. All the posts in agriculture and civil supplies departments should be filled. The horticulture department should be activated to play a key role in production of fruits and flowers. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao told the meeting that agriculture was a success story in Telangana after its formation. As the farmers did not leave a single acre uncultivated, the cropped area in the State had gone up considerably. The result was a record production of three crore tonnes of foodgrains. Since favourable conditions existed for paddy production in this context, Mr. Rao said it was likely that the production would further shoot up. Therefore, focus has to be turned on storage and marketing of produce. He expected agricultural operations over 1.40 crore acres in the current season with paddy and cotton accounting for lion’s share of cultivation. Apart from creating additional storage space, the milling capacity of rice mills should be increased and more mills established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-sub-committee-to-be-formed-on-farm-issues/article35334736.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. incharges named||Telangana Congress has made its first move in preparation for the Huzurabad bypoll announcing mandal wise incharges with former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajanarasimha made the overall incharge. Manthani MLA D. Sreedhar Babu, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar will be the coordinators. Senior leaders including former Ministers like Konda Surekha and former MLA T. Narsa Reddy from Karimnagar and neighbouring districts have also been entrusted with the responsibility of each mandal area. The mandal incharges include Adi Srinivas and Singheethan Srinivas (Veenavanka), Raj Thakur and Vijayaramana Rao (Jammikunta), former MP Rajaiah and Eerla Komuraiah (Jammikunta town), former MLA T. Narsa Reddy and Lakshman Kumar (Huzurabad), Bomma Sriram and Juvvadi Narsing Rao (Huzurabad town), Nayani Rajender Reddy and Komatireddy Narender Reddy (Illanthakunta) and former Minister Konda Surekha and Dommati Sambaiah (Kamalapur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-incharges-named/article35334740.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID surge in Khammam continues||The spike in coronavirus cases in Khammam continues unabated with 96 persons testing positive on Wednesday, the highest in the State. The case count in the district was 82 on Monday, and 84 on Tuesday. For the past three days, Khammam’s daily total has surpassed that of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, which recorded 72 fresh infections on Wednesday. On the whole, the State logged 749 new cases and five deaths. Other districts posting high number of cases were Karimnagar (58), Warangal Urban (55) and Nalgonda (54). No case was detected in Narayanpet on the day while only one person tested positive in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, according to the bulletin issued by the Health department. Tests cross 2 crore The number of samples examined for coronavirus in the State so far has crossed 2 crore. With 1,15,237 new tests on Wednesday, the testing total reached 2,00,99,983. The first 1 crore samples were tested across a span of one year — between March 2 last year and March 27 this year — while the next one crore tests were conducted over just 109 days. Testing was scaled up to over 1 lakh a day, during the second wave of the pandemic this year which peaked between the third week of April and first week of May. The cumulative case tally is 6,33,895, of which 10,203 are active. The death toll stands at 3,743.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-surge-in-khammam-continues/article35334713.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Road doctor’ felicitated||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday invited Katakam Gangadhar Tilak and his wife to Raj Bhavan and felicitated them for voluntary work of filling potholes in the city. “It is inspiring to know about the services of Mr Gangadhar and his wife, Venkateshwari, to create safe roads in Hyderabad through their voluntary service. He is a true road doctor,” said Dr. Soundararajan lauding the efforts of Mr. Tilak. The Governor honoured the elderly couple for their selfless service in filling up of the potholes with an objective to ensure safe roads and prevent accidents. Pension money The retired railway employee has been using his pension money to fill potholes in the city over the past decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-doctor-felicitated/article35334719.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS ready to set up exclusive zone for Singapore firms, says KTR||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Tuesday said that the State government was ready to establish an exclusive zone for Singapore companies investing in Telangana. “If Singapore companies show interest in investing in Telangana, the State government would set up an exclusive zone or Singapore hub,” Mr. Rao said during a meeting with a visiting delegation led by High Commissioner of Singapore Simon Wong. A release from the Minister’s office said Mr. Rao mentioned this while highlighting how the Telangana government has been successful in attracting investments from different countries with its investment-friendly policies, TS-iPASS system of time bound and single window approval. Many Singapore-based firms had already established their units in the State, he said. Appreciating the Minister for mooting an exclusive Singapore hub, the High Commissioner said a similar initiative by Vietnam to attract investments had paid off. “We will definitely consider this proposal positively,” Mr. Wong said, adding that Singapore-based firms that have invested in Telangana had given a positive feedback about the State’s ecosystem. He said Singapore companies were keen on investing in IT, innovation and allied sectors as well as on blockchain technology. “Apart from advanced sectors, Singapore companies are keen in investing in agriculture and food processing sectors” Mr. Wong said. Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan was present during the meeting, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-ready-to-set-up-exclusive-zone-for-singapore-firms-ktr/article35334723.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Suicide bid near Pragathi Bhavan||A 39-year-old man attempted suicide near Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday, but was caught by vigilant police posted there. According to the Punjagutta police, Mohammed Mohiuddin is an auto driver and a resident of Old Bowenpally. Police said he was upset about family disputes over a 100 square feet house in his village. As soon as police saw Mohiuddin dousing himself with fuel, they rushed to stop him. He was detained and booked under Section 309 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-attempts-suicide-near-pragathi-bhavan/article35334728.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Details of head count submitted||The secretaries of all departments on Wednesday submitted details of employees in their respective departments and the vacancy position to the Cabinet in the context of the State government’s decision to create 50,000 jobs. The sanctioned staff strength in each department, vacancies in different categories and details of contract and outsourced employees working in vacant posts were placed before the Cabinet. A release later said the meeting wanted allotment of employees according to the new zonal system and district wise. The vacancies in posts should be identified as per zones, districts and promotions for the purpose of filling them up. The meeting felt the need for a unique model of job creation in tune with modern job profiles in employment sector. It required creation of new jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/details-of-head-count-submitted/article35334738.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Auction of seized vehicles rakes in more than twice expected revenue||The auction of seized vehicles by the Hyderabad City Police on Wednesday fetched record revenue of Rs. 1,44,26,500, more than two-and-a-half times the reserve price. As many as 2,548 vehicles were auctioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/auction-of-seized-vehicles-rakes-in-more-than-twice-expected-revenue/article35334789.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel for organs||A green channel was provided for the transportation of a heart and lungs by the TS Police on Wednesday. An ambulance carrying a heart left from Kamineni Hospital and reached Jubilee Hills, covering a distance of 30 km in 27 minutes. Another ambulance started from the same hospital and reached KIMS covering 17.6 km in 18 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-for-organs/article35334790.ece
15 July 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||MLC Narsi Reddy begins ‘nadaka yatra’ to Pragati Bhavan||Teachers’ MLC (Warangal-Khammam- Nalgonda) Alugubelli Narsi Reddy has begun his ‘nadaka yatra’ to Pragati Bhavan in Hyderabad. The 61-year-old said his 110-km journey on foot is to question the Centre and State government and demand urgent measures for promises made to education and teaching sectors years ago, roll back of 2020 law effecting policy changes in agriculture and electricity, making old pension system valid, fixing oil and domestic gas price rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mlc-narsi-reddy-begins-nadaka-yatra-to-pragati-bhavan/article35334730.ece
15 July 2021||NALGONDA/SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Musi crest gates lifted||Officials of the Musi project on Wednesday operated seven of the 12 crest gates to release excess water as the capacity neared maximum level in view of the incessant rainfall and steady inflows from upstream. At around 8 a.m., the project’s water level was at 642.20 feet as against its full reservoir level of 645 feet. It was holding 3.74 tmc water against 4.46 tmc full capacity. Officials operated second, fourth, sixth and eighth gates and released 203.58 cusecs, and by 9.30 a.m., project chief engineer Ramesh Babu operated an additional three gates fixing an outflow of 4200 cusecs. Seven of the gates remained lifted till the end of the evening, while a constant inflow and outflow was being maintained at 4611.15 cusecs. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy alerted police and irrigation officials for public advisory in the downstream of the project, to avert any untoward incidents in wake of the heavy inflow. Project DEE M.K. Chandrasekhar said residents of villages in Suryapet, Penpahad, Thipparti, Kethepally, Vemulapalli and Madgulapally were alerted and advised not to venture out for livestock grazing, fishing and other usual activities along the water body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/musi-crest-gates-lifted/article35334732.ece
15 July 2021||siddipet,TELANGANA||Two TRS councillors who join BJP return||In a shock to the opposition BJP, two of the three councillors from Dubbak municipality who joined the BJP in the presence of party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar at Hyderabad on Tuesday returned to the party. With the tactic move by local MLA M. Raghunandan Rao, three councillors belonging to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) joined the BJP at Hyderabad in the presence of party state unit president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy took the issue seriously and held discussions with D. Kanakaiah (7th ward) D. Balakrishna (8th ward) and convinced them to come to the party fold again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-trs-councillors-who-join-bjp-return/article35334742.ece
15 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||PD Act against rave party organisers||Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh M. Bhagwat on Wednesday issued orders for invoking Preventive Detention Act against three youths for allegedly organising a rave party and distributing contraband drugs to the participants. The accused, Girish, 29, and Sharat Chandra, 26, police said, along with Srikar Reddy, 22, had planned to organise the party on the hilly outskirts of Rachakonda at the latter’s farmhouse. They had publicised the event on social media platforms, fixed the entry ticket at Rs. 499 per head and Shivaratri was the chosen time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-against-rave-party-organisers/article35334722.ece
15 July 2021||new delhi,||Court fines Delhi Police Rs. 25K for ‘farcical’ probe into riots case||A local court here has imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 on the Delhi police while questioning the fairness of the probe conducted into a case of a man who suffered a gunshot injury in his left eye during the north-east Delhi riots in February last year. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav censured Delhi Police for resisting registration of an FIR based on the complaint of the victim, Mohammad Nasir, a resident of North Ghonda in Delhi. “It is clearly evident that defence for the accused persons named in the complaint of respondent [Mr. Nasir] has been sought to be created by the police,” the judge remarked while dismissing Delhi police’s appeal against an October 21, 2020, order of a trial court here directing registration of an FIR. . Bhajanpura SHO “Seeing the matter from any angle, I have not been able to persuade myself about the efficacy and fairness of the investigation carried out in the matter,” the judge remarked, adding that the investigation has “been done in a most casual, callous and farcical manner”. The judge further noted the police “did not bother to look into the grievance of the respondent that he was being constantly threatened by the accused persons”. The court directed the DCP (North-East) to deposit the fine with the Delhi Legal Services Authority within a week. It also said the fine amount should be recovered from the Station House Officer of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers, “who have miserably failed in their statutory duties in this case”. The incident in question took place on February 24 last year, when Mr. Nasir was bringing his sister home from Max Hospital in Shalimar Bagh. When their cab reached Khajuri Chowk, they saw chaos and fires all around. The police officials present there advised him to avoid the normal route. They took a detour, but were stopped by rioters near Rubber Factory Chowk. They were allowed to proceed after Mr. Nasir told the rioters his name was Krishna. The cab driver, however, insisted that he didn’t want to go any further due to the situation, so, Mr. Nasir and his sister left the cab at Gokalpuri flyover. On reaching the street of his house, he noticed a mob of around 100-150 people carrying rods, pistols, petrol bombs and swords etc, which was allegedly being led by the owner of M/s Tyagi Store. Mr. Nazir alleged that since he belonged to a different community, Naresh Tyagi fired at him as a result of which he suffered gunshot injury in his left eye. He was taken to Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital where he was operated upon and subsequently discharged on March 12, 2020. On March 19, 2020, he gave a written complaint to the Bhajanpura SHO in which he named Naresh Tyagi, Subhash Tyagi, Uttam Tyagi, Sushil, Naresh Gaur and their other accomplices as the assailants. However, no FIR was registered by the police. Mr. Nasir then approached the trial court on July 17, 2020. In the meantime, an FIR was lodged at the Bhajanpura police station on the statement of an Assistant Police Sub Inspector with regard to the incident of rioting in the area on February 24, 2020. It was also recorded in the FIR that Mr. Nasir had suffered gunshot injuries at the spot on the date and time of the incident. It was further stated that besides him, six more persons: Ali Hasan, Altaf, Javed, Aman, Faizi and Adnan, had also suffered gunshot injuries. The court noted that all the injured persons were taken to hospitals by their family members and not by the police. Police response The police said all the accused persons named by Mr. Nasir had been thoroughly interrogated, “however, no evidence was found against them”. Police said Naresh Tyagi and Uttam Tyagi were not present in Delhi at the time, as they had gone to their native place for attending family functions. Sushil was present in his office on duty and nothing was stated about Naresh Gaur. “Perusal of the case diaries reveals a very shocking state-of-affairs,” the court said. While the incident against Mr. Nasir happened at North Ghonda, the FIR was lodged in respect of Mohanpuri, Maujpur. “The factum of seven persons... having suffered gunshot injuries was in the due knowledge of the investigating agency, however, for reasons best known to it, Section 307 of Indian Penal Code (attempt to murder) and Section 25 of the Arms Act were not invoked initially at the time of FIR registration,” the court noted. The court also questioned why the police were unable to trace any eyewitnesses in the case despite the medicolegal case of Mr. Nasir clearly having his address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-fines-delhi-police-rs-25k-for-farcical-probe-into-riots-case/article35334619.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||For women, bus ride back home becomes an ordeal||Striking a balance between women’s safety and COVID appropriate behaviour has turned out to be a challenge for the police. Women commuters allegedly have to wait for over an hour for public transport after sunset as most buses refuse rides citing limited number of seats. A Delhi government official said the 50% limit on seating capacity on public transport, including State-run buses as well as the Delhi Metro, was in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Centre to control the spread of the pandemic. Sandhya Sharma, a resident of Laxmi Nagar said: “My work ends at 6 p.m. but I reach home, which is just four kilometres from my office, at 8 p.m. because most of the buses didn’t stop at ITO as they are all running at full capacity. My pocket doesn’t allow me to hire an autorickshaw daily.” Shweta Gupta, a student, said while returning home after visiting a doctor, she and her mother didn’t get a bus after two hours of waiting. “Buses are free for women but there is no space. Either buses don’t stop at bus stops or marshal comes out and signals space for one passenger only,” she said. As a bus approaches the bus stop at Pragati Maidan, passengers keep an eye on the bus marshal’s signal to know how many seats are vacant. This starts a frenzy among those waiting to board. In the commotion, women and children are left behind as men push their way in to the vehicle. “COVID appropriate behaviour applies only inside the bus but not at the bus stop or while boarding. I wouldn’t dare to go near the bus as men fight for space and never think of the women waiting late night at a bus stop. Anti-social elements pass comments and last-mile connectivity is also an issue for women during late night,” said Kusum Rana, a passenger waiting at ITO bus stop. Increased patrolling Chinmoy Biswal, PRO of Delhi Police, said they have already increased patrolling in isolated stretches and they will raise the matter with authorities for more buses during peak hours. A Delhi govt. official said the Graded Response Action Plan, which had standard operating procedures related to all activities, including public transport, had been prepared by all stakeholders to prevent the possible spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/for-women-bus-ride-back-home-becomes-an-ordeal/article35334629.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||City gets above average rain for the season||Rain continued to lash the city under the influence of the south-west monsoon on Wednesday with the maximum temperature settling at 35 degrees Celsius, which is normal for the season. The Capital received 26.1 mm of rainfall between 8 a.m. and and 5.30 p.m., and 28.5 mm of rainfall in the preceding 24 hours. The minimum temperature settled at 26 degrees Celsius, which was one degree below normal. The MeT department has forecast partly cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers on Thursday. Isolated to scattered rainfall can be expected till July 16 and enhanced rainfall from July 17. Despite the monsoon arriving over two weeks late, deficit rainfall has been covered and Delhi has now received more than the average rainfall for the season, IMD data show. The rain was, however, not equally distributed across the city with Palam receiving 2.4 mm on Wednesday while the Ridge recorded 107.4 mm of rainfall. Waterlogging plaints up The Public Works Department (PWD) on Wednesday received 10 waterlogging complaints every hour, up from 7 complaints on Tuesday. Significant waterlogging was reported from more than a dozen arterial points located in north and east Delhi, including ITO, with at least 70 calls logged till 5 p.m., the PWD said. The complaints, according to the PWD, originated in relation to the Azadpur area and Azadpur Mandi, ITO to Bhairon Marg, Jhilmil underpass, GTK bus depot, Nangia Park, Punjabi Bagh underpass, Shahdara and Zahkira among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-gets-above-average-rain-for-the-season/article35334622.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Notice to govt. after plea for DMC chief’s removal||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on a petition seeking removal of Zakir Khan from the post of Chairman of the Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) for allegedly abusing his position. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh also issued notice to the DMC and Mr. Khan on the petition and listed it for further hearing on August 31. The petition was filed by one Abdul Amir Amiro, who complained that Mr. Khan after assuming office as the Chairman of DMC in August last year has been “continuously exercising the abuse of his position and power”. The plea contended that members of the commission including its Chairman being ‘public servant’ should not get associated with political party. The petition claimed Mr. Khan, who was formerly an AAP leader, was holding meetings with its members and has been taking part in party rallies. It said Mr. Khan has “knowingly misused his power and position to act upon as an agent of AAP for propagating the political party”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/notice-to-govt-after-plea-for-dmc-chiefs-removal/article35334624.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Vacant parking spaces to be offered to food trucks’||In a bid to augment non-fare box revenue, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Wednesday said that the vacant parking spaces at metro stations will be offered to food truck vendors. The vendors will be required to pay a fixed licence fee or rental fee to avail the designated space. Vendors will be permitted to operate between 9 a.m. and 10.30 p.m. daily, according to the NMRC. Officials said that the NMRC has issued an Expression of Interest (EOI) to invite applications from interested stakeholders. “The mobile food or food truck service vendor will pay NMRC a fixed licence fee or rental fee to avail the designated space at parking area which shall be decided by the NMRC. The minimum tentative space proposed to be provided for installation of each food truck is 25 square meters and the maximum available space shall vary station wise,” officials said. According to the NMRC, a total of 15 stations were offered for food, recreational, utility truck facility under the EOI. Monthly fee The monthly licence fee varies from Rs. 390 to Rs. 600, excluding taxes and is dependent on the “band” category of the location. Out of the 15 stations being offered for the facility, two are on band 1 category, nine stations in band 2 category and four stations in band 3 category, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vacant-parking-spaces-to-be-offered-to-food-trucks/article35334627.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Operationalise crowdfunding platform: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday cautioned the Centre that it would take action for “wilful non-compliance” if it failed to make operational a digital platform for crowdfunding of expensive medicines and treatment for rare diseases. Justice Rekha Palli said despite specific directions on January 28 that the digital crowdfunding platform be made operational by March 31, it has not been done. “This court would be constrained to take action for wilful non-compliance,” Justice Palli said while directing the counsel representing the Centre to take instructions on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/operationalise-crowdfunding-platform-hc/article35334620.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for passing on files to ISI||A 34-year-old man was arrested from Rajasthan for allegedly obtaining sensitive documents from an Indian Army official and providing it to Pakistani intelligence agency ISI, officials said on Wednesday. The suspect, Habeeb Khan, who hails from Bikaner, was nabbed by the Delhi Police Crime Branch from Pokhran, where he had been working as a vegetable supplier on contract basis, they said. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the suspect used to fish out sensitive documents from an Army official posted at the Pokhran army base camp and further provided them to ISI, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-passing-on-files-to-isi/article35334625.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Extra 5.6 km on Rithala-Narela line on anvil||Following a joint inspection of a proposed Rithala-Narela corridor, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that a single alignment was not enough to serve the entire area. An additional 5.6 kilometre corridor may be planned subject to government clearances, the Delhi Metro said. “The DMRC has suggested that one single alignment cannot serve the entire area with just one corridor,” said Anuj Dayal, DMRC spokesperson. Mr. Dayal added, “Therefore, in addition to the original corridor already proposed between Rithala and Narela (22.9 km), a spur of 5.6 km length from Puth Khurd to Holambi Kalan may be planned.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extra-56-km-on-rithala-narela-line-on-anvil/article35334626.ece
15 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Plan to link CSR funding with women entrepreneurship||A proposal to link the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding by the private companies for education with the promotion of entrepreneurship among women is being considered in Rajasthan. The focus will be on developing entrepreneurial skills among young women in the rural areas to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. The all-women ‘Nirbhaya Squad’ of Jaipur police has expressed willingness to join a consortium of organisations to impart skills training to women at the grassroots. The Squad’s nodal officer Sunita Meena said here on Wednesday that the CSR funding for education could be utilised for developing skills among young women in the villages and small towns to create livelihood opportunities for them. “Digital skills training is the need of the hour for women, who should be encouraged to take up productive work and join the community efforts in the fields of healthcare, sanitation and hygiene,” Ms. Meena said. New avenues The CSR educational programmes should enable the women entrepreneurs to find new avenues through networking and diversification of work, she said. The bike-borne Nirbhaya Squad was formed in 2019 with women constables trained in martial arts, who are deployed at schools, colleges, malls and bus stops to extend protection to women. The Squad took out flag marches during the pandemic and distributed sanitary pads free of cost in the containment zones in Jaipur. Ms. Meena joined other experts at a virtual event here to recommend adopting new strategies to integrate skills and values with the career decision making process for women. Udaipur-based Narayan Seva Sansthan’s president Prashant Agarwal said the CSR education sector could increase the availability of trained professionals through innovative programmes. Goutam Sadhu, professor at School of Development Studies, Indian Institute of Health Management ResearchUniversity, said the corporates had geared up to meet the requirements of the CSR regime introduced in the Companies Act, 2013. The maximum work under the CSR had covered the domains of education, skill development, poverty alleviation and health care, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plan-to-link-csr-funding-with-women-entrepreneurship/article35334645.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||‘Fadnavis misled Assembly on SECC report’||Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis misled the Maharashtra Assembly by claiming that the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), 2011, had eight crore errors and 69 lakh were from the State alone, senior Congress leader and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said. “The Lok Sabha Standing Committee on Rural Development, in its 27th report published in 2015-16, has clarified the matter and given the official statistics about the number of errors,” Mr. Chavan said. “The data has been examined and 98.87% of individuals’ caste and religion is error-free,” he said, quoting the report. He accused the BJP leader of deliberately misleading the House and the public. The SECC, 2011, is a study of the socio-economic status of rural and urban households, and allows ranking of households based on predefined parameters. It has three components that were conducted by three separate authorities, but under the coordination of the Department of Rural Development in the Union government. The Census in rural areas has been conducted by the Department of Rural Development, while the Census in urban areas is under the administrative jurisdiction of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation. The caste Census is under the administrative control of the Registrar-General of India and Census Commissioner of India, Ministry of Home Affairs. Speaking on the issue of political reservation for Other Backward Classes inside the State Assembly, Mr. Fadnavis had on July 5 said, “There are eight crore errors in the SECC, 2011 data and 69 lakh errors are from Maharashtra”. The report stated that the population of socio-economic castes was 118,64,03,770, of which the incidence of errors noted was 1,34,77,030. This means that only 1.13% of the data had some errors. The committee had asked the Ministry to rectify these errors with the States. A Claims and Objections Tracking System was then set up. Uttar Pradesh resolved 2,09,182 complaints (0.22% of population), while Rajasthan resolved 45,550 complaints using the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fadnavis-misled-assembly-on-secc-report/article35334552.ece
15 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Scaffolding collapses in Nerul; 10 labourers hurt||Ten labourers, working on water proofing and painting a 14-storey residential building in Nerul, sustained injuries on Wednesday after the scaffolding they were standing on collapsed. “Of the 10 workers, two were on the 14th floor of Shailesh Towers in Sector 19 and sustained serious head injuries. They have internal bleeding. Three labourers have been discharged after primary treatment,” senior police inspector Shyam Shinde from Nerul police station said. The police said the seriously injured have been identified as Riyad Ali (40) and Mohammad Mukhtar (24). All 10 workers were employees of Swaraj Construction based in Kandivli. Contractor booked The police have booked the contractor, Santosh Ramkote, for not providing the labourers with adequate safety equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/scaffolding-collapses-in-nerul-10-labourers-hurt/article35334548.ece
15 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||COVID patient on ventilator attacks doctor in Alibag||The Alibag police have booked a 65-year-old COVID-19 patient from Lonere for assaulting a doctor at Alibag Civil Hospital on Wednesday. According to the police, the doctor, Swapandeep Thale (32), had repeatedly told the patient on ventilator support not to remove his oxygen mask. The patient had been admitted with an oxygen saturation level of 85 and it climbed to 92 after he was put on a ventilator. The doctor even instructed a nurse to ask the patient to put on his mask. “Later, when the doctor was resting on his chair, with his eyes closed, the patient picked up a stand used for hanging saline bags and struck the doctor on the forehead. The doctor evaded a second blow and then a ward boy dragged the patient away. The doctor sustained injuries to the forehead and eyes,” senior police inspector K.D. Kolhe from Alibag police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-patient-on-ventilator-attacks-doctor-in-alibag/article35334549.ece
15 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 8,602 fresh COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported 8,602 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 6,067 recoveries as the active case tally, which had dipped in the past few days, rose to 1,06,764. However, the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours was low — just 1.76 lakh as opposed to the daily average of 2.30 lakh. A total of 170 deaths pushed the State’s total death toll to 1,26,390, with the case fatality rate standing at 2.04%. The total cases have reached 61,81,247, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 59,44,801, with the recovery rate at 96.17%. “Of 4,46,09,276 laboratory samples tested thus far, 61,81,247 (with the average case positivity falling to 13.86%) have returned positive with over 2.26 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported 1,185 new cases, taking its total cases to 10,71,296. As many as 16 deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 17,551. As per district authorities, the active case tally stood at 9,600 while the total death toll has reached 18,129. Mumbai reported 619 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,29,263 while the active cases stand at 11,088. As many as 10 fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,654. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra reported more than 1,600 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,78,558, of whom 11,784 are active. Thirty-one deaths saw the cumulative death toll rise to 5,128. Satara reported 681 cases and 24 deaths as its total cases rose to 2,04,663, of whom 7,850 are active, while the death toll climbed to 4,939. Neighbouring Sangli reported more than 900 new cases and 12 deaths. The total case tally stands at 1,68,225, with the active cases rising to 10,746, while its death toll reached 4,597.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-8602-fresh-covid-19-cases/article35334551.ece
15 July 2021||Pune,||Nana Patole enthuses Congress workers, makes NCP, Sena jittery||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole’s refrain that the party will go it alone in polls is giving headaches not only to his coalition allies, the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena, but sections within his party in the State as well. “Our line is fixed…we have suffered many setbacks in the past and we want to avoid a debacle like the 2014 general elections. Keeping that in mind, we have begun preparations,” said Mr. Patole on Wednesday, in a riposte to Mr. Pawar. His remarks alluded to the understanding between the BJP and the NCP before the 2014 elections that had resulted in the crumbling of alliances in Maharashtra, the Sena–BJP (since 1989) and the Congress-NCP (since 1999) and led to all four parties contesting separately. Addressing party workers last week at Lonavla, Mr. Patole hinted that his movements were being closely monitored by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar while rebuking Mr. Pawar, as Pune’s Guardian Minister, for ignoring the interests of party workers in the district. Mr. Patole did a volte face on Monday clarifying that his statements were directed at the Centre. In the wake of the remarks, Congress Ministers Ashok Chavan and Balasaheb Thorat along with party in-charge H.K. Patil met Mr. Pawar in Mumbai at which the State Congress chief was not present. Mr. Pawar had earlier refused to react to Mr. Patole’s statements, brusquely stating he did not respond to the “comments of lesser men”. “I was not invited by Mr. Pawar at the meeting nor was I even aware of it…when I asked my colleagues what had transpired, they told me it was a discussion regarding OBC reservation. I just want to say this that while I am far from upset [at not being invited], if my style of functioning while building my party is raising some people’s hackles, then I could not care more about it,” said Mr. Patole. According to observers, the remarks have enthused the Congress rank-and-file, who have been chafed after having being dominated by the NCP in the State. This was reflected at a State Congress meeting on Tuesday, chaired by Mr. Patil, where all district presidents, office-bearers and other party workers advocated contesting not only the civic polls on their own but also bigger elections like the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nana-patole-enthuses-congress-workers-makes-ncp-sena-jittery/article35334553.ece
15 July 2021||Kandahar,||Taliban seize border crossing with Pak.||The Taliban captured the strategic border crossing of Spin Boldak on the frontier with Pakistan on Wednesday, continuing sweeping gains made since foreign forces stepped up their withdrawal from Afghanistan. Afghanistan’s Interior Ministry denied the insurgents had taken the area even as social media was flooded with pictures of Taliban fighters relaxing in the frontier town. Residents also told AFP it was in the Taliban's hands. Spin Boldak is the latest in a string of border crossings and dry ports seized by the Taliban in recent weeks, with the insurgents looking to choke off much-needed revenue from the government in Kabul while also filling their own coffers. Heavy fighting The seizure of the border crossing follows days of heavy fighting across Kandahar province, where the government was forced to deploy commando fighters to prevent the fall of the provincial capital even as the insurgents inched closer to taking the frontier. In a statement, insurgent spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid assured traders and residents there that their “security is guaranteed”. But Afghan officials insisted they were still in control. “The terrorist Taliban had some movements near the border area... The security forces have repelled the attack,” Interior Ministry spokesman Tareq Arian said. Strategic value Residents disputed the government’s claims, however. The border crossing is one of the most strategically valuable for the Taliban. It provides direct access to Pakistan’s Balochistan province — where the insurgents’ top leadership has been based for decades — along with an unknown number of reserve fighters who regularly enter Afghanistan to help bolster their ranks. Hours after the crossing fell, an AFP reporter on the Pakistani side saw around 150 Taliban fighters riding on motorcycles, waving insurgent flags, as they demanded to be allowed to cross into Afghanistan. Balochistan is a favoured destination for fighters regularly heading for medical treatment and hosts many of their families. A major highway leading from the border connects to Pakistan’s commercial capital Karachi and its sprawling port on the Arabian Sea, which is considered a linchpin for Afghanistan's billion-dollar heroin trade that has provided a crucial source of revenue for the Taliban's war chest over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-seize-border-crossing-with-pak/article35334144.ece
15 July 2021||Peshawar,||12 killed in Pakistan bus blast, including 9 Chinese||Beijing said nine Chinese workers were among 12 people killed on Wednesday by a bomb attack on a bus in northwestern Pakistan and called for severe punishment, but Islamabad blamed the explosion on a “gas leak”. The bus was carrying around 40 Chinese engineers, surveyors and mechanical staff to a hydropower dam construction site in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. Islamabad is Beijing’s closest regional ally, but the security of Chinese workers has long been of concern in Pakistan. Large numbers of them are based in the country to supervise and build infrastructure projects. Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry in a statement said the bus “plunged into a ravine after a mechanical failure, resulting in leakage of gas that caused a blast”. Meanwhile, China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian expressed his “shock and condemnation over the bombing”. ‘Protect the Chinese’ He urged Pakistan to “severely punish” those responsible and “earnestly protect” Chinese nationals and projects. The Chinese Embassy in Islamabad also earlier said its nationals had come under “attack”. Both countries said nine Chinese workers and three Pakistanis had died in the disaster which happened at around 7 am. Arif Khan Yousafzai, a senior government official in Kohistan district where the blast happened, said around 28 people were also injured. They were all airlifted to hospital by the military, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/12-killed-in-pakistan-bus-blast-including-9-chinese/article35334135.ece
15 July 2021||Kunduz,||Insurgents back to old ways in newly seized territory||Days after the Taliban captured a remote district in Afghanistan’s north, they issued their first orders in the form of a letter to the local imam. “It said women can’t go to the bazaar without a male companion, and men should not shave their beards,” said Sefatullah, 25, a resident of Kalafgan district. The insurgents also banned smoking, he added, and warned that anybody violating the rules “will be seriously dealt with”. The Taliban are making huge advances across the country as they capitalise on the final withdrawal of foreign troops — capturing districts, seizing key border crossings, and encircling provincial capitals. Harsh rule In some areas they are again introducing the harsh interpretation of Islamic rule that earned them notoriety until being overthrown by the US-led invasion that followed the September 11 attacks. Last month they took Sher Khan Bandar, a northern customs post that connected the country to Tajikistan over a U.S.-funded bridge that spanned the Panj river. “After Sher Khan Bandar fell, the Taliban ordered women not to step out of their homes,” said Sajeda, who told AFP she worked in a local factory at the time. “There were many women and young girls doing embroidery, tailoring and shoe-making... The Taliban's order has now terrified us.” The Taliban ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001 according to an interpretation of the Koran little changed in centuries. Banned from school Women were ordered to stay indoors unless accompanied by a male relative, girls were banned from school, and those found guilty of crimes such as adultery were stoned to death. Men had relatively more freedom but were ordered not to shave, would be beaten if they didn’t attend prayers, and were told to only wear traditional clothing. Afghanistan is deeply conservative and some rural pockets of the country adhere to similar rules even without Taliban oversight -- but the insurgents have tried to impose these edicts even in more modern centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/insurgents-back-to-old-ways-in-newly-seized-territory/article35334142.ece
15 July 2021||Moscow,||‘Russia, U.S. have common interests on climate change’||Russian President Vladimir Putin told United States climate envoy John Kerry that Moscow and Washington have a shared interest in battling climate change, the Kremlin said in a statement on Wednesday, in a rare area of common ground between the rivals. “The climate problem is one of the areas where Russia and the United States have common interests and similar approaches,” Mr. Putin said in a phone call with Mr. Kerry who is visiting Moscow, it said. The former Secretary of state is in Russia this week to discuss climate change with officials and has called on the country to cooperate with the U.S. on the issue. Mr. Putin said Moscow “attaches great importance” to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and “advocates de-politicising” dialogue on climate change. The comments on a rare point of cooperation between the two countries come after Mr. Putin met U.S. President Joe Biden for talks in Geneva last month. Moscow has welcomed Mr. Kerry’s visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-us-have-common-interests-on-climate-change/article35334139.ece
15 July 2021||Johannesburg,||Unrest in South Africa stokes fears of shortages||Unrest raged in South Africa on Wednesday for the sixth day running, stoking fears of food and fuel shortages as disruption to farming, manufacturing and oil refining began to bite. Seventy-two people have died and more than 1,200 people have been arrested, according to official figures, since former president Jacob Zuma began a 15-month jail term, sparking protests that swiftly turned violent. Looting has hit supply chains and transport links especially in the southeastern province of KwaZulu-Natal, sending a shockwave to goods and services around parts of the country. State-owned logistics operator, Transnet, on Wednesday declared a “force majeure” — an emergency beyond its control — on a key rail line that links Johannesburg to the coast because the “unrest and subsequent closure of roads has meant employees are not able to report for duty”. In the port city of Durban, people started queueing outside food stores and at fuel stations as early as 4 a.m. (0200 GMT) when the Covid night curfew ends, an AFP photographer saw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-africa-unrest-prompts-fears-of-shortages/article35334141.ece
15 July 2021||Havana,||Cuba restores internet access after protests||Cuban authorities restored internet access on Wednesday following three days of interruptions after unprecedented protests erupted over the weekend, AFP journalists said. However, access to social media and messaging apps such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter remained blocked on 3G and 4G. One person has died and over 100 were arrested, including independent journalists and opposition activists, since the anti-government protests over the worst economic crisis in decades broke out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cuba-restores-internet-access-after-protests/article35334236.ece
15 July 2021||Havana,||One dead in protests in Cuba, dozens arrested||One person has died in the anti-government protests across Cuba, according to officials, with activists saying at least 100 people have been arrested and scores remain in detention as demonstrations overseas in solidarity continued. The rallies are the largest since the Cuban revolution of the 1950s and come as the country endures its worst economic crisis in 30 years, with chronic shortages of electricity, food and medicine, just as it records a spike in COVID-19 cases. Cuba’s San Isidro free speech protest movement on Monday published a list of 144 people held or reported as disappeared following the demonstrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/one-dead-in-protests-in-cuba-dozens-arrested/article35334137.ece
15 July 2021||Berlin,||Pullout is a mistake, says George Bush||Former U.S. President George W. Bush criticised the Western withdrawal from Afghanistan in an interview with a German broadcaster released on Wednesday, saying he fears that Afghan women and girls will “suffer unspeakable harm.” Asked in an interview with Deutsche Welle whether the withdrawal is a mistake, Bush replied: “You know, I think it is, yeah, because I think the consequences are going to be unbelievably bad.” The war in Afghanistan began under Mr. Bush after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the U.S. The withdrawal of American and NATO troops is now nearing completion amid Taliban advances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pullout-is-a-mistake-says-george-bush/article35334131.ece
15 July 2021||Addis Ababa,||Ethiopia PM vows to repel ‘enemies’||Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Wednesday vowed to repel attacks by Ethiopia’s “enemies” after rebels in Tigray launched a fresh offensive to regain territory in the region. Tigrayan forces this week claimed a series of battlefield gains in a renewed assault that comes two weeks after the federal government declared a unilateral ceasefire in the face of rebel advances. The latest rebel push followed the stunning recapture of the regional capital Mekele last month from federal forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopia-pm-vows-to-repel-enemies/article35334136.ece
15 July 2021||Manila,||U.S. urges ASEAN to press for end to Myanmar crisis||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken asked his Southeast Asian counterparts Wednesday to press for an end to violence in Myanmar, its return to democracy and the release of all political prisoners in a video conference attended by the military-led nation’s top diplomat. In the meeting with foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Mr. Blinken also underscored the U.S. rejection of China’s “unlawful” territorial claims in the South China Sea and stressed that Washington stands with nations at odds with Beijing in the sea disputes. Mr. Blinken’s meeting with the 10-nation bloc also addressed the coronavirus pandemic, State Department spokesman Ned Price said, as surging infections fill hospitals and morgues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-urges-asean-to-press-for-end-to-myanmar-crisis/article35334145.ece
15 July 2021||Brasilia,||Brazil’s Bolsonaro taken to hospital over hiccups||Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro was admitted to hospital on Wednesday to investigate the cause of persistent hiccups, the government said. The 66-year-old far-right leader had been complaining since last week that he had been suffering from the hiccups following surgery on a dental implant on July 3. He was taken to a military hospital in Brasilia “to undergo tests and to investigate the cause of the hiccups,” said a statement.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazils-bolsonaro-taken-to-hospital-over-hiccups/article35334133.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||People’s voice and Kashmir’s future||The all-party conference on Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) revealed the failure of the strategy crafted by the Government of India. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has long urged the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. But the constitutional coup went miles beyond that. It abrogated Article 35A as well, broke up the State of J&K by lopping off Ladakh, and reduced the rest to a Union Territory. It is unthinkable that any other State would have received the treatment meted out to J&K whose ‘special status’ was an eyesore. But the elephant in the room was the law on delimitation of the constituencies. It trumpeted the real object of the coup loud and clear, which was to wipe out the political set-up in J&K and establish a new political order. To accomplish this, virtually the entire political class of Kashmir had to be put out of action, the press muzzled, assemblies banned, tourists given marching orders, schools and colleges shut, and electronic communications suspended. Abrogation of Article 370 Article 370 cannot be abrogated even by Parliament, let alone by the President. Even the letter of Article 370 bars that. But there is a profound reason which fundamentally bars such a result. To cite an example, insurgency erupted in Mizoram on February 28, 1966. The Mizo National Front (MNF) led by Laldenga began an armed insurgency and declared independence the next day. On June 30, 1986, the Mizoram Accord was signed. It said: “Notwithstanding anything contained in the Constitution, no Act of Parliament in respect of (a) Religion or social practices of the Mizos, (b) Mizo customary law or procedure, (c) Administration of civil and criminal justice involving decisions according to Mizo customary law, (d) Ownership and transfer of land, shall apply to the State of Mizoram unless the Legislative Assembly of Mizoram by a resolution so decides.” On February 20, 1987, the 53rd Constitution Amendment came into force inserting Article 371G which reads thus: “Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, no Act of Parliament in respect of (i) Religious or social practices of the Mizos, (ii) Mizo customary law and procedure, (iii) Administration of civil and criminal justice involving decisions according to Mizo customary law, (iv) Ownership and transfer of land, shall apply to the State of Mizoram unless the Legislative Assembly of Mizoram by a resolution so decides.” The two are identically worded because Article 371G gives legal force to an accord between the Union and the MNF. Parliament cannot repeal it or even amend it unilaterally. Article 370 stands on a higher footing. It gives legal force to an accord between the Union and a State of the Union and the parleys were held by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and his deputy, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. They began at Patel’s residence on May 15, 1949 and ended in mid-October with an agreed text. But it was moved in an altered form in the Constituent Assembly on October 17, 1949 by N. Gopalaswami Ayyangar in the absence of Sheikh Abdullah who happened to be in the lobby. He rushed to the House. Article 370 made Kashmir’s Constituent Assembly the sole authority to accord consent to any addition to the Centre’s power and to further extension to Kashmir of India’s Constitution. The Assembly first met on October 31, 1951 and was formally dissolved on November 17, 1956. Article 370 enabled the State government to accord its concurrence only subject to J&K’s Constituent Assembly’s concurrence. This was abused to make the State government and even the Governor alone to be the consenting authority. The result? Ninety-four of the 97 entries in the Central List were applied to Kashmir leaving a balance of three. So much for the ‘special status’. The Constitution is studded with ‘special’ provisions for Nagaland, Assam, Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, and Goa (Article 371A-1). Kashmir had an elected Sadr-E-Riyasat. The Centre replaced him with a Governor it nominated. We have high legal authority for challenging the ‘laws’ of August 5, 2019. After the First World War, countries of the British Empire were restive about their independence. In 1926, the Earl of Balfour devised a formula which pleased all. The autonomy of those countries was recognised simultaneously with their loyalty to the British Crown. This was incorporated in the Statute of Westminster passed in 1931 by the British Parliament. It said that no law it passed would extend to the Dominions unless they had so wished (Section 4). In 1935, the Privy Council ruled that “the Imperial Parliament could, as a matter of abstract law, repeal or disregard Section 4 of the Statute. But that is theory and has no relation to realities. In truth, Canada is in enjoyment of the full scope of self-government” (British Coal Corporation v. The King).  Areas of ‘special status’ Areas of ‘special status’ abound the world over. Scotland joined England in 1707 to form Great Britain. It held a referendum on its independence without  its beingcalled ‘treason’. Quebec held two referenda on secession in 1980 and 1995. All three failed. For historic reasons, the German-majority South Tyrol is partly Italy. Its autonomy is guaranteed by an Austro-Italian accord. The Swedish-majority Aaland Islands are Finnish territory under an accord of 1921. The autonomy of both territories (Aaland Islands and South Tyrol) is internationally guaranteed. Indonesia quelled militancy in Aceh by an accord on August 15, 2005 based on “special autonomy”. Newfoundland signed the Terms of Union with Canada on December 11, 1948 after a referendum. Denmark conferred home rule on Greenland in 1979. On June 12, 2009, Denmark enacted an Act on Greenland Self-Government to confer greater power than that of our States. Fifty years ago, Sheikh Abdullah told former Foreign Secretary Y.D. Gundevia, “Only that person who enjoys the confidence of the Government of India can be Chief Minister of Kashmir”. A ‘special status’ worse than, say, Kerala or Tamil Nadu, which can have Chief Ministers that the Centre does not approve of. The Supreme Court’s record on Kashmir is uninspiring. The matter is too politicised. The petitions must be withdrawn in favour of a political, peaceful, constitutional approach. The Gupkar Declaration of August 4, 2019 must be amplified in a Convention. On July 9, 1953 Maulana Azad offered to Sheikh Abdullah that the Government of India “is willing to declare that the special position given to Kashmir will be made permanent without any conditions”. Abdullah replied on July 16, “If such a declaration had been earlier, it would have strengthened my hands”. Now, “if I fail to gain the confidence of my people here, I will not be able to render my service to my friends.” The people matter more than they did in 1953. Statesmanship lies in crafting a solution acceptable to them. Time is running out. The Delimitation Commission visited Kashmir to fulfil the vision of the BJP’s Vision Document — more seats for Jammu. A lot depends on the statesmanship of Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Mirwaiz Mohammad Umar Farooq. Their objectives should be two-fold: to work for the restoration of Kashmir’s identity and pride and help to complete the four-point formula which former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh and former Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf had built four-fifth. The all-party conference failed because it ignored Kashmiri sentiments. A.G. Noorani is a constitutional expert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/peoples-voice-and-kashmirs-future/article35334126.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Making welfare conditional is a stamp of coercion||On Sunday, the government of Uttar Pradesh released a “Population Policy” in which it stated its intention to bring the gross fertility rate in the State down from the existing 2.7 to 2.1 by 2026. To achieve this, the government says it will consider the enactment of a new piece of legislation. One such law that might be on the anvil is an ominous proposal released just days earlier by the State’s Law Commission (https://bit.ly/3xGH2TF). Incentives and disincentives This draft law, titled the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021, seeks to provide not only a series of incentives to families that adhere to a two-child norm, but also intends on disentitling families that breach the norm from benefits and subsidies. These recommendations are rooted in a culture of coercion. They are also steeped in myth. Experiences from across the world demonstrate that laws of this kind simply do not work. They invariably instil an attitude of discrimination, with a burden imposed disparately on the most vulnerable groups in society. The draft Bill echoes the U.P. government’s new policy in claiming that the State’s ecological and economic resources are limited. According to it, unless population growth is regulated, the State will be unable to guarantee the provision of basic rights to all citizens. It also invokes some of the now-usual buzzwords: sustainable development, it says, cannot be achieved without government-imposed birth control. To these ends, the draft postulates an array of measures. It promises public servants who undergo sterilisation and adopt a two-child norm several benefits. These include two increments during their service, subsidy towards the purchase of a house, maternity, or paternity leave, with full salary and allowances, as the case may be, for up to 12 months, and free health care and insurance coverage for the spouse. This is as far as the “incentives” go. The draft Bill also contains a list of punishments. It terms these euphemistically as “disincentives”. A person who breaches the two-child norm will be debarred from securing the benefit of any government-sponsored welfare scheme and will be disqualified from applying to any State government job. Existing government employees who infringe the rule will be denied the benefit of promotion. And last, transgressing individuals will be prohibited from contesting elections to local authorities and bodies. It is worth pondering over whether regulation of population is necessary at all. But assuming such regulation is a legitimate governmental aim, the first question that we must ask of the new proposal is: why. After all, experiences from other States in India show us that there are more efficacious and alternative measures available to control the growth of population, including processes aimed at improving public health and access to education. Indeed, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare conceded as much before the Supreme Court late last year. Through an affidavit filed in court, the central government argued that “international experience shows that any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions”. The Government further confirmed that India was committed to its obligations under international law, including the principles contained in the International Conference on Population and Development Programme of Action, 1994. Pledge on right Foremost in those principles was a pledge from nations that they would look beyond demographic targets and focus instead on guaranteeing a right to reproductive freedom. Since then, in India, the Supreme Court of India has recognised this right as an inalienable promise. In Suchita Srivastava & Anr vs Chandigarh Administration (2009), the Court found that a woman’s freedom to make reproductive decisions is an integral facet of the right to personal liberty guaranteed by Article 21. “It is important,” the Court wrote, “to recognise that reproductive choices can be exercised to procreate as well as to abstain from procreating”. This ruling was endorsed by the Supreme Court’s nine-judge Bench verdict in K.S. Puttaswamy vs Union of India (2017). A reading of the plurality of opinions there shows us that the Constitution sees a person’s autonomy over her body as an extension of the right to privacy. In his judgment, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud held that privacy partakes different connotations. These include decisional autonomy, which comprehends, among other things, liberty over “intimate personal choices such as those governing reproduction”. Justice S.K. Kaul similarly declared in his separate judgment that the right to procreation was an important constituent of “the privacy of the home”. Like all other fundamental rights, the right to privacy is not boundless. But, as Puttaswamy clarifies, any restriction placed on the right must conform to a doctrine of proportionality. This requires first, that the limitation be rooted in statute; second, that the state show us that the objective of its law is founded on a legitimate governmental aim; third that there are no alternative and less intrusive measures available to achieve the same objective; and fourth, that there exists a rational connection between the limitation imposed and the aims of the statute. The logic here is simple: in pursuing public interest, it is essential that governments ensure that individual liberties are encroached upon to the lowest degree possible. A simple reading of U.P.’s draft law will show us that, if enacted, it will grossly impinge on the right to reproductive freedom. The government will likely argue that there is no violation of privacy here because any decision on sterilisation would be voluntary. But, as we ought to by now know, making welfare conditional is a hallmark of coercion. If we want the idea of India as a welfare state to mean something, the right to access basic goods cannot be made provisional on a person sacrificing her bodily autonomy. By all accounts, therefore, the proposed law will fall foul of a proportionality analysis. If nothing else, the Union government’s concession in the Supreme Court demonstrates that there are several alternative, less-intrusive means available to regulate population. Negative consequences But the new proposal is also worrying because it is likely to bring with it a host of other deleterious consequences. For instance, an already skewed sex ratio may be compounded by families aborting a daughter in the hope of having a son with a view to conforming to the two-child norm. The law could also lead to a proliferation in sterilisation camps, a practice that the Supreme Court has previously deprecated. In Devika Biswas vs Union of India (2016), the Court pointed to how these camps invariably have a disparate impact on minorities and other vulnerable groups. As is so often the case with bad laws in India, though, this draft Bill may find support from some past judgments of the Supreme Court. In this case, the Government may point to the judgment in Javed & Ors vs State of Haryana & Ors (2003), where the Court upheld a law that disqualified persons with more than two children from contesting in local body elections. But not only is the present proposal far more disproportionate — in that it virtually sanctions civil death for those that violate the norms it fixes — the judgment in Javed can no longer be seen as good law. For one thing, its reasoning flies in the face of Puttaswamy . But as rousing as the nine-judge Bench verdict is, its legacy depends on how its findings are applied. For the judgment to have tangible value and meaning, any law of this kind, which invades upon our most personal and ethical choices, must be seen as repugnant to the Constitution. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-welfare-conditional-is-a-stamp-of-coercion/article35334119.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Five years later, Brexit continues to divide||The British referendum five years ago was supposed to settle the United Kingdom’s historical love-hate relationship with Europe, but while the full consequences of Brexit will not be analysed for decades, the U.K. remains as divided as ever, and the way people voted in 2016 forms a large part of their identity. The referendum dominates British politics as the most significant event since the Second World War, resulting in two general elections, ousting two premiers and threatening the political geography of the U.K. Loose ends British Prime Minister Boris Johnson needed a rapid departure from the European Union (EU), and the Withdrawal and Trade and Cooperation Agreements of December 2020 were rushed through. Problems were soon apparent. The U.K. imports 70% of the fish it consumes; the industry only contributes 0.12% of GDP and employs 0.1% of the workforce (https://bit.ly/3i7emwG), but has political traction. In May, after 60 French fishing boats massed to blockade Jersey over fishing rights, naval units from both Britain and France deployed off Jersey, a farcical reminder of the loose ends of Britain’s exit from the EU. Case of Northern Ireland Northern Ireland, part of the U.K. but in the EU’s single market, and therefore obliged to follow EU rules, is another case in point. The EU’s external border would be in the Irish Sea between Britain and Northern Ireland, and goods for Northern Ireland would need to be inspected there, which is politically untenable for the U.K. The alternative would be that the EU would itself impose inspections to protect its single market and structure a border either on the island of Ireland or between Ireland and the EU, which are both equally unfeasible. Tensions predictably arose between Britain and the EU over the import of chilled meat products from Britain to Northern Ireland, with Britain seeking an extension of the transition arrangements from June 30 by three months. No one believes that this can be a lasting solution. It seems Britain is questioning Brexit agreements rather than following them, while boasting about its COVID-19 immunisation compared to the EU and the success of the City of London in maintaining its status against hostile EU legislation and incentives for banks to move to European capitals. To supporters of Brexit, it looked as if the EU wanted to punish Britain for leaving, if only to discourage its other members from doing the same. Thus, after membership of the EU for almost 50 years, mutual trust is lacking, and two versions of a rules-based order are colliding. This was apparent during the G-7 summit, when bilateral meetings between Mr. Johnson and EU leaders lacked warmth. The EU conceded the Northern Ireland postponement and persuaded its member States, especially France and Germany that are losing patience with Britain, to avoid a trade war over British sausages. Such recriminations may become a permanent feature of U.K.-EU relations as a small nation plays a poor hand against the world’s largest trading bloc while seeking trade deals with distant countries, which even official forecasts suggest will produce negligible benefits. Scotland’s calculations In Scotland, the National Party, which seeks an exit from the U.K., has grown in popularity since the Brexit vote. Scots voted in the referendum by 62% against 38% to remain in the EU, but were dragged out by the overall result. For many Scots, leaving the U.K. is the clearest path back to the EU, and anticipate that among other benefits, the EU will grant Scotland least developed status and subventions on the scale enjoyed by the Irish Republic. This is as much an anti-Westminster stance as an effort to join the EU since the chances of an independent Scotland jumping the queue of EU applicants and of all member States approving Scottish membership are not great. Nevertheless, the prospect of a break-up of the United Kingdom is of grave concern to London. Meanwhile, a vote on reunification in Ireland seems more probable now than at any time since the Good Friday Agreement of 1998 which brought an uneasy peace to fratricidal factions in the North. In perspective The International Monetary Fund warned that the British economy faced a 10% GDP decline in 2020 (https://bit.ly/3raZXUs) In first quarter 2021, food and drink exports to the EU declined by nearly 50% (https://bit.ly/3yUvj41) and export of services also shrank. At least 500 British companies have relocated to Europe (https://bit.ly/3ejG746). The Brexiteers who forecast a clean break with the EU either underestimated or ignored the practical inconveniences of leaving, including the vast paperwork involved in exporting and importing with the EU, but the success of British COVID-19 vaccination compared with the EU’s bungled efforts has enabled Brexiteers to claw back some ground. In sum, most people have accepted Brexit though few are satisfied with the divorce settlement. No version of Brexit will satisfy everyone, and it has left the United Kingdom less united. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary. Julius Fein is a British historian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/five-years-later-brexit-continues-to-divide/article35334122.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||No pseudoscience, please||The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) is India’s premier national institute for improving access to education. Recently, IGNOU launched a degree course in astrology. This obsession with astrology is not a new phenomenon in a country which recently sent a spacecraft in orbit around Mars. A similar decision was taken by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2001, which was withdrawn after widespread opposition. In this context, all the citizens of this country who are concerned about the status of education and the role of scientific temperament in education need to take a stance about this decision. Content of syllabus Let us start by examining what is covered by the IGNOU syllabus. Even a casual look at the syllabus gives us an understanding of the unscientific nature of the course. The syllabus includes the study of horoscopes, which are determined by the state of different planets at the time of our birth and which apparently impact all the things that we do throughout our life. It also includes how to decide on an auspicious time for initiating a specific task. It claims to train its students in how to nullify the ill effects occurring due to specific problems in their horoscope. The range of problems for which astrology can offer solutions has no limit. It provides solutions on when one needs to apply for a job to ensure a good result to even determining the time a nation has to take a decision to start a war! Let us try and evaluate the three basic assumptions of astrology on which this syllabus is based. The first assumption is that the planets around us in the universe have a continuous effect on human life. The second assumption is that the result depends on the time of birth of the person and the third assumption is that the future of a person depends on all this and can be changed by solutions offered by an astrologer. Let us now look at the main objections by astronomy (the science of the universe) to these assumptions. As per astrology, nine Navagrahas affect our lives. All of us know that four of these Navagrahas are not even grahas (planets). The sun is not a planet but a star. The moon is the natural satellite of the earth. Rahu and Ketu, which are claimed to be the most dangerous planets in astrology, are not even planets but points of intersection of the paths of the sun and the moon. The Milky Way, in which the sun and solar system are included, has countless stars other than the sun. It is not very difficult to appreciate how unscientific and potentially dangerous it will be to allow something like astrology as a mainstream course. Next, let us look at the time of birth. The nature of a horoscope is dependent on the time of one’s birth. And the time of birth used for this purpose by astrology is the time when the baby takes the first breath outside the mother’s womb. Modern science tells us that the baby is actually born when the sperm and ovum come together to form the embryo, and it grows for the next nine months through different stages. How do all these Navagrahas not have any impact on the baby when it is inside the mother’s womb and start affecting it only when it comes out? Astrologers have no answer. It is a simple observation that thousands of children are born in the world every second and their futures are not the same. What will be in their horoscope when a human being gives birth to a baby, say, on the moon or Mars tomorrow? The most serious effect of depending on astrology is that it takes human agency out of our lives. Science and pseudoscience While we are on the path to astrology, Elon Musk, an American businessman, has started a project to humanise Mars under the SpaceX mission. The robotic rovers sent by NASA to Mars are collecting information and sending it back to earth. Stephen Hawking stated that the search for a habitable planet like earth in the universe should be the priority of astronomical research. Against this background, one needs to learn to differentiate between astrology, which is a pseudo-science, and astrophysics, which is a robust scientific discipline. Astrology exploits the vulnerability of the human mind while people face uncertainty. On the other hand, astrophysics depends on the core scientific principles of precise observations, hypothesis, experimentation and results based on all these. In an era where pseudoscience has started becoming the new normal, it’s our responsibility as citizens to oppose such decisions and demand the withdrawal of such a course. Hamid Dabholkar is a psychiatrist and member of the rationalist movement, Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-pseudoscience-please/article35334130.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Awards cannot be doled out||The Delhi Chief Minister recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to consider awarding an “Indian Doctor” the Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour. “By an ‘Indian doctor’, I mean the entire medical community — all doctors, nurses and paramedics should be given the award, collectively,” he wrote. He requested the Prime Minister to change the rules if the current rules do not permit conferment on any group as such. While this is a great gesture, changing the rules would open a Pandora’s box and erase the sanctity attached to this prestigious award. There is no doubt that doctors need to be honoured for their relentless and dedicated service during the pandemic. But there were many who also fleeced patients and the kin of the deceased by exploiting their helplessness and desperation. Many private hospitals charged exorbitant amounts for treatment. Should these plunderers also be grouped with those who worked selflessly and be part of the honour? Paying compensation Rather than eulogising their services, the Chief Minister could have at least ensured that the doctors and nurses were paid their salaries on time. Several doctors and nurses went on strike because they were not paid. According to the Indian Medical Association, 798 doctors died in the second wave. With Delhi recording the highest number of such fatalities (128 doctors), the Chief Minister should have paid an ex gratia amount of Rs. 1 crore to each of them. The Delhi government had, in April 2020, announced Rs. 1 crore in ex gratia for families of front-line workers who die of the infection while on duty. But most of the families of the doctors have not been paid. Nor have the kin of policemen who died of the infection while on duty. The wife of a deceased constable knocked on the doors of Delhi High Court claiming the promised amount. The hearing is scheduled for July 28. While doctors and paramedics rendered yeoman service during the pandemic, other front-line workers, including the police, too contributed at grave risk to their lives. Meanwhile, while the local courts in New Delhi have reprimanded the Delhi Police for their handling of the riots and fined them Rs. 25,000 for mishandling of cases related to the riots, 25 personnel of the Delhi Police have staked their claim for the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, citing their role in the Delhi riots last year. Among them is the then Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ved Prakash Surya, who was seen standing next to BJP leader Kapil Mishra when Mr. Mishra was delivering a controversial speech a day before the riots broke out. Even the Joint Commissioner of Police has entered the fray. Choosing the awardees Every individual will exaggerate his role in the riots to stake his claim. Much would depend on the projection of the individual’s role in a manner that would be convincing enough to consider the case for award of a medal. In such rigmarole, the possibility of the wrong persons getting awarded cannot be ruled out. The deserving ones who are left out get demoralised and shy away from exposing themselves to risk. According to a senior official of Delhi Police, a high-powered committee of senior officials goes through every case thoroughly. Depending on the degree of bravery displayed by each, a few are recommended for the gallantry medals while others are recommended for the Police Commissioner’s Commendation Disc. There is always a proclivity for officers to garner gallantry medals as these carry monthly allowances and other perks such as free travel by train with a companion and even a rent-free landline telephone. Officers cannot operate in isolation and they are accompanied by their subordinates. Utmost care needs to be taken to ensure that the deserving among the lower ranks are not left out when they have displayed bravery in dealing with unruly elements at grave risk to their own lives. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/awards-cannot-be-doled-out/article35334127.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Showing the way out||In what must be a déjà vu moment for outgoing Prime Minister K.P. Oli and President Bidya Devi Bhandari, the Supreme Court of Nepal set aside their dissolution, in May, of the House of Representatives. The apex court had in February overruled Mr. Oli’s decision to dissolve the House in December 2020 as well. But this time, the ruling was more than just a rap on his knuckles. The judgment also paved the way for Sher Bahadur Deuba of the Nepali Congress to be appointed as Prime Minister after recognising his claim based on signatures of 149 lawmakers across different parties affirming their support. The five-member Constitutional Bench also provided the way out of the unending political deadlock in the House by allowing individual lawmakers to ignore their party whips during a trust vote that is a must win for Mr. Deuba. The inability of Mr. Oli and Mr. Deuba to win trust votes, prior to the dissolution decision by Ms. Bhandari, was because the support for them in the 275-member House divided both the ruling Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) (UML) and the Opposition Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP) as rebel lawmakers risked suspension. The court’s decision earlier in the year to de-recognise the merged Nepal Communist Party was another factor too. Mr. Oli had minority support within the merged NCP, but his faction retained the endorsement of the bulk of the legislators in the de-merged UML. The rebels, led by Madhav Nepal and Jhala Nath Khanal, were limited to a smaller faction. The other component of the NCP, the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre), meanwhile endorsed Mr. Deuba’s candidacy, while the JSP was split vertically, with the Mahantha Thakur-Rajendra Mahato-led faction supporting Mr. Oli as opposed to the Baburam Bhattarai-Upendra Yadav-led faction. It remains to be seen whether the lawmakers will now vote based on their individual agency with the fear of suspension gone. There is no guarantee that Mr. Deuba will win a trust vote as he must secure the support of the rebel factions within the UML and the JSP. The Madhav Nepal-led faction, which has not endorsed Mr. Oli and welcomed the judgment, has also been a mercurial force undecided on joining hands with the Opposition in this new situation. Nevertheless, this is a blow to Mr. Oli whose brinkmanship and authoritarian tendencies have come at a difficult time for Nepalis reeling from the COVID-19 outbreak. It is also a stinging rebuke to Ms. Bhandari whose actions as President rubber stamping her former party colleague Mr. Oli’s decisions have called into question her role as a constitutional functionary. Mr. Deuba has his task cut out, but a firm message of unity and consultative governance can bring about political stability, something that has long eluded Nepal during both its constitutional monarchy and its republican periods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/showing-the-way-out/article35334114.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramping up supply||Less than a month after the Centre revised its vaccination policy and took over the responsibility of vaccine procurement from the States, old worries of a supply constraint appear to have resurfaced. The Centre’s CoWIN database shows that the weekly pace of vaccination has declined to nearly 60% of what was seen in the week after June 21, causing several States, particularly in South India, to complain of a shortage. On June 21, the first day of the new policy, 91 lakh doses were administered and until June 27, it was about 4 crore. The period July 5-11 saw only 2.3 crore vaccine doses dispensed. The Centre’s move to take over vaccine administration followed a chaotic April-May when the second wave roiled India with unprecedented ferocity. This was also the time that saw a surge in vaccine demand and the country being unable to deliver because of an underestimation of the need and demand. The heady week of June 21-27 saw 60 lakh vaccines a day becoming the norm. However, the last time India crossed that daily figure was July 3. At least 86 lakh doses have to be administered every day if all Indian adults are to be fully vaccinated by the year end. Beginning this week, the daily doses have again slipped to 30-40 lakh though this is better than in May when India struggled to provide even 20 lakh doses a day. There are two major concerns with the slackening pace. One, India still has managed to inoculate only 33% of its adult population with at least one dose; just about 8% have been fully vaccinated. At this rate, it is impossible for the Centre to deliver on its stated goal of inoculating all Indian adults by the year end. Second, the signs are apparent everywhere of an uptick in cases. The U.S. — the only country with more cases than India — after a month of reporting less than 15,000 cases a day is now, like India, seeing over 40,000 cases a day. There has also been a rise there in daily deaths. A similar acceleration is also visible in the U.K. and both these countries have vaccinated a large fraction of their adults. India, while better off than in May, still averages about 800-1,000 deaths a day. So, it is far from being out of the woods even as economic activity appears to have near-normalised in many parts. The Centre continues to put the onus on States for planning but does not address a concern of inadequate Covaxin supplies. It has ordered at least eight crore doses since January but only 4.7 crore have been administered. The concerns over a third wave have been voiced but meaningful preparedness entails having enough vaccines. While daily vaccination rates will see spikes and dips, aggressive publicity measures and campaigns are necessary to boost vaccination, as was seen in end June. The Centre and States must work towards sprucing this up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ramping-up-supply/article35334115.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Family planning in China (From an Editorial)||When the Chinese communists first came to power, they argued that China as a socialist State had no need to worry about the population problem. But a more sober attitude has prevailed since the collapse of the “great leap forward” in 1958 and to-day the two-child family is advocated, with the right age for marriage fixed at 25 for women and 28 for men. It this ideal is realised, a stable population would result. China-watchers based in Hongkong have estimated China’s population at 830 millions in 1970 and the crude birth and death figures at 43 and 21 per thousand, yielding a growth rate of 2.2 per cent. Even this would mean that China would reach the billion mark by 1980 and 1.6 billion by the end of the century. Mr. Edgar Snow, the American writer and friend of Mao Tsetung, has reported after another visit to China recently that the present population is somewhere between 750 and 800 millions and that the rate of growth is about 2 per cent. The Chinese planners hope to cut the rate to one per cent, though even this would yield a billion-strong population by 2000 A.D.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/family-planning-in-china-from-an-editorial/article35334123.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Infosys lifts revenue outlook as net jumps 23% on ‘digital’ deals||Tech major Infosys raised its revenue growth guidance for FY22 to 14-16% from 12-14% forecast in April, and posted a jump in net profit as more clients signed digital transformation deals. For the quarter ended June, Infosys registered a 22.7% rise in net profit to Rs. 5,195 crore. Revenue rose 18% to Rs. 27,896 crore. ‘Landmark quarter’ “It has been a landmark first quarter for us,” said CEO and MD Salil Parekh. “We have seen the fastest growth in digital transformation. We grew at the fastest pace in Q1 in a decade in constant-currency terms. This gives us confidence to increase our revenue growth guidance to 14-16%.” The quarter brought contracts worth $2.6 billion to the company’s deal kitty compared with $1.74 billion a year earlier. Digital revenue grew 42.1% in constant currency. “We signed 22 large deals in the first quarter, of which 9 were in the BFSI vertical while the remaining came from retail, manufacturing and other segments,” said COO Pravin Rao. On the issue of glitches in the income tax portal, he said Infosys had been working ‘extremely hard’ and had been ‘successful in solving several issues’. Infosys said it would hire 35,000 fresh graduates globally in FY22. It has already recruited 10,000 freshers while the rest would be onboarded in the next couple of quarters, said Mr. Rao. Voluntary attrition rose 300 basis points sequentially to 13.9%. “As the demand for digital talent explodes, rising attrition in the industry poses a near-term challenge. We plan to meet this demand by expanding our hiring programme of [freshers],” Mr. Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-lifts-revenue-outlook-as-net-jumps-23-on-digital-deals/article35333828.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||WPI inflation remains ‘high’||Wholesale price inflation stayed high in June as costlier fuels and manufactured products pegged the provisional headline number at 12.07%, following May’s record 12.94%. While industry fretted about the risks of sticky wholesale prices pushing up production costs, economists voiced concerns about the spillover effect on retail inflation and its impact on monetary policy calibration. The Office of Economic Adviser in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade attributed the ‘high’ inflation to a low base effect combined with the rise in prices of petrol, diesel, naphtha and ATF, as well as those of basic metals and food products. The Wholesale Price Index inched up 0.75% over May’s level, with the fuel and power prices index rising 2.9% from the preceding month, the most among major groups in the index. Wholesale inflation in fuel and power in June was also the highest among the WPI constituents on an annual basis at 32.8%, though it slowed from May’s 37.6%. Inflation in wholesale food prices eased to 6.66% from 8.11% in May, but price gains in manufactured products accelerated slightly to 10.88% from 10.83% in May. The spurt in raw material and fuel and power prices was affecting small businesses already struggling from the pandemic’s impact and a squeeze on working capital, said PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Sanjay Aggarwal. “We urge the Government to consider bringing petroleum products in the ambit of GST to rationalise prices,” Mr. Aggarwal said, stressing inflation was affecting Indian industry’s competitiveness locally and globally. ‘Core inflation to rise’ “While the core inflation hardened further to 10.4% in June, from 10% in May, the pace of the month-on-month uptick in this index eased to a four-month low of 0.5%,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA, who expects core inflation to rise further in July, before commencing a gradual downtrend from August. The WPI trend could inject ‘uneasiness’ into the RBI’s policy tone by way of spillover risks, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wpi-inflation-remains-high/article35334107.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unitholders’ consent must for winding up mutual funds: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday held that trustees of a mutual fund scheme have to obtain the consent of the unitholders who have invested their money before deciding to wind up the scheme or prematurely redeeming the units. Trustees cannot assume the air of “domain experts” and treat the unitholders as mere “laypersons” whose consent was not necessary before winding up, it said. “The argument that the unitholders are laypersons and not well-versed with the market conditions is to be rejected,” a Bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna observed in a judgment. “Investments by the unitholders constitute the corpus of the scheme. To deny the unitholders a say, debilitates their role and right to participate,” it added. The Bench was hearing an appeal filed by Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Private Limited concerning the winding up of its six mutual fund schemes. The judgment harmoniously interprets Regulation 18(15)(c) with Regulation 39 (2) (a) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations of 1996. The Supreme Court opted for a middle path between the two Regulations. “The Principle of Harmonious Construction should be applied in the context of the Regulations in question… This would mean that the opinion of the trustees would stand, but the consent of the unitholders is a pre-requisite for winding up,” Justice Khanna observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/unitholders-consent-must-for-winding-up-mutual-funds-sc/article35334111.ece
15 July 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI bars Mastercard from adding new users||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday imposed restrictions on Mastercard Asia / Pacific Pte. Ltd. from on-boarding new domestic customers (debit, credit or prepaid) onto its card network from July 22 for non-compliance with the regulator’s directions. “Notwithstanding lapse of considerable time and adequate opportunities being given, the entity has been found to be non-compliant with the directions on Storage of Payment System Data,” the RBI said. The order would not impact existing Mastercard customers. An RBI circular on Storage of Payment System Data dated April 6, 2018, directed all system providers to ensure, within six months, the entire data relating to payment systems operated by them was stored only in India. They were to report compliance and also submit an audit report. In April, RBI had barred American Express and Diners Club from on-boarding new users on similar grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-bars-mastercard-from-adding-new-users/article35333836.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,||Area under sugarcane cultivation rises a tad||Area under sugarcane is expected to be almost 54.55 lakh hectare in 2021-2022 sugar season (October to September) or 3% higher than the current season’s area, according to the Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA). Uttar Pradesh is estimated to have a sugarcane area of 23.12 lakh hectare against 23.07 lakh hectares in 2020-2021 season. Maharashtra’s cane area has risen by about 11% to 12.75 lakh hectare. The area in Karnataka is 5.22 lakh hectare against 5.01 lakh hectare. Sugar production so far during the current sugar season, that ends in September, is 307 lakh tonne. Another two lakh tonne is expected to be produced during the special season in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, taking the total production for the current sugar year to 309 lakh tonne. After accounting for a reduction in sugar production on account of diversion of cane juice and B-molasses to ethanol, ISMA estimates production in 2021-2022 season at about 310 lakh tonne.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/area-under-sugarcane-cultivation-rises-a-tad/article35333838.ece
15 July 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Tax scheme for garments to continue’||The Union Cabinet has approved the continuation of Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) scheme for apparels, garments and made ups with the same rates notified by the Ministry of Textiles in March 2019. According to an official statement, the scheme would continue till March 31, 2024. “Revised guidelines for continuation and implementation of the RoSCTL scheme shall be prepared by the Ministry of Textiles in consultation with the Department of Revenue with necessary flexibilities to fine-tune the operational details, implementation modalities and scheduling etc.,” as per the statement. Textiles Secretary Upendra Prasad Singh told The Hindu that the continuation of the RoSCTL will make Indian garments, apparels, and made ups competitive in the international market and is expected to result in a 10% growth in export of these products this year. Annual apparel and made ups exports are worth about $22 billion. The decision to continue with the scheme has removed uncertainties for the garment and made ups exporters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tax-scheme-for-garments-to-continue/article35334106.ece
15 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Dependence on H-1B visas slides: Premji||Wipro has become more global and more local today and dependency on H-1B visas has reduced dramatically as 75% of the employees based in the U.S. are locals, said Rishad Premji, chairman, at the 75th AGM on Wednesday. On the firm’s COVID-19 preparedness, Mr. Premji said the company had already vaccinated 87,000 of its employees and the number was still rising. Mr. Premji further said, remote working was the future and Wipro settled well into the remote working mode with 97% of its staff working from home and 40% from home towns. “We are expecting virtual, remote, community-based and distributed models to be the future of work at Wipro,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dependence-on-h-1b-visas-slides-premji/article35333829.ece
15 July 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI releases draft circular on UCBs||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday released a draft circular on ‘Issue and regulation of share capital and securities — Primary (Urban) Co-operative Banks’(UCBs), following the changes mandated by certain amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Reserve Bank of India has invited comments on the draft circular from Urban Co-operative Banks, other participants in the sector as well as other interested parties by August 31, 2021. Feedback on the draft circular may be forwarded by email, the banking regulator added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-releases-draft-circular-on-ucbs/article35333832.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||PV wholesales double in June on low base||The wholesale dispatches of passenger vehicles (PVs) more than doubled year-on-year to over 2.31 lakh units in June, driven by low base and easing of lockdown restrictions. However, the auto industry has expressed concern over the sharp rise in fuel and commodity prices, chip shortage and a possibile third wave that may adversely impact demand and production.  “The auto industry is facing headwinds such as a steep rise in commodity prices, chip shortage, and the fear of a third COVID wave,” said Kenichi Ayukawa, president of industry body SIAM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pv-wholesales-double-in-june-on-low-base/article35334108.ece
15 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Hatsun to raise Rs. 700 cr. for expansion||Dairy-product maker Hatsun Agro Product Ltd. plans to raise Rs. 700 crore via private placement of equity shares by way off qualified institutional placement for funding ts expansion plans. On Wednesday, the board also approved a proposal for increasing the company’s borrowing limit to Rs. 1,800 crore from Rs. 1,500 crore, it said in a regulatory filing.  Hatsun reported an almost 4% growth in its net profit to Rs. 58.32 crore for the first quarter ended June. Revenue from operations rose 21% to Rs. 1,545 crore. The board declared an interim dividend of Rs. 6 per share for FY22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hatsun-to-raise-rs-700-cr-for-expansion/article35333839.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||Credit Fair raises $15 million seed funding||Consumer lending fintech start-up Credit Fair said it has raised $15 million as part of its seed-round funding led by angel investors Anand Ladsariya and Alok Agarwal. The firm will leverage the capital infusion to augment its technology team, enhance underwriting models and expand into tier 2 and tier 3 cities to scale up assets under management, the start-up said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-fair-raises-15-million-seed-funding/article35333830.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||Mahesh Babu quits, Suman Mishra named Mahindra Electric CEO||Mahindra Electric Mobility Ltd. has announced the exit of MD & CEO Mahesh Babu and the appointment of Suman Mishra as the new CEO. Ms. Mishra has been appointed as a whole-time director with effect from August 14. She will also be the CEO-designate of the Last Mile Mobility business Prior to Mahindra, Ms. Mishra was associated with Cipla and McKinsey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mahesh-babu-quits-suman-mishra-named-mahindra-electric-ceo/article35333831.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||TCS to invest $300 million in Arizona||Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) plans to expand its operations in Arizona, U.S. by investing more than $300 million by 2026. The company said it would hire more than 220 employees by 2023 to meet the digital- transformation needs of its customers. The company’s flagship Phoenix Business Center, one of its 30 facilities in the U.S., serves more than 50 customers across Arizona.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-to-invest-300-million-in-arizona/article35334234.ece
15 July 2021||Mumbai,||Tata Motors unveils ‘XPRES’ brand for fleet segment||Tata Motors unveiled ‘XPRES,’ an exclusive brand for the fleet segment that is expected to gain traction in the coming months with a high growth potential. Under the brand, the firm will unveil offerings catering to fleet-specific needs. The first vehicle to be introduced as part of the brand will be an electric sedan, called the ‘XPRES-T’ EV (T for Tata Tigor), the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-unveils-xpres-brand-for-fleet-segment/article35333834.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Zomato IPO oversubscribed on Day-1||Food delivery platform Zomato's initial offering was oversubscribed on Wednesday, the opening day, with retail investors bidding for 2.7 times the number of shares reserved for them. The offer received bids for 75.6 crore shares against an IPO size of 71.92 crore, data showed. Against 12.95 crore shares reserved for retail investors, 34.88 crore shares were bid for by 5 p.m.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zomato-ipo-oversubscribed-on-day-1/article35334235.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Chanda Kochhar matter: SAT asks Sebi's Adjudicating Officer not to proceed till Sep 15||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has restrained SEBI's Adjudicating Officer from proceeding till September 15 in a matter related to ex-ICICI Bank chief Chanda Kochhar. It pertains to a show-cause notice issued by SEBI to Ms. Kochhar on the basis of an analysis of a report by retired Justice B. N. Srikrishna on allegations of quid pro quo transactions in ICICI Bank.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chanda-kochhar-matter-sat-asks-sebis-adjudicating-officer-not-to-proceed-till-sep-15/article35334109.ece
15 July 2021||Hyderabad,||I am stronger than I was at Rio: Sindhu||World champion P.V. Sindhu, who is gearing up for the Tokyo Games, feels she is an improved version of the player who claimed India’s first badminton silver at the Olympics. “I am mentally and physically much stronger compared to the 2016 Rio Olympics where I won a silver,” she told The Hindu . “I have been working a lot on my physical fitness and the mental aspects, improving my skills and technique.” The 26-year-old also said she was more mature and experienced. “The first objective will be to cut down unforced errors, consistency is very important. You will be watching new weapons for sure,” she said.  “Training at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium has definitely helped a lot. [Better to] learn here and understand the court and shuttle control to be ready for the Olympics rather than take time to do the same in Tokyo in similar conditions,” said Sindhu, explaining her move to the indoor stadium this February. Asked about her coach Park Tae Sang, she said, “Every coach has a different mindset ... Park Tae Sang has been really good. He is supportive and motivating, we gel well.” Sindhu said the “biggest challenge in Tokyo” would be to stay “safe”. “Getting tested every day, not meeting anyone is a different proposition altogether,” she added. Won’t be easy “Even though defending champion [Carolina] Marin is missing the Games because of an injury, that doesn’t mean it is going to be easy. There are quite a few others who are equally good. “I don’t look at myself as the strongest contender for gold. Every player will be better prepared, with new techniques and strategies. We should be prepared for this,” Sindhu said. “This is the first time we spent a lot of time in training, improving strokes, which was not the case earlier because of a hectic tournament schedule. Here, I must thank the Union Sports Ministry, Sports Authority of India, Badminton Association of India, the Telangana government and Suchitra Academy for ensuring I got all that I wanted,” she said. “Finally, I must say that I will miss the fans in Tokyo. But I hope they continue to support me and show their love. All I can say is that I will give my best and hope to be back with gold,” Sindhu concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-stronger-than-i-was-at-rio-sindhu/article35334225.ece
15 July 2021||SANDWICH,||British Open set to tee off today||The British Open returns after a two-year hiatus caused by the coronavirus pandemic on Thursday with galleries of up to 32,000 fans allowed in to savour a sight of the world’s best golfers at Royal St. George’s. Ireland’s Shane Lowry will defend the Claret Jug in the 149th Open Championship, but despite the return of play and patrons, COVID-19 still casts a shadow over the final Major of the year. Masters champion Hideki Matsuyama, two-time Major winner Bubba Watson and former British Open winner Zack Johnson have all withdrawn after either testing positive for COVID-19 or being deemed a Covid close contact. Strict rules Tournament organisers the R&A recently informed players that the championship will “operate under strict government oversight”, with guidelines which prohibit players from going to bars, restaurants and supermarkets during tournament week. Spain’s Jon Rahm is the bookies’ favourite thanks to his scintillating form that saw him claim his first Major at the U.S. Open last month and briefly move to World No. 1 before being deposed by Dustin Johnson. Rahm admitted his surprise at the size of the galleries given Britain’s series of strict lockdowns and restrictions on foreign travel. “I did not expect this tournament to be the first one we’re going to have full crowds, just because of the lockdown and limitations and all,” said Rahm. “I am very excited. We’ve missed it.” Home support Tommy Fleetwood can count on home support as he aims to become the first English champion since Nick Faldo in 1992 and believes players are now used to dealing with the complexities of coronavirus protocols. Rory McIlroy will be hoping there is more luck for Northern Ireland in Sandwich, where Darren Clarke won his only Major when the Open was last played at Royal St George’s 10 years ago. The four-time Major champion has struggled since returning to links courses in recent weeks, finishing in a tie for 59th at the Irish Open and failing to make the cut at the Scottish Open. It is seven years since the 32-year-old last won a Major but McIlroy has five top-10 finishes at the British Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/british-open-set-to-tee-off-today/article35334292.ece
15 July 2021||Colombo,||Dhawan’s motto: keep the flock together||Thrust into the leadership role for the Sri Lanka tour, Shikhar Dhawan wants to keep the flock together and in a good state of mind. Sri Lanka’s limited-overs tour, comprising three ODIs and as many T20s, will begin on July 18 in Colombo. “It is a big achievement for me that I have become the captain of the Indian side. As a leader, my idea is to keep everyone together and happy — that is the most important thing,” Dhawan said on Star Sports show ‘Follow the Blues’. “We have got a lovely bunch of boys, great support staff, and we have worked earlier as well.” On his equation with legendary Rahul Dravid, who is the head coach for the series, Dhawan said, “I have a good relation with Rahul Bhai . When I started playing Ranji Trophy, I played against him, and I have known him since then. When I went to play India-A match, I was the captain, and he was the coach, so there was interaction. “When he became the director of NCA, we used to go there for around 20 days, so we had a lot of interaction, and now we have good chemistry. And now we have the chance to play six matches together, so it will be great fun, and I think we all sync nicely,” he said. The selectors have picked many uncapped players, including the likes of Ruturaj Gaikwad and Chetan Sakariya, and Dhawan wants the youngsters to enjoy their journey.  “Happy to get the youngsters in the team and see their dreams come true. It’s a big thing that these youngsters have come from their respective home towns with certain dreams, and their dreams are getting fulfilled. “And now, they should enjoy the journey,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawans-motto-keep-the-flock-together/article35334228.ece
15 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Kuldeep Malik confident of another successful campaign in Tokyo||For the first time, more women wrestlers are going to represent the country in the Olympics than their male counterparts, and women’s squad chief coach Kuldeep Malik is confident of another successful campaign in Tokyo. Four women — Seema Bisla (50kg), Vinesh Phogat (53kg), Anshu Malik (57kg) and Sonam Malik (62kg) — and three freestyle men wrestlers — Ravi Kumar Dahiya (57kg), Bajrang Punia (65kg) and Deepak Punia (86kg) — have made it to the Olympics this time after the suspension of Sumit Malik (125kg) due to a doping offence. Five years ago, four men — two each in freestyle (after the suspension of Narsingh Yadav due to doping) and Greco Roman – and three women had qualified for the Rio Games. Sakshi Malik had emerged as the first woman wrestler from the country to get an Olympic medal. Encouraged by the increase in the number of quota places for women, Malik expects a better show from the squad, which has a mix of youth and experience. Medal contenders “We are medal contenders in all four weights. Since Sonam and Anshu are young, they don’t fear anything. Vinesh and Seema are experienced. All of them are focused only on winning,” Malik told The Hindu . Malik, who recently returned from camps in Poland and Estonia, counted the benefits of the exposure. “Wrestlers, including those who have qualified for the Olympics, from nearly 10 countries were there. Apart from sparring, we gathered a lot of ideas about our opponents.” Malik will now oversee a 12-day camp which began on Wednesday at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) Centre in Sonepat. Seema, Anshu and Sonam will take part in it. The wrestlers will leave for Tokyo on July 26. Vinesh, who has been training with her personal coach Woller Akos in Hungary, will join the squad directly. Malik, who had lifted Sakshi on his shoulders after she bagged a bronze medal in Rio, said he would do so again if anyone won a medal in Tokyo. “Definitely. We should all pray for such success again. I do not lift a wrestler on my shoulders, it is the whole country which lifts her up… We are among the best of the best and our opponents now fear us,” said Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kuldeep-malik-confident-of-another-successful-campaign-in-tokyo/article35334617.ece
15 July 2021||BARCELONA,||Messi, Barca agree deal in principle||Barcelona has reached a deal on principle with Lionel Messi for the Argentine veteran to remain with the Catalan club for another five years, but on a reduced wage, Spanish media reported on Wednesday. Messi, who finally landed a major international trophy with Argentina when it beat Brazil to win the Copa America, “will sign a five-year contract with a release clause of €600 million ($709 million),” according to Catalan sports daily L’Esportiu . “The player will reduce his wage by 50%. Now it just remains for the lawyers to look over the agreement and give it the go ahead. Once that happens, his contract extension will be official," said Madrid-based sports daily Marca , confirming L'Esportiu's story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-barca-agree-deal-in-principle/article35334249.ece
15 July 2021||Kingston,||Bolt returns on track as part of exhibition, clocks 2:40 in 800m||Usain Bolt came out of retirement for one day on Tuesday here in Jamaica for a promotional race — trying his famously fast stride for the first time in the 800m. The world record holder in the 100m and 200m and an eight-time Olympic gold medallist clocked an unofficial time of 2:40 in what was a relaxed, fun atmosphere. Fans had high expectations going into the race, but they did not get the result they hoped for as Bolt maintained his easy gait for the entire race. While the race had a light-hearted feel, Bolt broke a full sweat, saying his lungs felt like “fire” after. “In my mind, I thought it would be easier. It’s not,” Bolt said. “Hats off to the 800m runners. But for me, I enjoy a challenge,” Olympics.com quoted Bolt after the exhibition race.” I did a lot of cardio” to get ready, Bolt added. Asked if this was the start of a comeback, Bolt was quick to respond: “No, no, this is a one-time thing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bolt-returns-on-track-as-part-of-exhibition-clocks-240-in-800m/article35334284.ece
15 July 2021||Birmingham,||Vince’s century helps England sweep series||James Vince hit a maiden One-Day International century and Lewis Gregory made 77 as England defeated Pakistan by three wickets at Edgbaston on Tuesday to complete a 3-0 series sweep. Set a challenging 332 to win, England, without most of its first-choice players, was faltering at 165 five. Big partnership But a partnership of 129 between Vince, who made 102, and Gregory turned the tide. England won with two overs to spare when Brydon Carse, who had earlier taken five wickets, drove Shaheen Shah Afridi for a boundary.   The scores: Pakistan 331/9 in 50 overs lost to England 332/7 in 48 overs (James Vince 102, Lewis Gregory 77, Haris Rauf 4/65). England won by three wickets with 12 balls to spare, clinches three-match series 3-0.   Player-of-the-match: James Vince; Player-of-the-series: Saqib Mahmood .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinces-century-helps-england-sweep-series/article35334289.ece
15 July 2021||Chennai,||Twin blow for Trichy Warriors||Ruby Trichy Warriors suffered twin blows on Wednesday as senior players Murali Vijay and Anirudha Srikanth pulled out citing personal reasons. All-rounder Varun Totadri and young batsman S. Kesav Krishna were named as replacements. Defending champion Chepauk Super Gillies’ wicketkeeper-batsman Ram Arvindh too was ruled out of the tournament after suffering a finger injury during training. The 20-year-old Arvindh will be replaced by left-arm spinner R. Ajith Kumar, who was in the squad last season.  RTW mentor Sreekumar Nair put up a brave front and was hopeful that Varun and Kesav will do well. “Due to unforeseen and unavoidable circumstances, we couldn’t get both the stalwarts (Vijay and Anirudha) available for the tournament. “We needed certain gaps to be filled so that’s one of the reasons why we have gone for the two replacements,” the former Kerala all-rounder said after the team’s practice session on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/twin-blow-for-trichy-warriors/article35334353.ece
15 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand draws first blood||Viswanathan Anand defeated Vladimir Kramnik at his own game at Dortmund on Wednesday. In the No-Castling Chess contest, designed by the Russian, Anand won convincingly to take a 1-0 lead in the four-game match for the Sparkassen Trophy.  The first game didn't disappoint the curious chess fans, as the two battled it out for 66 moves. Anand, with white, was a piece up and in a winning position, but Kramnik tried his best to delay the inevitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-draws-first-blood/article35334250.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gukesh advances||D. Gukesh punished Switzerland’s Pawel Teclaf for an error of judgement on the 21st move and went on to clinch a decisive victory in the first-round rapid tiebreaker of the chess World Cup in Sochi on Wednesday. In the second rapid game, Gukesh easily got a draw in just 34 moves for a 1.5-0.5 triumph and set up a second-round meeting with Russia’s Daniil Dubov.  Effectively, the event will come to life on Thursday when World champion Magnus Carlsen begins his campaign along with 49 others seeded players. P. Harikrishna and Vidit Gujrathi, seeded 11 and 13, promise to give India its best performer in the competition since 2002 when Viswanthan Anand won his second World Cup. Unlike Harikrishna and Vidit, the other Indians — B. Adhiban, Aravindh Chithambaram, Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, Gukesh and P. Iniyan take on higher-rated rivals. In the women’s section, sixth seed D. Harika joins the fray along with 24 other seeds in the second round. While Harika is expected to advance past Indonesia’s Medina Warda Aulia, the trio of Padmini Rout, Bhakti Kulkarni and R. Vaishali run into much higher-rated seeded rivals.  The results (first round: tie-breaker): Rapid (Game One): Pawel Teclaf (Pol) lost to D. Gukesh; (Game Two): Gukesh drew with Teclaf (Gukesh wins 1.5-0.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gukesh-advances/article35334226.ece
15 July 2021||TOKYO,||‘Tokyo Games will create new stars and legends’||The postponed Tokyo Olympic Games will create new “stars and legends” despite a one-year delay, fragmented preparations and the absence of fans in the stadiums, International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach said on Wednesday. “These Games will have high sporting value under the circumstances,” Bach told an online media roundtable. “We have seen how the athletes persevered and adapted over more than one year... “This challenge was the same for all of them. There we will nevertheless see great sport and like in any Olympics new stars will be born there, and new legends will be created.” Bach, who had a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Tokyo 2020 president Hashimoto Seikoto to discuss preparations, said he supported the strict measures imposed on the Games and its participants as it was necessary to help persuade the Japanese population that the Games would not become a super-spreader event. “We are trying to address the concerns,” he said. “We always knew there was scepticism among the population and that there are very special circumstances about which the population is concerned and which transferred to the Olympic Games.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-games-will-create-new-stars-and-legends/article35334230.ece
15 July 2021||Gateshead (UK),||Bromell bounces back to win 100m||US sprinter Trayvon Bromell won the men’s 100m at the British Grand Prix here on Tuesday as Olympic champion Elaine Thompson-Herah took the honours in the women’s 200m. Bromell, the fastest man in the world this year, won in 9.98 seconds, with Britain’s Chijindu Ujah second in 10.10 at the Diamond League event. It was a welcome return to form for Bromell, 26, who has a fastest time of 9.77 in 2021 but trailed home in fifth place at the Monaco Diamond League meeting on Friday. Canadian Andre De Grasse, who won 100m bronze and 200m silver at the Rio Games, was fourth. Jamaica’s Thompson-Herah, who won gold in the 100m and 200m at the 2016 Olympics, triumphed in the 200m in 22.43, with British world champion Dina Asher-Smith absent due to a tight hamstring. Dutch athlete Femke Bol won the women’s 400m hurdles in 53.24. Stars absent The event was without a host of stars but dozens of British athletes were competing before flying to Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bromell-bounces-back-to-win-100m/article35334282.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Online Olympiad to begin next month||After the resounding success of the first Online Olympiad, world chess governing body FIDE has announced the schedule of its second edition. It will be held from August 13 to September 15. Last year, more than 1,500 players had competed, representing 163 countries. India and Russia were declared the joint champions, though in controversial circumstances. India had lost the final, but it lodged an appeal to FIDE, pointing out that it was due to an internet outage that India lost two games. FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich decided that the gold should be shared. Some of the Russian players were not happy with that decision and even went public with their displeasure. Fine show Nobody could have had any dispute about India’s fine show in the tournament, though. A star-studded team featuring Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna, K. Humpy, D. Harika, R. Vaishali, Bhakti Kulkarni, Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, Aravindh Chithambaram, Bhakti Kulkarni, Divya Deshmukh and Vantika Agrawal, had put up a great display right through after beginning its campaign as the seventh seed. “I am looking forward to the second edition of the Online Olympiad,” Humpy told The Hindu on Wednesday. “I hope we will able to field all the strong players that we could last year.” She said the format — a team is required to field men, women and juniors — suited India well. “We have some of the world’s best young players in Nihal, Praggnanandhaa and Vaishali, and they had made a big difference last year,” said the World No. 3. “It felt great to be the joint champion in such a strong event in which most of the world’s best players took part. I think we should be able to do well in this year’s tournament too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-olympiad-to-begin-next-month/article35334286.ece
15 July 2021||Doha,||IOC refugee team official tests positive||An official of the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) refugee team has tested positive for COVID-19 here, leading to a delay in its travel plans for the Tokyo Games even though all others have returned negative results for now. “...the IOC Refugee Olympic Team came together for a ‘Welcome Experience’ in Doha, Qatar. Twenty-six of the 29 athletes and 11 officials participated,” the IOC statement read. “On taking COVID-19 PCR tests before leaving for Tokyo, the test of an official returned positive. A follow-up test confirmed the result, while the tests of all other members of the team (athletes and officials) returned negative,” it added. Three athletes could not take part in the ‘Welcome Experience’ in Doha and two of them — Ahmad Alikaj (judo) and Abdullah Sediqi (taekwondo) — are due to arrive in Tokyo on Wednesday. “They are accompanied by coach Alireza Nassrazadany. All three are coming directly from their respective training camps,” the IOC stated. The official, who has been isolated by the Qatari Public Authorities, is considered asymptomatic and doing well. “The official was single-vaccinated and followed all COVID-19 countermeasures prior to departure and during the Welcome Experience,” the IOC stated. “As a consequence, it was decided that the team would currently not travel to Tokyo and will continue their training in Doha while being tested daily,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioc-refugee-team-official-tests-positive/article35334615.ece
15 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Kartikeya ready to grab the chance||For the 24-year-old pacer Kartikeya Kak, it will be a dream come true to rub shoulders with his hero and Kiwi great Shane Bond as he received a call to bowl in the nets of IPL franchise Mumbai Indians on July 16. The youngster made his debut for the Hyderabad senior team in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 championship in January with a three-wicket haul against Assam, including a wicket off his first ball. This after he took 34 scalps in four games, including a 15-wicket haul against Karnataka, in the Col. C.K. Nayudu Trophy (u-23) championship. Hoping for the best “It came out of the blue and I am keen to make the most of it. I hope this will be the beginning of a new chapter in my career,” Kartikeya told The Hindu . The young fast bowler, who is yet to make his Ranji debut though he was in the squad for almost the entire in 2019-20 season, is being mentored by Ghouse Baba after learning the basics from well-known coach, late Rahmat Baig.  “I am grateful to the HCA officials and my trainer Deepak Matwani for their support. I don’t have any targets. I like to take every match as the last chance and always try to give my best,” Kartikeya said.  “I couldn’t have hoped for a more encouraging start to this season than being with such a champion outfit like Mumbai Indians.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kartikeya-ready-to-grab-the-chance/article35334782.ece
15 July 2021||LONDON,||Ashwin sounds a warning||R. Ashwin sounded a warning for the England batsmen ahead of the five-Test series with a superb match-turning spell of six for 27 as Surrey bundled out Somerset for 69 in its second innings in the County championship on Wednesday. Looking to get match practice before joining the Indians in Durham on Thursday, Ashwin did more than enough with 58 overs under his belt and a match-haul of seven for 127. If the first innings was used for building bowling workload and hitting the good areas, the second innings was more about showing his skillset. His carrom ball, in particular, bamboozled the Somerset batsmen. Ashwin bowled 15 overs on the trot with the new Dukes ball and got able support from left-arm spinner Dan Moriarty, who took four for 20. Somerset, which scored 429 in its first innings, was dismissed in just 29.1 overs. Surrey was shot out for 240 in its first essay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-spins-out-somerset-for-69/article35334223.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Herbalife to be a sponsor||Nine days ahead of the upcoming Tokyo Olympics, the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) on Wednesday roped in global nutrition company Herbalife as one of its sponsors. “Herbalife has confirmed a sponsorship of Rs. 2.25 crore,” said Rajeev Mehta, secretary-general, IOA. Deal with MPL This came a day after IOA entered into a sponsorship agreement with MPL Sports Foundation as the ‘principal sponsor’ covering the Tokyo Olympic Games, 2022 Asian Games, and Commonwealth Games. MPL will pay a total of Rs. 8 crore to IOA in addition to the sports-kit for the 2022 Asian Games and Commonwealth Games Indian contingent. The IOA said Parth Jindal, CEO, JSW, has confirmed a sponsorship amount of one crore to the governing body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/herbalife-to-be-a-sponsor/article35334231.ece
15 July 2021||LONDON,||Wimbledon: two matches being probed||Two matches at this year’s Wimbledon are being investigated by the International Tennis Integrity Agency (ITIA) over potential irregular betting patterns. The ITIA, which is responsible for safeguarding the integrity of professional tennis worldwide, received two alerts from the betting industry during the grass-court Grand Slam. The matches were reported by German newspaper Die Welt to be an early-round singles tie and a men’s doubles contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wimbledon-two-matches-being-probed/article35334285.ece
15 July 2021||Saint-Lary-Soulan,||Pogacar pulls off another win||Tadej Pogacar won stage 17 of the Tour de France on Wednesday atop the 2,200m summit finish of Pyrenean giant the Col du Portet, followed by Jonas Vingegaard and Richard Carapaz. Ecuadorian Carapaz launched a blistering attack from 1.5km but was reeled in as the Slovenian champion took his second victory on this Tour to keep his five-and-a-half minutes lead over Dane Vingegaard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pogacar-pulls-off-another-win/article35334293.ece
15 July 2021||Dubai,||Allen’s T20I ranking jumps||West Indies spinner Fabian Allen on Wednesday moved into the top 10 of the ICC Men’s T20I player rankings. The 26-year-old left-arm spinner has gained 16 spots to reach 10th position in the bowlers’ list after grabbing three wickets in the first three matches, which have all been won by the West Indies. In the ICC Men’s ODI player rankings updateBabar Azam has consolidated his position at the top.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/allens-t20i-ranking-jumps/article35334613.ece
15 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Mohun Bagan Ratna for Shibaji||Former India goalkeeper Shibaji Banerjee, who stood out against Pele-led Cosmos Club in an exhibition match here in 1977, will be conferred with Mohun Bagan Ratna posthumously, the club announced on Wednesday. The executive committee members also unanimously adjudged Fijian striker Roy Krishna as the best footballer of 2020-21, having guided ATK Mohun Bagan to the runner-up finish in the Indian Super League. Bengal skipper Abhimanyu Easwaran was chosen as the best cricketer, while Bidisha Kundu, who won the 100m hurdles and high jump in the National championships, was named the best athlete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohun-bagan-ratna-for-shibaji/article35334614.ece
15 July 2021||Newport (USA),||Ramkumar loses in doubles||Ramkumar Ramanathan, in partnership with Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi of Pakistan, was beaten 1-6, 7-5, [10-7] in the doubles pre-quarterfinals by the Japanese pair of Yoshihito Nishioka and Yasutaka Uchiyama in the $535,535 ATP tennis tournament on grass here on Tuesday.  Other result: $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Bruno Pujol Navarro (Esp) bt Adil Kalyanpur 6-3, 4-6, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-loses-in-doubles/article35334294.ece
15 July 2021||Birmingham,||Morgan returns to lead England||Eoin Morgan has been cleared to lead England in an upcoming T20I series against Pakistan it was announced on Wednesday after he missed the team’s ODI clean sweep following a COVID-19 outbreak within the hosts’ camp. The three matches of the T20I series will be held on July 16, 18 and 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgan-returns-to-lead-england/article35334288.ece
15 July 2021||Cuttack,||Jaffer named Odisha chief coach||Wasim Jaffer was on Wednesday named the chief coach of the Odisha senior side. “He (Jaffer) will be the head coach. He has been given a two-year contract,” Subrata Behera, CEO, Odisha Cricket Association said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaffer-named-odisha-chief-coach/article35334280.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 11:01 IST,||Sudoku — July 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-15-2021/article35335471.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Enter the konnakol r ap||In the musical world, Scarborough conjures up images of Simon and Garfunkel. Across the Atlantic Ocean, its lesser known namesake, a Toronto neighbourhood known for its confluence of Asian cultures, inspires a serenade in Tamil music producer Yanchan’s newly released EP, Scarborough Beat Tape . With 10 instrumental tapes, Yanchan immerses hyperlocal details of his Canadian hometown in a decidedly Tamil flavour — through the soundscape of freestyling mridangam and ghatam. Seen as a traditionally Carnatic instrument, the mridangam is having a moment in hip hop and rap. What we see then is a chemistry between a genre that has historically sought to rebel against the establishment and one that is very much the establishment. Carnatic hip hop has found an audience in the Indian diaspora in the US, Canada, Singapore and Malaysia. Yanchan’s work in this genre is demonstarted best in the Mrithangam Raps series, in collaboration with Tamil Canadian rapper Shan Vincent De Paul. “I grew up with a foundation in Carnatic music. Until high school, that was all I listened to. When I was 13, I lived in Chennai for three months to learn the mridangam from my guru, Neyveli B Venkatesh,” says Yanchan. He grew up listening to Drake. “I would play hip hop in my car and analyse the rhythmic patterns and beats. I started noticing similarities between these beats and the ones I played on the mridangam. They sounded similar to grooves in Adi talam, Rupaka talam…” says the 21-year-old, who calls his sound a combination of Carnatic music, Tamil film music and hip hop. Mridangam gets the spotlight “The instrument never tells you what genre it belongs to,” says Viveick Rajagopalan, a mridangam exponent based in Mumbai. As the founder of the Ta Dhom project, Viveick collaborates with vernacular rappers from the city to create a sub genre of Indian hip hop — as seen in Gully Boy ’s ‘India 91’. Viveick wanted to pull the mridangam out of the layers of percussion it is hidden in, and make it the principal sound, moving it from supporting role to lead. “I took those drum patterns heard in Western music and played them on the mridangam, which gave rise to the collective sound of the Ta Dhom project,” he says. Since 2015, he has been meeting young rappers and sharing the basics of konnakol and talam with them, to provide a foundation for the rhythmic poetry of urban rap. “I didn’t want to come in with the traditional approach of Carnatic music (with its rituals),” says Viveick. “What was interesting to me was that instead of aping the West, these guys were rapping in their mother tongue. I wanted to push (that Indian-ness) even more. For instance, a lot of rappers still have scatting and phrasing that’s typically Western,” he says. As a rapper, your flow and intonation is what makes you stand out. And according to Viveick, an understanding of konnakol gives you a better understanding of rhythmic structures and helps you write phrases in more interesting ways. “It’s like this: for a layperson, a chair is a chair. But when a carpenter sees it, he sees its parts: its height when you’re sitting, when you’re standing.” Rappers Swadesi, MC Tod Fod, MC Mawali have been part of this project. The project’s second EP is set to be released and will feature MC Dehat rapping in Bhojpuri. “If you can count the beats, count the gap, you can write with more intention,” says Tamil rapper Kalaivanan Kannan, who goes by MC Kalai. “I don’t learn the raag, just the taal and the konnakol , the time structures, meters, the gati (flow).” The added knowledge also makes it easier for him to collaborate with other independent bands. The universality of it Classical music has spilled over to other genres before. Pandit Ravi Shankar, and now his daughter, Anoushka, have brought Hindustani to raga rock. Hip hop songs by Missy Elliot and Kid Cudi use Indian classical undercurrents. Tamil film music regularly builds on Carnatic; as proven by icons from Ilaiyaraaja to AR Rahman. “We want to show how versatile Carnatic music is,” days Mahesh Raghvan, of Carnatic 2.0, the group that blends Carnatic music with “whatever is fresh, with anything to do with pop culture, electronic music, and hip hop.” Their experiments led them to writing ‘Mylapore Rap’ last year. In the past year, however, the rise of virtual spaces brought on by the lockdowns has also increased the accessibility to Carnatic music, bringing it out of kutcheris and sabhas. “Learning Carnatic music for four to five years also gives you a good foundation for whatever genre you want to try next,” says Mahesh. In Washington DC, singer-songwriter Hrishi Balaji had a similar realisation in high school. In June, the 25-year-old rose to Internet fame with his Carnatic remixes of pop songs. Hrishi’s freestyle swaras over BTS’ ‘Butter’ and The Weeknd’s ‘Blinding Lights’, among others have gone viral on TikTok and Instagram. “I want to create a sense of familiarity and a sense of shock for the Western ear, while being true to both sensibilities,” says Hrishi. It is hip hop’s subversive nature that allows space for experimentation, believes Viveick. “The whole rap culture is raw and non-conformist, so there is no template on how you have to play, or how it should sound,” he says. This subversion also has to reflect in its lyrics for a song to be true to hip hop’s history of standing up to power. When Shan and Yanchan rap, they talk about their families who had to flee Jaffna during the Sri Lankan Civil War. MC Mawali and Swadesi, while rapping in the style of konnakol , are talking about overcoming systemic obstacles. “Emotions are universal,” says Yanchan. “With any song, your goal should be to speak your truth, speak from your experience, and hope that it connects to your audience.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/enter-the-konnakol-r-ap/article35334074.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Primed and ready||What do players who love kabaddi, a contact team sport, do during lockdown? They resort to home-grown techniques to stay agile and in touch with their signature moves, as leading players Rahul Chaudhari and Pawan Sehrawat discovered over the last 15 months. After a lull in 2020, the sport is back on its feet this year, with Nationals held in March. Now, players are training hard, and looking forward to the Pro Kabaddi League, expected to be held later this year. Rahul Chaudhari: Tamil Thalaivas Although Rahul has played just one season for Chennai in the Pro Kabaddi League, he already has loyal fans. They call him the ‘Thalapathy’ of the team. He hopes to return that love in the upcoming season, which he has been looking forward to for more than a year. The pandemic put a pause to most sporting activities over the last 15 months, but kabaddi players were among the most frustrated of the lot, he says. “To feel the rush that kabaddi gives, it has to be played as a team. The sport requires many players, in close quarters, and that has not been possible since the pandemic.” However, Rahul has been bettering his raiding techniques by practising a few moves alone. “It isn’t ideal, but that is the best I could do given the circumstances,” says the 27-year-old. The Delhi-based player has come a long way since he began playing kabbadi in school. “I went to a Government school, and the other kids who went to CBSE or ICSE boards did not even know what kabaddi was. They used to look down upon us who played it,” recalls Rahul. But all that has changed in recent years, thanks to Pro Kabaddi League, which, like IPL, gave the sport a fillip by packaging it for TV audiences. Now, a growing number of fans, who fondly call Rahul ‘poster boy’, watch his every move, on and off court. His stylish haircut, tattoos and workout regime have gained popularity, especially during the lockdown. Pawan Sehrawat:Bengaluru Bulls If you visited Pawan Sehrawat’s home in Bawana village near Delhi last year, you would probably have bumped into him running up and down the stairs. Or jumping from one place to another. These techniques have been part of the lockdown jugaad for the 25-year-old  to  keep in touch with kabaddi. Pawan’s nickname is ‘hi-flyer’ because he reaches a height of almost 5-feet when airborne from the ground during a match, in a bid to escape the grasp of his competitors. This special jump is the result of many years of practise, which continued through lockdown as well. “When I was young, I was healthy, and so my coach told me to concentrate on power kabaddi and not jumping techniques. But I was fascinated by that skill and worked a lot on my core body to perfect the jump,” he recalls. All that came in good stead when he took on the field at Pro Kabaddi League. Now, he has come to be known as one of the best raiders in the sport. Although the last 15 months were dull for him, he says he kept at it: practising raids at home and at a stadium nearby. “I also have the habit of watching a lot of old kabaddi matches on television, to get references on how other players go about their job. Watching Pardeep (Narwal), I learnt how to do the dubki move (ducking low to evade defenders). Watching Siddharth Desai, I learnt how to use the power aspect. I keep trying to learn new skills to stay relevant to the modern needs of the game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/primed-and-ready/article35334078.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to Dhaka||“‘Where is my khukri ?’ I asked my Gorkha batman. When he pulled it out I said, ‘Cut off my leg.’ He refused. So I cut it off and told him to bury it. Poor chap. I now own a little land in Bangladesh,” says Major General Ian Cardozo laughing softly over the phone from New Delhi. The story of how 84-year-old Cardozo stepped on a landmine in the final days of the Indo-Pak War of 1971 that led to the liberation of East Pakistan and creation of Bangladesh, amputated his own leg when he realised it could not be saved and shortly thereafter had it operated upon by a Pakistani army doctor who was taken prisoner of war, has found its way into the annals of Indian military history. It is one of the 14 stories that Cardozo, a recipient of the Sena Medal and the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, has penned for his latest 1971 - Stories of Grit and Glory from the Indo-Pak War (Penguin). But this anecdote is mentioned in passing, giving greater glory to the bravado of others who fought the war over land, sea and air, and did not live to tell the tale. For 25 years since the Partition of India, the eastern component of Pakistan lived in the shadow of its more prosperous, politically dominant western counterpart. With refugees pouring into India and a brutal military response by Pakistan on its own citizens, India helped the Mukti Bahini’s call for independence. It resulted in the third Indo-Pak War — fought over 13 days on two fronts, two seas and over air. On December 16, 1971, Dhaka fell to the Mukti Bahini fighters and Indian forces spearheaded by General Sam Manekshaw with the surrender of Pakistan’s Lieutenant General AAK Niazi and 93,000 soldiers. It is the human story of the men who made this happen, with just the bare operational details to keep the story going, that Cardozo focusses on. Hailing from sturdy Goan stock, Cardozo was born and raised in Bombay in a family that encouraged sport and reading. Life-long love “I was inspired by World War stories to join the Army. John Masters’ opus Bugles and A Tiger sealed my decision to choose the Gorkhas,” says Cardozo, who was commissioned into the 5 Gorkha Rifles, served with the 4th battalion (4/5 GR) during the ‘71 war and commanded the 1/5 GR later. “I didn’t join the Army to be chained to a desk,” he says. “I was determined that my war disability would not stand in the way of commanding my men.” So Cardozo clambered over icy mountains with his artificial leg, outran his able-bodied officers and went on to become the first war-disabled Indian Army officer to command a battalion, brigade and a division. He chaired the Rehabilitation Council of India, ran marathons and is the chairman of the Centre for Armed Forces Historical Research. But Cardozo wears this distinction lightly. His writing is humane, never boastful, giving the enemy credit where due, values that are increasingly rare in a jingoistic world. The book is a meeting ground for the heroism of the Indian armed forces, the courage of the Gorkhas and the painful birth of a nation. In lucid prose, Cardozo writes on well-known incidents — the hunt for the INS Vikrant; the sinking of the PNS Ghazi; Captain MN Mulla refusing to abandon his sinking ship INS Khukri; the Battle over Boyra watched by many as Gnat and Sabre jets strafed and fought each other in the sky; and the tank battle at Longewala. Cardozo is a remarkable scene setter; his sketches add flavour. He is a battlefield tour guide drawing the reader’s attention to the bravery of both sides, and he does this well in the stories written from oral narratives and tales gathered from regimental records and bonfire nights. The last khukri attack in modern military history that highlighted the derring-do of the Gorkha soldier and his fearsome machete; the quaint tale of the gates of Rattoke gurudwara plundered and taken across the border in the ’65 war and brought back in this one; why the 4/5 Gorkhas have a ‘vazir’ but not a second-in-command; an incorrect broadcast by the BBC that changed the tide of the battle for Sylhet; the glint of the decanter on General Jacob’s table; a legendary map that now hangs at the United Service Institution; pilots who flew night sorties inlungisletting loose arcs of fire; and an extraordinary friendship between battle casualties that lasted decades while they learnt to live life to the fullest. Cardozo says he has carried the stories in his heart for half a century, reliving them with his army fraternity. “I felt these stories of the men I had lived and laughed with had to be now told to a wider world,” he says, of the nine days and nights they fought without food or water, forged only by the cold steel of the khukri and the battle-cry ‘Ayo Gorkhali’ — the Gorkhas are here. In the pages you see all that glory of long ago, of men who hacked their way through tropical jungles, enemy lines and in Cardozo’s case, his own leg now buried in the mud of a forgotten field. “You never forget the faces that never returned or the lessons learnt on leadership, life and love.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-road-to-dhaka/article35334090.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking inwards||Arun Prabhu Purushothaman’s sophomore feature Vaazhl was supposed to have had a theatrical release in February last year, but was pushed due to the pandemic. By then, he had sent it to a couple of film festivals. But as the release kept getting delayed, Arun grew nervous and decided to do something that most filmmakers vehemently vouch against, in fear of bad press: hold a test screening for audiences. In doing so, he was able to gauge responses by observing their reactions. Arun does not fear losing exclusivity. Even when Vaazhl was at the scripting stage, he narrated it to a host of people to get feedback. “We got a satisfactory response from the screening and I wasn’t scared about bad press. In fact, it gave us a better finding about our film and the boxes we need to tick,” he says over phone, ahead of Vaazhl, which is dropping on SonyLIV tomorrow. It has been four years since the release of Aruvi ,which opened to lavish praise and became successful. Were you at all pressured by the weight of Aruvi ? We decided to make Vaazhl as our second film because of the response we got for Aruvi . The script is too unconventional. At least Aruvi had a few generic moments for mainstream audience. But that is not the case with Vaazhl , whose screenplay grammar is very different.  You wrote Vaazhl in 2010 and it was supposed to be your first film. Did you have to make changes to what was originally conceived a decade ago? Not many changes, to be honest. Its subject doesn’t have an expiry date.... because it is a story about life. I wanted this to be my directorial debut and worked on the pre-production for nearly two years. In fact, my team — Shelley Calist (cinematographer) and Raymond Derrick Crasta (editor) — got together to make Vaazhl but eventually made Aruvi . I was not able to make this film because of its unconventional nature. We needed a producer with a lot of trust and hope. That is how Sivakarthikeyan anna came in. He knew the story in 2010 itself and then later, we met after Aruvi . He said, ‘You please finish it the way you want, I will watch the final product’. That gave us an additional responsibility. Could you talk about working with Pradeep Antony and Pradeep Kumar... We had a lot of people audition for the lead character, but we were satisfied with Pradeep’s [Antony] who appeared briefly in Aruvi . He is a natural actor and has a great reflex. He doesn’t need prompting and I share a comfort level with him. Singer-composer Pradeep [Kumar] and I go back in time. There were lots of musical notations in the script itself. I didn’t have to communicate much to Pradeep. But we composed and recorded the background score before shooting. It’s a reverse-engineering process that sort of helped us and the actors to grasp the mood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/looking-inwards/article35333992.ece
16 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Amala Paul opens up on her Telugu web series ‘Kudi Yedamaithe’, a sci-fi thriller directed by Pawan Kumar for Aha||“I might sound like I am giving a testimonial for a spa, but it was refreshing and rejuvenating to work with director Pawan Kumar,” laughs actor Amala Paul, speaking from Kochi. Amala plays Durga, a no-nonsense cop who finds herself caught in events that seem to be repeating themselves, in science fiction thriller Kudi Yedamaithe. Her first full-fledged Telugu web series, it premieres on Aha on July 16. The Pawan Kumar-directed series also stars Rahul Vijay as a food delivery agent and an aspiring actor. When the team was on the lookout for a female actor, Amala’s name was suggested by Nandini Reddy who had directed her for the story Meera in the Telugu anthology film Pitta Kathalu . The eight-episode series is the first collaboration between Aha, Pawan Kumar and Amala Paul. Excerpts from an interview: Going by the teaser, we know that you play a cop, Durga, in a story where incidents are happening on a time loop. What else intrigued you about Durga? When Nandini told me about the project, I kept saying ‘okay this sounds interesting, but what else Nandini…’ and then she said Durga is also an alcoholic. I found that intriguing — a sincere cop who is battling her darker side. Sometimes, either at a party or when I am travelling, I come across people who make me curious. I can’t stop thinking about them. I felt that way about Durga and was keen to portray her.   You were part of online script reading sessions during lockdown. Did that help you gear up for an intensive shooting schedule beginning November 2020?   Oh yes. For Meera ( Pitta Kathalu ), I shot for about 15 days. Kudi Yedamaithe involved more time and as I don’t speak Telugu as fluently as I speak Tamil, I wanted to learn my lines and understand the emotions. Until I get comfortable in a language, be it Telugu or Hindi, it’s a little more stressful; then I am good to go. I have the tendency to over prepare. This time, after the reading sessions, I learnt to just be. I’ve been looking to reinvent myself and working with him helped that process. This is your 12th year in cinema. Does working with a new-age filmmaker make you look at your craft afresh?   It was rejuvenating to work with Pawan. When I read a scene on paper and then see how he brings it alive on screen, it’s beautiful. He wanted to keep things in a realistic space. There are many scenes where Durga is in the police station going about her daily work. Cops deal with distressing issues each day and Durga doesn’t get too emotional. Pawan knew where to let me underplay things and where to ask me to step it up and make it cinematic. You were on a 28-day yoga retreat in Kerala recently and also visited Rishikesh...   I entered this industry when I was 17. For years, I worked at a hectic pace and burnt out. After I lost my father in 2019 and went through difficult situations in my personal life, I became more spiritual. Cinema is a place for learning — not only the craft but it also shapes you as a person. When you constantly play different roles, you can go through an identity crisis. Spirituality helped me become more grounded. I now take up work that truly intrigues me. My Hindi web series with Mahesh Bhatt’s production house [a Bollywood love story set in the 1970s] should be out soon. I have two Malayalam films and my home production Cadaver , a bilingual in Tamil and Telugu, is also underway. In that sense, you have had a productive time during the pandemic.   Yes, thankfully. After years, I also went back to my roots in Kerala and reconnected with my family and friends. A few years ago, I wanted to travel to the Himalayas in my search for what I wanted. But it’s at home that I felt I had found what I wanted. Home is where the heart is.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/amala-paul-opens-up-on-her-telugu-web-series-kudi-yedamaithe-a-sci-fi-thriller-directed-by-pawan-kumar-for-aha/article35334005.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Training day||It is not just the protagonist’s surname that Toofaan (2021) and Ali (2001) have in common. Two decades after actor and fitness expert Darrell Foster moulded Will Smith’s Muhammad Ali into shape, he has done the same for Farhan Akhtar’s Aziz Ali, in Toofaan . Directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, this sports drama is set to release on Friday. Ahead of its premiere, Foster connects from his Los Angeles home to discuss the process of getting inside the mind and body of a boxer. He did that for Antonio Banderas and Woody Harrelson in Play It to the Bone , for Russell Harvard in Heart, Baby! and now, for Farhan Akhtar. The Bhaag Milkha Bhaag star is no stranger to movies that demand rigorous fitness routines, but playing a National-level boxer brought new challenges. “We went over the pugilism fundamentals first: balance, footwork, hand and eye-coordination. Then we taught him to work on the heavy bag, the speed bag, to skip rope — everything necessary for him to portray his character,” says Foster. In the year that he trained Farhan, Foster designed for him a personalised lifestyle management programme that looked after his cardiovascular fitness, muscle strength and endurance, and flexibility. Since Farhan’s character goes through an arc of losing weight, gaining it and then losing it again, the transformation was extreme. “When you have location issues, where you can’t necessarily shoot where and when you want, it is quite taxing on Farhan to keep changing his look — to starve himself at some point and force feed sometime else,” he says, applauding Farhan’s commitment. Prepping an actor for a sports drama or action is not just about extreme transformations or maintaining a high level of fitness, but also making sure the actor is in the right frame of mind, he says. “You have to deliver dialogue with the right amount of emotion, it is a mental task. And your brain operates on glucose and oxygen, so I can’t manipulate your carbo-hydration intake to the point that it begins to affect your ability to say your lines well. It requires training your intellect and your anatomy together, in congruence.” Which of course meant spending a lot of time getting to know Farhan, inside the ring. “It took time for me to understand whether it was simply a mood swing or whether it was his diet that was affecting his behaviour,” he shares, about how he began to accurately assess if Farhan was “firing on all cylinders”. His fitness methodology includes what he calls Action Scene Analysis. “Say Farhan does an action scene outside the ring, where he has to run and jump over some tables and take off running down the beach. I will analyse sequence by sequence to understand what muscle groups will be involved and then set up an exercise programme to facilitate that,” he says. The larger point being injury prevention. To do this, he has to work closely with the director and cinematographer. “If I’m having him throw a lot of lateral punches or straight punches for a scene today, I won’t have him doing weight training that involves shoulders. If he is sore from the upper body workout the day before, we will shoot from the waist below and get only the footwork. If we have a ring scene for which he needs to look great, and he has eliminated carbs and water for the day, I tell the director, let’s keep it just physical and not shoot any dialogues.” Foster appreciates the amount of control the director let him have over the shooting. “They were humble enough to step back and let you do what you do, and then ask, ‘can I get this shot done today?’. That’s what made it such a wonderful project to be a part of.”  It took time for me to understand whether it was simply a mood swing or whether it was his diet that was affecting his behaviour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/training-day/article35333989.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s cooking?||Vijay Sethupathi is one of the busiest actors in cinema now, with multiple film projects in various languages. But, the telecast he is currently looking forward to, has no script. The 42-year-old actor has been shooting for MasterChef Tamil , which he is hosting, in Bangalore’s Innovative Film City for a while now. “When I am on TV, there is no script... To connect instantly with people is beautiful. When I did my earlier TV show, Namma Ooru Hero , I was afraid initially, but after a couple of episodes, I felt comfortable. It made me think differently,” said ‘Makkal Selvan’ Vijay Sethupathiin a press conference held on the sets of the show. The actor, who was seen earlier this year in Vijay-starrer Master , hopes to connect with home cooks and food enthusiasts, both on set and off, with this show. “I tell all the people who are participating: ‘You can speak a lot and be happy, but the art of cooking is a serious one.’ This show is not just about unavu (food), but also ullam (soul). It will make you think.” MasterChef Tamil will be telecast on Sun TV from August onwards. Srinivasa Ramanujam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-cooking/article35333996.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Mylapore Ganapathy||Chennai-based Ganapathy’s butter and ghee is gearing up to celebrate its 80th year in 2022, much to the delight of brothers S Saravanan and S Balaji. Stating how proud they are to carry forward the family legacy, Sarvanan says, “Many customers have shifted online now. Our freshly-made local snacks have drawn customers from Chennai for 30 years, and now we are supplying the country.” Balaji adds, “We make these snacks in Mylapore and West Mambalam. Our ‘nostalgia category’ includes kamara kattu , thaen mittai and seeraga mittai .  www.mylaporeganapathys.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mylapore-ganapathy/article35334026.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Cookie for your thought||Have you seen a Labrador retriever that does not want to retrieve? Or a rottweiler that is scared of cats? Welcome to the world of ‘lockdown dogs’, who have had limited exposure to the outside world due to the pandemic, since March 2020. “People bought dogs during this phase last year because they had time and thought that it would help them deal better with stress, anxiety and boredom. What some of them did not realise is that having a dog is a 15-year rigorous commitment that comes with multiple challenges,” says Saba Poonawala, Chennai-based canine behaviourist and trainer. She adds, “These dogs behave like Alice in Wonderland when you take them out in public.” Her initiative, called the Pune-Chennai Dog Training Academy, was set up last year with the sole purpose of helping such pets. Since its inception, Saba has worked with about 30 lockdown dogs in Pune, before moving to Chennai earlier this year. Currently, she is working with seven dogs and their pet parents in the city. “With time on their hands, many pet parents over-protected the dogs. The pets’ exposure to the outside world, which includes a moving car, has been limited. This has resulted in separation anxiety and obedience issues,” she says. Her new clients include a Yorkshire terrier that is facing severe anxiety and aggression issues. The nine- month-old terrier has a unique problem: the minute the doorbell rings, he goes crazy and lunges towards the person at the door. “He is about nine months old now and the family is trying their best to correct it.” There is also a golden retriever that Saba is working with now: this one does not have the zest to fetch any object, unlike other dogs in that breed. Saba’s work with these pets, which usually lasts about two months, does not involve yelling or equipment like prong collars. Instead, she takes in to account the setting, the ambience of the house and routine of the dog before arriving at the root cause of the problem. Then, Saba uses positive training and reinforcement techniques on her canine students. “I employ a reward-based method. One dog might have a drive for toys, another might have a high food-drive. When the dog does something good and correct, it is given a treat. This channels the dog’s diet and contributes towards its holistic all-round growth,” explains Saba. Saba, who charges Rs. 10,000 for 12 such home-visit sessions, says these positive reinforcement techniques go a long way in contributing to the dog’s well-being. Her other recent projects include assessing the police force dogs in Pune and training indie dogs before they go to their forever homes. The 30-year-old — who is also a professional hair and make-up artist — plans to set up a dog daycare centre and boarding facility in Chennai in the near future. She says, “I also hope to host doggie parties there. The motto is to add to the pet community in a positive way, and guide pet parents to build positive relationships.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cookie-for-your-thought/article35334045.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Rescue this torn umbrella||Broken barrels, bent pans and torn umbrellas are strewn across the stage: things that embody everyday life. Among them, clowns frolic. Pranks and games are afoot as they prance about playing with anything in sight.  Junk Clown , a Korean theatre production for children by Hyunjang Theater Company, is light-hearted yet thought-provoking. It asks deep questions through a seemingly simple, non-linear narrative. Now, the non-verbal play reaches the city audience through a virtual screening by InKo Centre, Chennai in collaboration with Korea Arts Management Service, Ministry of Culture, Sport and Tourism, Republic of Korea and Centre Stage Korea.  Junk Clown started as ‘My Friend’s Plastic’ in 2000 and became ‘Kung Kung Kung Playground’ around 2008. It was only in 2017, that the play came to its current moniker. Using techniques of pantomime, the narrative urges one to become environmentally conscious in a pandemic world. Discarded junk become characters. “In this era of overconsumption, where production is far beyond demand, I came to think that even human imagination is closed, and it is not toys with specific shapes that stimulate children's creativity and imagination, but things that are abandoned in life,” says director Ko Jae-Kyung. The narrative carries on without a single word uttered. The director, who was a mime artiste himself, believes that the dramatic illusion of the play is best portrayed through mime. And, hence the cast is identified as clowns. “‘Clowns’ are familiar to the audience. Audiences willingly lower their guard and easily engage with them,” he says. The inception point of Junk Clown was in fact, junk, says Jae-Kung. “When we first produced this play, the actors visited a real junk shop. I came up with the idea of a scene there.” All the pranks in the show are modelled after the various games that adults played during their childhood. The play was filmed with nine high-end cameras at Seoul Arts Centre and is currently being screened at 34 domestic and international venues. Junk Clown will be available to stream from July 16 at inkocentre.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rescue-this-torn-umbrella/article35334059.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedalling past the Taj||Despite lockdown, Athik Mohamed M, Deepesh M and Anung Yangfo K from Salem managed to cycle around the Taj Mahal in Agra. It only took 15 minutes. This team of three final year students of Civil Engineering, from Thiagarajar Polytechnic College in Salem, has launched Heritage Race, a Virtual Reality mobile-only game that lets players explore Indian monuments and historic cities. The game has been created as part of All India Council for Technical Education’s (AICTE) Toycathon 2021, an initiative under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to propel innovative minds ‘to conceptualise novel toys and games that are based on Bharatiya civilisation, history and culture’. The idea came to Athik in December 2020, before he even heard of Toycathon. Lockdown made it impossible to go anywhere. “With the lack of outdoor activities, my physical fitness was waning. I started indoor cycling but soon got bored of the four walls of my house. That’s when the idea struck me,” says Sathik, adding that VR cycling seemed an ideal way to beat boredom. When his college announced the Toycathon competition a month later, Athik roped in two batchmates, and began to tweak the concept. The games needed an Indian connect and highlight sanskaar, he explains. “India ranks low in creation of physical and digital toys. Most of the games played, don’t personify Indian culture and are mostly made abroad,” he adds. The first monument adapted by the Salem trio, was the Taj Mahal. It gives a 360-degree experience of the environment, featuring gardens, bridges and Vedic music as background score. The speed of the cycle in the game is fixed at a relaxed pace of 13 kilometres per hour. As one gets close to the monuments, there are pop-ups, making the experience informative as well as entertaining. The team is now modelling the Qutab Minar and India Gate for the upcoming games. As for ancient cities, they are focussing on Ayodhya and Varanasi. “We are searching for historical images to build 3D models and import them to the game engine,” says Athik. Chennai is on the cards too. The setup will include city monuments, but the surrounding areas will be a result of their creative imagination.  Plans are on to release Heritage Race on App Store and Play Store.   The team is now modelling the Qutab Minar and India Gate for the upcoming games||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pedalling-past-the-taj/article35334085.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the family holiday||It is now a familiar, if admittedly ironic pattern: when cases go down, travel goes up. Reeling under the brutal impact of the pandemic, the hospitality sector is slowly seeing a recovery in pockets of the country. States like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have relaxed the mandatory RT-PCR test for tourists, encouraging more people to visit. Institutional quarantine is not required any more for those crossing State borders, making short holidays possible. Crippled by the uncertainties due to the pandemic, the hospitality sector is still far from a complete recovery. However, the current influx of tourists is bringing some hope for the sector, battered by a financial crisis like never before. According to a recent survey carried out in Tier-1, 2 and 3 cities by Thomas Cook India and SOTC Travel, a significant 69% respondents indicated a keen interest to travel in 2021 as restrictions ease, with 18% ready to travel immediately post-unlock and 51% within three-six months. After almost one and half years of staggered lockdowns, families are grabbing the chance to reunite. “We went to see our grandchildren for the first time since the pandemic began, and had a family get-together at The Park in Visakhapatnam. This was our first holiday in the last two years with the family,” says Ramesh Sanagapally, who flew from Delhi with his wife. “Last-minute bookings are driving the demand for our hotels; we anticipate an even further uplift in occupancy in the last week of July and first week of August,” says Kerrie Hannaford, vice president — Commercial, Accor India and South Asia. The hospitality group is seeing the highest signs of revival in demand in cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad, driven by weekend getaways and staycations. From discounted packages on long stays, renting out entire villas with customised adventure activities to offering free date change for air travel for flyers who test COVID-19 positive, airlines, tour operators, hoteliers and adventure activity groups are attracting tourists with a slew of offers. According to Gandharv Singh Dod who runs the Lagom Stay resort at Jagatsukh near Manali in Himachal Pradesh, profits have doubled post the second wave. “We are getting a lot of bookings for people who want to stay with us for even a month, to be away from the city crowd at a relatively secluded location and work from here. We sweeten the deal with a package that includes traditional home-cooked food, visit to century-old homes in nearby villages, weekend adventure activities like trekking and rafting, and facilities like WiFi and power backups to facilitate work-from-home,” he says. Tour operators say that the demand for outdoor and adventure travel is seeing a huge surge. “Himachal continues to head our favoured destination list with an over 100% week-on-week increase in queries. Top experiences include biking tours of Spiti and Kinnaur valley, camping sites at Barot, Gispa and Manali, paragliding at Bir and Billing. Biking trips have witnessed a significant uptick with over 50 bikers booked with us,” says Rajeev Kale, president and country head of Holidays, MICE, Visa, Thomas Cook India. In Araku Valley, near Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, tourists have started trickling back in. Borra Caves recorded 700 footfalls during the past two weekends with 400 footfalls on weekdays. “From past two weeks, weekend occupancy levels have been around 50%,” said Giri Prasad Reddy, Divisional Manager of AP Tourism Department. He adds, “The post second wave recovery has been quicker than what we saw after the first wave.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/return-of-the-family-holiday/article35334092.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from my zoo||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lessons-from-my-zoo/article35334035.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||When the Himalayas craft whisky||It was only in April 2016 that one of India’s oldest and largest distilleries, Uttar Pradesh-based Radico Khaitan, made its entry into single malt whiskies — launching Rampur Indian Single Malt in Las Vegas. Now, it is the latest among a fine crop of distillers to put Indian single malts in the global spotlight. The brand’s latest, Rampur Asava, won gold medals at the International Spirits Challenge 2021 and New York International Spirits Competition 2021 after a virtual launch at the Whiskey Show, London in October 2020. What sets this whisky apart? Rampur Asava is the first single malt matured in American bourbon barrels and finished in Indian Cabernet Sauvignon casks. Sanjeev Banga, president of international business at Radico Khaitan, home to Rampur single malts, also credits Rampur’s use of six-row North Indian barley. “Since we are located at the foothills of the Himalayas, the groundwater, soil and air shape the soul of all six Rampur expressions [products]. Our single malt is different yet pleasing, spicy but balanced. It is unabashedly Indian,” he declares. Rampur is not alone. Goa-based John Distilleries’ Mithuna scored 97 points on Jim Murray’s Whiskey Bible , giving it the distinction of the world’s third finest whiskey this year. To most connoisseurs, single malts are synonymous with the Scottish Highlands. But a maverick mix of Indian distilleries is quietly changing that perception, with a range of sophisticated, locally brewed single malts. The journey to a distinctly Indian single malt began in the Deccan Plateau, at the turn of the 21st Century. Rakshit Jagdale, managing director of Amrut Distilleries in Bengaluru, reminisces, “We have been in the liquor business since 1948, but our voyage started in 2004. I teamed up with my father, late Neelakanta Rao Jagdale to create Amrut Indian Single Malt: India’s first single malt to be certified and exported, at a time when there was no reference point for us.” A sip of India So what makes a single malt decidedly Indian? “The grain is a very important aspect of whisky making. Our barley is grown in the Punjab and Rajasthan belt, and we experiment with different varieties to access a bouquet of characteristics that can contribute to flavour through fermentability,” says Rakshit. “From ideation to shelf, it takes around five to six years, while the rare whiskies take seven to nine years to market,” he adds. While these drinks are prized as they grow older, the ageing of Indian single malts is complex. “Maturation depends on climatic conditions. In tropical distilleries, we cannot age our malts for too long as the losses due to evaporation are too high. So by a general rule of thumb in these conditions, whisky is aged between four to six years,” explains Rakshit. Sanjeev concurs: “Our [Rampur] malts are aged in harsh North Indian weather conditions where temperatures fluctuate between 40+ degrees Celsius in summer and around 2 degrees Celsius in winter. This makes the malt interact with the casks very aggressively. Even experts in Scotland agree that due to these variations, aging in India is at least four times faster. A malt aged for 10 years in North India would be equivalent to a 30-40 year old Scotch.” Mountains meet the sea Yet another chapter in the Indian single malt script, has been written with flourish, by John Distilleries. Its operations have straddled eight manufacturing units spread over seven states since 1996, when Paul P John set up a distillery in Goa to primarily focus on single malts. The formula is simple: six-row barley, harvested in summer at the foothills of the Himalayas, blended with Goan water assisted by locally sourced yeast. With Indian copper pot-stills, specially designed with long necks to create fruitier spirits, the malts are matured in American white oak barrels. The warm Goan weather helps the malts mature faster. “It takes a minimum of three years to make our youngest single malts, and the oldest are seven years or above. As the liquid evolves, we work to give it the identity it deserves,” says master distiller Michael DSouza. Nirvana, a bestseller, has a whiff of caramel pudding, with a salt-edged barley and honey on the palate and a lingering finish of vanilla. The Zodiac Series, with two launches so far, Kanya and Mithuna, looks to the skies for inspiration. Mithuna is named after Gemini, proffering a palate of mocha, tinged with orange peel and delicate spices, that ride on active tannins, gentle oils and dark cocoa tones. Vikram Achanta, CEO, Tulleho, which dabbles in beverage education and consultancy, sums it up: “Indian single malts offer a unique experience; the interplay of Indian temperatures and six-row barley offers more protein and less starch than two-row barley used in Scotland, and finally the inventiveness of our master distillers that makes up the magic.”  Angel’s share Whisky is stored and aged in oak barrels.The wood contributes a lot of flavour to whiskies, but these barrels are also the reason for a loss of around 2% of the whisky stored in them per year. This is called the Angel’s Share, since it is made up of the whisky that evaporates through the pores in the wood. The figure increases with higher temperatures, sometimes up to 12%.    The last word In 2003 Jim Murray,the world’s first full-time whisky writer, designed and wrote Jim Murray’s Whisky Bible , the first ever annual guide to every new whisky produced in the world. Since then it has appeared every year and is homing in on 20,000 different whiskies tasted and 1 million copies sold worldwide. Each edition contains over 4,600 detailed, professionally analysed and easy to understand tasting notes on the world’s leading and lesser-known whiskies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-the-himalayas-craft-whisky/article35334098.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Enter the konnakol r ap||In the musical world, Scarborough conjures up images of Simon and Garfunkel. Across the Atlantic Ocean, its lesser known namesake, a Toronto neighbourhood known for its confluence of Asian cultures, inspires a serenade in Tamil music producer Yanchan’s newly released EP, Scarborough Beat Tape . With 10 instrumental tapes, Yanchan immerses hyperlocal details of his Canadian hometown in a decidedly Tamil flavour — through the soundscape of freestyling mridangam and ghatam. Seen as a traditionally Carnatic instrument, the mridangam is having a moment in hip hop and rap. What we see then is a chemistry between a genre that has historically sought to rebel against the establishment and one that is very much the establishment. Carnatic hip hop has found an audience in the Indian diaspora in the US, Canada, Singapore and Malaysia. Yanchan’s work in this genre is demonstarted best in the Mrithangam Raps series, in collaboration with Tamil Canadian rapper Shan Vincent De Paul. “I grew up with a foundation in Carnatic music. Until high school, that was all I listened to. When I was 13, I lived in Chennai for three months to learn the mridangam from my guru, Neyveli B Venkatesh,” says Yanchan. He grew up listening to Drake. “I would play hip hop in my car and analyse the rhythmic patterns and beats. I started noticing similarities between these beats and the ones I played on the mridangam. They sounded similar to grooves in Adi talam, Rupaka talam…” says the 21-year-old, who calls his sound a combination of Carnatic music, Tamil film music and hip hop. Mridangam gets the spotlight “The instrument never tells you what genre it belongs to,” says Viveick Rajagopalan, a mridangam exponent based in Mumbai. As the founder of the Ta Dhom project, Viveick collaborates with vernacular rappers from the city to create a sub genre of Indian hip hop — as seen in Gully Boy ’s ‘India 91’. Viveick wanted to pull the mridangam out of the layers of percussion it is hidden in, and make it the principal sound, moving it from supporting role to lead. “I took those drum patterns heard in Western music and played them on the mridangam, which gave rise to the collective sound of the Ta Dhom project,” he says. Since 2015, he has been meeting young rappers and sharing the basics of konnakol and talam with them, to provide a foundation for the rhythmic poetry of urban rap. “I didn’t want to come in with the traditional approach of Carnatic music (with its rituals),” says Viveick. “What was interesting to me was that instead of aping the West, these guys were rapping in their mother tongue. I wanted to push (that Indian-ness) even more. For instance, a lot of rappers still have scatting and phrasing that’s typically Western,” he says. As a rapper, your flow and intonation is what makes you stand out. And according to Viveick, an understanding of konnakol gives you a better understanding of rhythmic structures and helps you write phrases in more interesting ways. “It’s like this: for a layperson, a chair is a chair. But when a carpenter sees it, he sees its parts: its height when you’re sitting, when you’re standing.” Rappers Swadesi, MC Tod Fod, MC Mawali have been part of this project. The project’s second EP is set to be released and will feature MC Dehat rapping in Bhojpuri. “If you can count the beats, count the gap, you can write with more intention,” says Tamil rapper Kalaivanan Kannan, who goes by MC Kalai. “I don’t learn the raag, just the taal and the konnakol , the time structures, meters, the gati (flow).” The added knowledge also makes it easier for him to collaborate with other independent bands. The universality of it Classical music has spilled over to other genres before. Pandit Ravi Shankar, and now his daughter, Anoushka, have brought Hindustani to raga rock. Hip hop songs by Missy Elliot and Kid Cudi use Indian classical undercurrents. Tamil film music regularly builds on Carnatic; as proven by icons from Ilaiyaraaja to AR Rahman. “We want to show how versatile Carnatic music is,” days Mahesh Raghvan, of Carnatic 2.0, the group that blends Carnatic music with “whatever is fresh, with anything to do with pop culture, electronic music, and hip hop.” Their experiments led them to writing ‘Mylapore Rap’ last year. In the past year, however, the rise of virtual spaces brought on by the lockdowns has also increased the accessibility to Carnatic music, bringing it out of kutcheris and sabhas. “Learning Carnatic music for four to five years also gives you a good foundation for whatever genre you want to try next,” says Mahesh. In Washington DC, singer-songwriter Hrishi Balaji had a similar realisation in high school. In June, the 25-year-old rose to Internet fame with his Carnatic remixes of pop songs. Hrishi’s freestyle swaras over BTS’ ‘Butter’ and The Weeknd’s ‘Blinding Lights’, among others have gone viral on TikTok and Instagram. “I want to create a sense of familiarity and a sense of shock for the Western ear, while being true to both sensibilities,” says Hrishi. It is hip hop’s subversive nature that allows space for experimentation, believes Viveick. “The whole rap culture is raw and non-conformist, so there is no template on how you have to play, or how it should sound,” he says. This subversion also has to reflect in its lyrics for a song to be true to hip hop’s history of standing up to power. When Shan and Yanchan rap, they talk about their families who had to flee Jaffna during the Sri Lankan Civil War. MC Mawali and Swadesi, while rapping in the style of konnakol , are talking about overcoming systemic obstacles. “Emotions are universal,” says Yanchan. “With any song, your goal should be to speak your truth, speak from your experience, and hope that it connects to your audience.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/enter-the-konnakol-r-ap/article35334635.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to Dhaka||“‘Where is my khukri ?’ I asked my Gorkha batman. When he pulled it out I said, ‘Cut off my leg.’ He refused. So I cut it off and told him to bury it. Poor chap. I now own a little land in Bangladesh,” says Major General Ian Cardozo laughing softly over the phone from New Delhi. The story of how 84-year-old Cardozo stepped on a landmine in the final days of the Indo-Pak War of 1971 that led to the liberation of East Pakistan and creation of Bangladesh, amputated his own leg when he realised it could not be saved and shortly thereafter had it operated upon by a Pakistani army doctor who was taken prisoner of war, has found its way into the annals of Indian military history. It is one of the 14 stories that Cardozo, a recipient of the Sena Medal and the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, has penned for his latest 1971 - Stories of Grit and Glory from the Indo-Pak War (Penguin). But this anecdote is mentioned in passing, giving greater glory to the bravado of others who fought the war over land, sea and air, and did not live to tell the tale. For 25 years since the Partition of India, the eastern component of Pakistan lived in the shadow of its more prosperous, politically dominant western counterpart. With refugees pouring into India and a brutal military response by Pakistan on its own citizens, India helped the Mukti Bahini’s call for independence. It resulted in the third Indo-Pak War — fought over 13 days on two fronts, two seas and over air. On December 16, 1971, Dhaka fell to the Mukti Bahini fighters and Indian forces spearheaded by General Sam Manekshaw with the surrender of Pakistan’s Lieutenant General AAK Niazi and 93,000 soldiers. It is the human story of the men who made this happen, with just the bare operational details to keep the story going, that Cardozo focusses on. Hailing from sturdy Goan stock, Cardozo was born and raised in Bombay in a family that encouraged sport and reading. Life-long love “I was inspired by World War stories to join the Army. John Masters’ opus Bugles and A Tiger sealed my decision to choose the Gorkhas,” says Cardozo, who was commissioned into the 5 Gorkha Rifles, served with the 4th battalion (4/5 GR) during the ‘71 war and commanded the 1/5 GR later. “I didn’t join the Army to be chained to a desk,” he says. “I was determined that my war disability would not stand in the way of commanding my men.” So Cardozo clambered over icy mountains with his artificial leg, outran his able-bodied officers and went on to become the first war-disabled Indian Army officer to command a battalion, brigade and a division. He chaired the Rehabilitation Council of India, ran marathons and is the chairman of the Centre for Armed Forces Historical Research. But Cardozo wears this distinction lightly. His writing is humane, never boastful, giving the enemy credit where due, values that are increasingly rare in a jingoistic world. The book is a meeting ground for the heroism of the Indian armed forces, the courage of the Gorkhas and the painful birth of a nation. In lucid prose, Cardozo writes on well-known incidents — the hunt for the INS Vikrant; the sinking of the PNS Ghazi; Captain MN Mulla refusing to abandon his sinking ship INS Khukri; the Battle over Boyra watched by many as Gnat and Sabre jets strafed and fought each other in the sky; and the tank battle at Longewala. Cardozo is a remarkable scene setter; his sketches add flavour. He is a battlefield tour guide drawing the reader’s attention to the bravery of both sides, and he does this well in the stories written from oral narratives and tales gathered from regimental records and bonfire nights. The last khukri attack in modern military history that highlighted the derring-do of the Gorkha soldier and his fearsome machete; the quaint tale of the gates of Rattoke gurudwara plundered and taken across the border in the ’65 war and brought back in this one; why the 4/5 Gorkhas have a ‘vazir’ but not a second-in-command; an incorrect broadcast by the BBC that changed the tide of the battle for Sylhet; the glint of the decanter on General Jacob’s table; a legendary map that now hangs at the United Service Institution; pilots who flew night sorties inlungisletting loose arcs of fire; and an extraordinary friendship between battle casualties that lasted decades while they learnt to live life to the fullest. Cardozo says he has carried the stories in his heart for half a century, reliving them with his army fraternity. “I felt these stories of the men I had lived and laughed with had to be now told to a wider world,” he says, of the nine days and nights they fought without food or water, forged only by the cold steel of the khukri and the battle-cry ‘Ayo Gorkhali’ — the Gorkhas are here. In the pages you see all that glory of long ago, of men who hacked their way through tropical jungles, enemy lines and in Cardozo’s case, his own leg now buried in the mud of a forgotten field. “You never forget the faces that never returned or the lessons learnt on leadership, life and love.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-road-to-dhaka/article35334630.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Training day||It is not just the protagonist’s surname that Toofaan (2021) and Ali (2001) have in common. Two decades after actor and fitness expert Darrell Foster moulded Will Smith’s Muhammad Ali into shape, he has done the same for Farhan Akhtar’s Aziz Ali, in Toofaan . Directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, this sports drama is set to release on Friday. Ahead of its premiere, Foster connects from his Los Angeles home to discuss the process of getting inside the mind and body of a boxer. He did that for Antonio Banderas and Woody Harrelson in Play It to the Bone , for Russell Harvard in Heart, Baby! and now, for Farhan Akhtar. The Bhaag Milkha Bhaag star is no stranger to movies that demand rigorous fitness routines, but playing a National-level boxer brought new challenges. “We went over the pugilism fundamentals first: balance, footwork, hand and eye-coordination. Then we taught him to work on the heavy bag, the speed bag, to skip rope — everything necessary for him to portray his character,” says Foster. In the year that he trained Farhan, Foster designed for him a personalised lifestyle management programme that looked after his cardiovascular fitness, muscle strength and endurance, and flexibility. Since Farhan’s character goes through an arc of losing weight, gaining it and then losing it again, the transformation was extreme. “When you have location issues, where you can’t necessarily shoot where and when you want, it is quite taxing on Farhan to keep changing his look — to starve himself at some point and force feed sometime else,” he says, applauding Farhan’s commitment. Prepping an actor for a sports drama or action is not just about extreme transformations or maintaining a high level of fitness, but also making sure the actor is in the right frame of mind, he says. “You have to deliver dialogue with the right amount of emotion, it is a mental task. And your brain operates on glucose and oxygen, so I can’t manipulate your carbo-hydration intake to the point that it begins to affect your ability to say your lines well. It requires training your intellect and your anatomy together, in congruence.” Which of course meant spending a lot of time getting to know Farhan, inside the ring. “It took time for me to understand whether it was simply a mood swing or whether it was his diet that was affecting his behaviour,” he shares, about how he began to accurately assess if Farhan was “firing on all cylinders”. His fitness methodology includes what he calls Action Scene Analysis. “Say Farhan does an action scene outside the ring, where he has to run and jump over some tables and take off running down the beach. I will analyse sequence by sequence to understand what muscle groups will be involved and then set up an exercise programme to facilitate that,” he says. The larger point being injury prevention. To do this, he has to work closely with the director and cinematographer. “If I’m having him throw a lot of lateral punches or straight punches for a scene today, I won’t have him doing weight training that involves shoulders. If he is sore from the upper body workout the day before, we will shoot from the waist below and get only the footwork. If we have a ring scene for which he needs to look great, and he has eliminated carbs and water for the day, I tell the director, let’s keep it just physical and not shoot any dialogues.” Foster appreciates the amount of control the director let him have over the shooting. “They were humble enough to step back and let you do what you do, and then ask, ‘Can I get this shot done today?’. That’s what made it such a wonderful project to be a part of.”  It took time for me to understand whether it was simply a mood swing or whether it was his diet that was affecting his behaviour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/training-day/article35334634.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedalling past the Taj||Despite lockdown, Athik Mohamed M, Deepesh M and Anung Yangfo K from Tamil Nadu managed to cycle around the Taj Mahal in Agra. It only took 15 minutes. This team of three final year students of Civil Engineering, from Thiagarajar Polytechnic College in Salem, has launched Heritage Race, a Virtual Reality mobile-only game that lets players explore Indian monuments and historic cities. The game has been created as part of All India Council for Technical Education’s (AICTE) Toycathon 2021, an initiative under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to propel innovative minds ‘to conceptualise novel toys and games that are based on Bharatiya civilisation, history and culture’. The idea came to Athik in December 2020, before he even heard of Toycathon. Lockdown made it impossible to go anywhere. “With the lack of outdoor activities, my physical fitness was waning. I started indoor cycling but soon got bored of the four walls of my house. That’s when the idea struck me,” says Sathik, adding that VR cycling seemed an ideal way to beat boredom. When his college announced the Toycathon competition a month later, Athik roped in two batchmates, and began to tweak the concept. They were mentored by Ponni M. The games needed an Indian connect and to highlight sanskaar, he explains. “India ranks low in creation of physical and digital toys. Most of the games played, don’t personify Indian culture and are mostly made abroad,” he adds. The first monument adapted by the Salem trio, was the Taj Mahal. It gives a 360-degree experience of the environment, featuring gardens, bridges and Vedic music as background score. The speed of the cycle in the game is fixed at a relaxed pace of 13 kilometres per hour. As one gets close to the monuments, there are pop-ups, making the experience informative as well as entertaining. The team is now modelling the Qutab Minar and India Gate for the upcoming games. As for ancient cities, they are focussing on Ayodhya and Varanasi. “We are searching for historical images to build 3D models and import them to the game engine,” says Athik. Exploring the cities will take around 30 minutes.  Plans are on to release Heritage Race on the App Store and Play Store.   The team is now modelling the Qutab Minar and India Gate for the upcoming games||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pedalling-past-the-taj/article35334637.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||When the Himalayas craft whisky||It was only in April 2016 that one of India’s oldest and largest distilleries, Uttar Pradesh-based Radico Khaitan, made its entry into single malt whiskies — launching Rampur Indian Single Malt in Las Vegas. Now, it is the latest among a fine crop of distillers to put Indian single malts in the global spotlight. The brand’s latest, Rampur Asava, won gold medals at the International Spirits Challenge 2021 and New York International Spirits Competition 2021 after a virtual launch at the Whiskey Show, London in October 2020. What sets this whisky apart? Rampur Asava is the first single malt matured in American bourbon barrels and finished in Indian Cabernet Sauvignon casks. Sanjeev Banga, president of international business at Radico Khaitan, home to Rampur single malts, also credits Rampur’s use of six-row North Indian barley. “Since we are located at the foothills of the Himalayas, the groundwater, soil and air shape the soul of all six Rampur expressions [products]. Our single malt is different yet pleasing, spicy but balanced. It is unabashedly Indian,” he declares. Rampur is not alone. Goa-based John Distilleries’ Mithuna scored 97 points on Jim Murray’s Whiskey Bible , giving it the distinction of the world’s third finest whiskey this year. To most connoisseurs, single malts are synonymous with the Scottish Highlands. But a maverick mix of Indian distilleries is quietly changing that perception, with a range of sophisticated, locally brewed single malts. The journey to a distinctly Indian single malt began in the Deccan Plateau, at the turn of the 21st Century. Rakshit Jagdale, managing director of Amrut Distilleries in Bengaluru, reminisces, “We have been in the liquor business since 1948, but our voyage started in 2004. I teamed up with my father, late Neelakanta Rao Jagdale to create Amrut Indian Single Malt: India’s first single malt to be certified and exported, at a time when there was no reference point for us.” A sip of India So what makes a single malt decidedly Indian? “The grain is a very important aspect of whisky making. Our barley is grown in the Punjab and Rajasthan belt, and we experiment with different varieties to access a bouquet of characteristics that can contribute to flavour through fermentability,” says Rakshit. “From ideation to shelf, it takes around five to six years, while the rare whiskies take seven to nine years to market,” he adds. While these drinks are prized as they grow older, the ageing of Indian single malts is complex. “Maturation depends on climatic conditions. In tropical distilleries, we cannot age our malts for too long as the losses due to evaporation are too high. So by a general rule of thumb in these conditions, whisky is aged between four to six years,” explains Rakshit. Sanjeev concurs: “Our [Rampur] malts are aged in harsh North Indian weather conditions where temperatures fluctuate between 40+ degrees Celsius in summer and around 2 degrees Celsius in winter. This makes the malt interact with the casks very aggressively. Even experts in Scotland agree that due to these variations, aging in India is at least four times faster. A malt aged for 10 years in North India would be equivalent to a 30-40 year old Scotch.” Mountains meet the sea Yet another chapter in the Indian single malt script, has been written with flourish, by John Distilleries. Its operations have straddled eight manufacturing units spread over seven states since 1996, when Paul P John set up a distillery in Goa to primarily focus on single malts. The formula is simple: six-row barley, harvested in summer at the foothills of the Himalayas, blended with Goan water assisted by locally sourced yeast. With Indian copper pot-stills, specially designed with long necks to create fruitier spirits, the malts are matured in American white oak barrels. The warm Goan weather helps the malts mature faster. “It takes a minimum of three years to make our youngest single malts, and the oldest are seven years or above. As the liquid evolves, we work to give it the identity it deserves,” says master distiller Michael DSouza. Nirvana, a bestseller, has a whiff of caramel pudding, with a salt-edged barley and honey on the palate and a lingering finish of vanilla. The Zodiac Series, with two launches so far, Kanya and Mithuna, looks to the skies for inspiration. Mithuna is named after Gemini, proffering a palate of mocha, tinged with orange peel and delicate spices, that ride on active tannins, gentle oils and dark cocoa tones. Vikram Achanta, CEO, Tulleho, which dabbles in beverage education and consultancy, sums it up: “Indian single malts offer a unique experience; the interplay of Indian temperatures and six-row barley offers more protein and less starch than two-row barley used in Scotland, and finally the inventiveness of our master distillers that makes up the magic.”  Angel’s share Whisky is stored and aged in oak barrels. The wood contributes a lot of flavour to whiskies, but these barrels are also the reason for a loss of around 2% of the whisky stored in them per year. This is called the Angel’s Share, since it is made up of the whisky that evaporates through the pores in the wood. The figure increases with higher temperatures, sometimes up to 12%.    The last word In 2003 Jim Murray,the world’s first full-time whisky writer, designed and wrote Jim Murray’s Whisky Bible , the first ever annual guide to every new whisky produced in the world. Since then it has appeared every year and is homing in on 20,000 different whiskies tasted and 1 million copies sold worldwide. Each edition contains over 4,600 detailed, professionally analysed and easy to understand tasting notes on the world’s leading and lesser-known whiskies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-the-himalayas-craft-whisky/article35334632.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Dior 2021’s Byculla roots||It has been over two decades since Dior’s artistic director, Maria Grazia Chiuri (who helmed Fendi back then), and the Chanakya family started their creative collaboration. Karishma Swali — creative director of the Mumbai-based embroidery export house — first met Chiuri in Italy in 1995, and their mutual love of craft led to an artistic association that has only grown stronger over the years. “Maria is an exceptional visionary who has stood out as a true champion of master crafts across the world,” says Monica Shah, Swali’s sister-in-law and co-founder of the Chanakya Atelier and the Chanakya School of Craft in Byculla (which provides women from low-income groups with the skills needed to become artisans). Their most recent collab: the Dior Couture Autumn Winter 2021-22 show four days ago. As guests took their seats in the 40-metre-long gallery in the Musée Rodin’s garden in Paris, models showcased a minimal, functional collection that drew inspiration from fairy tales, replete with cinched waists, full skirts, and silk plissé gowns trimmed with feathers. The tactile, textured clothing was offset by French artist Eva Jospin’s installation — life-sized, embroidered panels reflecting a rich landscape of forests and waterfalls, on the edge of realism and daydream. But of equal interest was the fact that the 350 square metres of silk-thread work that frescoed the walls was entirely hand-embroidered by the artisans and students at Chanakya.  Silk walls and daydreams  The French luxury house had requested the atelier to look at the work — envisioned as an altar piece, but with the scale of a real forest — much like an art piece in a museum. “We spent a lot of time to understand Eva’s visual language and to transform it into a journey of discovery by the juxtaposition and overlay of multiple layers that have been embroidered, painted, appliquéd or fringed,” says Shah. The process began earlier this year, in February, by experimenting with different techniques. Over 320 artisans worked on the project for 60 days, and over 1,80,000 hours of embroidery have gone into it. “We’ve used only handwoven fabrics and raw materials: a basket weave silk for the base, which we backed with an organic canvas to sustain the weight and magnitude of the panels. Both fabrics were processed using vegetable dyes,” says Swali, adding that the installation titled Chambres De Soie (Silk Room) references both the India-inspired embroidery room at the Palazzo Colonna in Rome, and the 1929 Virginia Woolfe manifesto, A Room of One’ s Own.  “Woolfe’s manifesto is a compelling read — one that argues for both a literal and figurative space for women writers within a literary tradition dominated by men. The school, dedicated to women from underserved backgrounds, also embodies these values of inclusion, allowing craft knowledge to become a means of expression, freedom and independence,” she shares.  Global nod   to Indian craft  Indian culture and crafts have time and again inspired global design houses, but it is not often that brands give due credit. So when Chiuri applauded the artistry of Chanakya at the show, it was a couture coup. At the show, she said: “By inviting Eva to experiment with the language of sewing, another collective work began in conversation with the Chanakya School. [The project] has custom-dyed over 400 colours and used up to 150 different types of stitches, while bringing together a community of women.” Swali shares that being felicitated by “Maria and Dior is a true honour for us. By acknowledging, respecting and protecting the social and environmental sustainability of traditional crafts in India, she and the brand are leading the way for a more meaningful tomorrow”. Post pandemic, the designer duo (who also heads Jade, the bridal and couture brand that works with international brands such as Gucci and Alberta Ferretti), sees the school growing as a centre of excellence for multi-dimensional learning. “Together, we can create a more inclusive tomorrow that consciously preserves communities, craft and our environment,” concludes Swali.  The panels will be installed at the Musée Rodin and will be available for viewing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dior-2021s-byculla-roots/article35334513.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for pre-loved couture||The pandemic and our lifestyle changes have forced people to be waste-cognizant. Fashion and its consumption, in particular, are on everyone’s radar. One of the reasons why Instagram is filled with thrift and pre-loved stores, rental services are growing en masse, and Indian designer brands such as Pero, Doodlage and Doh Tak Keh are making upcycling au c ou rant . The latest venture in this space is Saritoria, envisioned by fashion entrepreneur Pernia Qureshi (who previously ran the e-commerce website, Pernia’s Pop Up Shop), and husband-wife duo Omar Soomro (a marketing and business development manager at a London hedge fund) and Shehlina Soomro. A first-of-its-kind global marketplace to buy and sell pre-loved South Asian luxury designer pieces, the website showcases pieces from designers such as Sabyasachi, Anamika Khanna, and Tarun Tahiliani, among others, with sellers logging in from Patiala to Tamil Nadu. The pieces are checked for authenticity and quality by a team of experts (based in Mumbai and London), before being listed for a percentage. There is also a concierge service that offers to take care of everything from cleaning, photoshoots, to listing an account. Edited excerpts from an interview: Saritoria’s USP beyond the sustainability tag?   Qureshi: No matter how well off the shopper is, everyone enjoys a good deal. Saritoria’s USP is one-of-a-kind pieces. For instance, designers Abu-Sandeep used a beautiful mint green colour in one of their previous collections, which is not available in stores anymore. However, we have a lehenga from that collection on the site. There are so many events in a year and it doesn’t make sense to invest heavily every single time. This way you can build a designer wardrobe in a cost conscious manner.  The price points are premium. O ne would assume your customers can buy new designer wear.     Shehlina: The products are offered at significantly discounted prices. We are encouraging our customers to spend the same amount [as they would for a new piece] to invest in luxury pieces that can be re-used and re-sold. Shopping pre-loved lets you access pieces from previous seasons, even vintage items.  How has the response been so far?     Shehlina: The first sale happened within two minutes of the website going live — [an Anamika Khanna outfit] to a customer in Tamil Nadu. We have had orders from countries such as Australia, and requests to list from the US and Canada. [Though] we haven’t yet targeted the male customer, we are receiving amazing items across multiple generations for men.  Currently there is only one XXL piece on the website. A re there plans to make it more size-inclusive?     Shehlina: We believe in size inclusivity and have quite a number of L and XL pieces. Ultimately, however, the platform is open to anyone in the South Asian community to sell the sizes they own.  Price between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 60,000, saritoria.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-for-pre-loved-couture/article35334514.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Diamonds in India’s stepwells||Climb down winding steps made of diamonds into a well of Indian craftsmanship — on your fingers! Who knew that our earthy stepwells could inspire a new twist in the world of diamond jewellery? Zoya, the diamond boutique from the House of Tata, has come up with a setting inspired by these architectural wonders found in the arid western states of India, which, they claim, is the first of its kind worldwide. The intricate and challenging ‘Zoya Baoli Setting’ is patent pending. The Samāvé collection (created with the new setting) is underscored by its clean lines. “The visual vocabulary interprets the architectural elements of stepwells into a unique design language, to deliver a versatile selection of rings and earrings, neck pieces and bracelets,” says Revathi Kant, Chief Design Officer at Titan. The signature setting is a demonstration of technical mastery, she adds. “The stones are cut with precision by Zoya’s master craftsmen to tease out their lustre. They are then placed at an unusual incline to match the geometry of the outer square, while balancing the inequities of natural stones. The angle and placement of the baguettes in an unending loop gives rise to a continuous stream of light, structurally designed to create a play of light and shadows.”  Stony depths  In the unexpected ‘reverse’ architecture of the setting, a round, brilliant-cut diamond is placed in the centre, representing the aquatic heart of the stepwell. “The inaccessibility of areas inside this setting presents a challenge for precision in shaping, making traditional prongs impossible to use,” says Kant. “Samāvé’s setting is achieved through precise casting of diamonds directly into the gold. Diamonds are chosen based on their ability to survive the intense heat of the casting process, which takes place in a furnace.” The collection uses a lot of white, evocative of the purity of water, and rose gold, to reflect the earthy colour of the steps. The stackable rings are crafted with interlinked baguettes in a linear structure, while the minimalistic hinged cuff features a patented collet and a shimmering centre. Kant shares that the design inspiration came from their desire to “design a collection that narrated the story of a woman”. Historically, stepwells were important spaces for women; many were commissioned by queens, and they were gathering spots for chores, recreation, and to worship. “Stepwells became venues that served as catalysts for female bonding. With Samāvé, we wanted to create something memorable that reflected the continuing value of this sentiment,” she concludes.  The collection is priced Rs. 1 lakh upwards, on zoya.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/diamonds-in-indias-stepwells/article35334517.ece
15 July 2021||FARIDABAD,||Final phase of Khori Basti demolition begins||The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on Wednesday kicked off the final phase of demolition at Khori Basti here with less than a week to go for the Supreme Court deadline to remove encroachment on 170-acre forest land. The drive was, however, called off for the day mid-way due to heavy rain. MCF Commissioner Garima Mittal said the target for the day was achieved before the drive was abandoned due to rain, adding that the Supreme Court order to free the land from encroachers till July 19 would be adhered to “in letter and spirit”. She, however, evaded questions on the number of houses demolished, saying that she could not share the “operational details”. She said the drive would continue in the days to come. Temporary shelter Ms. Mittal said a camp was being organised for those eligible for the rehabilitation policy of the Haryana government and a temporary shelter was also set up through Red Cross for those in need of immediate shelter. The Faridabad district administration had on Tuesday announced a policy to rehabilitate those having Haryana voter identity card, Parivar Pechan Patra or electricity bill, but the activists objected to it saying that the government should not resort to “pick and choose” and extend rehabilitation policy to all. Social activist Meenu Verma said only 1,000-odd residents were eligible for the rehabilitation policy. Earlier, the demolition squad of the municipal body comprising 17 excavators began the drive in the morning. More than 3,000 police personnel, including three Deputy Commissioners of Police, 12 Assistant Commissioners of Police, and staffers from Traffic Police, Crime Branch and Rapid Action Force, were deployed for the demolition under the supervision of Nodal Officer Anshu Singla, Deputy Commissioner of Police, NIT. The Supreme Court had on June 7 ordered demolition of the structures in Khori Basti on the forest land within six weeks. The demolition was being carried out in bits and pieces since the SC order, and several FIRs were also registered. Activists demand The social activists and political leaders have been demanding that Khori Basti residents be rehabilitated before the demolition and compensated. The colony has 5,158 houses, 80 shops, five educational institutes, 36 social, public utility and religious structures and two industrial units. Most of the residents are migrants from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Punjab and other States. Most of them bought plots through local real estate agents to settle on the land in early 1990s. Former Lok Sabha MP and Congress national spokesperson Udit Raj also held demonstrations in Delhi along with Khori Basti residents earlier this month seeking to revoke the court order and save the houses from demolition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/final-phase-of-khori-basti-demolition-begins/article35334540.ece
15 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to waive Rs. 590 cr. loan of landless farmers||With an eye on the coming Assembly elections, due early next year, the Congress government in Punjab has announced waiver of Rs. 590 crore in loans under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and the landless farming community. “Cheques would be issued at a State-level function on August 20,” said an official statement after a high-level meeting held here. The government would pay off loans to the tune of Rs. 520 crore of 2,85,325 members of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS), thus ensuring a relief of Rs. 20,000 a member, said a statement, attributed to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Capt. Amarinder has directed the Finance and Cooperation departments to start the process for effective implementation of the decision on the ground. Debt relief scheme The government had formulated a debt relief scheme for farm labourers and landless farming members of PACS-2019, which would cover only the consumption loan of the members of the PACS advanced by the District Central Cooperative Banks through the cooperative societies, said the statement. The announcements follow the waiver of the loans to farmers under the Chief Minister’s flagship ‘Debt Waiver Scheme.’ “So far, loans of Rs. 4624 crore have been waived of as many as 5.64 lakh farmers under the scheme, which was announced as a part of the 2017 poll promises by the Punjab Congress,” it stated. In addition, loans of the Scheduled Caste and Backward Class categories have been written off up to the amount of Rs. 50,000 each, including waiver up to Rs. 58.39 crore of 6,405 beneficiaries by the SC Corporation and Rs. 20.71 crore of 1,225 beneficiaries by the BC Corporation, said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-to-waive-rs-590-cr-loan-of-landless-farmers/article35334529.ece
15 July 2021||Chandigarh,||SKM suspends Haryana farmer leader for seven days||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday suspended Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni for seven days for suggesting that Punjab farmer outfits involved in the stir against the Centre’s farm laws should contest the State Assembly polls next year. The SKM is an umbrella body of various farmer unions protesting the Centre’s farm laws. Addressing a press conference near the Singhu border protest site, senior SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said Mr. Charuni was making statements regarding his ‘mission Punjab’ despite being told not to do it on several occasions. “At present we are fighting (against the Centre’s farm laws). We are not doing any politics,” said Mr. Rajewal. “For this, today we decided to suspend him for seven days. He will not be able to issue any statement or share stage. These restrictions have been imposed on him,” said Mr. Rajewal, who is also president of the BKU (Rajewal). Further replying to a question, Mr. Rajewal said Mr. Charuni had been telling the Punjab farmers unions leaders to take a political route. “We had been telling him that we have no such programme. Later, the Punjab leaders complained about his statements and on Tuesday, a meeting was held. Today, the general house (of the Morcha) suspended him for seven days,” he said. A week ago, Haryana BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni had said that the outfits from Punjab involved in the agitation against the new agriculture laws should contest the Punjab Assembly elections as it will “present a model on how the system can be changed”. Mr. Charuni, a key leader of the SKM, which is spearheading the farmers’ stir, had earlier said, “What I want to say is that we should not run '’Mission U.P., but Mission Punjab’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/skm-suspends-haryana-farmer-leader-for-seven-days/article35334533.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to begin single-window facility for e-vehicle chargers||Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah on Wednesday said that Delhi will soon be the “first city” in India where anyone can get an electric vehicle (EV) charger installed by making a phone call or applying online. The Delhi government has taken an important step towards empanelment of private charging infrastructure providers for EVs, he said. The empanelment will be accompanied by the rollout of a single-window facility for installation of EV chargers in residential spaces, institutional buildings such as hospitals and also malls and theatres among other places. The decision to implement a single-window facility and empanel vendors through discoms for smooth rollout of EV chargers in private and semi-public places was taken on Wednesday at the Charging Infrastructure Working Group meeting of Delhi government chaired by Mr. Shah. “We have received requests from many apartment societies, RWAs, mall owners etc. that they wish to install EV chargers but don’t know how to. This innovative process will enable quick and efficient installation of EV chargers,” he said. The roll-out plan also includes disbursal of a grant of 100% for the purchase of charging equipment up to Rs. 6,000, per charging point for the first 30,000 charging points, as per the Delhi EV policy. Join hands with Google In a related development, the Delhi government announced it had joined hands with Google to integrate Delhi’s public transit system onto the Google Maps platform today. Once the project kicks off, the government stated, static and dynamic location data of Delhi buses will be available for passengers in real-time. A bus user will get information of all the routes and bus stops, all bus arrival and departure times in real-time and even by bus numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-begin-single-window-facility-for-e-vehicle-chargers/article35334538.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the family holiday||It is now a familiar, if admittedly ironic pattern: when cases go down, travel goes up. Reeling under the brutal impact of the pandemic, the hospitality sector is slowly seeing a recovery in pockets of the country. States like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have relaxed the mandatory RT-PCR test for tourists, encouraging more people to visit. Institutional quarantine is not required any more for those crossing State borders, making short holidays possible. Crippled by the uncertainties due to the pandemic, the hospitality sector is still far from a complete recovery. However, the current influx of tourists is bringing some hope for the sector, battered by a financial crisis like never before. According to a recent survey carried out in Tier-1, 2 and 3 cities by Thomas Cook India and SOTC Travel, a significant 69% respondents indicated a keen interest to travel in 2021 as restrictions ease, with 18% ready to travel immediately post-unlock and 51% within three-six months. After almost one and half years of staggered lockdowns, families are grabbing the chance to reunite. “We went to see our grandchildren for the first time since the pandemic began, and had a family get-together at The Park in Visakhapatnam. This was our first holiday in the last two years with the family,” says Ramesh Sanagapally, who flew from Delhi with his wife. “Last-minute bookings are driving the demand for our hotels; we anticipate an even further uplift in occupancy in the last week of July and first week of August,” says Kerrie Hannaford, vice president — Commercial, Accor India and South Asia. The hospitality group is seeing the highest signs of revival in demand in cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad, driven by weekend getaways and staycations. From discounted packages on long stays, renting out entire villas with customised adventure activities to offering free date change for air travel for flyers who test COVID-19 positive, airlines, tour operators, hoteliers and adventure activity groups are attracting tourists with a slew of offers. According to Gandharv Singh Dod who runs the Lagom Stay resort at Jagatsukh near Manali in Himachal Pradesh, profits have doubled post the second wave. “We are getting a lot of bookings for people who want to stay with us for even a month, to be away from the city crowd at a relatively secluded location and work from here. We sweeten the deal with a package that includes traditional home-cooked food, visit to century-old homes in nearby villages, weekend adventure activities like trekking and rafting, and facilities like WiFi and power backups to facilitate work-from-home,” he says. Tour operators say that the demand for outdoor and adventure travel is seeing a huge surge. “Himachal continues to head our favoured destination list with an over 100% week-on-week increase in queries. Top experiences include biking tours of Spiti and Kinnaur valley, camping sites at Barot, Gispa and Manali, paragliding at Bir and Billing. Biking trips have witnessed a significant uptick with over 50 bikers booked with us,” says Rajeev Kale, president and country head of Holidays, MICE, Visa, Thomas Cook India. In Araku Valley, near Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, tourists have started trickling back in. Borra Caves recorded 700 footfalls during the past two weekends with 400 footfalls on weekdays. “From past two weeks, weekend occupancy levels have been around 50%,” said Giri Prasad Reddy, Divisional Manager of AP Tourism Department. He adds, “The post second wave recovery has been quicker than what we saw after the first wave.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/return-of-the-family-holiday/article35334631.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||160 oxygen plants being set up in city||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal Wednesday reviewed the status and progress of work related to the installation of PSA oxygen plants in Delhi where he reiterated that the Capital should not face the same situation as that during the second wave of COVID-19 infection. According to sources present at the meeting, the Delhi Chief Secretary and other senior government officials were present where Mr. Baijal was informed that a total number of 160 PSA plants with a capacity of 148.11 MT were being installed in various government and private hospitals in the city. The L-G, according to a source, inquired if this figure of 160 plants was normative or was based on demand or limited by supply constraints and was informed that the figure was based on requirements of around 150 MT posed by hospitals. While 66 plants, including 17 under the PM CARES Fund were being set up Delhi government hospitals, 10 were being installed in Central government and 84 in private hospitals, a source said the L-G was informed. Of these, Mr. Baijal was told, 36 at Delhi government hospitals had been commissioned while 27 were expected to be commissioned by August 31. In relation to the remaining three, where plants were expected to arrive by September 30, commissioning would be completed by October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/160-oxygen-plants-being-set-up-in-city/article35334542.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||AAP collects 1 lakh signatures against policies of civic bodies||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday claimed that the party has collected 1 lakh signatures as part of its ongoing campaign against the BJP-governed municipal corporations’ “harsh” new policies against traders and “increase” in taxes. “A few days ago, we told you about the new policies introduced by the municipal bodies and the many taxes that have been increased through which thousands of rupees are being taken from the shopkeepers. Be it the commercial tax, trade licence fee or the money being taken from shopkeepers under the name of garbage removal or the annual sum of Rs. 30,000 being taken from clinics just to remove their garbage. Because of these reasons, shopkeepers, especially in city markets, have a lot of resentment against the municipal bodies,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He said that the party had started a signature campaign under which party workers and councillors have been visiting different markets as well as shops across the city to collect signatures of shopkeepers. “Shopkeepers and doctors are openly saying that the kind of loot and plundering that is being done by the civic bodies clearly shows that the BJP knows that it is very difficult for it to win the next elections. Hence, they are trying to loot as much money as they can,” Mr. Bharadwaj added. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP leaders “live in their illusionary world” and want everyone to believe what they dream. “I am, myself an Old Delhi-based trader and have not heard of any campaign amongst traders here or any other prominent market,” he said.  Shopkeepers, especially in markets, have a lot of resentment against the municipal bodies Saurabh Bharadwaj AAP chief spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-collects-1-lakh-signatures-against-policies-of-civic-bodies/article35334546.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||Denied ex gratia, families of two policemen move HC||The families of two Delhi police officers, who died of COVID-19 last year, have approached the High Court after the Delhi government allegedly denied them ex gratia as announced earlier. Assistant Sub-Inspector Shesh Mani Pandey was posted in Crime Branch’s fingerprint bureau and died of COVID-19 on May 30 last year. His family had applied for the ex gratia, which was announced by the government for the kin of those who died of COVID-19 while on duty. In a letter dated October 7, it was stated that the case had been examined and “is not found covered under the Cabinet decision No. 2835 dated May 13, 2020, as the deceased was performing his routine duty assigned to him and was not deployed for COVID-19 duty, which is a mandatory condition to become eligible for grant of ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore”. Pandey’s son Krishna Kumar Pandey said he finally decided to approach the court as he felt it was unjustified. “My father did not have the option of work-from-home and had to go to work. He visited a murder spot in Central Delhi and that is most likely where he caught the virus,” the son said, adding that he also lost his grandfather to COVID-19 in May this year, exactly a year after his father died. “We lost two members to the virus. My mother now lives with me in Madhya Pradesh and my brother is studying in Delhi,” he said. On July 7, the HC ordered the lawyer representing the government to file a reply, on whether guidelines on who is to be paid the ex gratia were laid down, in four weeks and gave the next date of hearing in October. Constable Amit Kumar Rana’s family approached the HC in June. He died on May 5 and was the first officer in the force to succumb to COVID-19. His wife Pooja approached the court asking for ex gratia, which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had tweeted about right after the officer’s death. The family of the constable said the next court hearing is later this month. Ms. Pooja had written to Mr. Kejriwal on the matter. “If a Chief Minister will not fulfil a promise he made, then I may never be able to trust anyone ever again,” she wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/denied-ex-gratia-families-of-two-policemen-move-hc/article35334545.ece
15 July 2021||Lucknow,||3 more ‘terrorists’ arrested in U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday arrested three more alleged terrorists of the Al-Qaeda-linked Ansar Ghazwatul Hind, a senior officer said. Those arrested have been identified as Shakeel, a resident of Lucknow’s Wazirganj; Mohammad Mustqueem of Muzaffarnagar and Mohammad Moid of New Haiderganj, Campwell Road, Lucknow. Earlier on July 11, the U.P. Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) had arrested Minhaz Ahmed and Musheeruddin. The ATS had claimed that they were planning explosions, including using ‘human bombs’ at several places in the State. ‘Accepted involvement’ “On their tip-offs, some persons were called for interrogation by the ATS. The three were arrested after they accepted their involvement with the two arrested earlier,” Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said. About the role of the three, the ADG said Mustqueem had knowledge of the conspiracy and had helped Minhaaz and Musheeruddin. Moid had made a pistol available to Mustqueem through Minhaaz. Shakeel helped Minhaaz in arranging the arms, Mr. Kumar said, adding that the three will be produced in a court for further action. “They were planning explosions at important places, and also to use human bombs. For this, they were collecting weapons and explosives,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-more-terrorists-arrested-in-up/article35334526.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Vaccine stock to last for less than a day’||The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city will last for less than a day as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The Capital had faced a similar situation on Monday and a day later, the Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage in the city. A total of 1,29,054 doses of vaccines were administered in the city on Monday, as per the bulletin. The total number of vaccine doses administered in Delhi till date, includes 69,57,233 first doses and 21,31,485 second doses, the government’s vaccination bulletin said. Meanwhile, the city reported 77 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,35,281, according to another bulletin. There was only one death reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,021. A total of 76,095 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.1%. Of the total cases, 14,09,572 people have recovered and there are only 688 active cases. The Delhi government did not release the daily health bulletin on Tuesday and it was later released on Wednesday morning. As per the bulletin, there were 76 new cases and two deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-stock-to-last-for-less-than-a-day/article35334535.ece
15 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP protests outside Raj Niwas for DTC probe||The BJP on Wednesday staged a sit-in protest outside Raj Niwas demanding that Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal grant permission sought by the Anti-Corruption Branch to probe the alleged DTC bus purchase scam worth Rs. 5,000 crore. A BJP delegation led by Delhi party chief Adesh Gupta, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta, who filed a complaint regarding the alleged scam, met the L-G over the issue but decided to sit-in protest outside his office after the L-G did not allegedly give them “a satisfactory assurance”. “The very Kejriwal government which came to power on the basis of removing corruption is now encouraging it and rather spearheading it. [Mr.] Kejriwal had the knowledge about it but kept quite as he was himself involved in it,” the Rohini MLA alleged. The enquiry committee constituted by the L-G, the BJP delegation argued, had found illegalities in the DTC bus purchase deal tender and the ACB had already sought permission from Mr. Baijal to probe the issue but were yet to get permission. “The L-G assured us of justice and we have been assured that the file related to the matter is being referred to the Centre for further action,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-protests-outside-raj-niwas-for-dtc-probe/article35334534.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rainwater harvesting discussed at MPD meet||In the third webinar conducted by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on the draft Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041, senior officials discussed issues pertaining to physical infrastructure and spatial development framework.  “The major suggestions provided by stakeholders during the webinar were rainwater harvesting for parks and other open public places, fire safety compliance in commercial centres developed and maintained by agencies, management of existing dhalaos by local bodies, physical infrastructure provisions in Green Development Area (GDA), development of decentralised wastewater treatment systems and sanitation system,” officials said. Other demands The land-owning agency added that other suggestions put forth by stakeholders who attended the webinar pertained to the issue of water demand and wastewater treatment in future regeneration schemes, managing water demand and reducing wastage of water and focus on the use of treated water. The next webinar is scheduled to be held on July 16 and will cover aspects like plan monitoring and evaluation and development control norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rainwater-harvesting-discussed-at-mpd-meet/article35334536.ece
15 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Tea workers get less than living wage’||A study by Oxfam India, a confederation of 20 independent charitable organisations headquartered in Kenya’s capital Nairobi, and IIT-Bombay said tea plantation workers in Assam get less than a fourth of a proposed ‘living wage’ of Rs. 884. It also said tea labourers in Assam do not get the entire amount of Rs. 205 (enhanced from Rs. 167 when the study was conducted) as daily wage, which is lowest with respect to the daily wages of Rs. 403, Rs. 349 and Rs. 333 in Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Living wage, the Oxfam India report titled “In defence of living wages for tea plantation workers: Evidence from Assam” said, is in relation to the International Labour Organisation’s concept of ‘decent work’ and ‘quality of life’. The report, based on interviews with 5,000 tea workers, was done jointly with Rahul Suresh Sapkal of IIT-Bombay’s Centre for Policy Studies. “The study finds a stark gap between the current wages that tea workers receive vis-à-vis the living wage,” Oxfam India’s CEO Amitabh Behar said. According to the report, women workers earn 80% of the average Rs. 4,672 each of their male counterparts earn a month. “When you take non-cash benefits, the total wage works out to an average of Rs. 390 in the Brahmaputra Valley,” said Bidyananda Borkakoty, advisor of North Eastern Tea Association. The Assam Tea Planters’ Association too refuted the findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tea-workers-get-less-than-living-wage/article35334525.ece
15 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Minister bats for population control||After the BJP governments in Assam and Uttar Pradesh announced their intent to bring a population control policy, Rajasthan Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday extended support to the legal measures for controlling the growth of population. “Population growth is a matter of great concern. It is high time the country thought about controlling it,” Mr. Sharma said. While giving details of the COVID-19 vaccination drive to reporters here, Mr. Sharma said the increasing population had made an adverse impact on development activities and vaccination during the pandemic. “Our resources are under a tremendous strain,” he said. “The country has to think about controlling the population, so that the future generations can get better education, healthcare and other facilities for a better quality of life... It is time for Hum Do, Hamara Ek [We two and one child],” Mr. Sharma said. The Minister affirmed that he had raised the issue earlier at several platforms, ever since the slogan, Hum Do, Hamarey Do [We both and two children], was coined in the country. The Congress-ruled Rajasthan has legal provisions for disqualifying the candidates for panchayat elections and government jobs on having more than two children. Under Section 19(l) of the Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, no person can become a Panch or member of a Panchayati Raj institution if he has more than two children. The previous BJP government had relaxed the two-child norm in case of a differently abled child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-minister-bats-for-population-control/article35334530.ece
15 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Now, sex reassignment racket busted in Assam||Less than a week after a kidney racket was unearthed in central Assam’s Morigaon district, the police in Guwahati claimed to have busted a sex reassignment racket. A team from the all-women police station arrested seven people on July 12 for “forcibly” converting males and females into transgenders. This followed a complaint by a daily wager who said he was promised a job by a group in New Delhi but ended up in a hospital for a surgery four months ago. “Six of the seven arrested are women. Their identities have not been disclosed,” Assistant Commissioner of Police (women unit) Bhanita Nath said. The police said the kingpin is Pinky, based in Assam’s Hajo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-sex-reassignment-racket-busted-in-assam/article35334531.ece
15 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Children are expected to look after their parents: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has observed that children are expected to look after their elderly parents properly, which is not only a value-based principle, but a bounden duty as enshrined in the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The court’s observations came during a matter of a 76-year-old widow, who was ousted from her house by her son, who, by playing fraud with the mother, had transferred her house in his name and even assaulted her. Justices Augustine George Masih and Ashok Kumar Verma said: “The moral values that prevailed in society have been accepted as universal values. The State seeks to promote the common good through the Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/children-are-expected-to-look-after-their-parents-hc/article35334527.ece
15 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. calls for audit of DJB||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday called for an audit of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and alleged that the people of the Capital were dependent on the water tanker mafia for potable water due to the mismanagement of the agency. It said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal came to power promising 20,000 litres of free water per family. However, since Delhi was not receiving adequate water supply, those who were not getting regular water supply had to depend on the water mafia. Leader of the Congress party in the South Corporation Abhishek Dutt alleged that people are getting dirty water with high ammonia. He demanded a plant be established on the Yamuna to filter the water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-calls-for-audit-of-djb/article35334537.ece
15 July 2021||July 15 2021 00:00 IST,||With flying colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-flying-colours/article35334544.ece
