16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Why do you need the ‘colonial law’ of sedition, CJI asks govt.||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, in what may be an unprecedented judicial criticism of the way the sedition law is used by the government to crush liberties, asked why a colonial law used against Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak continued to survive in the law book 75 years after Independence. “Sedition is a colonial law. It suppresses freedoms. It was used against Mahatma Gandhi, Tilak... Is this law necessary after 75 years of Independence?” Chief Justice Ramana, heading a three-judge Bench, orally addressed Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal and Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. The CJI said the sedition law, or Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, was prone to misuse by the government. “The use of sedition is like giving a saw to the carpenter to cut a piece of wood and he uses it to cut the entire forest itself.” The CJI’s oral statement in open court takes a significant note amid rising public denouncement of Central and State law enforcement agencies using the law to silence dissent, muzzle free expression and deny bail to jailed activists, journalists, students and civil society members. A number of petitions have been filed highlighting the “chilling effect” sedition has on the fundamental right of free speech. The CJI’s remarks have also opened the floor for debate and introspection on the court’s own verdict in 1962, in the Kedar Nath case, which upheld Section 124A.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-do-you-need-the-colonial-law-of-sedition-cji-asks-govt/article35355065.ece
16 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active case number sees an uptick||Maharashtra again saw a marginal rise in COVID-19 cases on Thursday, reporting 8,010 new cases as opposed to 7,391 recoveries, as the active case tally, which had dipped in the past few days, rose incrementally to 1,07,205. The State had the highest number of cases in India, and the decline in cases at the end of the second wave has slowed down now. The death toll remained comparatively low, with a total of 170 deaths pushing the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,26,560, with the case fatality rate standing at 2.04%. The fatalities were chiefly concentrated in western Maharashtra, with Kolhapur, Pune and Satara reporting the most fatalities and cases. The total cases have reached 61,89,257 while cumulative recoveries have risen to 59,44,801.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-active-case-number-sees-an-uptick/article35355058.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC panel seeks CBI probe into Bengal riots||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) committee formed to investigate complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal has recommended that cases of heinous crimes be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In its report to the Calcutta High Court on Monday, the panel said it received 1,979 complaints covering over 15,000 victims during its inquiry. The panel visited the State from June 24 to July 10. “A large number of cases related to murders, rapes, molestation and vandalism received from local sources in West Bengal while the teams were camping there,” the report said. The Calcutta High Court-ordered panel, which was headed by NHRC member Rajiv Jain, concluded that the State government had exhibited apathy towards the victims. It found that there was “retributive violence” by Trinamool Congress supporters against supporters of the “major Opposition party”, referring to the BJP. ‘Hold trial outside State’ “There is need to provide justice to victims and restore their confidence in the criminal justice system, which can be best rendered by a neutral agency. Hence, it is recommended that all heinous cases, including murder, unnatural deaths, rape and grievous hurt, and complaints carrying these allegations, should be transferred to the CBI for investigation,” the report said, adding that the trial of the CBI cases should be conducted outside West Bengal. The report said there had been 29 complaints related to murder and 12 cases of attempt to rape/sexual assault/molestation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nhrc-panel-seeks-cbi-probe-into-bengal-riots/article35355056.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Annamalai’s remarks kick up a controversy||The new BJP president, K. Annamalai, has stirred up a controversy, saying the media in Tamil Nadu will be “brought under control in six months”. He said all the media would come under his predecessor L. Murugan, who is now the Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting. He made the remarks while addressing party workers in Namakkal on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu Minister for Information Technology Mano Thangaraj said, “His statement is an intimidating one. It is highly condemnable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/annamalais-remarks-kick-up-a-controversy/article35355127.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||10% reservation for EWS in govt. jobs announced||The Andhra Pradesh government has announced 10% reservation for the Kapu community and other Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) for appointments in the initial posts and services in the State government in accordance with the Constitution (103rd Amendment) Act, 2019. As per the G.O. issued by the Chief Secretary, the 10% reservation in employment will benefit Kapus who are neither benefited under the BC quota nor under the EWS quota and OC sections who are deprived of the benefits of reservation thus far due to non-implementation of the EWS quota. This will, however, be subject to the outcome of several writ petitions and PILs filed in various courts and interim orders of the High Court. The following are the operational guidelines for the implementation of the 10% reservation. Persons who are not covered under the existing scheme of reservation for SCs, STs and Socially and Educationally Backward Classes and whose gross annual family income is below Rs. 8 lakh are to be identified as EWS for the benefit of reservation. The income includes income from all sources i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession, etc. for the financial year prior to the year of application. The term family will include the person who seeks the benefit, his or her parents and siblings below 18 years as also his or her spouse and children below 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-give-10-quota-for-kapus-in-govt-posts-services/article35355023.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||State Board to declare Class X results today||The results of the Secondary School Certificate in Maharashtra will be released on Friday, State Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Twitter. The results will be available on the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education website at 1 p.m. As announced earlier, the results have been prepared based on the internal assessment during Class X and the marks secured in Class IX examinations. The Board had cancelled Class X and Class XII examinations in view of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Dates for the Class XII results have not yet been announced. In her Twitter message, Ms. Gaikwad wished best of luck to all the students awaiting results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-board-to-declare-class-x-results-today/article35355744.ece
16 July 2021||new delhi,||‘2 million Indian accounts banned during May-June’||WhatsApp banned two million Indian accounts to prevent harmful behaviour and spam between May 15 and June 15, according to the company’s first monthly transparency report released on Thursday. “Our top focus is preventing accounts from sending harmful or unwanted messages at scale. We maintain advanced capabilities to identify these accounts sending a high or abnormal rate of messages and banned 2 millions accounts in India alone from May 15-June 15 attempting this kind of abuse,” the platform said. The company identifies an Indian account via +91 phone number. It said more than 95% of bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-million-indian-accounts-banned-during-may-june/article35355469.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||KRMB writes to TS, AP to stop power generation||Ahead of the Ministry of Jal Shakti’s plans to notify the purview of Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards (KRMB & GRMB), KRMB authorities have written to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh once again to stop power generation and work on Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme right canal. In a letter addressed to Director (Hydel) of TSGenco on Thursday, KRMB member L.B. Muanthang requested stoppage of water drawal through power generation at Srisailam Left Bank Hydro-electric Station, Nagarjunasagar power house and Pulichintala power house at the dam sites. It is the second letter to Telangana in a month’s time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krmb-writes-to-ts-ap-to-stop-power-generation/article35355385.ece
16 July 2021||TASHKENT,||Jaishankar meets Ghani, U.S. officials||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser and Special Envoys on Thursday. “Discussed the situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jaishankar-meets-ghani-us-officials/article35355059.ece
16 July 2021||Belagavi,||Jeevan Rekha gets permission for vaccine trials||Belagavi-based Jeevan Rekha Hospital has obtained the Union government’s permission to conduct safety and efficacy trials of Sanofi COVID-19 vaccine, developed by a French company. Jeevan Rekha has been part of the trials of Covaxin and ZyCov-D vaccines. Trials for the new vaccine will start in 10 days, hospital director Amit Bhate told journalists in Belagavi on Thursday. Those aged above 18 and who are not vaccinated will be urged to volunteer for vaccine trials. According to him, Sanofi will be tested in 13 countries. In India, the vaccine will undergo trials in 10 hospitals. According to hospital sources, over 1,000 people underwent trials for Covaxin. As many as 20 children aged less than 18 underwent trials for Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jeevan-rekha-gets-permission-for-vaccine-trials/article35355354.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,||CM for Delhi today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday said he was going to Delhi on Friday to meet national leaders, possibly Prime Minister Narendra Modi also. However, his official travel plan did not mention this trip, fuelling speculation on the purpose. When asked, Mr. Yediyurappa said it was to discuss “development of the State and irrigation projects, including Mekedatu”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-for-delhi-today/article35355087.ece
16 July 2021||BENGALURU,||Pressure mounts to make public ‘caste census’||Most Backward Classes Vigilant Forum has taken up a campaign to make public the Social and Educational Survey – 2015, popularly known as the ‘caste census’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pressure-mounts-to-make-public-caste-census/article35355089.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Fault lines within the Punjab Congress widen||The fault lines within the Punjab Congress were exposed on Thursday with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu holding separate meetings with their supporters. Reports emerged that Mr. Sidhu could be the next Punjab Congress chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fault-lines-within-the-punjab-congress-widen/article35355212.ece
16 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Terror charges baseless, say kin of men held in U.P.||The families of an e-rickshaw driver and a battery seller, among those arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police from Lucknow on charges of plotting terror attacks in the State, are in a state of disbelief. They contend that the allegations levelled against the men are baseless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/terror-charges-baseless-say-kin-of-men-held-in-up/article35355211.ece
16 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam approves home delivery of liquor||The Assam Cabinet has decided to allow online sale and purchase and home delivery of liquor within the Guwahati Municipal Corporation area as an experiment for a month to avoid crowding outside liquor outlets in view of the prevailing COVID situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-approves-home-delivery-of-liquor/article35355519.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Booked under UAPA, Umar Khalid seeks bail||A Delhi court on Thursday posted the hearing on the bail application of former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the north-east Delhi riots last year, for July 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/booked-under-uapa-umar-khalid-seeks-bail/article35355214.ece
16 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Indigenous faiths are fading away, says Sarma||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday defended the State government’s move to create a department for preserving indigenous faiths that were “fading away” due to the “preaching and professional management systems” of mainstream religions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indigenous-faiths-are-fading-away-says-sarma/article35355470.ece
16 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam approves home delivery of liquor||The Assam Cabinet has decided to allow online sale and purchase and home delivery of liquor within the Guwahati Municipal Corporation area as an experiment for a month to avoid crowding outside liquor outlets in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-approves-home-delivery-of-liquor/article35355471.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Hold bypolls to vacant seats, TMC urges EC||A six-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission in New Delhi on Thursday, urging it to hold elections to the seven vacant Assembly seats in West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-bypolls-to-vacant-seats-tmc-urges-ec/article35355472.ece
16 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Structures removed||The Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority on Thursday cleared structures in unauthorised layouts in Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/structures-removed/article35355355.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Simpler drone rules in the offing||Simplified drone rules, which abolish the need for a large number of approvals and give impetus to research and development, are in the offing in the country. The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Thursday released the Draft Drone Rules, 2021, for public consultation until August 5. The rules will replace the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021, notified on March 12, 2021. “The intent is to make the rules user-friendly and to encourage drone research and development. This is another important step towards realising the vision of India as a drone hub,” said Amber Dubey, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, and head of the drones division. “Drones are bringing the next big tech revolution around the globe with reduced costs, resources and time taken for operations. It is upon us to ride on the new wave and facilitate its uptake, especially among our start-ups,” tweeted Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia. The number of forms to be filled to seek authorisation before operating a drone has been reduced from 25 to six, according to a statement issued by the Ministry. While most drones will need a unique identification number, a certificate of airworthiness, a remote pilot licence for the person controlling the drone and prior permission, no such approvals will be required for drones used for research and development by entities and educational institutions recognised by the Union government, State governments or Union Territory Administrations, start-ups recognised by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade and drone manufacturers having a Goods and Service Tax Identification Number. Unlike the previous rules, which required drone operators to have a principal place of business within India, there are no such restrictions for foreign-owned companies registered in India in the new proposed rules. Drones will also not need security clearance before registration or licence issuance. The Quality Council of India and certification entities authorised by it will issue airworthiness certificates for drones, instead of the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation. In order to encourage indigenous manufacturing, import of drones and drone components will be regulated by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Moreover, the Union government may specify certain standards for obtaining a certificate of airworthiness for drones, which will promote the “use of made-in-India technologies, designs, components and drones; and India’s regional navigation satellite system named Navigation with Indian Constellation [NavIC],” according to the draft rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/simpler-drone-rules-in-the-offing/article35354986.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||SC sends strong message to government||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana’s remarks in open court on Thursday sends a strong message to the government that the Supreme Court is prima facie convinced that sedition is being misused by the authorities to trample upon citizens’ fundamental rights of free speech and liberty. The Chief Justice has sent a clear signal that Section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code may have passed its time. The CJI has made it clear that the court is sensitive to the public demand to judicially review the manner in which law enforcement authorities are using the sedition law to control free speech and send journalists, activists and dissenters to jail, and keep them there. In a way, the court has questioned the need for the continuance of Section 124A — a colonial provision which was used to jail the Mahatma — in the law books of a modern democracy. This is a step away from the court’s own Kedar Nath judgment of 1962 which had upheld Section 124A but read it down to mean any subversion of an elected government by violent means. The court will have to re-examine whether this 59-year-old judgment holds in the modern context when the State is itself using a punitive law to impose serious burdens on free speech. The CJI’s reference to low conviction rates under the sedition law resonates with a petition filed by senior journalist Sashi Kumar highlighting the “dramatic jump in charging a person with the offence of sedition since 2016”. “In 2019, 93 cases were on the ground of sedition as compared to the 35 cases that were filed in 2016. The same constitutes a 165% increase. Of these 93 cases, chargesheets were filed in a mere 17% of cases and even worse, the conviction rate was an abysmally low 3.3%,” Mr. Kumar, represented by advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, noted. The National Crime Records Bureau reports show that in 2019, 21 cases of sedition were closed on account of no evidence, two were closed being false cases and six cases held to be civil disputes. Mr. Kumar referred to the sedition cases registered against climate activist Disha Ravi, filmmaker Aisha Sultana and journalists Vinod Dua and Siddique Kappan. ‘Defining limits’ The CJI’s observations culminates the resolve shown by the Supreme Court in recent months to examine the sedition law. In May, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said that “it is time to define the limits of sedition”. The judge had flagged the indiscriminate use of the sedition law against people who aired their grievances about the government’s COVID management, or even for seeking help to gain medical access, equipment, drugs and oxygen cylinders, especially during the second wave of the pandemic. “This is muzzling the media,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao, another Supreme Court judge, had noted while considering a plea made by two TV channels, TV5 and ABN, against the Andhra Pradesh government for using the sedition law to “silence” them. The CJI Bench issued notice on Thursday to the government on a petition filed by the Editors Guild of India to quash the sedition law. Senior journalist Arun Shourie has also challenged the constitutionality of Section 124A. Justice U.U. Lalit, in his recent judgment quashing a sedition case against Mr. Dua for his alleged remarks about the Prime Minister and the Union Government in a YouTube telecast, upheld the right of every journalist to criticise, even brutally, the measures of the government with a view to improve or alter them through legal means. The time is long past when the mere criticism of governments was sufficient to constitute sedition. The right to utter honest and reasonable criticism is a source of strength to a community rather than a weakness, the judgment recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-sends-strong-message-to-government/article35354994.ece
16 July 2021||Lucknow,||PM lauds U.P.’s efforts in tackling COVID||“The way Uttar Pradesh handled the second wave of COVID-19 and checked the spread of infection was unprecedented,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi on Thursday as he praised the efforts of the Yogi Adityanath-ruled State during the pandemic. Coming months before the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are scheduled, Mr. Modi’s positive appraisal of the Chief Minister’s work stood out in his address as he appeared to sound the bugle for the 2022 election. “In tackling corona, Uttar Pradesh’s efforts are ullekhniya (remarkable),” the PM said, adding that the State, along with Varanasi, fought the changing and deadly forms of the virus with full force. Mr. Modi said the people of U.P. had lived through a phase too where they “faced numerous problems in tackling diseases such as encephalitis and ‘brain fever’”. Speaking at a public meeting at the grounds of the Banaras Hindu University after inaugurating and launching several projects in his constituency worth over Rs. 1,580 crore, the PM said that earlier, due to the lack of health facilities and lack of will power, even a small crisis would take huge proportions. The PM thanked corona warriors, officials and others involved in tackling COVID-19 in Varanasi and said their efforts amounted to a “big seva ” or huge service. Mr. Modi stressed that U.P. was today the State with the highest testing and vaccination in the country. “Through this campaign ‘ sabko vaccine, muft vaccine’, the poor, middle class, farmers, youth are all getting administered free vaccines by the government,” he said. He said that till four years ago, U.P. had only a dozen-odd medical colleges and that they had now increased four-fold. Steady work is also on to build 550 oxygen plants, he added. Mr. Modi also lavished praise on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his hard work. “It is not that before 2017, there were no schemes for U.P. or that funds were not sent. Even since 2014, swift efforts were made from Delhi. But hurdles would come up in Lucknow,” Mr. Modi said. “Today, Yogi- ji himself is working hard. The people of Kashi have seen how he regularly comes here. He reviews development schemes and invests his own energy to accelerate the development works. He [Yogi] strives like this for the entire State,” Mr. Modi said. The PM also praised U.P. for its law and order situation under Mr. Adityanath and said the State where doing business was considered difficult had become a favourite place for “Make in India” due to Mr. Adityanath’s focus on infrastructure. “There is rule of law in U.P. today. ‘Mafiaraj’ and terrorism, which were once out of control, now are under the grip of law. The criminals who raise an eye at women know that they cannot escape from the law,” he said. Today, the government in U.P. is not working through corruption and “ bhai - bhatijavad ” (brother-nephew based) but through “ vikasvad ” (progress based), he further said in a veiled attack on political opponents. Mr. Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of various development projects, including a 100-bed maternal and child health wing in the Banaras Hindu University, multi-level parking, Ro-Ro vessels for river tourism on the Ganga, and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-lauds-ups-efforts-in-tackling-covid/article35355010.ece
16 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Partial lockdown extended by another two weeks in Odisha||The Odisha government on Thursday extended the partial lockdown in 10 districts by another two weeks till August 1. The lockdown restrictions have, however, been relaxed to a great extent. The test positivity rate which was around 5% around July 1, has come down to 3%. Last time, the restrictions were imposed differently in 30 districts — 20 districts comprising western and southern districts in Category A and 10 coastal districts in Category B. “Even now, the TPR continues to be high in some districts such as Khordha, Cuttack and Puri in Category-B. Around July 1, about 3,000 cases used to be detected daily. Now, it has dropped to 2,000. Of them 70-80% are reported from category-B districts,” said Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra. “Cases detected from Khordha and Cuttack districts constitute 40% of the State’s caseload. There has not been any improvement in the pandemic situation as was expected,” said Mr. Mohapatra. Keeping the livelihood of people in mind, shops have been allowed to remain open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. in 20 Category-A districts, where the TPR and reporting of daily cases were relatively low. There will be no weekend shutdown there. Besides, the night curfew will be from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. Similarly, the duration for keeping shops open has been extended by four hours in Category-B districts. Now, shops will remain open from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. instead of present 6 a.m-2 p.m. window. Both weekend shutdown and night curfew will be in force in the 10 coastal districts. In an important announcement, the government has allowed operation of bus services in all districts within the State, except Puri where the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath is celebrated. There will be no bus service in Puri till July 25. The government has, however, not allowed any inter-State bus service. Taxi and auto-rickshaw services have been restored in the fifth lockdown. Spas allowed to open Similarly, beauty parlours, spas, saloons and gyms have been allowed to open. They have been asked to follow COVID-19 guidelines. Outdoor sports activities can be organised without spectators. Outdoor and indoor film shootings have been allowed. Restrictions for educational institutes, parks, malls, cinema halls, exhibition, theatres, weddings and death rituals remain. Cautioning people to wear mask and maintain physical distance, Mr. Mohapatra said there were reports of people contracting virus even after being fully vaccinated as was seen in Bhubaneswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/partial-lockdown-extended-by-another-two-weeks-in-odisha/article35355218.ece
16 July 2021||TASHKENT,||Jaishankar meets Ghani, discusses Taliban||Worries over growing violence and Taliban gains in Afghanistan overshadowed External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s meetings ahead of a connectivity conference here on Thursday, as he called on Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and met the U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser and Special Envoy as well as other Foreign Ministers. “Discussed the situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability and development of Afghanistan,” Mr. Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting, which focused on the rapid developments and advances by the militia within days of the U.S. and NATO troops’ pull-out from the Bagram airbase this month. The Afghan president’s office said that Mr. Jaishankar had also promised to continue India’s humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, with a gift of 150,000 tonnes of wheat. According to sources, the Ghani government is conducting a review of the Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) military strategy, which could see it shift tactics in dealing with the Taliban that have claimed several key towns and border checkpost areas in the last week. This was the first high-level meeting between Delhi and Kabul since the government decided to pull out all Indian personnel from the Consulate in Kandahar. Internal assessments have suggested that while the Taliban has not been successful in moving in to many more populated cities, it will seek to control Kandahar, which was its traditional base. Officials said President Ghani was “determined” to take back some of the strategic areas taken over by the Taliban. Mr. Jaishankar also met U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall and U.S. Special Representative on Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad, who are attending the conference, and are understood to be discussing the possibility of an American military base in one of the Central Asian countries, including in Uzbekistan, where the U.S. had shut down its Karshi-Khanabad base in 2009. Mr. Jaishankar said he had “exchanged views on the evolving situation in Afghanistan”. In his speech on Friday, Mr. Jaishankar is expected to speak about the importance of security in the region for connectivity to prosper, including an end to terrorist safe havens and support cross border terrorism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-meets-ghani-discusses-taliban/article35354978.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Children have shown resilience’||Pratima Murthy , Director, NIMHANS, Bengaluru, says mental health needs to be addressed at the individual, societal level, and policy level. She discusses the implications of the pandemic on mental health. Excerpts:  COVID-19, an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, has affected people in various ways — financially, physically, emotionally. What kind of myriad mental health issues has it led to? Initially, people’s fears were about contracting the infection. They feared going out. There were worries about what kind of mask and protection was adequate. There were fears of contamination and people started sanitising all grocery items. Subsequently, once it was clear that chances of surface transmission of the virus were uncommon this fear subsided. But then during the second wave, the virus affected a lot more people; entire families got infected. It created panic. Then, generally, when a person is sick, family members rally around that person and provide a lot of care and support. Similarly, in case of death, family and friends come together to provide support to the aggrieved family. There are several rituals that take place, which in a way help deal with the loss. Lack of social support particularly during grief is very psychologically distressing. So, a lot of people are finding it difficult to come out of the trauma, some are facing repeated panic attacks. How has the pandemic affected the psycho-social health of children? Children have perhaps shown the maximum amount of resilience as they are ones who had to make the maximum amount of change — they have not been able to go to school; they had to adjust to the new online medium of education; then there are a large number of children who have no or limited access to even online education. We held a painting competition for children to explore how they managed the lockdown. Though the paintings of some children reflected the loneliness and isolation they experienced during the first lockdown, paintings of most children were positive and hopeful. They admired the frontline workers; created pictures on how they were playing indoor games and doing a lot many activities with family members. But when confinement became protracted, it became difficult for children to adjust to what we call the new normal. Older children faced uncertainty regarding their academic future. Lack of access to a lot of developmental activities, especially for children who were out of school, or those in vulnerable populations can certainly affect their mental well-being. Another worry is too much exposure to consumer technology. During this prolonged confinement at home, children have started using technology for non-academic purposes, which can expose them to other influences such as gaming, gambling, pornography. Lack of physical activities, peer interaction, social gatherings can affect their physical development and cultural competency. Mental health seems to be emerging as a big concern. How can it be tackled knowing very well that not many people seek help for mental illness in the country? There has always been a gap between the need and treatment for mental illness. Somehow, people never felt comfortable talking about their emotionality. And I think now that there is a greater awareness of more aspects of mental health among wider population, we too need to address it at an individual level, at the societal level, and at the policy level. First, people need to realise that just like the way they seek medical help for their physical illness, they need to seek help when they feel mentally distressed. Then, they also have to learn the ways to de-stress their mind, to deal with stressful situations. Then, mental healthcare must be integrated with physical healthcare. In fact, government’s District Mental Health Programme is a step in this direction.  (For the full interview, log on to bit.ly/pratimamurthy)   Lack of social support particularly during grief is very psychologically distressing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/children-have-shown-resilience/article35355008.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delta Plus variants found in less than 1% of samples||The Delta Plus variants constituted less than 1% of coronavirus samples that were sequenced in India in June and continuing outbreaks in India were primarily being led by the Delta variant, said a report from the India Sarscov2 Genome Consortium (INSACOG). The Delta variant (B.1.617.2) as of Thursday constituted 88% of the nearly 1,300 coronavirus samples genome-sequenced in June, a little more than in May when they made up 87% of the nearly 8,700 samples sequenced. The decline in samples processed in June, a scientist familiar with the sequencing told The Hindu , was because it often took a few weeks before samples for a particular month were processed. “Delta sub-lineages AY.1 and AY.2 are declining globally with near zero cases in the last week of June in either the U.K. or the U.S., where they were most frequently seen. They also continue to be below 1% in available sequences from June in India. It is likely that neither AY.1 nor AY.2 is more transmissible than Delta,” the INSACOG noted in a July 9 release that has just been made public. “Meanwhile AY.3 has been identified as a new Delta sub-lineage. It is primarily seen in the U.S. with single reclassified cases in the U.K. and India. There are no known significant properties of this mutation, but since it is a Delta VOC sub-lineage, INSACOG will continue to monitor it.” The INSACOG has, as of Thursday, sequenced 42,869 coronavirus genomes from India. The 10-lab consortium primarily tracks international variants of concern (VOC) namely the Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta (and their sub-lineages) variants. These are the variants globally monitored for the increased infectivity and resistance to vaccination or treatments. It also scans for variants of interest (VOI), which have not yet become serious enough to warrant more stringent surveillance. As of Thursday, 13 States had provided over 1,000 samples to the various INSACOG labs for analysis with Maharashtra having provided the most (7,868) followed by Delhi (5,353) and Kerala (4,721). The Alpha variant prevalence, the INSACOG said, has declined further in India and globally and Beta too was also “at very low levels” in India. The Gamma and Lambda variants had also not been seen in over 10,000 community samples sequenced by INSACOG since May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delta-plus-variants-found-in-less-than-1-of-samples/article35355001.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Hold byelections to vacant seats, Trinamool urges EC||A six-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress met the Election Commission on Thursday, urging it to hold the byelections to the seven vacant Assembly seats in West Bengal. The delegation, in a memorandum, argued that the number of COVID-19 cases at present were 17 times lower than that in April-May when the Assembly election was held.  It is crucial for the Trinamool Congress that the byelections are held before November for Mamata Banerjee to continue in the Chief Minister’s chair. Article 164(4) of the Constitution states: “A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” Ms. Banerjee lost the Nandigram seat by a margin of 1,956 votes. She took oath on May 5 and has time till November 5 as per law. She was hoping to get elected from the Bhabanipur seat, her home constituency which was vacated by Trinamool leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hold-byelections-to-vacant-seats-trinamool-urges-ec/article35354996.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry tells States to scale up bed numbers||The Health Ministry on Thursday stressed the need to ramp-up COVID testing, tracking, treating and isolating strategy and has directed State governments to scale-up bed strength including for paediatric care and makeshift hospitals in sub-district levels. The Ministry reviewed the preparations under the recently approved Rs. 23,123-crore “India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package: Phase II” with Health Secretaries and senior officials of all States/Union Territories through a video conference. “In the meeting stakeholders were also asked to ensure availability of critical drugs, testing kits and PPEs besides enhancing oxygen availability and strengthening home and village/community isolation centres/ COVID care centres,” said the Ministry. A quick gap analysis on infrastructure components was advised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-ministry-tells-states-to-scale-up-bed-strength/article35354998.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaishankar, Wang differ on way forward for India-China ties||While External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar conveyed to his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on Wednesday that the continuing impasse along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner”, the Chinese Minister offered a starkly different message, calling on both sides to “place the border issue in an appropriate position”. Mr. Jaishankar reiterated India’s view in their talks on the sidelines of the SCO meeting — their first meeting since September last year in Moscow — that the LAC crisis would have a bearing on broader ties. “Assessing the overall relationship, the External Affairs Minister emphasised that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas has been the foundation for the development of ties since 1988,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) quoted him as saying, adding that the attempts to change status quo last year “disregarded commitments under the 1993 and 1996 agreements” and “have inevitably affected ties”. Mr. Wang, in contrast, said in China’s view the boundary should be kept “in an appropriate position” and it should be addressed while both sides looked to “expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation”. He said ‘cooperation’ should be “the main theme” of ties, while interaction “should still be seeking mutual benefits and complementarity, pursuing healthy competition and avoiding confrontation”. India has said normalcy in other areas of ties will not be possible until there is disengagement and then de-escalation along the border. Mr. Wang also repeated China’s view that “the responsibility does not lie with the Chinese side” for the LAC crisis — another point of difference. Both also differed in their assessment of how to tackle the remaining issues along the LAC, with problems unresolved in several areas, including Depsang, Demchok, Gogra and Hot Springs, after the February disengagement at Pangong Lake. Mr. Jaishankar said “the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake Area earlier this year had created conditions for resolving the remaining issues” and noted that “the situation in remaining areas is still unresolved”. Mr. Wang did not refer to any remaining issues. He said since their September meeting, frontier troops “disengaged in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake areas, and the overall situation in the border area was de-escalated”. He said China “is ready to find a solution acceptable to both sides on the issue that needs emergency response through negotiation and consultation”, yet talks between the military to find a solution since February have made little headway. The MEA statement noted the agreement between both sides at the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs on June 25 to “convene at the earliest” the next meeting of military commanders. This was not mentioned in the Chinese readout, and the view in New Delhi is that Beijing has since February dragged its feet on talks to resolve the pending issues. Both sides did agree that neither should take unilateral actions and that the current situation suited neither. Mr. Jaishankar said “both sides had agreed that a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side”. Mr. Wang, for his part, said “relations still stay at a low level, which is not in the interest of either side”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-wang-differ-on-way-forward-for-india-china-ties/article35354992.ece
16 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gira Sarabhai passes away||Gira Sarabhai, co-founder of the renowned National Institute of Design (NID) in Ahmedabad and a pioneer of design education in India, passed away here on Thursday. She played a crucial role in setting up several other institutions and contributed immensely in the field of art and architecture. With her brother Gautam Sarabhai, she founded the NID and prepared its academic curricula, which laid the foundation for design education in the country. Another notable institution both Gira and Gautam were involved in setting up was the Calico Museum, one of India’s most famous private museums. The Calico was one of the textiles mills run by their father, Ambalal Sarabhai, along with a range of other businesses in Gujarat. The museum was inspired by Dr. Ananda Coomaraswamy, who had suggested to Gautam to set up a textile museum since Ahmedabad was known as the ‘Manchester of the East’. It was set up in 1949 and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru inaugurated it. Gira’s other brother, Vikram Sarabhai, and their family’s contributions in setting up other institutions in Ahmedabad — the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad; the B.M. Institute of Mental Health; and several institutes of the Gujarat University — are well known. The eighth child of Ambalal and Saraladevi Sarabhai, Gira had no formal education as she was homeschooled before she moved to the U.S., where she was trained at the famous Taliesin West Studio in Arizona with noted architect and designer Frank Lloyd Wright. “The last of the Sarabhais from papa’s generation just passed away. My aunt Gira, who built up the extraordinary textile museum, one of the best in the world,” noted dancer and Gira’s niece, Mallika Sarabhai, posted on Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gira-sarabhai-passes-away/article35355051.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Akalis to move adjournment motion in LS on farm laws||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, set to begin on July 19, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to move an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha against the government on the three farm laws. The party had walked out of the NDA government over the controversial laws. Senior SAD MP Naresh Gujral told The Hindu that his party would be reaching out to the leaders of all regional parties to seek support for the motion which requires the signatures of 50 MPs to be admitted. “As of now the Shiv Sena, our allies the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Nationalist Congress Party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Trinamool Congress have agreed to support it,” Mr. Gujral said, adding that they were reaching out to more regional parties such as the Biju Janata Dal, the YSR Congress Party and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. While adjournment motions are not allowed in the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Gujral said his party would hold discussion with supporting parties to come up with a device to register their strong feelings against the farm laws. Interestingly, the Congress, the main rival of the SAD in the poll-bound State of Punjab, has not been included in this effort and is not likely to be. According to sources, the tug of war between the two parties to be the sole spokesperson for the agitating farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, is the reason for this distance.  The protests and the mobilisation of farmers on the issue is expected to have a huge impact on voter behaviour in the upcoming poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akalis-to-move-adjournment-motion-in-ls-on-farm-laws/article35354988.ece
16 July 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata to visit Delhi to meet ‘old and new friends’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said she will visit Delhi during the monsoon session of Parliament and meet “many old and new friends”. “I have not visited Delhi since the [West Bengal Assembly] election. This was because of the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the State. Now the situation has vastly improved. Usually I visit when Parliament is in session and meet many old and new friends,” she said. She did not confirm the date of her visit, but said if time permitted, she would call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind. The visit assumes significance as leaders of several Opposition parties are holding discussions on the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The development also comes at a time when the recent meeting between poll strategist Prashant Kishor with the Congress leadership has triggered a lot of speculation in the political circles. Mr. Kishor was engaged by the Trinamool Congress in the 2021 Assembly election. The Chief Minister also wondered why the NHRC report on post-poll violence in the State was leaked to the media. She said the pre-poll violence was being projected as post-poll violence. “When the court gives us time, we will file affidavit and give our opinion. Instead of giving report to the court, they have leaked it outside. They should at least respect the court. The hearing has just started. We from the government have to give our opinion.” She said the report was misleading and leaking it amounted to political vendetta because the BJP had lost the election in the State. Commenting on the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, Ms. Banerjee said the Prime Minister was well aware of the situation and asked how many teams the Centre had sent there. “There is no rule of law in Uttar Pradesh. So many incidents occurred there, from Unnao to Hathras... even journalists were not spared. As far as COVID-19 goes, they dumped bodies in the Ganga. We extricated eight bodies here,” she said. “U.P is their baby, that is why they are calling it safe.” The Chief Minister said the Election Commission had sought the State government’s opinion on holding polls to two Rajya Sabha seats from the State. “Our Chief Secretary has replied that the situation here is conducive to holding both the Rajya Sabha polls and also bypolls to seven Assembly seats,” she said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-says-she-will-visit-delhi-to-meet-old-and-new-friends/article35354990.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Fault lines within the Punjab Cong. widen||The fault lines within the Punjab Congress were exposed on Thursday with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu holding separate meetings with their supporters after reports emerged that Mr. Sidhu could be the next Punjab Congress chief. The party is yet to officially announce its formula to broker peace between the Chief Minister and Mr. Sidhu, but the All India Congress Committee in-charge for Punjab, Harish Rawat, told a news channel that a formula had been worked out around Mr. Sidhu as the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief, while Capt. Singh would continue to be the Chief Minister and would lead the party into elections. Appointing two working presidents — one from the Hindu community and another from the Dalit community — is also supposed to be part of the truce. But as the formula surfaced in the public domain, the Chief Minister met his supporters even as his camp made it clear that Capt. Singh continued to oppose the idea of two Jat Sikhs (Mr. Sidhu and himself) leading both the government and the party. The Chief Minister is said to have made this clear to the high command even though last week, after meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he had said he “would implement whatever decision she takes”. Separately, Mr. Sidhu is learnt to have met the MLAs who are backing him in his battle with the Chief Minister. Rawat clarifies Mr. Rawat called on Ms. Gandhi on Thursday evening. Though he said the meeting was on Uttarakhand, he clarified his “earlier” statement about Mr. Sidhu being the PCC chief. “I never said so [on Mr. Sidhu as PCC chief]. To a specific question on this, I said the solution would be something around it,” Mr. Rawat told presspersons after meeting Ms. Gandhi. Once the party puts a lid to its Punjab feud, it would focus on the election-bound States of Gujarat and Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fault-lines-widen-within-punjab-congress/article35354973.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘2 million Indian accounts banned during May-June’||WhatsApp banned two million Indian accounts to prevent harmful behaviour and spam on its platform between May 15 and June 15, according to the company’s first monthly transparency report released on Thursday. “Our top focus is preventing accounts from sending harmful or unwanted messages at scale. We maintain advanced capabilities to identify these accounts sending a high or abnormal rate of messages and banned 2 millions accounts in India alone from May 15-June 15 attempting this kind of abuse,” the platform said. The company identifies an Indian account via +91 phone number. Stating that more than 95% of such bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging, the company added that these numbers have increased significantly since 2019 because its systems have increased in sophistication, and hence are detecting more accounts even as it believes there are more attempts to send bulk or automated messages. “We ban the vast majority of these accounts proactively, without relying on any user reports,” the Facebook-owned firm said. Globally, the monthly average of accounts banned or disabled on the platform is about 8 million. The company also received 345 grievances from users during the period relating to issues such as ban appeal, product support, account support and safety support. Of this, the company took remedial action in 63 instances. The majority of users who reach out to WhatsApp are either aiming to have their account restored following an action to ban them or reaching out for product or account support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-million-indian-accounts-banned-during-may-june/article35354976.ece
16 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Indigenous faiths are fading away, says Sarma||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday defended the State government’s move to create a department for preserving indigenous faiths that were “fading away” due to the “preaching and professional management systems” of mainstream religions. Replying to a Zero Hour notice in the State Assembly regarding the creation of the department, the Chief Minister said time, modernity and global religious communities had taken a toll on tribal cultures, practices, languages, livelihoods and faiths in Assam. “The mandate of the new department, to be put under the joint control of the Directorates of Archaeology, Museum and History and Antiquarian Studies, will be to interact with the tribal people, study the folklores, customs and practices for ensuring these are not forgotten,” he said. “Sadly, the vicissitudes of time, modernity and global religious communities have threatened the tribal belief systems,” the Chief Minister said. The indigenous faith and culture department would be allotted Rs. 100-crore in the first year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indigenous-faiths-are-fading-away-says-sarma/article35354982.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||NHRC panel seeks CBI probe into Bengal riots||“Hence, it is recommended that all heinous cases, including murder, unnatural deaths, rape and grievous hurt, and complaints carrying these allegations, should be transferred to the CBI for investigation,” the report said, adding that the trial of the CBI cases should be conducted outside West Bengal. The report said there had been 29 complaints related to murder and 12 cases of attempt to rape/sexual assault/molestation. The panel concluded that the police and government officials had been found lacking. “It is quite evident that police is working under influence and in a biased manner and do not have the courage to take action against looming goons belonging to the ruling dispensation,” the report said. The panel said out of the 9,304 people accused in the cases, only 14% had been arrested. The committee also added that it found victims hesitant to speak during its 311 spot visits in the State, with some even reporting being threatened after meeting with the NHRC teams. “Several victims also complained that they were being discriminated against in getting vaccination for COVID-19 because they were perceived to be supporters of the main Opposition party,” the report said. Among the heinous crimes alleged following the completion of Assembly election in May, the panel said women in Kenbona village reported that “police along with Trinamool Congress goons broke into their houses at midnight” on May 23 and they were taken into custody “in semi-nude condition”. “The spate of violence shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus,” the panel said. The panel recommended setting up a court-monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT) to register cases and investigate them. “If the above mentioned worrisome trend is not arrested, where the entire might of the governmental machinery has been used for furthering the political objectives of the party in power, the disease may spread to other States also. This may well be death knell for democracy in this great nation,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-panel-seeks-cbi-probe-into-bengal-riots/article35354983.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra’s active case number sees an uptick||The total cases have reached 61,89,257 while cumulative recoveries have risen to 59,44,801. The recovery rate remained constant at 96.17%. “Of a total 4,48,24,211 samples tested so far, 61,89,257 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 13.81%) have returned positive with over 2.15 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State surveillance officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 1,100 new cases taking its total cases to 10,72,423. Twenty-six deaths were reported. The active case tally stood at 9,500. Mumbai reported 528 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,29,791 while the active count declined to 10,925. Thirteen fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,667. Kolhapur continued to top the case surge in the State, reporting 1,249 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,79,807.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtras-active-case-number-sees-an-uptick/article35354984.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Why do you need the colonial law of sedition?’||The CJI drew the attention of the Attorney General to the conviction rates under sedition. “If you look at the history of use of this Section 124A of IPC, you will find that the conviction rate is very low. There is misuse of power by executive agencies,” the Chief Justice said. The CJI asked the government why it did not throw out the sedition law along with the hundreds of “stale laws” it had expunged from the statute books. “Your government is taking out a lot of stale laws from the law books, why have they not looked into this,” Chief Justice Ramana asked Mr. Venugopal. People had suffered and were scared of the misuse of the sedition law, Chief Justice Ramana said. “We are not blaming any particular government or State. But do look at how Section 66A of the Information Technology Act is continuing to be used... How many unfortunate people have suffered? And there is no accountability for all this...” he noted. ‘People are scared’ The CJI said the sweeping powers of Section 124A gives even a village police officer carte blanche to trample on the right to liberty and free speech of ordinary citizens. “If a police officer wants to fix anybody in a village for something, he can use Section 124A... People are scared. Our concern is misuse of the law and the lack of accountability. Why has it continued in the statute book even after 75 years of our Independence,” Chief Justice Ramana asked the government’s law officers repeatedly. The Chief Justice said the Supreme Court would “definitely look into this Section 124A”. “The situation on the ground is grave... If one party does not like what the other is saying, Section 124A is used... It is a serious threat to the functioning of individuals and parties,” Chief Justice Ramana noted. Mr. Venugopal submitted that the court need not strike down Section 124A. “It is enough to see if there were any excesses in its use and limit the Section to its real purpose… That would be enough,” Mr. Venugopal said. The Bench issued notice to the Centre on a petition filed by retired Army General S.G. Vombatkere, represented by advocates P.B. Suresh and Prasanna S., to quash Section 124A. In its order, the court has also issued notice to the government on a writ petition filed jointly by the Editors Guild of India and cartoonist Aseem Trivedi. The Bench noted that two other petitions filed by Kishore Chandra Wangkemcha and M/s Aamoda Broadcasting Company Private Limited, the latter against the Andhra Pradesh government, was pending before the apex court. Both cases concerned sedition charges. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit had issued notice in the Wangkemcha case. The Aamoda petition is before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. The CJI Bench on Thursday said all these petitions posed “similar questions of law”. The Bench ordered that the cases be listed before an appropriate Bench for hearing. Meanwhile, senior journalist Arun Shourie and NGO Common Cause, both represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, has moved the Supreme Court to quash Section 124A. Their petition contended that a “presumption of constitutionality does not apply to pre-constitutional laws as those laws have been made by foreign legislature or body”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-do-you-need-the-colonial-law-of-sedition/article35354985.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Notice issued to 3 MPs under anti-defection law||The Lok Sabha Secretariat has issued notices to MPs Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Kumar Mondal and K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju under the anti-defection law. Mr. Adhikari and Mr. Mondal had switched over to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress, while YSR Congress Party’s Mr. Raju has been speaking against the party’s supremo. The Trinamool Congress and the YSRCP had approached Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, seeking their disqualification. The three leaders have been asked to respond within 15 days of the receipt of letters, a source told The Hindu on Thursday. The timing of the notices are significant as it not only comes just days before the Parliament session but also ahead of a proposed visit by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to Delhi later this month. The ruling YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh had questioned the delay as well as the neutrality of the Speaker. In an interview with The Hindu , Mr. Birla had explained the procedure. “They [TMC] have written to me with their complaints. I have said that the complaint be taken on board as per form required, I shall ask the two named for their version and later refer it to the Privileges Committee which will then hear the matter,” Mr. Birla had said. “Well, the anti-defection law doesn’t specify a timeline in dealing with such complaints. All I can say is that the process will be carried out in the most transparent way,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notice-issued-to-3-mps-under-anti-defection-law/article35354989.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajas and tamas||Lord Krishna tells Uddhava that a person with the guna of rajas has certain characteristics, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. He has kaama (desire), eehaa (puts in a lot of effort), mada (arrogance), trishna (has great desires), sthamba (pride), aaheehi (asks the Lord for wealth), bhida (looks down on others), sukha (likes the joys obtained through the indriyas), madotsaaha (delights in fighting), yasaspreethih (loves fame), haasya (mocks others), veerya (boasts of his strengths), and balodyamaha (tries to establish adamantly that whatever he says is right). A person with the guna of tamas has certain traits. He has krodah (anger), lobha (is a miser), anruta ( tries to establish as Sastra, that which is not Sastra), himsa (tortures others and is unfaithful), yaachnya (asks others for something), dambah (shows off and pretends to be what he is not), klama (gives difficulties to others), kalihi (causes people to fight amongst themselves), soka (causes sorrow to others), moha (leads others down the wrong path), vishaada (worries and makes others worry), aarthi (thinks poorly of himself), nidraa (sleeps a lot), aasha (desires something or the other all the time), bheeti (is always afraid), and anudhyamah (does not do any work). Krishna says that one with sattva guna glows. He has no blemish and is calm. One with rajas has many desires and differentiates between people. One with tamas has ajnana and is lazy. Because one with rajas does wrong things, his indriyas are not under control. His thinking is not clear. His body becomes unhealthy. If one has tamas, his mind cannot focus on anything. The one with sattva guna always has his indriyas under control. He is without desire. He is not worried about his body and is therefore always happy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajas-and-tamas/article35354999.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||No application received yet for Covishield authorisation: EMA||The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has not received any application from the Serum Institute of India for authorisation of Covishield. The comment from the agency came a fortnight after the EU introduced the EU Digital Covid Certificate (EUDCC), also known as the “green pass” that makes intra-EU travel possible. “We confirm that we have not received a marketing authorisation application for Covishield,” said Salvador Ruiz Carrillo de Albornoz, Press Officer of EMA.  India’s Covishield vaccine, which is based on AstraZeneca’s formula, is not among the authorised vaccines under the EMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-application-received-yet-for-covishield-authorisation-ema/article35355002.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35354981.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC lifts ban imposed on disc jockeys||The Supreme Court on Thursday lifted a blanket ban imposed on disc jockeys by the Allahabad High Court in Uttar Pradesh two years ago. A Bench, led by Justice Vineet Sareen, said disc jockeys could perform at functions provided they follow the rules and obtain necessary licences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-lifts-ban-imposed-on-disc-jockeys/article35355054.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccines to be moved quickly at terminals||To expedite the release of COVID-19 vaccines imported into the country, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has put in place a COVID Response Plan at all major airports, with dedicated teams to fast-track vaccines’ evacuation at each air cargo terminal. The import and export of COVID-19 vaccines through courier services has also been permitted without any value limit, through amendments to the Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and Processing) Regulations, that prescribed limits on the value of goods that could be brought in through courier. “As the vaccines would be transported through special containers equipped with temperature monitoring and tracking devices, provision has also been made for their duty-free temporary admission,” the Board said in a statement, adding that a Standard Operating Protocol (SoP) was being developed for the instant release of vaccines from airports. According to the plan, teams would plan their schedules so that there was adequate personnel working around the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccines-to-be-moved-quickly-at-terminals/article35355003.ece
16 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Vaccination drive affected in Meerut||After local media reports suggested that the vaccination drive has been affected in the last 2-3 days in the Meerut-Saharanpur zone because of the paucity of vaccine doses, local officials said it was not a matter of concern. “The supply has been erratic in the last few days but we will make up in the coming days,” said R.K. Tandon, Chief Medical Officer, Baghpat. Fifteen out of 60 centres reportedly ran out of stock in the district but officials refrain from talking in specifics. “It depends on supply. On some days we achieve 70-80% of the target on others, we inject 10% over the target,” said Dr. Tandon. In Meerut, 22 of 61 centres reportedly ran out of stock in the last couple of days. “I can’t confirm or deny it. We inject whatever we get from the State. In the last few days, the demand has increased,” said Praveen Gautam, vaccination officer, Meerut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-drive-affected-in-meerut/article35355216.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra contests plea of accused||The Maharashtra government on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that the plea challenging the order of extending the period of filing a chargesheet in the Bhima Koregaon violence case by the Sessions Court is “fallacious”. Advocate-General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni was arguing before a Division Bench of Justice S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar. The court was hearing a petition filed by activist Sudha Bharadwaj, along with other accused in the case, alleging that the Pune Sessions Court Judge K.D. Wadane was not authorised to take cognisance of the supplementary chargesheet and to grant an extension to Pune Police for filing the chargesheet. The arguments will continue on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-contests-plea-of-accused/article35354974.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC hears plea by Malegaon accused||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that it will consider reducing the number of witnesses in the 2008 Malegaon blasts trial. Six persons were killed and more than a 100 injured in a series of blasts at Malegaon in Nashik, Maharashtra. Counsel for the agency Sandesh Patil informed a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar that originally there were 491 witnesses in the case, out of which 188 had been examined. The court was hearing a petition filed by Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit, who is an accused in the case. The matter will be heard on July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-hears-plea-by-malegaon-accused/article35354975.ece
16 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Five held for attack on Gangwa’s car||After invoking sedition charges among other allegations against a group of protesters, who allegedly attacked and damaged the official vehicle of Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa recently, the police on Thursday arrested five persons. Arpit Jain, Senior Superintendent of Police, Sirsa, told The Hindu that the police have arrested five persons in connection with the incident that took place on July 11. “We have arrested five persons on the basis of video footage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-held-for-attack-on-gangwas-car/article35354979.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi calls on Kovind||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called on President Ram Nath Kovind. “Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi called on President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and briefed him on important issues,” the official handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. This comes ahead of the monsoon session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-calls-on-kovind/article35355053.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||38 foreign nationals detained||Surprise checks were conducted by Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials at 65 houses in the city on Thursday and 38 foreign nationals were detained. Many of them were allegedly staying in the city without valid travel documents. Cases were booked against the accused under the Foreigner’s Act, 1946. Out of them, four were arrested under the The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after the CCB officials recovered 90 ecstasy pills and 25 grams of marijuana . Started early A team, consisting of six Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs), 20 Inspectors (PIs), 100 head constables and constables, conducted the search from the early hours till afternoon. Sources said most of the foreign nationals, among the 38, are from Africa. A few among them don’t have passports and visas, while a few others’ visa had expired, officials said, adding that they came to India on tourist, business, and student visas. The search was conducted in Banaswadi, K.R. Puram, Hennur, Ramamurthynagar, Sampigehalli, and Yelahanka. The police are questioning all the 38 regarding their purpose of stay, if they have applied for the renewal of visa, and their present activities in the city. Sources said that the searches were conducted because the accused persons caught in drug-peddling cases did not produce valid documents for their stay in Bengaluru. On the subject of expired travel documents, many of them told the police on Thursday that they could not renew their documents because of the pandemic. Some others said that they could not return home as the flights were cancelled, while others cited high air fares for not returning. “The police could have issued us a notice to question us. Carrying out such search operations publicly puts us in bad light,” some of the foreigners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-foreign-nationals-detained/article35355015.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC takes up the task of cleaning Marina again||The Madras High Court has once again taken up the task of cleansing the Marina beach, and called for exhaustive details relating to the maintenance of the beach, safety of visitors, regulation of vendors and fish sellers. Justices N. Kirubakaran and T.V. Thamilselvi expanded the scope of a batch of writ petitions seeking licence to sell ice cream on the beach, and directed the Greater Chennai Corporation to answer by July 22 a series of 12 questions posed by them. The judges wanted to know the quantity of garbage generated on the beach every day and the methodology adopted to clear it. They also asked whether people, who litter the beach, were being fined or not by the Corporation authorities concerned. Further, seeking details about the number of restrooms available on the entire stretch of the beach from Anna Square to Light House, the court asked whether mobile restrooms had been stationed and if not, by when would they be arranged. The Division Bench wanted to know the amount of money spent annually for the maintenance of the beach and the monthly revenue generated from authorised vendors. The court also sought details about police booths since visitors stay in the beach even beyond 10 p.m. After directing the Corporation to spell out the steps being taken, as well as proposed to be taken, for enhancing the beauty of the beach, the judges asked why a fish market should not be constructed on the loop road to prevent fish sellers from squatting on the road. They also wanted to know the possibility of constituting a committee headed by an IAS officer to ensure cleanliness and maintenance of the beach. Another Division Bench, comprising of Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar, had undertaken a similar exercise last year, but the efforts were disrupted after the transfer of Justice Kothari to the Gujarat High Court early this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-takes-up-the-task-of-cleaning-marina-again/article35355137.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Head of a terracotta woman figurine with hair-bun found||The head of a terracotta woman figurine, with decorated hair like goddess Meenakshi and Vaishnavite minstrel Andal, was found during an archaeological excavation at Agaram in Sivaganga district. “It is an interesting finding since we believe such hair decorations developed only in the later period. The head, with an ornate hair-bun, seems to disprove the assumption,” said Thangam Thennarasu, Minister, Tamil Official Language, Tamil Culture and Archaeology, told The Hindu . The Minister said the head was found intact in quadrant at a depth of 60 cm at Agaram, where the Department of Archaeology launched the second season of excavation recently. “It had been hand- modelled out of terracotta measuring 2.9 X 4.7 X 2.6 cm,” he explained. Bulging eyes “It has bulging eyes, a prominent nose and parted lips. The head gear is beautifully portrayed with elongated ear ornaments and ornaments on the forehead and a huge ornate hair-bun on the left side. This is painted red all around the surface,” said R. Sivananthan, Director, Keezhadi Excavation. Blades and lunates Besides the terracotta objects, the excavation has yielded microlith tools, blades and lunates found in association with fluted core manufactured at the site. “There are polished stone axes, black and red wares, red and brown wares, conch bangles and copper and iron objects,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-of-a-terracotta-woman-figurine-with-hair-bun-found/article35355146.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coming soon, an integrated master plan for tourism sector||Tourism Secretary B. Chandramohan on Thursday said the government was working on an integrated master plan that aimed to make tourists feel safe and give them a different experience. “We are putting together a health and hygiene protocol that will be shared with all stakeholders and implemented so that visitors can travel and stay in the State with confidence. Another area of focus is to prolong tourist stay. At present, it is 2-3 days. We are working to extend it to 3-5 days, which will lead to more earnings and help the industry and those depending on it both directly and indirectly,” he said. Speaking at an online seminar on “Domestic tourism — opportunities and challenges” organised by Madras Management Association (MMA) and Prakruthi, he said the high-level committee constituted by the government was working on 10 segments, including pilgrimage and heritage tourism, spiritual and wellness tourism, eco tourism and adventure tourism. MMA president Ravichandran Purushothaman said that though tourism was a significant contributor to India’s GDP, there was still room for expansion. Lot of optimism M.K. Ajit Kumar, spokesperson, South India MICE Association, said that though at present the industry was down, there was light at the end of the tunnel. Shabin Sarvotham, senior general manager, Radisson Blu Temple Bay, said there would be many opportunities for youth once things improve. Asoka Pugal, president emeritus, Tourist Guides Federation of India, said that guides should welcome visitors but send back friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coming-soon-a-master-plan-for-tourism-sector/article35355174.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After over 3 months, active cases fall below 30,000||Tamil Nadu reported 2,405 new COVID-19 cases and 49 deaths on Thursday, taking its tally to 25,28,806 and toll to 33,606. With 3,006 people being discharged after treatment, the total figure touched 24,65,250. The State’s active cases stood at 29,950. The last time the number of active cases was below the 30,000-mark was on April 7 — over three months ago. Coimbatore topped the tally with 256 cases, followed by Thanjavur (163) and Erode (159). Four other districts had more than 100 cases — Salem (155), Chennai (148), Tiruppur (143) and Chengalpattu (130). These seven districts accounted for nearly 50% of the fresh cases. Of the remaining 31 districts that reported less than 100 cases, 24 had under 50, with Tenkasi reporting the lowest with 11. In total, 14 districts reported marginally higher fresh cases than the previous day, while infections came down in the remaining 24. Of the 49 deaths, Chennai reported six, followed by Coimbatore with five. Four more districts reported three deaths each, nine reported two each and another six saw one each. The remaining 17 reported no fatalities. The youngest among the deceased was a 26-year-old woman from Chennai with diabetes. She was admitted to the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and the Government Hospital for Women and Children on July 10, and died three days later at the hospital. The oldest was a 96-year-old woman who died under home quarantine on April 22, but was added to the list on Thursday. Test positivity rate (TPR) remained below 2% for the sixth consecutive day. The State conducted 1,45,663 tests in 24 hours, and its TPR stood at 1.65%. The State received 6,01,630 doses of Covishield and 91,580 doses of Covaxin on Thursday. A total of 1,36,787 people were inoculated. The figure came down from 2.07 lakh on Wednesday, as stocks depleted. Tamil Nadu has administered a total of 1.73 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-over-3-months-active-cases-fall-below-30000/article35355159.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sleep deprivation rampant among Chennai’s poor: study||Adults of Chennai belonging to low-income families sleep, on an average, only five-and-a-half hours at night despite spending eight hours in bed, according to a study that covered a less studied feature of the lives of the urban poor — sleep. Categorising the finding as “significantly below both time in bed and the recommended [duration of sleep of] 7 to 9 hours,” the study, which was held during October 2017-September 2020, stated that 95% of persons surveyed slept less than seven hours per night and 71% slept less than six hours per night. Though they spent about eight hours per night in bed, their sleep was “highly disrupted,” with 31 “awakenings” (meaning a disruption lasting at least 30 seconds) in a typical night. The study was carried out as part of the State government’s memorandum of understanding with the Abdul Latif Jameel – Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), U.S., using state-of-the-art objective measurements. Naturally, sleep efficiency — sleep per time in bed — was 70%, which was far below the minimum of 85%, as stipulated by sleep scientists, for “high quality” sleep. It was similar to those suffering from disorders such as sleep apnea or insomnia in high-income countries. Among the factors that interfered with the participants’ sleep were environmental conditions such as mosquitoes, noise and heat, and mental and physical distress such as stress, pain and hunger. The researchers concluded that “severe sleep deprivation may have serious long-run effects on health and well-being [of people], and calls for policymakers’ and researchers’ attention. More systematic research on sleep in developing countries is needed to establish the external validity of our findings and to study longer-term effects.” The study had two samples — 452 residents in one and 3,833 individuals across randomly-sampled neighbourhoods in the city. Its report was published a few months ago. Drawn from the field of economics, the team of researchers comprised Gautam Rao and Frank Schilbach, Associate Professors of Harvard University and MIT respectively; Heather Schofield, Assistant Professor, University of Pennsylvania; Pedro Bessone Tepedino of the MIT and Mattie Toma of the Harvard. Most of the persons surveyed were unemployed and those who earned more than Rs. 15,000 a month in their current or previous job were excluded from the study.  In respect of the smaller sample, the randomised controlled trials (RCT) were done. The persons covered under the broader sample wore, for three nights, actigraph, a wristwatch-like device that reads sleep/wake data from body movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sleep-deprivation-rampant-among-chennais-poor-study/article35355602.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs govt. to look into allegations of waterbody destruction in Padur||The Madras High Court on Thursday expressed shock over an allegation levelled by a public interest litigant that the Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC) was destroying waterbodies in Padur village for the Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) Phase II Project in Chengalpattu district. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy told government counsel P. Muthukumar that damage to waterbodies appeared to be happening on the stretch of OMR, touted as Rajiv Gandhi Information Technology Expressway, dotted by several wetlands and marshlands. “Many constructions over there involve desecration of waterbodies. The State cannot indulge in such things. Development has to be sustainable. There ought to be elevated corridors. Statutory authorities have to consider it. Ask your officials to visit the place,” the Chief Justice told the counsel. The Bench also called for a status report on the issue from the TNRDC within three weeks. The interim order was passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by S. Sridhar, a resident of Padur. He had complained about the water sources in his village being obliterated due to the OMR Phase II Project. The petitioner said that the TNRDC had protected the waterbodies in Kelambakkam village by constructing bridges at appropriate places, but chose to construct the expressway right on the waterbodies in Padur, where more than 20,000 families depended on them for drinking water and fishing. The petitioner said even the animals had been deprived of water sources. He claimed that the civil contractors engaged by the TNRDC had destroyed the Kalleri lake and Padur pond. He said the two waterbodies were now filled with debris. The litigant also stated that the groundwater level in Padur had gone down from 80 feet in 2006 to 200 feet now. Therefore, he urged the court to declare the encroachment of waterbodies as illegal and order their restoration besides initiating action against the erring officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-plaints-of-damaged-waterbodies/article35355175.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oil tanker hits median near Adyar bridge||An oil tanker crashed into the median near Thiru. Vi. Ka. Bridge in Adyar in the early hours of Thursday. As the tanker overturned, the oil it was carrying spilled and made the road slippery. The police said the truck was carrying oil used in soap manufacturing, and had come from Puducherry. Around 1.30 a.m., Ramlal, the driver, lost control as the vehicle reached Durgabai Deshmukh Road. It hit the median near the bus stand, close to the Sivaji Memorial, and overturned. The driver sustained minor injuries. Police immediately reached the spot, and sought the assistance of the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Since it was early, traffic was less, and the police personnel pulled the tanker to the side of the road after cordoning off the area. Firemen removed the oil slick by spraying water and foam, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oil-tanker-hits-median-near-adyar-bridge/article35355132.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medals awarded to 646 police personnel||As many as 646 police personnel received the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Constabulary Medals on Thursday for completing 10 years of service without any adverse remarks. Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal presented the medals at Rajarathinam Stadium. Every year, the State government announces the medals to those in the ranks of grade-I constables, head constables and special sub-inspectors (SSIs), and havildars in the Armed Reserve . As many as 208 personnel from the Law and Order, Crime wing; 196 from the Traffic wing; 74 from the Armed Reserve; and 168 from the Central Crime Branch, Intelligence, Modern Control Room and other units were chosen for the medal this year. Appreciating the awardees, Mr. Jiwal listed various welfare measures initiated for personnel at the time of the pandemic, with 95% getting the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and 59% receiving both the doses. “In the interest of police personnel, efforts have been taken to redress their grievances on matters relating to transfers and housing. Several schemes are being implemented to improve the well- being of police personnel and reduce their stress,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medals-awarded-to-646-police-personnel/article35355139.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another ring well found at Keeladi||The Archaeological department has found yet another ring well at the Keeladi excavation site at a depth of 411 cm. The ring well was discovered on Thursday in the southeastern part of the quadrant, a press release said. On July 5, a well decorated ring well with two embossed rope decorations on the exterior was found. The ring well traced on Thursday too had decoration. “The rim of the ring well traced is observed to have decoration. Its east-west length is 58 cm as a major portion of the ring is intruding inside the southern section. Its perpendicular length from the southern section is 18 cm. The thickness of the decorated rim is 3 cm,” the release said. Among the findings were dice, hop-scotches, weavers tools such as spindle whorl, terracotta beads, ear ornaments, bangles made of shell and glasses, micro glass beads, semi-precious stone beads, a golden wire, multiple fully in-tact bowls and pots, debris of bricks, hand grooved roofing tiles and other such artefacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-ring-well-found-at-keeladi/article35355142.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancer Institute appeals to public for donations||The Cancer Institute, Adyar, has put out an appeal for donations citing the “unprecedented second wave (of COVID-19) that has started pulling us back in a big way”. Although all departments in the institute were functional during the pandemic but with the subsequent restrictions, the patient flow had been reduced to a small fraction of the normal operations. However, the institute’s operational expenses remained the same. “Our staff are excellent in doing dedicated service in spite of the serious risks involved,” the appeal read. “We have to continue to function and the institute has always been in the forefront when it comes to taking care of poor and socio-economically weak patients who get the standard treatment, totally free, pandemic or not.” The appeal said the institute required funds to procure N95 masks, gloves, PPE kits, had to maintain equipment, purchase drugs and take care of the poor patients and staff. Arvind Krishnamurthy, professor and head of surgical oncology, said the institute had 1,000 staff on its roll. “In the institute, not a single staff has been laid off during the pandemic and not a single rupee from their pay was cut. Even the staff who are in the preventive oncology sector such as community outreach programme and involved in screening patients and various projects have been retained. Even they have been retained but they have not been able to do the service for what they were recruited,” Dr. Arvind said. A big challenge “It is a challenge to run the organisation. It is an appeal to the general public. We do not know how the future will pan out in terms of the third wave. Right now, the outpatient department is running full fledged. We had new donors in the first wave of the pandemic. The crunch was in the second wave of the pandemic. However, in the long run, we would like to have a steady flow of resources,” Dr. Arvind said. The institute is approaching individuals and well-wishers in India and abroad, he added. During the first wave, V. Shanta, then chairman of the institute, had made a similar appeal. The response had helped the institute remain functional. The institute offers subsidised treatment to 40% of its patients and free treatment to 20% of its patients. This continued even during the pandemic, Dr. Arvind said. On an average, the institute spent Rs. 3.5 crore on drugs, including anti-cancer medicines and Rs. 4.75 crore on salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-institute-appeals-to-public-for-donations/article35355135.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another ring-well found at Keeladi||The State Archaeological Department has excavated yet another ring-well at the Keeladi site at a depth of 411 cm. The ring well was excavated on Thursday in the south east part of the quadrant YP4/1, a press release said. On July 5, a well decorated ring-well with two embossed rope decorations on the exterior was found. The ring-well traced on Thursday too has been observed to have decoration. “The rim of the ring-well traced is observed to have decoration. Its east-west length is 58 cm as a major portion of the ring is intruding inside the southern section. Its perpendicular length from the southern section is 18 cm. The thickness of the decorated rim is 3 cm,” the release said. Among other findings in this season of excavations, the department found dice, gamesman and hop-scotches, weavers tools such as spindle, whorl, terracotta beads, ear ornaments, bangles made of shell and glasses, micro glass beads, semi-precious stone beads, a golden wire, multiple fully intact bowls and pots, debris of bricks, hand-grooved roofing tiles and other such artefacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-ring-well-found-at-keeladi/article35355333.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure two-wheelers have rear-view mirrors: High Court||The Madras High Court on Thursday observed that the State Transport Commissioner was obligated to ensure people’s strict compliance with motor vehicle rules, which require all two-wheelers to be fitted with rear-view mirrors while plying on the roads. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said it might be advisable to instruct vehicle manufacturers and dealers to incorporate a clause that vehicle warranty will not apply if rear-view mirrors are removed by customers. The court hoped that the State government, the Transport Commissioner and the DGP would ensure strict adherence among motorists to the motor vehicle laws and issue instructions, taking into account the observations made by it. The interim orders were passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi. He had sought a direction to impose a fine of Rs. 500 on those who ride two-wheelers without rear-view mirrors and Rs. 1,500 on repeat offenders. In his affidavit, the petitioner stated that the number of two-wheelers in the State had increased exponentially from 32.14 lakh (8.35 lakh motorcycles, 5.46 lakh scooters and 18.32 lakh mopeds) in 1999 to 2.49 crore (1.57 crore motorcycles, 36.59 lakh scooters and 54.74 lakh mopeds) in 2020. Further, pointing out that a majority of fatal accidents involve two-wheelers, he said rear-view mirrors on both sides of the handle were an essential part of the vehicles since they help riders get a better view of the traffic behind them. Yet, most two-wheeler riders remove them, and the traffic police seldom fine them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-two-wheelers-have-rear-view-mirrors-high-court/article35355148.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin reviews housing, urban development projects||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday chaired a meeting of Ministers and officials at the Secretariat. He instructed officials to take steps to boost infrastructure in urban centres and neighbouring areas. Reviewing the functioning of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, he instructed officials to plan ahead for improving the infrastructure needs of the State, an official release said. He also directed them to explore setting up a single-window system for all clearances needed for constructing housing units in Chennai and other parts of the State. The meeting discussed the possibility of classifying the State into 12 zones and chalking out comprehensive urban development schemes for 22 municipalities. “The Chief Minister instructed officials to consider the possibility of integrated development centres with the participation of the Industries, Health, Highways, Transport, Education, Housing and Urban Development Departments and Chennai Metro Rail Limited, instead of setting up satellite townships,” it said. He advised officials to set up an administrative committee for the Koyambedu Wholesale Market. They were asked to explore setting up a separate market for organic farm produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-reviews-housing-urban-development-projects/article35355157.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on vulnerable residents to prevent third COVID wave||The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to focus on 8 lakh vulnerable residents to manage the third wave of COVID-19. The civic body has also started sealing shops that violated Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to prevent any surge in the number of cases. For the past few days, the Corporation had only imposed a fine for violation of SoPs. Two shops in Wallace Road and one shop in Meeran Sahib Street in Ritchie Street Market, were locked and sealed on Thursday. Corporation officials conducted a meeting with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) officials on Thursday to take initiatives to prevent the third wave of the pandemic. A group of medical students in Madras Medical College have tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. All of them had been admitted in the hospital, officials said. The civic body has started taking measures to prevent any increase in the number of cases, focusing on vaccination of residents with comorbidities and enforcement of SoPs at commercial areas. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has directed zonal level officials to vaccinate all 8 lakh vulnerable residents. Many of the zones have vaccinated over 50% of the vulnerable residents. Zones with commercial areas, such as Royapuram, have vaccinated 58% of vulnerable residents. “Today we had a meeting with ICMR experts. We will focus on former and present tuberculosis patients, and also pregnant mothers. We will also keep them in focus for prioritised vaccination,” Mr. Bedi said. The civic body collected data about vulnerable residents, and is expected to help them get all assistance pertaining to healthcare at the divisional level. It will start increasing ICU beds to manage the third wave. The tendering process is expected to start on Friday. The Corporation will call for filling the posts of specialists as sanctioned by the State government. Walk in interviews are expected to start shortly. “We will keep on augmenting our infrastructure. We are continuing the existing testing. More than 25,000 persons are tested every day,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-focuses-on-vulnerable-residents-to-prevent-third-wave/article35355134.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Union Minister assured to look into T.N.’s demand on exemption from NEET’||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian on Thursday said that the Union Minister for Education, Dharmendra Pradhan, had assured to look into the State’s demand to exempt it from the National Eligibility-cum Entrance Test (NEET). However, when asked whether the students were being misled into believing that NEET may not happen this year, Mr. Subramanian said that the government has not asked the students to stop preparing and the students were also continuing their coaching classes for the exam. In a statement released on his interaction with the media in Delhi after meeting Mr. Pradhan and Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh L. Mandaviya, Mr. Subramanian said that Mr. Pradhan did not reject the State’s demand during the meeting. “The [Union] Minister said he also understood the difficulties faced by section of students and highlighted the measures taken by the Union government, including the addition of more languages in which the students can take the examination and increase in the number of centres. However, we told him that our demand was to do away with the exam. He said he will look into it,” Mr. Subramanian said. Rs. 1500 crore demand Mr. Subramanian said that a proposal for Rs. 1,500 crore to develop infrastructure to tackle third wave of COVID-19 and for the measures carried out during the second wave was submitted to Mr. Mandaviya under the National Health Mission Project. He said that the Union Minister agreed to release Rs. 800 crore immediately and the remaining amount later based on the progress in the implementation of the projects. Vaccination Mr. Subramanian said that a key demand made to Mr. Mandaviya was to increase the allocation of vaccines to Tamil Nadu. He highlighted that while the State needed roughly 12 crore doses of vaccines to administer two doses to its eligible population, it had received only around 1.7 crore doses so far. “The Minister has agreed to consider the demand and increase allocation in the coming months,” he said. Other demands discussed in the meeting included setting up of a new All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Coimbatore, expediting the approval process for new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu and exploring the possibility of producing vaccines in the facilities available in Chengalpattu and Coonoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-minister-assured-to-look-into-tns-demand/article35355167.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC warns HR&CE Department of action||The Madras High Court on Thursday impressed upon the State government the need to ensure that the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department gets into action to save temple properties. Concerned over numerous cases filed in the court about the misappropriation of temple properties, the court warned that it might have to come down hard if the Department did not act on its own. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations while hearing a contempt of court petition filed against top government officials for having allegedly failed to recover the lands of the Agatheshwarar Temple at Nungambakkam. Petitioner J. Mohanraj said HR&CE officials had failed to recover the lands sold illegally by the erstwhile trustees, despite a court order passed on February 19, 2019. P.T. Perumal, counsel for the petitioner, brought it to the notice of the court that a souvenir brought out by the temple in 1988 had mentioned that it was in possession of 340 grounds of land. Subsequently, information obtained under the Right to Information Act, 2005, disclosed that the temple was in possession of 307 grounds. Now, in a status report filed before the court, the HR&CE Department stated that the temple was only in possession of 93 grounds. The report also said 107 grounds had been sold by the erstwhile trustees. Referring to the differing figures being provided since 1988, counsel insisted that the HR&CE Commissioner be directed to explain the steps taken to recover large tracts of land that was sold illegally. Finding force in his submissions, the judges directed the Department to file a status report within three weeks. “We note that in most cases pertaining to temples under the HR&CE Department, the officials concerned have been negligent in resuming temple properties that had been transferred to others unauthorisedly. Unless immediate measures are taken by the Department, more drastic measures may be called for,” the court warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-warns-hrce-department-of-action/article35355144.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. delegation to call on Union Minister today||A delegation representing parties in Tamil Nadu is scheduled to call on the Union Minister for Jal Shakti in New Delhi on Friday afternoon to oppose any proposal by Karnataka to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. The meeting will be held at Shram Shakti Bhawan in Delhi, at 1 p.m. on Friday, a source said. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan will lead the delegation. Representatives part of the delegation are: R.S. Bharathi (DMK); D. Jayakumar (AIADMK); A. Gopanna (Congress); G.K. Mani (PMK); Vaiko (MDMK); Thol. Thirumavalavan (VCK); R.C. Paul Kanagaraj (BJP); N. Periasamy (CPI); K. Balakrishnan (CPI-M); M.H. Jawahirullah (MMK); T. Velmurugan (TVK); A.K.P. Chinnaraj (KNMDK) and M. Jagan Moorthy (Puratchi Bharatham). The delegation is expected to call on the Union Minister and handover copies of resolutions passed during a meeting of representatives from legislature parties in Tamil Nadu last Monday. The meeting of legislative parties, convened by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, unanimously passed a resolution urging the Union government not to accord permission to Karnataka to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu.  The delegation will oppose any proposal by Karnataka to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-delegation-to-call-on-union-minister-today/article35355154.ece
16 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Another ring well excavated at Keeladi||The State Archaeological department has excavated yet another ring-well at the Keeladi site at a depth of 411 cm. The ring well was excavated on Thursday in the south east part of the quadrant YP4/1, a press release said. On July 5, a well decorated ring-well with two embossed rope decorations on the exterior was found. The ring-well traced on Thursday too has decoration. “Its east-west length is 58 cm as a major portion of the ring is intruding inside the southern section. Its perpendicular length from the southern section is 18 cm. The thickness of the decorated rim is 3 cm,” the release said. Among other findings in this season of excavations, the department found dice, gamesman and hop-scotches, weavers tools such as spindle, whorl, terracotta beads, ear ornaments, bangles made of shell and glasses, micro glass beads, semi-precious stone beads, a golden wire, multiple fully in-tact bowls and pots, debris of bricks, hand grooved roofing tiles and other such artefacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-ring-well-excavated-at-keeladi/article35355301.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jobs for unemployed as part of CM’s outreach||Until a few months ago, G. Asina, a transgender from Kancheepuram, had to do odd jobs to make a living. But now the 31-year-old is attending coaching classes for government examinations, having been shortlisted through the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar’ (the Chief Minister in your constituency) programme. “I submitted a petition. I received a call, and officials counselled me on what I could do based on my qualification. And I’m now attending coaching classes, and will be sitting for my exams,” said Asina. Sathish, 24, of Chennai, was another beneficiary. “I was working at a private company and lost my job owing to the COVID-19 [lockdown]. I registered my details in the employment exchange and submitted a petition for a job during the Chief Minister’s campaign. And I have got a job at a telecalling firm.” The government is clearing job petitions that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin received during his election campaign. Of the 67,757 persons who petitioned for jobs, 224 have been placed in private companies through job fairs, while 6,757 are undergoing online coaching for competitive examinations. “Work is in progress, and the government has been reaching out to each petitioner through district officials. Many petitions did not have a contact number, and we will soon create a facility wherein these petitioners can get online with their reference numbers and update their contact details,” said Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, Special Officer of the programme. She said each petitioner was counselled based on age and qualification and given options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jobs-for-unemployed-as-part-of-cms-outreach/article35355153.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET to be held in 18 cities in Tamil Nadu||This year, medical aspirants from Tamil Nadu can appear for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test in 18 cities, following the inclusion of examination centres in Chengalpattu, Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Tiruppur. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan informed this to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian during a meeting in New Delhi on Thursday. Last year, the test was held in 14 cities. The National Testing Agency increased the number of centres from 10 to 14 in 2018, following complaints that aspirants were being forced to travel long distances, sometimes to the neighbouring States, for taking the test. Last year, around 1.21 lakh candidates had registered themselves for the test. Of the 99,610 aspirants who took the test, 57,215 qualified. With the State looking forward to add 11 more medical colleges this year, an additional 1,650 MBBS seats will be added. As several boards across the country have reduced the Class XII syllabus owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the National Testing Agency has introduced changes in the exam pattern. There will be two parts in each section — A (35 questions) and B (15 questions) — in each of the four subjects: physics, chemistry, botany and zoology. The test is for 720 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-to-be-held-in-18-towns-in-tamil-nadu/article35355155.ece
16 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Union Minister assures to look into demand on NEET exemption’||Tamil Nadu Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian on Thursday said that the Union Minister for Education, Dharmendra Pradhan, had assured to look into the State’s demand to exempt it from the National Eligibility-cum Entrance Test (NEET). However, when asked whether the students were being misled into believing that NEET may not happen this year, Mr Subramanian said that the government has not asked the students to stop preparing and the students were also continuing their coaching classes for the exam. In a statement released on his interaction with the media in Delhi after meeting Mr. Pradhan and Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh L. Mandaviya, Mr. Subramanian said that Mr. Pradhan did not reject the State’s demand during the meeting. “The [Union] Minister said he also understood the difficulties faced by section of students and highlighted the measures taken by the Union government, including the addition of more languages in which the students can take the examination and increase in the number of centres. However, we told him that our demand was to do away with the exam. He said he will look into it,” Mr. Subramanian said. Rs. 1,500 crore demand Mr. Subramanian said that a proposal for Rs. 1,500 crore to develop infrastructure to tackle third wave of COVID-19 and for the measures carried out during the second wave was submitted to Mr. Mandaviya under the National Health Mission Project. He said that the Union Minister agreed to release Rs. 800 crore immediately and the remaining amount later based on the progress in the implementation of the projects. Vaccination Mr. Subramanian said that a key demand made to Mr. Mandaviya was to increase the allocation of vaccines to Tamil Nadu. He highlighted that while the State needed roughly 12 crore doses of vaccines to administer two doses to its eligible population, it had received only around 1.7 crore doses so far. “The Minister has agreed to consider the demand and increase allocation in the coming months,” he said. Other demands discussed in the meeting included setting up of a new All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Coimbatore, expediting the approval process for new medical colleges in Tamil Nadu and exploring the possibility of producing vaccines in the facilities available in Chengalpattu and Coonnoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-minister-assures-to-look-into-demand-on-neet-exemption/article35355722.ece
16 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Terracotta figurine with an ornate hair-bun found in Agaram||Head of a terracotta woman figurine with decorated hair like Goddess Meenakshi and Vasihnavite minstrel Andal was found during an archaeological excavation in Agaram in Sivaganga district. “It is an interesting finding since we believed that such hair decorations developed only during later period. The head with ornate hair-bun seems to disprove the assumption,” said Thangam Thennarasu, Minister, Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture, Archaeology to The Hindu . The Minister said the head was found intact in quadrant at a depth of 60 cm in Agaram, where the Department of Archaeology launched the second season of excavation recently. “It had been hand modelled out of terracotta measuring 2.9 X 4.7 X 2.6 cm,” he explained. “The terracota figurine has bulging eyes, prominent nose and parted lips. The head gear is beautifully portrayed with elongated ear ornaments and ornaments on the forehead and huge ornate hair-bun on the left side of the head. This painted with red slip all around the surface,” said R. Sivananthan, Director of Keezhadi Excavation. Besides the terracotta objects, the excavation has yielded microlith tools, blades and lunates found in association with fluted core manufactured at the site. “There are polished stone axes, black and red wares, red and brown wares, conch bangles and copper and iron objects,” Mr. Sivananthan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/terracotta-figurine-with-an-ornate-hair-bun-found-in-agaram/article35355281.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 120 kg of ganja seized, 3 from A.P. held||A special team of police on Thursday arrested three drug peddlers from Visakhapatnam and seized over 120 kg of ganja from them. Following a tip-off, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Washermenpet, constituted a special team. The team spotted the vehicle with the contraband on a national highway, and chased it down near Naidupet. Based on information given by the passengers, they nabbed another vehicle carrying a huge quantity of ganja. The police arrested Suresh, 32, Shiva Prasad, 24, and Santhosh, 30, of Visakhapatnam. The trio was part of a gang operating from Andhra Pradesh. They seized over 120 kg of ganja, two cars and five mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-120-kg-of-ganja-seized-3-from-ap-held/article35355128.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man protests before CM’s car, let off with warning||A man from Nandivaram-Guduvancheri created a furore in the State Secretariat on Thursday by sitting in dharna in front of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s parked car. The man, who was identified as Arul Doss, managed to gain entry with a delegation of teachers who had come to meet the Higher Education Minister. Staging his protest, he demanded quick action on his plea to resolve a property dispute. Police personnel picked him up, and took him to the Fort police station. He told them that he runs a shop in Nandivanam village, and alleged that a portion of the shop was demolished based on an inaccurate survey report. Later, he was let off with a warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-protests-before-cms-car-let-off-with-warning/article35355129.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders issued new ID cards in Tiruvallur||Tiruvallur district administration organised a special camp for the transgender community to issue new identity cards and for carrying out changes in the identity cards which were already issued to them. Collector Dr. Alby John, who took the initiative to hold the special camp, said 139 transgenders were identified in addition to the 253 enrolled in the population data. He said the new identity cards were issued to the 139 members and corrections were carried out in the Aadhaar, electoral photo identity cards and ration cards of those members who complained of errors. In the special camp, organised by the Revenue and Social Welfare departments, more than 200 members participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgenders-issued-new-id-cards-in-tiruvallur/article35355565.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surgery gives relief to boy suffering from seizures||A child that suffered more than 50 seizures a day has been provided relief through surgery by doctors at MGM Healthcare here. According to doctors, the boy, who is around one-and-half-years-old now, suffered birth asphyxia, which refers to lack of supply of oxygen to the brain and other vital organs at birth. This led to seizures that progressively worsened. His mother Pavithra said the child, one year after birth, was getting more than 50 seizures a day, and it even went up to 80 or 100 on some days. A.T. Arasar Seeralar, senior visiting consultant, MGM Healthcare, said when the child was brought to the hospital for consultation, the condition was worse. “Even with four to five medications, there was no improvement. That is when we thought of surgery,” he said. K. Sridhar, director and group head, Institute of Neurosciences and Spinal Disorders (INSD) at the hospital, who led the surgical team, said that a video electroencephalogram (EEG) revealed that the electrical impulses that triggered the seizures started in multiple points on both sides of the brain and spread to other regions. He said it was decided to perform a corpus callosotomy, which referred to the severing of a band of fibres connecting the two halves of the brain. “The idea was to prevent the transmission of epilepsy impulses between the regions,” he said. While the doctors expected considerable improvement, he said they were happy to observe that the seizures stopped completely. “It has been three months since the surgery. The video EEG does show some epilepsy impulses. But they do not result in seizures,” he said. T. Arulmmozhi, senior consultant, INSD, said that children with epilepsy generally responded well to anticonvulsant drugs. “However, in rare cases like this, when medicines are not helping, it is important to consider surgical interventions,” he said. Ms. Pavithra said while most doctors they consulted advised against surgery, she was glad she agreed to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-gives-relief-to-boy-suffering-from-seizures/article35355130.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt working on master plan to make tourists feel safe’||Tourism Secretary B. Chandramohan on Thursday said the government was working on an integrated master plan to make tourists feel safe and give them a different experience. “We are putting together a health and hygiene protocol that will be shared with all stakeholders and implemented so that visitors can travel and stay in the State with confidence. Another area of focus is to prolong tourist stay. At present it is two to three days. We are working to extend it to three to five days, which will lead to more earnings and help the industry and those depending on it both directly and indirectly,” he said. Speaking at an online seminar on “Domestic Tourism - Opportunities and Challenges”, organised by Madras Management Association (MMA) and Prakruthi, he said the high-level committee constituted by the government was working on 10 segments, including pilgrimage and heritage tourism, spiritual and wellness tourism, eco tourism and adventure tourism. MMA president Ravichandran Purushothaman said that though tourism was a significant contributor to India’s GDP, there was still room for expansion, The country’s tourism potential remained unexploited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-working-on-master-plan-to-make-tourists-feel-safe/article35355180.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan launches MNM trade union wing||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Thursday inaugurated the party’s trade union wing, which will be headed by Su. A. Ponnusamy, who is also the president of Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Welfare Association. Mr. Haasan said that his uncle was the first person to ask him when he was going to start a trade union for the party. “When I told my family that I was going to start the party, they were worried for me and cautioned me. I told them that the politics will affect them one way or the other. My uncle was a trade unionist. When I spoke to him, he asked me when I will start a trade union wing?” he said. He said, “Mr. Ponnusamy understood that I was going to start a party even when I was only hinting at it.” Overwhelming support Mr. Haasan said that he felt overwhelming support after he lost the elections in Coimbatore South. He said that constantly referring to Mahatma Gandhi in his speeches did not mean that he was a Congress sympathiser.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-launches-mnm-trade-union-wing/article35355143.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK suspends party leader in Manapparai||The DMK on Thursday suspended its Manappari East union unit’s treasurer S. Arokiyasamy for violating party discipline and bringing disrepute to the organisation. Party general secretary Duraimurugan said Mr. Arokiyasamy had been suspended from all posts including primary membership of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-suspends-party-leader-in-manapparai/article35355279.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK suspends party leader in Manapparai||The DMK on Thursday suspended the party’s Manappari east union unit’s treasurer S. Arokiyasamy for violating party discipline and bringing disrepute. Party general secretary Duraimurugan said Mr. Arokiyasamy had been suspended from the party’s primary membership also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-suspends-party-leader-in-manapparai/article35355172.ece
16 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call for walk-in interview by Department of Posts||Department of Posts, India, will conduct walk-in interview on July 30 at 11 a.m. to select direct agents for sale of postal life insurance/rural postal insurance products. It will be held at the Anna Road HPO, Chennai 600002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-walk-in-interview-by-department-of-posts/article35355171.ece
16 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Furnish information to RTI activist, Coimbatore Corporation told||Over a year ago, Right to Information (RTI) activist S.P. Thiyagarajan had asked the Coimbatore Corporation to furnish the number of resolutions the Council under special officers had passed from October 2016 to May 2020. In his RTI petition of May 28, 2020 he had sought the number of resolutions, month-wise. To date, the activist had not received a reply. But his persistence to access the information had paid off as the State Information Commission had asked the civic body to furnish the information before July 21, 2021. “At the time of filing the information, little did I realise that it would be a long drawn battle,” he said. He had sought the details because the Corporation had stopped making public the resolutions the Council under special officers had passed. To his petition of May 28, 2020, the Public Information Officer/Council Secretary had replied on June 1, 2020 with a question – have you sought information on the total number of resolutions passed month-wise or the list of total resolutions passed as information. If the petitioner could clarify the details sought and file a fresh application under the RTI Act, the Corporation could then consider the same, the Council Secretary had said. A few days later Mr. Thiyagarajan filed a fresh RTI application seeking month-wise number of resolutions passed from October 2016 to May 2020. In response to this application, the Council Secretary replied that the Corporation was unable to furnish the information sought for because it amounted to creating new information. The Corporation, as per RTI Act, was duty bound to furnish only those information on its files and therefore, the request could not be complied with. Against this “evasive reply”, Mr. Thiyagarajan said he had moved an appeal with the first appellate officer/Deputy Commissioner, who only reiterated what the Council Secretary had said. Therefore, he was left with little choice but to move the State Information Commission seeking the information and action against both the Council Secretary and Deputy Commissioner, the petitioner said and added that he had wanted the Commission to fine both the officers. He had moved the Commission on September 4, 2020. In response to his complaint, the Commission had asked the Council Secretary to provide complete information before July 21 and informed him that if the information were incomplete he could represent the same. Mr. Thiyagarajan said that the Corporation could not provide even the number of resolutions passed, let alone the details of those resolutions, only showed how poor had been the administration in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/furnish-information-to-rti-activist-coimbatore-corporation-told/article35355176.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body evicts 57 houses that encroached water body||Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday removed encroachments in the eastern part of Gokulam Colony, off Marudhamalai Road, in P.N. Pudur. Executive Engineer, encroachment removal, S. Ravichandran and Assistant Town Planning Officer K. Sathya, who led the eviction drive, said the Corporation demolished 57 houses that were built at least over 30 years ago encroaching upon a channel that fed water to the Krishnampathy tank. Around 75 families were living in those houses that stretched for around a kilometre along the channel. The Corporation demolished the houses after issuing notices to the occupants a few months ago as it wanted to ensure water flow into the tank during the monsoon season. The Corporation along with the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board had enrolled the families in the list of encroachers who needed alternative accommodation. The Board had given alternative accommodation to the evicted families in its tenement in Kovaipudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-evicts-57-houses-that-encroached-water-body/article35355198.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Compendium on MMF garments released||Textiles Secretary Upendra Prasad Singh released a compendium on man-made fibre garments on Wednesday at the executive committee meeting of the Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC). The compendium, compiled by the Council, has details of all 90 MMF garment HS lines, including the top 10 high potential MMF garments for the United States market. It has the details of fabrics used to produce the 90 HS lines and their supplier details. Mr. Singh said the apparel sector is important for the economy as it provides livelihood to a large segment of population and has a major contribution towards exports and GDP. The Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) scheme, along with the proposed Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme and Mega Investment Textile Parks (MITRA) will help growth of apparel exports, he said. AEPC chairman A. Sakthivel said the compendium has details of HS codes, pictures, fabric suppliers and prices. MMF garments contribute to around $165 billion in total ready made garment exports of $470 billion globally. India’s There is huge opportunity for Indian apparel manufacturers to diversify to MMF garments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compendium-on-mmf-garments-released/article35355178.ece
16 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Study shows 18 elephant migratory paths||A study has identified 18 inter-State migratory routes that elephants take to move between the Coimbatore and Mannarkkad Forest Divisions of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Elephant expert and biologist N. Sivaganesan, who was engaged by the Coimbatore Forest Division for the study, found that the availability of perennial sources of water and intact forest tracts greatly influenced the elephants’ choice of migratory routes. Crucial unit The 18 routes, located in the 720-square kilometre area of the Coimbatore Forest Division, form a crucial conservation unit which comes under the Nilambur-Coimbatore Elephant Reserve of the Brahmagiri-Nilgiri-Eastern Ghats Elephant Landscape. “These 18 routes are important for the conservation of elephants in the long run. They are ecologically important as they ensure fodder, water and shelter. Protecting the migratory paths is important for ensuring the genetic diversity of elephants,” Mr. Sivaganesan said. The rapid study indicated that the elephant population from Walayar in Palakkad district can migrate up to the water-spread areas of the Bhavanisagar reservoir in Coimbatore and Erode districts by using the forest connectivity. The findings showed that most of the migratory routes were in the foothill forests and the gentle slopes, and that animals avoided hilly tracts. Though most of the routes were found bisecting highways, elephants migrated to their destinations in accordance with the seasons. “The main objectives of the study were to identify and document the elephant transit routes in the Coimbatore Forest Division, understand the ecological health of the routes and identify steps to be taken for keeping them free of hindrances. It also helps in understanding the priority habitat accessed by the elephants and how the human-elephant conflict is linked to these routes,” said D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division. The study will also help the Forest Department design a framework to undertake camera trap studies for better understanding of elephants in terms of age, sex and movement dynamics in the Nilambur-Coimbatore Elephant Reserve. “A similar study will be conducted to identify the paths between the Coimbatore and Palakkad Divisions. The data will be shared with the Mannarkkad Division,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-shows-18-elephant-migratory-paths/article35355152.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile sector hails continuation of taxes, levies rebate scheme||The textile and clothing industry is confident of growth in exports of apparels and made ups as the Union government announced on Wednesday continuation of the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) scheme till the end of March, 2024. Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council chairman Manoj Patodia said the extension of the RoSCTL scheme is a positive development that will improve the competitiveness of made ups articles in the export markets. In the textile sector, overseas buyers place orders and exporters have to chalk out their activities well in advance and, therefore, it is important that the policy regime regarding export of textile products should be stable. The exporters can now take a long term perspective while negotiating export orders. A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said the Scheme will refund all embedded taxes and make Indian apparel and made up products globally competitive. “The scheme will go a long way in bringing back positive sentiments and helping the Indian textile value chain attain $100 billion annual exports in next three years,” he said. The scheme will help check the declining trend witnessed in apparel exports. India’s apparel exports fell 20.8 % in one year, from $15,509 million in 2019-20 to $12,289 million in 2020-21. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said the textile products that are exported includes the embedded taxes/ levies to the tune of 5 % to 6 % and these are currently not rebated under any other mechanism. The RoSCTL will help exporters get some of the cost reimbursed and reduce their financial burden. Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association Ashwin Chandran said the the textile and clothing industry had been seeking extension of the RoSCTL scheme to mitigate the crisis created by the pandemic. The industry struggled to commit orders to buyers in the absence of RoSCTL benefit and has been facing stress during the last couple of months. The announcement on Wednesday has given confidence to exporters and created a level-playing field to increase the exports and create new jobs. According to Raja. M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, the scheme will benefit exporters in the long term too to work out the costing as the exporters usually take up orders four to six months in advance. The “timely intervention” will give thrust to apparel and made up exports as international brands, especially those in the US, are looking at India as a credible alternative sourcing destination to India, said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreners’ Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-sector-hails-continuation-of-taxes-levies-rebate-scheme/article35355177.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Health workers brave heavy rain to vaccinate tribal people near Valparai||More than 200 residents from eight tribal settlements near Valparai had their first shot of COVID-19 vaccine on Wednesday as the health workers reached out to them braving heavy rain and slippery paths through jungles. The drives were held after educating residents about the vaccination programme in the last several days. Deputy Director Health Services S. Senthil Kumar said the Health Department was taking various measures to counter the vaccine hesitancy among the residents after which they voluntarily turned to receive their first dose. The Health Department teams led by Valparai Block Medical Officer Babu Lakshman conducted camps at Keelpoonachi and Vellimudi tribal settlements in the morning after which they visited Kadamparai. A separate camp was conducted at Nedungundram settlement. People from Sankarankudi, Udumanparai and Paramankadavu came to Nallamudi as those settlements were difficult to access where another camp was conducted. “Forest Department staff from Valparai and Manombolly ranges of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) coordinated with us for the drive,” said Dr. Lakshman. Dr. Senthil Kumar said that more vaccination camps will be planned in coming days to cover residents of other tribal settlements in the region. Following reports of tribal settlements witnessing COVID-19 infections, authorities of the ATR recently introduced various restrictions for outsiders to visit tribal settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-brave-heavy-rain-to-vaccinate-tribal-people-near-valparai/article35355192.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TPDK sends empty syringes to Modi demanding increased vaccine allocation||In a protest against the shortage of COVID-19 vaccine doses in Tamil Nadu, members of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) sent empty syringes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding increased allocation of vaccine doses to the State. Led by TPDK’s general secretary K. Ramakrishnan, members gathered outside the Head Post Office on Goods Shed Road here. They staged a demonstration with the empty syringes and placards accusing the Central government of not allocating adequate vaccine doses to the State. “We sent 15 empty syringes through post,” Mr. Ramakrishnan said, noting that the package was addressed to the Prime Minister’s residence in New Delhi. An accompanying letter accused the Central government of “gross injustice” as it allocated over 400 doses per 1,000 of the eligible population to States such as Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan while Tamil Nadu received only 302 doses per 1,000 of the eligible population. The TPDK members sent empty syringes from all the district headquarters in the State to Mr. Modi, Mr. Ramakrishnan said, warning of intensified protests against the Central government if the vaccine allocation is not increased at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpdk-sends-empty-syringes-to-modi-demanding-increased-vaccine-allocation/article35355185.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Appointment orders issued||Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer M. Ramakrishnan on Thursday issued appointment orders to six persons, who were heirs of those who died during their tenure in the Department of School Education offices and in the government schools. A release said that the six were among the 250 persons in the State who were appointed as junior assistants in the Department of School Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-orders-issued/article35355345.ece
16 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Surgeons seal large cardiac rupture||Surgeons at Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH) recently corrected a cardiac rupture in a 70-year-old woman, who was hospitalised following a massive heart attack and low blood pressure. A release issued by hospital said the woman had a rupture of the muscle in the lateral part of the heart, a rare complication of heart attack known as giant left ventricular pseudoaneurysm. The surgeons closed the rupture with a button-like device used to close holes in the heart. The procedure was complex since the hole was very large and the tissue soft and necrotic. The rupture was sealed with an extra-large atrial septal defect closure device (ASD) using a catheter and the patient was discharged from hospital on the third day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgeons-seal-large-cardiac-rupture/article35355183.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kirtilals to expand through franchisees||Kirtilal Kalidas Jewellery is exploring opportunities to expand its retail outlet network through franchise model. Suraj Shantakumar, Director - Business Strategy of Kirtilals, said the company sees potential for more opportunities through this model for expansion. “The market evolving rapidly and we are looking at different business models,” he said. The stores that will come up through the franchise model will be largely in tier-two cities and will also act as feeder stores for the existing Kirtilals outlets in the main cities. “The most important factor in the franchise model is having the right partner and these stores will be medium format stores,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kirtilals-to-expand-through-franchisees/article35355186.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination certificate generated without getting vaccinated||A few persons who were allotted time slots to take their vaccine shots from a private hospital here on Wednesday received vaccination certificates without getting vaccinated. After the issue was raised with the hospital, the management arranged vaccination for them on Thursday morning. The management of the hospital, where the incident was reported, however, claimed that the certificates were generated by the CoWIN portal and the hospital did not have a role in it. “My brother and I were allotted the time slot between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. on Wednesday. As I went to the hospital, the staff turned us away, stating there was no vaccine and asked us to come the next day. But as we reached home, we got the message which said that we have been vaccinated and the certificate was also generated,” said K.J. Raman. When she took up the issue to the attention of the hospital, the management asked her to come the next day. When contacted, the hospital’s manager claimed that the vaccination certificates were generated by the CoWIN portal automatically and the hospital did not issue them. According to him, around 20 people, who had come to the hospital on Wednesday, got the vaccination certificate without getting vaccinated. They were given their jabs on Thursday, he said. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar said that he had not come across incidents wherein people received vaccination certificates before getting vaccinated. “We will check the matter with the hospital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-certificate-generated-without-getting-vaccinated/article35355193.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held in cheating case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Coimbatore City Police arrested two persons on the charges of cheating a chairman of a private hospital. The accused A. Paneerselvam of Alangudi in Pudukottai district and his aide Selvakumar of Tiruchi were arrested from Chennai on Wednesday. According to CCB officials, the duo had collected money by promising to arrange loans to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. The release said that CCB had registered a case against Paneerselvam, Selvakumar, their friend Kennedy and Balasubramaniam of Avinashi based on a complaint lodged by the chairman of a private hospital in the city in June. The complainant was looking for loans for the expansion of the hospital and Paneerselvam, whom he got introduced through Balasubramanian, promised to arrange the loan for a commission of Rs. 2.85 crore, the police said. The police also seized two sports utility vehicles and various documents from them. Paneerselvam was booked for cheating Manikandan by promising to arrange two kg of gold for Rs. 10 lakh in 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-in-cheating-case/article35355179.ece
16 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The small traders association and Hum Hindu members organised a vaccination camp on Wednesday with the support of the district administration. As many as 590 persons, including senior citizens and lactating mothers, were vaccinated at the camp held on Syrian Church Road office of the organisation, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35355187.ece
16 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Exclusive helpline for women inaugurated in Dharmapuri||A women’s helpline 181 to provide immediate and emergency response to a grievance call was launched by Superintendent of Police C. Kalaichelvan here on Thursday. The helpline envisioned as part of a centralised communication system will route the distress call made to 181 and transmit it to the separate care centre set up at the Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital. The centre will divert the call to the line department concerned depending on the nature of intervention required. If the distress call required police intervention, the helpline would route it to the police station, Mr. Kalaichelvan told The Hindu . As a step forward, an exclusive women’s help desk was being set up at the 17 police stations including the four All Women’s Police Stations and law and order stations. Two women sub-inspectors and inspectors aside, two constables in each station were being groomed through refresher course to deal with crime against women and children and adherence to the standard operating procedures. The ADSP for crime against women and children would be the nodal officer for the help desk. “This includes sensitisation of constables if inspectors and sub-inspectors are held up with other cases,” said Mr. Kalaichelvan. The help desk was assigned with a laptop and two-wheeler exclusively, the SP added. To create awareness about the helpline number 181, each police station would have hoardings sensitising the public, Mr. Kalaichelvan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exclusive-helpline-for-women-inaugurated-in-dharmapuri/article35355337.ece
16 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||House, vehicle damaged in elephant attack||A car and a house were damaged in an elephant attack near Baragur early Thursday. Forest Department officials are investigating. According to Forest Department officials, a wild tusker strayed out of the forest area, in Kongadai village near Anthiyur, early on Thursday. It attacked the front part of a tiled house, owned by farmer Arukanni, and damaged a vehicle parked in front of the house. The farmer, who noticed the elephant in front of his house, stayed indoor. The elephant returned to the forest after almost an hour, the officials said. Baragur forest range officials have registered a case, and are investigating. Forest officials said this was the first time that such an incident had been reported in the area. Officials said damage was being assessed, and a team of officials had been deployed there to check elephant movement in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-vehicle-damaged-in-elephant-attack/article35355298.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||In Kochi, a shelter for transwomen||A year ago, a teenage boy from Pathanamthitta dropped out midway through graduation and abandoned his home, unable to declare his sexual orientation to his family. Since then, he has had a sex reassignment surgery (SRS), identified as a transwoman and ended up in a home for transpersons engaged in sex work in Coimbatore. The young person’s family remains under the impression that he is away on a job. Later, she fled to Kochi and took refuge in the transgender shelter home here for a while. Most of the 55 transwomen who have taken shelter at the home at different points since it turned operational in the end of March have similar or more harrowing tales to share. This is the only home for transwomen in Kerala under the Social Justice Department, the other in Thiruvananthapuram being for transmen. At present, the home has nine residents. “Unlike popular perception, the nightmare for transpeople does not begin once they announce their sexual orientation to their families and get ousted consequently. It dates back to their childhood when they were sexually abused, even by parents and teachers taking advantage of their confusion and generally docile nature,” said Greeshma Saji, a counsellor.   “Mostly, those who don’t have a place to go or recover after SRS take refuge in the home. Those who either have the transgender ID issued by the government or at least applied for it are admitted here. The facility is being publicised through the social media accounts of the Social Justice Department and those of the transgender community,” said Subair K.K., District Social Justice Officer. While stay is restricted to three months, it is extended on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-kochi-a-shelter-for-transwomen/article35355019.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to safeguard interests of Lakshadweep people set up||Leaders of major political parties, cultural activists, littérateurs, and filmmakers on Thursday evening met here to form a Lakshadweep Aikyadardya Samithi (Lakshadweep Solidarity Committee) to safeguard the interests of the Lakshadweep islanders and support them in all ways possible in their fight against the “undemocratic, unconstitutional measures being forced on them by the Lakshadweep administration.” Behanan chairman Benny Behanan, MP, will be the chairman of the committee, and Elamaram Kareem, MP, will be its general convenor. The meeting, presided by Congress leader K.V. Thomas and inaugurated by CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby, was attended by Members of Parliament Binoy Viswom, M.V. Sreyams Kumar, K. Somaprasad and A.M. Ariff; litterateurs M.K. Sanoo and K.L. Mohana Varma, Kochi Mayor M. Anil Kumar, CPI(M) Ernakulam district secretary C.N. Mohanan, film directors Vidhu Vincent and B. Unnikrishnan; CITU leader K.N. Gopinath, former MP Sebastian Paul and MLA M. Swaraj among others. Aisha Sultana, budding filmmaker against whom the Lakshadweep police have booked a case of sedition, also attended the meeting. ‘Draconian rules’ Briefing the media on the discussions, Mr. Kareem said the meeting had resolved to support the fight of the islanders against draconian rules like the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation and the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation pushed by the Dweep administration. As for Ms. Sultana, the case slapped on her for “making a comment on the state [of] affairs on the islands” was a breach of her right to express her opinion. The case should be withdrawn, the meeting demanded. The committee, Mr. Kareem said, was formed in solidarity with the people of Lakshadweep, and its activities would be expanded in due course. “It is a democratic fight for citizens’ rights at a time the police were trying to fabricate evidence against people the Union government dislikes,” he said, recalling the case against activists jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and the death, in custody, of Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-safeguard-interests-of-lakshadweep-people-set-up/article35355021.ece
16 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Government employees stage protest demanding free vaccination||Members of Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association staged a protest here on Thursday demanding free vaccination for all, among others. The protesters demanded a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to families of COVID-19 victims and a government job to a member of such families. They urged the government to fill vacancies in all departments through open recruitment. They condemned the Union Government for fuel price hike and the resultant effect on the prices of essential commodities. The association also demanded that all wage and contractual workers should be made permanent. The protesters also demanded revocation of the new pension scheme and reversal to the old scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-employees-stage-protest/article35355336.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police station limits restructured||The Madurai airport and surrounding areas falling in ward number 10 in Perungudi panchayat would henceforth be brought under the Avaniapuram police station limits which comes under the control of Madurai city police. A G.O. has been issued to this effect in which the officials had annexed certain areas from Madurai Rural to Madurai City Police limits for effective management and administrative purposes. The officials said that areas located in Thanakkankulam Panchayat in Austinpatti police station limits, in the rural district. i.e., Indira Nagar, Anjaneya Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Thiruvalluvar Nagar extension, Thiruvalluvar Nagar central, Kurinji Nagar, Aravind Nagar, PRC Colony, Kalai Nagar, Kamaraj Street, Thanakkankulam, Jeyam Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Iyer Colony, Nethaji Nagar, Yoga Nagar, Karthiga Nagar, Shanthi Nagar, Meenakshi Nagar, Mullai Nagar and areas located in Vilachery panchayat i.e., Mottamalai, K.K. Nagar (Kalai Nagar) Aathi Sivan Nagar, Vilachery North Muslim Street, Vilachery South Muslim Street, Velar Street, Gandhi Street, Chetty Street, Yadavar Street, Nethaji Street, Agraharam, Sevugar Street, Kottaram, Vilachery Main Road, Anna Street have been brought under Tirunagar police limits in Madurai city police. Similarly, areas in ward number 60 (Avaniapuram) including Prasanna Colony, Chinna Udaippu to Sermathai Vasan College junction (northern side of the Ring Road) of Avaniapuram police station limit have been brought under the jurisdiction limits of Perungudi police in Madurai rural limits. The areas in ward number 60 (Avaniapuram) i.e. upto Sermathai Vasan College junction to Kallambal bridge (southern side of Ayyanarpuram) would be under the jurisdiction of Silaiman police in Madurai district. Areas located in Tirunagar police station limits in Madurai city in Ward No. 96 (Thirupparankundram) i.e., Om Sakthi Nagar 1st, 2nd and 3rd Streets have been brought under Austinpatti police limits in Madurai district. In Ward number 95 (Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College), consisting of Pasumalai, Anna Nagar, New Ambedkar Nagar, Pethani Nagar, Ward number 75 (Madakulam) consisting of Muniyandipuram, Gopalapuram, Madakulam Main Road in the jurisdiction of Subramaniapuram police limits, and Ward number 96 (Thirupparankundram) areas covering Sengundram Nagar, Thiagarajar College of Engineering in Avaniapuram police limits have been brought under Thirupparankundram police limits. The entire areas in Ward number 57 (Anuppanadi) and Ward number 58 (Chinthamani) now under the jurisdiction of Avaniapuram limits have been brought under Keerathurai police. Similarly, (Villapuram New Nagar - Ward number 61) covering Thendral Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar in Avaniapuram limits have been brought under Jaihindpuram jurisdiction, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-station-limits-restructured/article35355728.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||City gets one more Atal Tinkering Lab||Madurai Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan inaugurated Atal Tinkering Lab - a robotics lab - at Madurai Corporation Sundararajapuram Higher Secondary School, here on Thursday. The lab was inaugurated with the funds from the Union government. There are robotics labs already in Thiru. Vi. Ka. Corporation Higher Secondary school, Elango Corporation Higher Secondary school, E. V. R. Nagammaiyar Girls Higher Secondary School, Velliveethiyar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary school, Kasthuribai Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary school and Ponmudiyar Corporation Higher Secondary school. The Atal Tinkering Lab will have laptops, 3D projectors, printers and other equipment. The lab will be useful to improve several skill sets of around 550 students from Classes 6 to 12. The Commissioner also checked the science projects that the students had displayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-gets-one-more-atal-tinkering-lab/article35355726.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Environment Ministry’s memorandum stayed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday granted an interim stay on the operation of an office memorandum issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, which provided a procedure for the grant of post facto clearance to projects that have come up without environmental clearance under the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi granted the stay on a public interest litigation petition filed by activist R. Fatima of Thoothukudi. The petitioner challenged the office memorandum issued on July 7. The law mandated prior clearance, and there was no provision for the grant of post facto clearance under the EIA notification. The memorandum provided a backdoor entry to violators, she said. By way of the memorandum, violators of the EIA notification could obtain clearance and regularise violations. The EIA was an important tool to ensure the optimal use of natural resources for sustainable development. Its purpose was to identify, examine, assess and evaluate the likely and probable impact of a proposed project on the environment, the petitioner said. She said a project could be granted sanction to commence activity only after an exhaustive assessment of risks. The mandate of ensuring compliance before the commencement of construction and operation was an important aspect of the EIA notification and it helped to ensure protection and preservation of the environment. The ex-post facto clearance was alien to the environmental jurisprudence, she said. Post facto clearances destroyed the very fabric of the environmental regulation. The office memorandum ran counter to the EIA notification and had no legal validity. It was against the principles of natural justice, and the right of the people to participate in environmental decision-making. If this procedure was allowed to be followed, it would cause an irreversible damage to the environment. It was violative of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/environment-ministrys-memorandum-stayed/article35355161.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses bail plea of accused in Madurai usury case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed the bail petition of K. Selvakumar, an advocate, accused of abetting the suicide of Mohammed Ali, a 37-year-old roadside food stall owner, in Madurai. Mohammed Ali of Mahaboobpalayam, father of two children, committed suicide last month after leaving a video message in which he claimed that he took the extreme step due to harassment by money lenders. Justice G. Chandrasekharan took note of the submissions made that said Selvakumar had asked Mohammed Ali to end his life if he could not pay the interest. This was the breaking point and led to the suicide of the food stall owner, the judge said. The video recorded by the deceased had revealed that he was forced to commit suicide, the judge said and dismissed the bail petition. The wife of Mohammed Ali, M. Fatima opposed the grant of bail to the accused. The State also opposed the grant of bail to the accused. In her complaint, Fatima said that Selvakumar abused her husband and had asked him to end his life if he could not pay the interest. In the video message, Mohammed Ali had sought protection for his family members and appealed to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin and the Madurai Commissioner of Police to take action against those who had harassed him. The petitioner said that he had no direct contact with the deceased and was not a regular money lender. He said that he was falsely implicated in the case. Earlier, the Principal Sessions Judge dismissed his bail petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused-in-madurai-usury-case/article35355723.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Sankaraiah, the most accomplished alumni of American College’||The American College celebrated the 100th birthday of CPI (M) leader and freedom fighter N. Sankaraiah- an alumnus of the college – through a virtual platform on Thursday. Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan said that Mr. Sankaraiah’s career proved that a politician can be honest and can work for the public cause. Mr. Sankaraiah strived to attain an equal society without discrimination in India. He is one of the remarkable leaders of the State, Mr. Venkatesan said and praised the college for celebrating the 100th birthday of its former student. Food and Civil Supplies Minister R. Sakkarapani said that Mr. Sankaraiah, during his tenure as an MLA, had spoken for the public cause in the Legislative Assembly. N. Nanmaran, a former CPI (M) MLA, praised Mr. Sankaraiah for his exemplary skills. College Principal M. Davamani Christober said that Mr. Sankaraiah had studied History in the college in 1937. “Although there were several challenges, he successfully led the college students’ union,” he said. But he could not write his final examinations as he was in jail. Mr. Sankaraiah was one of the most accomplished alumni of the college, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sankaraiahs-centenary-celebrated/article35355315.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber moves High Court seeking bail||YouTuber A. Durai Murugan Pandiyan who runs a YouTube channel ‘Saattai’ has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking bail. The petitioner was said to have used the images of former Chief Minister and DMK Supremo M. Karunanidhi and BJP leader Khushbhu Sundar in an allegedly defamatory video. Justice G. Chandrasekharan adjourned the hearing in the case after the State sought time to respond in the case. Durai Murugan from Tiruchi was arrested by the police and remanded in judicial custody. The complaint was filed by DMK cadre who said that they were shocked and hurt by the content of the video. The petitioner said that the case was registered against him out of political vendetta. He was the sole breadwinner of the family and had to take care of his wife and son who he said was suffering from an illness. He was in judicial custody for more than 30 days and investigation in the case was over, he said. Further, he said that he would abide by the conditions of the court and he would not tamper with the evidence. The bail petitions filed by him before the Principal Sessions Judge were dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-moves-high-court-seeking-bail/article35355303.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Government Law College gets a new Principal||Prof. S. M. Balakrishnan assumed as the new Principal, Government Law College here on Thursday. Prior to the new posting, he had served in Tirunelveli and Namakkal Government Law Colleges as Principal, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-law-college-gets-a-new-principal/article35355319.ece
16 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 127.10 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,830 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.39 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 953 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,218 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday was (in mm): Periyar dam 27.4, Thekkadi 21, Gudalur 7.6, Kodaikanal 5.8, Shanmuganathi dam 2.7, Uthamapalayam 2.3 and Manjalar dam 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35355322.ece
16 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Mini fishing harbour project progressing at brisk pace||The work on construction of a mini fishing harbour at Nambiyar Nagar is progressing at a brisk pace. The Fisheries Harbour Division, which initiated the project at the start of this year, is looking forward to completing the work before year-end. The Rs. 34-crore project launched under self-sufficiency scheme includes Rs. 11.43 crore contributed by fishers of Nambiyar Nagar. The project was initiated to ease congestion at Nagapattinam Harbour and it will have capacity to handle 423 fibre glass boats and 69 mechanised boats. Earlier this month, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj took stock of the progress of the project that will protect the boats during stormy weather. So far, 50 piles have been erected to a length of 100 metres and breadth of 11.4 metres. The Fish Landing Platform to a length of 100 metres has also been readied.Construction of breakwater on northern and southern sides, and wharf to lengths exceeding 200 metres each have been completed and sectioning work is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-fishing-harbour-project-progressing-at-brisk-pace/article35355277.ece
16 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Police recover 11 trucks, four held||The Namakkal district police on Thursday recovered 11 trucks worth about Rs. 2 crore and arrested four persons for selling off the trucks without the owners’ knowledge. According to the police, Mohanraj, a truck owner from Tiruppur, has reportedly leased two trucks to Sheikh Sikander from Tiruchengode since March. However, Sikander has not paid the rent for the past two months and Mohanraj lodged a complaint at the Tiruchengode town police station when Sikander refused to return the trucks. On inquiry, the police found that Sikander along with his accomplice Ravi, Balakrishnan and Nandhakumar duped five owners and sold off 13 trucks hired from them. The police arrested the gang and seized a new truck, two cars and Rs. 3 lakh in cash from Sikander. They also recovered 11 trucks sold by the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-recover-11-trucks-four-held/article35355340.ece
16 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Health Department to monitor paediatric COVID cases in U.T.||The Health Department has decided to closely monitor the incidence of paediatric COVID-19 cases. At least 16 child patients are under treatment for COVID-19 in the Union Territory. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said. While 16 children had tested positive and were admitted to the paediatric COVID-19 ward at the IGMCRI, the test results were awaited in the case of four newborns of mothers with COVID-19. The result of one newborn has come negative. While 12 children were in the 1 to 5 years age range, four were under five years of age, Dr. Mohan Kumar said. A task force meeting chaired by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan decided to map data on children infected with COVID-19 to stage the wave of the pandemic. Of the 21 cases admitted in the paediatric COVID-19 ward at IGMCRI, the source of infection remains unclear, health officials said. Except in two cases where mother and child were COVID-19 positive, the parents of the other patients were showing negative, it was pointed out. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Ranvir Singh Krishnia, Director General of Police, E. Vallavan, Home Secretary, T. Arun, Health Secretary, Ashok Kumar, Revenue Secretary, S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director, G. Sriramulu, Director, Health Mission, Abhijit Vijay Chowdhury, Secretary to LG, Saira Banu, WHO representative (JIPMER) and J. Ramesh, Covid Nodal Officer were present. The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death, 103 new cases from 6,367 tests, and 122 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate was 1.62%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.42%. The active cases in Union Territory stood at 1,307. The Union Territory has reported an aggregate of 1,19,405 cases and 1,16,325 recovered patients. Meanwhile, the number of persons vaccinated so far aggregated to 6,20,708, including 37,653 healthcare workers, 22,945 frontline personnel and 4,39,369 members of the public. The government has extended the lockdown till midnight of July 31. The notification to this effect issued by Ashok Kumar, Member-Secretary, State Executive Committee, has more or less carried over the existing relaxations. Apart from persisting with the night curfew (10 p.m. to 5 am), all social/ political/ entertainment related gatherings remain prohibited. Tourists spots such as the Chunnambar boat house will operate with 50% capacity and after implementing COVID-appropriate measures. Directing shops, commercial establishments and industrial units to get their staff vaccinated, the order has asked municipality/commune panchayat commissioners to carry out verification of the vaccination status of the employees. The Health Department has been directed to send samples for genomic sequencing at virology laboratories to identify mutant strains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dep-t-to-monitor-paediatric-covid-cases/article35355572.ece
16 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery issue: Former CM wants all-party meet||The government should convene an all-party meeting to unanimously pass a resolution against Karnataka government's move to construct Mekedatu dam, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has said. In a video message on Wednesday night, the former Chief Minister said the move by Karnataka would deprive Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry of their share of Cauvery water. Farming activity on around 50,000 acres of land in Karaikal region would be affected if the flow of water from the Cauvery dips due to the construction of the dam. The government should convene an all party meeting to jointly oppose Karnataka’s move and protect the rights of the Union Territory, he said. Besides, the Chief Minister should write to the Prime Minister expressing the region’s concerns. The government should also explore legal options, he said. Condemning the decision of the NDA government to reopen schools, the former Chief Minister said the move comes at a time when medical experts have warned about the impending third wave of COVID-19. The second wave, he said took several lives due to inefficiency of the government. The government should desist from reopening schools. Instead, the focus should be on creating more awareness about the third wave, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-issue-former-cm-wants-all-party-meet/article35355571.ece
16 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. will take legal and administrative steps’||The Puducherry government will take administrative and legal steps to protect the rights of farmers in Karaikal to draw Cauvery water as allotted by the tribunal, Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference, the Minister said the Chief Minister had convened a meeting of legislators from Karaikal region and officials on Wednesday to work out the strategy to oppose Karnataka government’s move to construct Mekedatu dam. Following the meeting, the Chief Minister wrote a letter to the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister expressing the concerns of farmers in Karaikal region. The construction of the dam would deprive the farmers of Karaikal from getting 7 tmc of Cauvery water allotted by the tribunal. The construction of the dam in the bordering areas of Tamil Nadu would impact the flow of water to the Delta region, he said. “The letter to the Prime Minister is only the first step. If Karnataka goes ahead with the plan, the government will take other steps like Tamil Nadu did in opposing the dam project. We will also take legal steps. The rights of farmers will be protected at any cost,” he said. He said the Kamaraj Manimandapam would be inaugurated very soon. The government was planning to “invite very important people” for the inaugural, he added. The Minister, who also holds the tourism portfolio, said he had held a review meeting and pending projects would be completed in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-take-legal-and-administrative-steps/article35355567.ece
16 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI demands COVID relief||The CPI staged protest demonstrations at 100 locations across the Union Territory to press for various measures, including urgent provision of COVID-19 relief and roll back of fuel price hikes. The CPI has demanded distribution of Rs. 6,000 as relief for the hardships caused due to the lockdown imposed in connection with the pandemic. The protesters also demanded roll back of petrol, diesel prices, Rs. 4 lakh solatium to the kin of COVID-19 victims, provision of 10kg of rice and 14 essential commodities every month through fairprice shops to everyone. CPI also called upon the AINRC and the BJP to concentrate on implementing welfare schemes for the people leaving aside their power struggles. In Puducherry, A.M.Saleem, CPI State secretary led the protest at Nellithope market and former minister R.Viswanathan at Saram. The protests at other locations were led by Nara. Kalainathan at Kathirkamam, V.S.Abishegam and T.Geethanathan at Mudaliarpet and Thavalakuppam respectively, I. Dinesh Ponniah at Oulgaret, K.Sethu Selvam at Thattanchavady, Naveen Thanraman at Kuyavarpalayam and R. Sarala at Ariyankuppam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-demands-covid-relief/article35355569.ece
16 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. postpones reopening of high schools||The Puduchery government has decided to postpone reopening of high schools in response to requests from various sections, Home Minister A. Namassivayam has said. Interacting with reporters outside Raj Nivas after holding talks with Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Home Minister said he had a discussion with the L-G and Chief Minister about the reopening of schools. Considering the opposition towards the reopening of schools, the Minister, who also holds Education portfolio, said the date would be decided later. On the stand of the new government on NEET, the Minister said the conduct of the examination was a policy decision of the Centre. After the takeover of the Home portfolio, the Minister for the first time visited the police headquarters where he was given a briefing by senior officers. Ceremonious welcome The Minister was given a ceremonious guard of honour on his arrival. In his interaction, Mr. Namassivayam urged the police to deal sternly with rowdy elements. He also urged the department to intensify the crackdown on those selling ganja and banned tobacco items. The Minister listened to the grievances of the policemen and the requirements of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-decides-to-postpone-reopening-of-high-schools/article35355574.ece
16 July 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Man missing case solved after 10 months||A man missing case reported in Rameswaram Town police station has been altered as a case of murder on Thursday. Following a complaint from Suresh of Chinnavanpillai Street, Rameswaram, the police have registered a case. The petitioner had stated that his grandson, Ganeshraj (20), son of Maniraj was missing since September 6, 2020. As there was no breakthrough in the case, the petitioner had approached the Collector during the weekly grievance meeting and pleaded his case. When he sent a petition to the Chief Minister's Special Cell, a team led by Sub-Inspector (crime) Navaneethakrishnan conducted a probe. Investigations indicated that Ganeshraj, an auto driver, had friends in Bharati Nagar and other locations. After picking up a few suspects, the police found that the victim was killed and subsequently buried in a secret location near the Rameswaram bus stand over a suspected drunken brawl. Superintendent of Police E Kartik, accompanied by officials from the Department of Forensic Sciences visited the scene of crime and upon digging the spot, they found the skeletal remains. Based on the confessions, three persons Muthuseran (22), Ajit (24) and Michael (23) were arrested and the police were on the lookout for another accomplice in this case. Rameswaram Town Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-missing-case-solved-after-10-months-3-held/article35355320.ece
16 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Prioritise land acquisition process for road works’||Minister for Public Works and Highways E.V. Velu on Thursday advised District Collectors to prioritise land acquisition process for completing road laying works. Mr. Velu reviewed works progressing under the departments in Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts in presence of Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan, Collectors S. Karmegham (Salem), Shreya P. Singh (Namakkal), S. Divyadarshini (Dharmapuri), V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy (Krishnagiri), department officials, MLAs and MPs from the four districts here. He said measures were being taken to expand the existing two-lane and four-lane roads here. Road works were getting delayed at many places due to delay in land acquisition. The Collectors of the four districts had been advised to prioritise land acquisition process and review its progress every week, Mr. Velu told presspersons. The Chief Minister had instructed to improve 10,000 km of roads in villages. “Most of these roads are under Panchayat Union or village panachayats and they will be identified and improved,” he said. To prevent delay in construction of rail overbridges, a coordination committee would be formed to prepare a list of pending works and necessary measures would be taken. He said it was part of the DMK’s manifesto to expand two-lane roads to four-lanes and four-lane roads to six-lanes. Estimates were being prepared by the departments. He added that estimates were also being readied by officials to lay bypass roads in urban areas and municipalities. Mr. Velu said there were only two lanes at eight places on the Salem-Ulundurpet National Highway and this was leading to accidents. Discussions would be held with respective departments and with Union Minister Nithin Gadkari and measures would be taken to lay four-lane roads at those spots as well, he said. To conduct quality control checks on roads, 25 places had been identified across Tamil Nadu. If the roads were found to be of poor quality, action would be taken against the contractors and officials concerned, the Minister said. Regarding toll collection on highways, he said the State would write to the Centre to reduce toll fee. Mr. Velu later inspected the construction works for rail overbridge at Mulluvadi level crossing and the progress of works at Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences in Thalaivasal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prioritise-land-acquisition-process-for-road-works-says-minister/article35355342.ece
16 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Measures initiated to disburse salary for sanitary workers||The Salem Corporation on Wednesday initiated measures to disburse the pending salary to conservancy workers, office assistants and other workers here. The conservancy workers staged a protest on Wednesday urging the civic body to disburse their pending salary for May and June. Considering the request, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj took measures to disburse the pending salary for May. In a release, Mr. Christuraj said measures had been taken to disburse the pending salary to the tune of Rs. 7.68 crore to 4,400 workers for May. The Corporation recently appointed officers covering 60 wards under it to address public grievances regarding civic issues and sanitation among others. To publicise the contact numbers among the public, the Corporation had painted the contact details of the officials on walls of important streets. Mr. Christuraj inspected one such place in Hanging Garden here on Thursday, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-initiated-to-disburse-salary-for-sanitary-workers/article35355343.ece
16 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp held||A special vaccination camp for antenatal and postnatal mothers in the district was held on Thursday. According to health officials, as many as 10,620 doses of vaccines (5,120 Covaxin doses and 5,500 Covishield doses) were allotted to 108 vaccination centres including the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. While 55 vaccination centres were set up in rural areas of Salem health district, 36 centres were set up in Attur health district and vaccination was done at the 16 urban primary health centres in the Corporation limits. According to the health officials, until Thursday, as many as 10,365 antenatal and postnatal mothers have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-held/article35355344.ece
16 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks unit in Sivakasi sealed||The licence of a private fireworks unit, which was suspended for violation, was found operating in a clandestine manner here at Anaiyur by engaging child labourers. Following a surprise check by the Sivakasi Sub-Collector and team, they found that the unit - Neerathulingam Fireworks – was allegedly operating by deploying 35 women, 20 men and two child labourers. When the team arrived at around 1 p.m. on Wednesday they found the workers engaged in production of different type of crackers. Investigations revealed that for various violations, the unit’s licence was suspended by the Collector. However, they were functioning in a remote location. After a head count, the officials cross-checked the age and found that two labourers were below 18 years. The officials took them for counselling and also enquired about their family and financial background. Meanwhile, Collector J. Meganath Reddy directed the officials to seal the premises of Neerathulingam Fireworks and also lodged a complaint with the Maraneri police. The officials said that legal action would be initiated against the fireworks unit proprietor Neerathulingam and foreman Karuppasami. The Collector said that under no circumstances, child labour would be permitted and warned of stern action. He appealed to the public to share information about such illegal practice through 1098 - a toll free assistance exclusively to help child labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-unit-sealed-for-various-violations/article35355316.ece
16 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mekedatu dam: farmers observe fast in protest||Farmers who took part in a fast organised by Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam here on Thursday have urged the State government to be transparent in its approach on issues relating to the Cauvery such as the Mekedatu dam construction project and sharing of water. In a resolution adopted at the end of the agitation, participants representing various farmers’ associations of delta districts, expressed apprehension that non-participation of farmers at an all-party meeting convened by the State government recently to discuss the Mekedatu issue might have a negative impact on Tamil Nadu’s struggle to affirm its right over Cauvery water. Referring to the observation made by the Supreme Court in 2013 that there was no scope for talks between the upper and lower riparian States on the Cauvery issue, the Sangam apprehended that the reported move by the Centre to hold talks with the riparian States to discuss the Mekedatu project would be detrimental to the interests of Tamil Nadu. SC opinion Stating that convening of such meetings would tantamount to belittling the Supreme Court’s observation, the it urged the Tamil Nadu government not to encourage or involve itself in such activities and also pleaded with the government to be transparent in its approach to the Cauvery issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mekedatu-dam-farmers-observe-fast-in-protest/article35355278.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala Cabinet alters minority students’ scholarship ratio||The State government has altered the proportion of merit-cum-means scholarships for needy and educationally disadvantaged minority community students. As per the revised ratio, the minority scholarship quota for Christians is 18.38%, Muslims 26.56%, Buddhists 0.01%, Jains 0.01 and Sikhs 0.01%. The Cabinet, which met here on Thursday, said it had based the modification on the 2011 Census. The government said the latest allocation would not infringe on the education reservation benefits enjoyed by other communities. The merit scholarships will cost the government Rs. 23.51 crore. The government has allocated Rs. 6.2 crore additionally to meet the expense. The High Court had in February struck down the 80:20 ratio for Muslims and Latin Catholic and Converted Christians together. It had found the original allocation legally unsustainable and directed the government to issue orders to bestow scholarship to students from notified minority communities equally and as per the latest population census endorsed by the Kerala State Commission for Minorities. Sensitive agenda Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, accused the State government of pitting communities against one another by deliberately setting a sensitive agenda for people to discuss. He said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government scrapped the recommendations of the Sachar commission by deciding to restructure the minority scholarships on the basis of the 2011 Census. “The present government has done a big injustice to the Muslim community by denying them what is due to them as per the Sachar commission recommendations,” he said adding each community should be given what is due to them. The court order had precipitated a heated socio-political debate in the State in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly elections in April. Crucial demography Muslim organisations, representing a crucial demography in the State (58.67% of the minority population), feared that the stricture would rob Muslim students of their educational rights. They wanted the government to go in appeal against the decision. Christian organisations, claiming to represent 40.6% of the minority population, claimed that the court had ended the heavily pro-Muslim bias in distributing the merit scholarship. The previous LDF government had set up an expert committee to study the issue. The present LDF Cabinet has attempted to balance the interests of Muslim and Christian communities within the legal framework of the court order. The new decision was reportedly the outcome of hectic parleys in the LDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-cabinet-alters-minority-students-scholarship-ratio/article35355025.ece
16 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Police outpost opened in Thoothukudi fishing harbour||The police finally opened an outpost in the Thoothukudi fishing harbour, which has become a flashpoint of the port town following worsening enmity between two castes involved in fishing with mechanised boats. After three mechanised boats from nearby Tharuvaikulam, owned by fishermen belonging to Nadar community, were forced to leave the fishing harbour following sustained threats from another caste, who are the majority in the fishing harbour, the three fishing boats could not resume fishing operations. The reason is that these three trawlers, which have been anchored in Tharuvaikulam now along with mechanised boats involved in multi-day deep sea stay fishing, were not allowed to venture into the sea by the officials of Fisheries Department that allows operation of fishing trawlers only from the fishing harbour. When an audio clip threatening a Tharuvaikulam fisherman by an unidentified person in an abusive language of dire consequences if the three boats were not moved out of the Thoothukudi fishing harbour, went viral on social media, the simmering enmity worsened. Though Collector K. Senthil Raj convened a few rounds of talks by involving both sides, no amicable solution was arrived at and the stalemate continues even after senior officials from Department of Fisheries from Chennai chaired a meeting recently. Against this backdrop, a round-the-clock police outpost was opened on Thursday at the fishing harbour by Mr. Senthil Raj in the presence of Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar. “If the Tharuvaikulam fishermen want to resume fishing operations from Thoothukudi fishing harbour, the officials of Fisheries Department will facilitate it. Anyone fishing with mechanised fishing trawlers can come here,” the Collector said adding that surveillance cameras would be installed at vantage points. The police outpost, functioning from a temporary structure, would soon get a permanent building, Mr. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-outpost-opened-in-thoothukudi-fishing-harbour/article35355302.ece
16 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Panel for giving relief to policemen injured during anti-Sterlite protest||Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission, probing police firing in the anti-Sterlite protest that claimed the lives of 13 persons in May 2018, has said that it would also recommend to the government for relief to the police personnel who were injured in the violence that erupted during the agitation. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday after the end of 28th sitting, the Commission’s advocate, Arul Vadivel Sekar, said that 813 of the 1,153 persons summoned by the Commission had deposed so far while 1,150 evidences had been marked. Ninety-four police personnel deployed near Food Corporation of India godown, VVD Signal and Our Lady of Snows Church premises had tendered evidence during the 28th sitting. A few more policemen would be summoned to appear before the Commission’s next sitting. “Since a number of policemen had also been injured in the violence that broke out during the protest, the Commission will also recommend to the government to give due relief to them also after examining the nature of injuries they had sustained and the treatment given to them. Of the 94 policemen inquired by the Commission, two had sustained grievous injuries,” he said. The advocate thanked the Chief Minister for accepting the Commission’s interim report and giving relief to the victims in the form of compensation and government job as per their educational qualifications. Rajinikanth When asked if the Commission would summon actor Rajinikanth, Mr. Arul Vadivel Sekar said he would be asked to appear before the Commission only if it was absolutely necessary as the actor had already stated that he had no knowledge or specific information about the police firing during the anti-Sterlite protest. The Commission’s next week-long sitting is expected to begin on August 23 to record the deposition of residents of Sterlite Quarters near the Collectorate, which was also targeted and cars parked on the campus were torched, doctors who conducted post-mortem of the bodies and the ballistic experts who examined the rifles used for firing. “We have to grill 300 more persons. Top police officers will be summoned to appear before the Commission in the final phase,” Mr. Arul Vadivel Sekar said.  Commission in sitting 813 of the 1,153 persons summoned by the Commission have deposed so far As many as 1,150 evidences have been marked Of the 94 policemen inquired, two have sustained grievous injuries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-for-giving-relief-to-policemen-injured-during-anti-sterlite-protest/article35355308.ece
16 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||BSNL franchisee for Kovilpatti, Vilathikulam areas||Tamil Nadu BSNL Telecom Circle has invited ‘Expression of Interest for Franchiseeship’ for selling SIM cards and recharge coupons of BSNL services in Kovilpatti and Vilaathikulam areas separately. An official statement issued here on Thursday said that the last date for submission of ‘Expression of Interest’ is July 23. For more details, visitwww.tamilnadu.bsnl.co.in/ tenderlistcircle.aspxor contact the Assistant General Manager on 94861 03810 during business hours, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bsnl-franchisee-for-kovilpatti-vilathikulam-areas/article35355306.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New steam loco for Nilgiri Mountain Railway to roll out next month||A coal-fired metre gauge steam loco being manufactured at Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi for operation in Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section is expected to roll out in the second week of August. The Railway Board had entrusted the over 90-year-old workshop with the task of manufacturing a ‘X’ class steam loco with rack and pinion arrangement for NMR. The project was nearing completion with final fitment works under way. A team of nearly 60 technicians are engaged in the task at the workshop, which has been carrying out periodic overhaul of locos that are already in operation in the hilly NMR stretch. “This is for the first time that the workshop is manufacturing a metre gauge 'X' class coal-fired steam locomotive for NMR,” said Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram. The new loco was proposed to be dispatched in February but the works got delayed due to non-supply of cylinders on time due to lockdown restrictions clamped in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. With lockdown restrictions having been relaxed and new cylinders being sent and the railway workshop resuming to function with its full workforce, the manufacture of the new loco has gained momentum now. The Railway Board sanctioned the workshop Rs. 8.5 crore each for the manufacture of a coal-fired steam locomotive and an oil-fired locomotive for operation in the Nilgiri Mountain Railway. The loco has been fitted with an all-welded boiler suitable for coal firing and a steam-powered turbo generator for producing electricity to power head lamps and for cabin lighting. The coal bunker for holding nearly a little over three tonnes of coal is at the rear side of the loco pilot cabin. The loco would have two stainless steel water tanks of total combined capacity of 4,500 litres. The length of the new loco is 10,380 millimetre and its height 3,420 mm. Its weight is 50 tonnes. The key components including hydrostatic lubricator, mechanical lubricator, ejector and injector have all been developed through reverse engineering since there were no drawings of them available, officials said. The task of manufacturing the all-welded boiler was given to a private firm in Tiruchi, while the cylinders were made by a Coimbatore-based firm. The new loco has been provided with a vacuum brake system along with hand brake arrangement in the loco pilot cabin besides dynamic braking and band brake arrangement. The steam loco is being manufactured in such a manner so as to maintain a heritage look. Trials will be conducted at the workshop where track with rack bar arrangements for a length of 100 metres has been made available for this purpose. The trial would be conducted to ascertain the performance of the new loco before it is dispatched from the workshop. The loco will be given a coat of polyurethane painting to boost its aesthetic appeal. The British built workshop had dispatched four new oil-fired locomotives since 2010 onwards for operation in the Nilgiri Mountain Railway section, Mr. Shyamadhar Ram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-steam-loco-for-nmr-to-roll-out-next-month/article35355182.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BJP will stand with T.N. government on Mekedatu dam issue: Annamalai||Newly-appointed BJP State president K. Annamalai on Thursday said the party's State unit would stand firmly with the Tamil Nadu government on the Mekedatu dam issue. “We don't want to indulge in politics in the Mekedatu issue as the Tamil Nadu government and the Chief Minister had held an all-party meeting seeking support on this issue. We have extended our support to the farmers and people of Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Annamalai told reporters here on his way to Chennai to assume charge as the party state president on Friday. The State BJP unit was very clear in its stand on the Mekedatu issue, Mr. Annamalai said, adding that the farmers of Tamil Nadu should not get affected in any way and that the State should get its due share of Cauvery water as per the Supreme Court order. Although the BJP was in power in Karnataka, “We are with the farmers of Tamil Nadu and there should be no doubt on that,” he asserted. He denied allegations that the Central government was discriminating among States in the supply of COVID-19 vaccines. The Centre was supplying the vaccines to Tamil Nadu over and above its quota, he claimed. The main problem at all vaccination centres was the distribution of tokens, he said, and claimed that DMK functionaries were taking away the tokens and distributing them. “Seventy per cent of the tokens were being distributed by the DMK functionaries and that was where inefficiency could be noticed,” he claimed, and called for State government’s intervention. Mr. Annamalai said he would spell out the party's stand on NEET, and why it was good for Tamil Nadu, to the media in Chennai on Friday. He would also explain the party's stand on Kongu Nadu issue, which he claimed, was being highlighted “only by the media”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-stand-with-tn-government-on-mekedatu-dam-issue-annamalai/article35355334.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers’ suggestions will be implemented’||The government would strive to incorporate and implement the suggestions aired by farmers during the pre-Agriculture Budget consultative meetings, M.R.K. Paneerselvam, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, said here on Thursday. “The Chief Minister M.K.Stalin has instructed that we should visit the districts and hear the views of the farmers before preparing the Agriculture Budget,” he said after holding a consultative meeting with farmers representatives from Tiruchi, Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts here. Mr. Panneerselvam, who began the State-wide consultative exercise with farmers representatives in Thanjavur on Wednesday, said the suggestions of farmers representatives were being recorded and steps would be taken to implement them. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, who also participated in the meeting in Tiruchi, said construction of check dams across the Cauvery and Kollidam to improve ground water table, fixing of minimum support price for all farm produce and sanction of more farm power connections were among the suggestions put forth by farmers. The Chief Minister, Mr. Nehru said, had instructed officials to plan for construction of check dams wherever possible at a recent meeting of the Water Resources Department. Answering a query, Mr. Paneerselvam refuted the reported claim of Tamil Maanila Congress leader G.K.Vasan that water had not reached the tail-end areas for irrigation. “I too belong to the tail-end area. Water has reached tail-end areas in Mayiladuthurai and Sirzkazhi,” he maintained. He also expressed confidence that adequate water would be available for irrigation. P. Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennindia Nadigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, who participated at the meeting, said he suggested the establishment of Water Resources Development and River Linking Authority in the State. He also suggested the establishment of a farmers welfare board and sanction of Rs. 5,000 as monthly pension for all farmers above the age of 55. Raja Chidambaram, State secretary, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, favoured fixation of retail prices of fertilizers by the government and restricting price hikes to once a year. Ayilai Siva.Suriyan, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India, said he pressed for fixing minimum support price for all farm produce on the basis on the recommendations of M.S. Swaminathan Committee. Schemes to promote value addition in farm produce organic farming and encourage youngsters to take up agriculture were among his suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-suggestions-will-be-implemented/article35355292.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Free data scheme must continue, say college teachers||College teachers are curious to know if the State government will retain the scheme of free 2GB data per day to students initiated by the previous regime. The scheme, which became operational from the beginning of this year for four months till completion of the 2020-21 academic year, enabled close to 10 lakh students to attend online classes and take up examinations. The scheme covered all students enrolled in government and government-aided arts and science colleges, polytechnics, engineering and scholarship-funded private institutions. At this juncture, there is no problem since teachers are busy with valuation work. And, the government is yet to take a stand on whether or not to continue with online classes for the academic year 2021-22 or to restart offline classes. “The admission process for undergraduate programmes is yet to begin, and there is still time. Yet, it would be a huge relief for students and teachers if the government makes an announcement on the status of the scheme beforehand,” said David Livingston, zonal president, Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association. Continuity of the scheme, in any case, will be of high utility to students now that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has recommended ‘blended learning’, college heads pointed out. The National Education Policy 2020 also favours promoting digital learning alongside traditional classroom face-to-face teaching. Blended Learning, the concept note of UGC states, transforms the teacher’s role from knowledge provider to coach and mentor. It is what makes the classroom interaction more student-driven, bottom-up and customised, it states. The important features of blended learning, according to UGC, constitute increased student engagement in learning, enhanced teacher-student interaction, time management and flexibility, improved student learning outcomes, more flexible teaching and learning environment and better opportunities for experiential learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-data-scheme-must-continue-say-college-teachers/article35355299.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment commissioned at Tiruchi Government Hospital||A newly set up pulse swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant, narrow-band imaging endoscopy machines, oxygen concentrators and cylinders have been donated to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply K. N. Nehru and Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi inaugurated the equipment on Wednesday and handed them to Dean K. Vanitha. The PSA plant comes with 350-litre capacity and can supply oxygen for up to 150 beds. Meanwhile, civil work to install two more plants, one with 1,000-litre capacity, are under way. The PSA plant is a special oxygen production unit that will augment the existing capacity at the GH. It uses a technology that separates a specific gas from a mixture of gases under pressure. The plant, costing Rs. 53 lakh, was donated to Tiruchi Corporation, who decided to install it at the GH. Meanwhile, narrow-band imaging endoscopy machines separately dedicated to adult and pediatric patients have also been handed over to Tiruchi GH. Worth Rs. 2 crore, the equipment was donated by Tamil Nadu Urban Healthcare Project supported by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Through the technology, gallstones, pancreatic cysts, liver ailments canbe detected, helping in the treatment of intestinal, pancreatic, gallbladder ailments. “The tests are included under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and people can avail of it free of cost,” Mr. Nehru said. People from across central Tamil Nadu visit Tiruchi GH for treatment and such equipment would help in treating them, the Minister added. Meanwhile, with the effort of Mr. Poyyamozhi, 25 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 18.75 lakh and 125 oxygen cylinders worth Rs. 12.5 lakh have been donated to the GH to further augment the medical infrastructure in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-commissioned-at-tiruchi-government-hospital/article35355762.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BJP will stand with State government on dam issue: Annamalai||Newly-appointed BJP State unit president K. Annamalai on Thursday said that the party’s Tamil Nadu unit would stand firmly with the Tamil Nadu government on the Mekedatu dam issue. “We don't want to indulge in politics in the Mekedatu issue as the Tamil Nadu government and the Chief Minister had held an all-party meeting seeking support on this issue. We have extended our support to the farmers and people of Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Annamalai said during an interaction with reporters here on his way to Chennai to assume office as the party’s State unit president on Friday. The State BJP unit was very clear in its stand on the Mekedatu issue, Mr. Annamalai said adding that the farmers of Tamil Nadu should not get affected in any way and that the State should get its due share of Cauvery waters as per the Supreme Court order. Although the BJP was in power in Karnataka, “we are with the farmers of Tamil Nadu and there should be no doubt on that,” he said. He denied allegations that the Central government was discriminating among States in supply of COVID-19 vaccines. The Centre was supplying the vaccines to Tamil Nadu over and above its quota, he claimed. The main problem at all vaccination centres was the distribution of tokens, he said and claimed that DMK functionaries were taking away the tokens and distributing them. “As many as 70% of the tokens are being distributed by the DMK functionaries and that is where inefficiency can be noticed,” he claimed and called for the State government’s intervention. To another question, Mr. Annamalai said that he would clearly spell out the party’s stand on NEET and why it was good for Tamil Nadu during an interaction with the media at Chennai on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-stand-with-state-government-on-dam-issue-annamalai/article35355603.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles involved in sand mining seized||Manapparai police have seized three vehicles allegedly used for smuggling sand at Muthupudanyanpatti village on July 13 and detained the drivers. The three drivers were subsequently brought for inquiry. However, they and the vehicles were allegedly released by the station house officer of Manapparai. However, a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Manapparai, subsequently, detained the three drivers again and confiscated the three vehicles comprising an earthmover and two lorries. Manapparai police have registered a case under IPC Section 379 (theft) read with Section 21 (1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. Further investigation was on and police were collecting details of the vehicle owners, sources said. Inspector suspended An inquiry was conducted into the incident following which Inspector of Manapparai station Anbalagan was placed under suspension apparently for mishandling the case. The order suspending the Inspector was issued by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-involved-in-sand-mining-seized/article35355764.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Forearm replantation surgery performed||A forearm replantation surgery was performed on a 46-year-old man from Manapparai at Kauvery Hospitals for the first time. The surgery restored the man’s right forearm, which was severed in a road accident. About five months ago, the patient from Manapparai fell off a bridge and lay on the spot with his forearm severed for three hours before being found. He was taken to Kauvery Hospital in Cantonment five hours after the accident. “This was a complicated case because of the time it took for the patient to get medical attention,” doctors said. A microsurgical team, led by S. Skanda, senior orthopedic consultant D. Chockalingam, Head of Anaesthesiology K. Senthil Kumar and a team of plastic surgeons performed the seven-hour surgery under a microscope. The patient was making progress post-surgery and, within a year, would have regained functioning of his hand, the doctors said. Dr. Skanda said that for such surgeries to have the best results, the patient must come to hospital as soon as possible. “In case of amputation, they must wrap the severed part in a plastic bag and put it on ice while travelling to hospital.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forearm-replantation-surgery-performed/article35355283.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU to release UG final year results soon||Bharathidasan University has prioritised valuation of final year undergraduate answer papers for which the results are likely to be declared after a week. By Friday, teachers are required to upload the marks of UG final year students on the university database. Timely announcement of results for UG final year students will enable them to apply for PG courses and to fulfil the timeline by recruiters for job placement, said Srinivasa Raghavan, Controller of Examinations ( In-Charge). The portal will be kept open again for four days from July 20 for uploading marks of students who appeared for arrears. For the first and intermediate students, over 50% of valuation work has been completed so far, he added. In view of the pandemic situation, the university has designated all colleges as valuation centres. The principals of the colleges oversee the valuation of hard or soft copies of answer scripts by teachers. Students who belong to other districts and States have been permitted to submit soft copies of answer scripts through email. All others have instructed to make submission of answer scripts through post. The university postponed the examination after intervention of the higher education department in view of lockdown measures that included restriction of public transport. Meanwhile, teachers undertaking valuation say the university could have reduced the examination fee, taking into consideration the lesser expenditure incurred for conduct of the examinations in the virtual mode. “There was no expenditure towards stationery. Also, the students had to send the answer scripts by post to the colleges at their own expense. Even for valuation, the teachers are being paid for valuation work, but are not entitled to travelling allowance,” a senior teacher said. On their part, autonomous colleges have already completed the valuation process and most of them have also declared the results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-to-release-ug-final-year-results-soon/article35355288.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Barbers’ body seeks waiver of waste collection charge||Members of Tiruchi District Barbers’ Association met Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply K. N. Nehru and sought his intervention in waiving off charges levied by the corporation to collect waste at their shops. The move drew flak from barbers’ associations across the State. “The Corporation wants to charge us for collection and disposal of waste. Similar moves were also made for other commercial establishments,” R. Selvaraj, president, Tiruchi District Barbers’ Association.  While the civic body had not given any notification yet, association members met Mr. Nehru and sought his intervention in the matter. “On an average, we would be charged around Rs. 1,000, to be paid once in six months. This is over and above the property tax, licence and other taxes,” he contended. While they would have considered paying the amount in ordinary times, it was not possible to do so now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barbers-body-seeks-waiver-of-waste-collection-charge/article35355763.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BJP will stand with T.N. on Mekedatu dam issue: Annamalai||Newly appointed BJP State unit president K. Annamalai on Thursday said the party's T.N. unit would stand firmly with the State government on Mekedatu dam issue. “We don’t want to indulge in politics on the Mekedatu issue as the Tamil Nadu government and the Chief Minister held an all-party meeting seeking support. We have extended our support to farmers and people of Tamil Nadu,” he said during an interaction with reporters here on his way to Chennai to assume charge as the party’s State unit president on Friday. The State BJP unit was clear in its stand on the issue, he said adding that the farmers of Tamil Nadu should not get affected in any way and that the State should get its due share of Cauvery water as per the Supreme Court order. Although the BJP was in power in Karnataka, “we are with the farmers of Tamil Nadu and there should be no doubt about that,” he asserted. He denied allegations that the Central government was discriminating among States over supply of COVID-19 vaccines. The Centre was supplying the vaccines to Tamil Nadu over and above its quota, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-stand-with-tn-on-mekedatu-dam-issue-annamalai/article35355293.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||200 BJP members booked||Fort police have registered a case against 200 BJP who assembled at Chinthamani to welcome the party’s newly appointed State president, K. Annamalai, on Thursday. The party cadre burst crackers while organising the reception to Mr. Annamalai, who made a brief halt here en route to Chennai by road. Police sources said the BJP functionaries, including district president Rajesh, were booked under IPC Sections including 143 (unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). No arrest has been made so far, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-bjp-members-booked/article35355765.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 447 new cases, 12 deaths||The central region reported 447 fresh cases for COVID-19 on Thursday, reflecting the declining trend prevalent in most parts of the State. The number of deaths from the viral infection, too, reported a decline as 12 people succumbed to the illness, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Health Department. In Pudukottai district, three patients succumbed to COVID-19, while two patients each died in Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Ariyalur. One patient died in Mayiladuthurai and no fatalities were reported in Karur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of cases among central districts. A total of 163 patients reported COVID-19 positive there, while Tiruchi reported 88. All other districts in the region reported 40 or lesser cases. In Pudukottai district, 37 patients tested positive, Ariyalur 30 and Tiruvarur 29. Mayiladuthurai reported 28, neighbouring Nagapattinam 27, and Perambalur 24. Karur district reported the lowest number of fresh cases with 21 patients reporting positive on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-447-new-cases-12-deaths/article35355287.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||10 Sri Lankan Tamils released from special camp in Tiruchi||Ten Sri Lankan Tamils housed in a special camp here were released on Thursday after their deportation was ordered by the State government as they had served their sentences. Police said the Sri Lankan Tamils were booked under various provisions, including overstay, and under the Passport Act. They left with police escort to Chennai from where they would board a flight to Sri Lanka. Following their release, the total number of inmates hailing from different countries at the special camp near Tiruchi Central Prison was 109. While a majority of them were Sri Lankan Tamils, who were booked for different cases, there were other foreign nationals in the camp from countries such as Bulgaria, Kenya, Russia and Bangladesh, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-sri-lankan-tamils-released-from-special-camp-in-tiruchi/article35355294.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Problems in delimitation of wards, says Minister||Minister for Rural Development K. R. Periakaruppan has said that delimitation of local body wards was done erroneously by the previous AIADMK government with the objective of scripting DMK’s defeat in the civic polls. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday after inspecting a few development works and participating a review meeting with Assembly Speaker M. Appavu in chair, he said the delimitation of a good number of wards across the State was done by the AIADMK government. But it lost more than 55% of the local body wards to the DMK. Admitting that there were problems in delimitation of wards, he said the DMK-led government could not be held responsible for the difficulties relating to the marking of boundaries of the wards. “We have approached the court for conducting the elections before September 15 as directed by the Supreme Court. The State Election Commission will conduct the polls before the deadline,” he said. Despite mismanagements in implementing infrastructure projects and handling of funds by the previous government, the Department of Rural Development would strive hard to find solutions to issues pertaining to education, drinking water, healthcare, road, electricity by weeding out those inefficiencies. Holistic development “Over the past two months, we had to concentrate on the COVID-19 management and saving the patients from the viral infection. The number of fresh cases that once rose to 37,000 a day had come down to 2,000 due to the concerted efforts of various departments, including Department of Rural Development. The State government has accelerated the development works, especially in rural areas, to ensure the holistic development of Tamil Nadu,” he said. He handed over welfare assistance worth Rs. 1.38 crore to 40 beneficiaries and inspected 14 infrastructure development projects being implemented on a total outlay of Rs. 1.64 crore in Palayamkottai and Maanur areas. He also inaugurated fish vending by self-help groups and a fish food sales outlet at ‘Pon Bharani’ commercial complex near Venthankulam new bus stand. The fish food sales outlet would get marine products from Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts to sell to consumers at the right price every day. Secretary of Rural Development Gopal, Director of Rural Development Praveen Nair, Managing Director of Mahalir Thittam Pallavi Baldev, Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab participated.  Fish food sales outlet will get marine products from Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts K. R. Periakaruppan Minister for Rural Development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/problems-in-delimitation-of-wards-says-minister/article35355314.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile App developed to help unemployed youth||Collector V. Vishnu, with the help of National Informatics Centre here, has developed a mobile app to simultaneously help the skilled but unemployed workers and the public who are struggling to find the right technicians for repairing their electronic gadgets and doing other works like plumbing. Minister for Rural Development K.R. Periakaruppan launched this mobile app, ‘Nellai Skills,’ on Thursday. While the public find it difficult to find well-trained personnel for repairing home appliances such as air-conditioner, refrigerator, washing machine, microwave oven, home theatre, LED television set and doing electrical and plumbing works, skilled technicians are scrambling to find these work. To bring these two sides on a common platform, the experts of National Informatics Centre here, including Arumuga Nainar, Devarajan, Keshav Ram and Sriram, have developed the mobile app with the guidance of Mr. Vishnu. “This App, which can be downloaded through Google Play Store, has two features. The first one is ‘Nellai Skills – Citizen App’ wherein the public can register the nature of work – repairing of electronic gadget or doing electrical or plumbing work. The second part of the App is ‘Nellai Skills – Technician App’ where trained technicians can view the jobs registered by the public and contact the persons concerned for doing the work. This App fulfils the need of the public and ensures income to the skilled workforce with ease,” said Mr. Vishnu. The skilled workforce, to view the App on technical problems registered by the public, should register their names with the Urban Livelihood Centre. “So, there will be no grievance of unemployment for the skilled workforce in our district as they will be continuously getting work from the public who are always in need of technical services,” Mr. Vishnu said. In the first phase, works such as electrical, plumbing, repairing of two-wheelers, domestic electrical appliances, computers etc., can be registered. In the second phase, services like gardening, home nursing, beautician services are to be added. Qualified technicians should register their names with Urban Livelihood Centre by calling 0462 2907006 which is mandatory for becoming a beneficiary of the mobile app.  Works such as electrical, plumbing, repairing of two-wheelers, domestic electrical appliances, computers etc., can be registered V. Vishnu Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-app-to-help-skilled-youth/article35355311.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Family accepts body of murdered contractor||The family of the murdered contractor, N. Kannan, received the body on Thursday after talks with Collector V. Vishnu and senior police officials who promised to forward their demand of compensation and job to the wife of the deceased to the Chief Minister. Kannan of Vadakku Thazhayoothu was murdered last Monday allegedly by supporters of history- sheeter P. Muthu Mano, who was beaten to death inside Palayamkottai Central Prison on April 22, to avenge his murder. Tension gripped the suburbs as the accused and the deceased belong to different castes. Consequently, the relatives of Kannan refused to accept the body, demanding government job for his wife and compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to his family. Despite repeated talks with the relatives of Kannan, a stalemate continued and the delay in arresting the culprits escalated the tension further. Meanwhile, wife of Kannan, Punitha, his parents and office-bearers of Dhakshinamara Nadar Sangam, led by its president R. K. Kalidasan, submitted a petition with their demands to Collector V. Vishnu on Thursday. They held talks with Mr. Vishnu, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, Suresh Kumar. “Since the Collector has assured that he would forward the demands to the Chief Minister, we’ve decided to accept the body of Kannan. We’ve appealed to the Collector to take steps to stop caste-based murders by arresting the masterminds behind these killings,” said R. Shanmugavel, secretary of Dhakshinamara Nadar Sangam. Subsequently, the body was handed over to the family before noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-accepts-body-of-murdered-contractor/article35355312.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Thursday stood at 115.15 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 915.63 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 75 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 65 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35355601.ece
16 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 5.5 lakh beneficiaries received first dose vaccine in Tiruppur district’||Over 5.5 lakh beneficiaries in Tiruppur district have been administered with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with 2.3 lakh of them vaccinated within a month as part of the intensified vaccination drive across the district. According to the data from the Health Department, 5,59,976 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with at least one dose as of Wednesday (July 14). The Department had previously announced that 3,30,598 beneficiaries received at least one vaccine dose as of June 17, indicating that 2,29,378 additional beneficiaries were vaccinated in a span of 28 days. Of the 5,59,976 beneficiaries, 4,82,598 (86.18%) were vaccinated with Covishield, 76,930 (13.74%) with Covaxin and 448 (0.08%) with Sputnik V. However, only 80,925 persons out of the total beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated with two doses – 58,118 beneficiaries with Covishield and 22,807 with Covaxin – in Tiruppur district as of Wednesday. Sources in the Health Department said on Thursday that the vaccine hesitancy in Tiruppur district has significantly reduced as denoted by the increase in demand. Apart from the vaccination drive by the Health Department where vaccine tokens are being distributed based on electoral roll, 13 private COVID-19 vaccination centres are functioning across the district, the sources said. District Collector S. Vineeth told The Hindu that the district administration will focus on ensuring vaccination of the frontline workers along with vulnerable groups in the 18-44 age group as designated by the State government, noting that walk-in vaccinations have been recently introduced for these priority groups. “In usage, whatever [vaccine doses] we get, we finish it in a day,” he said. Efforts to vaccinate the nearly 3,400 differently abled persons identified in all taluks and in Corporation limits are also under way, Mr. Vineeth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-55-lakh-beneficiaries-received-first-dose-vaccine-in-tiruppur-district/article35355188.ece
16 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two held for forging signature||The Udumalpet police on Wednesday arrested two persons, including a temporary staff member of the Forest Department, for allegedly forging the signature of an official on a cheque. The police said that Palanisami (28), working as a temporary staff at the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) office in Udumalpet, allegedly stole a cheque leaf from a government cheque book on Monday and forged the signature of the Deputy Director of ATR Arockiaraj Xavier to draw Rs. 5.7 lakh from the Udumalpet branch of a public sector bank. He gave the cheque to Premkumar (28), an acquaintance who had previously worked as a temporary staff in the Udumalpet ATR office, to deposit it in the bank on Monday. The next day, an official from the bank contacted the assistant to the Deputy Director, ATR, before initiating the transaction that the signature on the cheque appeared to be different, the police said. The assistant lodged a complaint with the Udumalpet police on Wednesday and a case was registered. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-forging-signature/article35355189.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen bank inaugurated||Collector, P. Gayathri Krishnan on Thursday inaugurated an oxygen bank of Indian Red Cross Society in Tiruvarur district. According to official sources, services of the oxygen bank would be made available free of charge to COVID-19 patients who need oxygen support during home quarantine. The patients could use the concentrators till their oxygen level in blood revert back to normalcy. Those in need of the service could avail it by dialling 98942-18983 (for Tiruvarur area); 98409-31487 (Mannargudi); 95856-86699 (Nannilam) and 99422-27001 (Thiruthuraipoondi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-bank-inaugurated/article35355282.ece
16 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard dies after getting trapped in snare in Nilgiris||A young male leopard died after getting trapped in a snare in Yellanalli, Ketti, a few hundred metres from the Ooty-Coonoor Road, on Thursday morning. The leopard was trying to enter a small farm adjoining a cattle pen, when it got trapped in a snare. Officials said the owner of the property had put up barbed wire fences to prevent the animal from entering and preying on the dogs he was raising. Forest Department officials were informed of the incident around 10 a.m. on Thursday, and they arrived soon after. They then waited for veterinarians to arrive to attempt to rescue the animal, which had gotten trapped in a snare fashioned from a brake line used in motorcycles. Guru Swamy Dabbala, District Forest Officer, Nilgiris Division, said the team of Forest Department officials tried to release the animal without using a tranquilliser to minimise complications. “After the snare was removed, we hoped that the animal would recover and escape. However, it did not move after 30 minutes, and we were planning to bring it to the veterinary hospital in Udhagamandalam when it died,” said Mr. Dabbala. A case has been registered against the owner of the land. “Strict action will be taken against perpetrators,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-dies-after-getting-trapped-in-snare-in-the-nilgiris/article35355150.ece
16 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Selling coffee for Rs. 2 to mark Kamaraj’s birth anniversary||The aroma of coffee beans from a small coffee shop at the Green Circle in Vellore is never missed by long-distance travellers on the Benguluru Highway. It is the lone food joint on the highway that branches out to the town. Travellers stop to sip the filter coffee before they continue their journey. On Thursday, they stopped at the shop for another reason. Refreshments including tea, filter coffee, hot milk and snacks were sold for Rs. 2 each to mark the birth anniversary of the former Chief Minister, K. Kamaraj, that falls on July 15. Surprise “The discount for refreshments was a surprise for us as we never expected it. But, we usually halt to taste filter coffee,” said K. Narain from Bangalore. Sixty-two-year-old V. Maheshwaran, who has been running the shop for more than two decades, initiated the idea of providing refreshments at a low cost on birth anniversaries of prominent personalities including Kamaraj and APJ Abdul Kalam. He has been doing this for more than a decade. The initiative aims to create awareness among youngsters on simple ways of living that was propagated by eminent persons. “In a small way, I want to spread awareness on such issues by celebrating prominent people who worked on those ideas,” said Mr. Maheshwaran. Odd jobs A native of Navaladipatty village in Namakkal district, Mr. Maheshwaran left his village in early age to Vellore after he was scolded by his parents for being poor in his studies. He did odd jobs before selling refreshments, mainly tea and coffee, in cycle to shops, schools and private companies in the town for many years before he opened the shop on the Benguluru Highway two decades ago. Encouraging children To encourage children to enrol themselves in schools, Mr. Maheshwaran honoured government school toppers of Class 10 and 12 in the town with gold chains and rings, prior to the lockdown last year. During the lockdown, frontline workers, including police personnel and conservancy workers, were provided free refreshments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selling-coffee-for-rs-2-to-mark-kamarajs-birth-anniversary/article35355605.ece
16 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Online fraud: Helpline set up||A 24-hour free helpline (155260) to register complaints on online fraud was launched by the cyber crime police station in Vellore on Wednesday. According to a press release, residents can report to the police if they suspect any fraudulent online transaction in their bank account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-fraud-helpline-set-up/article35355606.ece
16 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||41 new cases reported in Vellore||Vellore district reported 41 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total number to 47,546. While 46,033 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 435. The district’s death toll is 1,078. In Ranipet district, 26 cases were reported and the total stood at 41,591. In Tirupathur district, 22 new cases were reported and the total number of positive cases stood at 27,899. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 73. Of the 51,009 cases, 49,368 have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 1,015||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article35355608.ece
16 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of Kamaraj celebrated||The 119th birth anniversary of late Chief Minister K. Kamaraj was celebrated here at his native town with fervour. On behalf of the Tamil Nadu government, District Collector J. Megnath Reddy presided over the celebrations held at the manimandapam of the late leader. State Ministers K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran, Thangam Thennarasu, MPs Kanimozhi from Thoothukudi and Tenkasi MP Danush Kumar, MLAs A. R. R. Srinivasan and S. Thangapandian among others garlanded the statue. Later, they also paid floral tributes to his portrait. Congress leaders from various parts of Tamil Nadu visited the memorial and garlanded the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-kamaraj-celebrated/article35355310.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ration shops instructed to provide best quality rice||Revenue Minister K. K. S. S. R Ramachandran, Food and Civil Supplies Minister R. Sakkarapani, and Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy conducted a review meeting with the officials of the Food and Civil Supplies department from Madurai, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar here on Thursday. Mr. Ramachandran said that several complaints were raised by the public in the last 10 years about the functioning of the Food and Civil Supplies department, but no action was taken to redress these problems. The Chief Minister has instructed to provide best quality rice to the public through the ration shops. He had also said that strict action will be taken against ration shop staff who get involved in fraudulent activities. Mr. Sakkarapani said that the officials have been instructed on how to perform their duties efficiently. There were around 33,055 ration shops in the State. Among them, there were 5,000 shops that have more than 3,000 ration card holders each. The public have requested to spread the ration shops across various places. There were a total of 2,608 direct procurement centres in the State. The CM has instructed to avoid any unlawful activities in the centres. There was a target to procure 44 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from farmers this year. Till date, around 37 metric tonnes of paddy have been procured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-shops-instructed-to-provide-best-quality-rice/article35355318.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 155 new cases||Salem district reported 155 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. According to health officials, 140 cases were indigenous and 40 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. As per bulletin, three deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 74 indigenous cases were reported. Erode saw 159 indigenous cases. Krishnagiri reported 38 fresh cases and one death. The number of active cases stood at 612 cases as of Thursday. A total of 40,884 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri saw 40 fresh cases and two deaths. There were 646 active cases. As of date, 25,580 cases were reported in the district. A total of 256 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 2.8 % on Wednesday when 270 persons tested positive out of the 9,568 swab samples tested by the the Health Department. The district’s toll increased to 2,122 after six more persons died in the last few days. Tiruppur district reported 143 new cases, taking the overall tally to 86,184. The Health Department reported two deaths, taking the district’s toll to 810. A total of 1,561 patients were active cases and 134 patients were discharged on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-155-new-cases/article35355339.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 256 cases, six deaths||A total of 256 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 2.8 % on Wednesday when 270 persons tested positive out of the 9,568 swab samples tested by the the Health Department. On Thursday, 432 persons recovered from the disease. The district’s death toll increased to 2,122 after six more persons died in the last few days. Tiruppur district reported 143 new cases, taking the overall tally to 86,184. The Health Department reported two deaths, taking the district’s toll to 810. A total of 1,561 patients were active cases and 134 patients were reported to have recovered in the district on Thursday. Nilgiris district reported 67 cases, taking the overall tally to 29,692. The number of deaths in the district stood at 172, while 913 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-256-cases-six-deaths/article35355195.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A ‘wonderful’ report on waterbodies, says HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday commended the State government for having filed a “wonderful” report on the technology that must be adopted to spot each and every waterbody in the State with centimetre accuracy so that they could be saved from encroachment and obliteration. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy told Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram that it was one of the best government reports they had read in a long time. The report had highlighted that the static satellite images downloaded from Google Earth might not indicate real world positions of waterbodies spread across the State since those maps were not geo referenced and that only surveying of all waterbodies using global positioning system (GPS) or drones would help in identifying the waterbodies in their exact real-world positions with centimetre accuracy. The judges directed the government to keep the satellite images already downloaded from Google as a reference point until the more elaborate exercise of geo-referencing could be undertaken. They also decided to monitor the process until its completion so that the waterbodies in the State could be saved from obliteration in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-wonderful-report-on-waterbodies-says-hc/article35355170.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. working on a master plan to make tourists feel safe’||Tourism Secretary B. Chandramohan on Thursday said that the government was working on an integrated master plan that aimed to make tourists feel safe and give them a different experience. “We are putting together a health and hygiene protocol that will be shared with all stakeholders and implemented so that visitors can travel and stay in the State with confidence. “Another area of focus is to prolong tourist stay. At present it is 2-3 days, we are working to extend it to 3-5 days, which will lead to more earnings and help the industry and those depending on it both directly and indirectly,” he said. Speaking at an online seminar on “Domestic tourism - opportunities and challenges” organised by Madras Management Association (MMA) and Prakruthi, he said the high level committee constituted by the government was working on 10 segments including pilgrimage and heritage tourism, spiritual and wellness tourism, eco tourism and adventure tourism. MMA president Ravichandran Purushothaman said that though tourism was a significant contributor to India’s GDP, there was still room for expansion, The country’s tourism potential remained unexploited, he said adding that domestic tourism offered enormous opportunities for youth. M. K. Ajit Kumar, spokesperson, South India MICE Association, said that though at present the industry was down, there was light at the end of the tunnel. The Meetings Incentives Conferences Exhibitions (MICE) industry is waiting for the government to lift restrictions on the number of persons allowed for meetings. “People are bored with online meetings and are looking forward to get out of their homes and meet friends and colleagues in person,” he said. Shabin Sarvotham, Senior General Manager, Radisson Blu Temple Bay, said that there would be a lot of opportunities for youngsters once things improve. “There is enough space for people who think differently and out of the box because the guests too expect such things now, especially after being cooped up in their homes. The pandemic has also shown that even now, there are opportunities for those who are willing to make a mark on their own,” he said. Asoka Pugal, president emeritus, Tourist Guides Federation of India, said that guides should welcome visitors but send back friends. “A guide can make or mar a tour. They should constantly update themselves and keep learning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-working-on-a-master-plan-to-make-tourists-feel-safe/article35355305.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai’s remarks kick up a row||He said, “Forget about the media. Don’t worry about things like they are carrying ‘false news’ about us... Within the next six months, you will see that we can bring the media under our control, take them over... No media can keep projecting false information continuously.” He said, “Former BJP State president L. Murugan is the Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting. All the media come under him. The media cannot continuously project false news. Such news cannot be used for politics.” Mr. Thangaraj said the remarks were meant to coerce the media into favouring one party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalais-remarks-kick-up-a-row/article35355162.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Honouring a veteran||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honouring-a-veteran/article35355164.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer M. Ramakrishnan on Thursday issued appointment orders to six persons, who were heirs of those who died during their tenure in Department of School Education offices and in government schools. A release said that the six were among the 250 persons in the State who were appointed as junior assistants in the Department of School Education.   Former Superintendent of Highways Department Jotty Kurian recently planted 25 tamarind saplings at a panchayat park in Kangeyampalayam near Sulur. A release said that he retired after 35 years of service in the Highways Department and that he had undertaken a project to plant 250 tamarind saplings in Coimbatore district.   Rohan Bopanna Tennis Academy announced its collaboration with Rak’s Pallikoodam school to set up a tennis training facility on the school premises. A release said that RBTA, established by tennis player Rohan Bopanna, will cater to school students of all ages and skill levels. For details, contacttennisrbda@ rakspallikkoodam.comor visitwww.rakspallikkoodam.com.     KG Information Systems has appointed three banking leaders - Shrinath Bolloju as Chief Strategy Officer, Ramesh Nagesh as Chief Operating Officer, and Noor Hayati Ahmad as Senior Vice President & Country Head, KGiSL Singapore, to support its growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35355190.ece
16 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest in Belagavi today||Kannada organisations will stage a protest in Belagavi on Friday against the State government’s plans to abolish the offices of Regional commissioners across the State. Members of the action committee of Kannada organisations held meetings on Wednesday and Thursday to finalise their plans. The protest will be held before the Regional Commissioner’s office in Belagavi on Friday. Memorandum copies have been sent to the Chief Minister, Revenue Minister, Leaders of the Opposition in both Houses, and other dignitaries. On Thursday, leaders of various organisations discussed issues like the importance of the Regional Commissionerate in a multi-level democracy, the powers and duties of Regional Commissioners, and the inconvenience the people would face if these levels of governance were abolished. Ashok Chandaragi, convener, briefed the members about the powers of the Regional commissioner. The four RCs in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Kalaburagi have various functions like general supervision over departments at the regional level. They have disciplinary powers and can receive public grievances and hear appeals against lower-level officers. Though they primarily work for the Revenue Department, the RCs have 63 responsibilities under 26 laws relating to various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-in-belagavi-today/article35355372.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 disrupts Bengaluru’s calendar of events this year too||The second wave may be behind us and the city may have unlocked, but the virus is still around. This has meant that the pandemic has disrupted the city’s calendar for the second consecutive year as fears of an imminent third wave has resulted in the state government banning all public gatherings The Lalbagh Flower Show scheduled for Independence Day has been cancelled. This is the third show in a row to be cancelled. “The show usually attracts a footfall of over 6 lakh, which is definitely not advisable in the current scenario. So we have cancelled it. Shows have been cancelled once during plague and twice during World War II, but never has three consecutive shows been cancelled,” said M. Jagadeesh, Joint Director, Parks and Gardens, Horticulture Department. Independence Day celebrations are also expected to be low key. “All events will be held strictly with COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour. We are awaiting guidelines from the Union and State governments over I-Day celebrations,” said City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. Meanwhile, the pandemic has also cast a shadow on the annual St. Mary’s Feast, held in August-September and Ganesha festival, which falls on September 10 this year. “Last year, we only held the mass that was streamed online, with no car festival. This year, we had plans to revert to normal festivities, but with fears of a third wave and government guidelines that banpublic gatherings, we are keeping our fingers crossed. If the present guidelines continue, the festival will be held like last year - mass streamed online and no car festival,” said J.A. Kanthraj, spokesperson, Archdiocese of Bangalore. Though the city’s civic body initially banned public installation of Ganesha idols in 2020, pressure from within the State government pushed them to relax norms, allowing for one public installation per ward. However, the response had been lukewarm. Senior civic officials, who did not wish to be named, said it won’t be wise to allow large pandals in the city and that the civic body may follow last year’s formula of allowing only one pandal per ward, with no entertainment programmes that are usually part of the festivities. Bengaluru International Film Festival, postponed twice, has now been put off indefinitely. “We announced the festival to be held in April earlier this year, but were hit by the second wave. With reports of a third wave round the corner, we have indefinitely put off the festival this year,” said Sunil Puranik, chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, organisers of the Festival. The pandemic has already blighted two editions of Karaga and Poo Pallakki Utsava, and pushed key calendar events in the city’s life, like Ramanavami Sangeeta Utsava and Bangalore Literature Festival, online. “We are observing cases rising in Kerala and Maharashtra that share a border with us. Fears of an imminent third wave are real. The Indian Medical Association has also advised governments to prevent super spreader events,” said a senior civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-disrupts-bengalurus-calendar-of-events-this-year-too/article35355091.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Too early to heave a sigh of relief: Experts||Although there has been a marked slowdown in the new COVID-19 cases reported daily, experts said it is too early to heave a sigh of relief. Threat of a third wave still looms and the next six weeks are crucial, experts said. Cautioning against lowering the guard, COVID-19 experts said people’s behaviour in the next six weeks will predict the outcome of the third wave. M.K. Sudarshan, who heads the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said with the State reporting around 2,000 new cases daily, it cannot be said that the second wave had subsided as yet. “After the first wave subsided during December-January, the State had been reporting around 500 new cases for some time and that was without the availability of vaccines. Now, with vaccines we are still reporting around 2,000 cases and this is a cause of concern,” he said. ‘Short memory’ “It is unfortunate that people have forgotten the miseries of the second wave so early and have got back to the pre-COVID-19 period lifestyle. People have started visiting hill stations and tourist spots, which are non-essential in the given scenario, attending social gatherings such as weddings, parties and going shopping without following protocols. We will only be advancing the arrival of the third wave by this kind of COVID-19 inappropriate behaviour,” he warned. Concerned over this, the TAC will meet in the next two days to review the situation. “We will review the district-wise test positivity rates and distribution of Delta and Delta Plus cases during the meeting,” Dr. Sudarshan said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that although it is understandable that people are flocking tourist spots due to lockdown fatigue, any kind of crowding without following norms will prove costly at this juncture. He advised that people should not let their guard down now, especially during the upcoming festival season. “Festival celebrations should be confined to homes. If there is another mutation of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the coming days, crowding will provide more space for multiplication,” he pointed out. Haleema Yezdani, a general physician who has been regularly tele-triaging and tele-treating COVID-19 patients through the Emergency Response Team and Project StepOne groups that offer free service to people in getting beds and treatment, said it is unfortunate that people have not learnt lessons even after the second wave. “If people do not behave responsibly now there are all possibilities of the State witnessing super spreader events,” she said. Big crowds Pointing out that nearly 8,000 people visited Nandi Hills during the first weekend after the lockdown was lifted, Dr. Yezdani lauded the Chickballapur district administration’s decision to ban public entry to tourist spot during weekends. “There are crowds everywhere and weddings and shopping are going on in full spree. It is difficult to make people understand, who are under the false belief that the second wave has subsided. The irony is that we doctors are finding it difficult to convince our own family members as they think we (doctors) are overreacting,” she said. “With some projections pointing towards the onset of a third wave by August, the next four-six weeks are crucial,” she added.  “It is unfortunate that people have forgotten the miseries of the second wave so early and have got back to the pre-COVID-19 lifestyle. People have started visiting hill stations and tourist spots, which are non-essential in the given scenario.” --||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/too-early-to-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-experts/article35355100.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals asked to raise indents by today||To step up the pace of vaccination that has been hit largely due to the short supply of vaccines, the State government has asked private hospitals to raise indents for vaccines under the 25% quota for the private sector latest by Friday. Under this quota, 15 lakh doses are available for private hospitals in the State this month. The State government wants to ensure that private hospitals, who had been trying to procure vaccines so far, raise the indent and procure the vaccines, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra told The Hindu on Thursday. “We had first asked the private hospitals to indent by Thursday. But after a meeting held to review the progress of vaccination in private hospitals on Thursday, we have asked them to raise the indent on the CoWIN portal latest by Friday,” he said. He said overall the State had got around 30 lakh doses this month, including seven lakh doses on Thursday. The short notice has not gone down well with private hospitals. H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said it was practically not possible to suddenly arrange for funds and raise indents. “After we brought this to the notice of the NHM State Mission Director Arundhathi Chandrashekar and other officials, they have said we can indent by Friday,” he said. “In spite of all efforts we may not be able to even indent five lakh doses by tomorrow. They cannot give us an ultimatum like this,” he said. PHANA Secretary Rajashekar Y.L. said, “The minimum number of doses that a hospital can indent is 500 for Covishield and 160 for Covaxin. Many hospitals are wary of investing all of a sudden as the demand for vaccines in private hospitals has come down after the government announced free vaccination. Moreover, the profit margin is also very marginal,” he said. They have requested the government to reduce the limit to 200 for Covishield and 80 for Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-asked-to-raise-indents-by-today/article35355105.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Investors’ meet slated for Feb.||With investments continuing to flow into Karnataka, the State Cabinet on Thursday decided to conduct a global investors’ meet — Invest Karnataka — at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru for three days from February 9, 2022. The State received investments of nearly Rs. 18,000 crore in the midst of thepandemic in April–May 2021. The government has already announced the new industrial policy to attract investment to the State, said Minister for Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai after the Cabinet meeting. Crop survey The Cabinet also decided to release Rs. 48 crore for conducting a crop survey through a mobile app. Farmers on their own or with the aid of others or government staff have to upload information on crops they had sown during the kharif season. It was decided that job-oriented courses (JoCs) would be considered on a par with the PUC education. Many candidates opt for JoC after 10th standard and therefore such a decision was taken, said the Minister. The Karnataka Prisons Development Board Bill was cleared and it would be tabled in the next session of the State legislature, Mr. Bommai said. Basavanna statue A statue of 12th century social reformer and saint Basaveshwara would be installed on the premises of the Vidhana Soudha. Mr. Bommai said the Kannada and Culture Department would decide the size and cost of the statue. A statue of Basaveshwara riding a horse was installed a few years ago at Basaveshwara Circle in the city, a short distance from the State Secretariat. In 2017, the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had ordered display of Basaveshwara’s photo in all government offices.  Other major Cabinet decisions 139 prisoners to be released on good conduct on Independence Day Rs. 15 crore to set up goshalas in all districts Rs. 30 crore for second phase work of veterinary college in Gadag Rs. 58 crore for engineering college at Deodurg in Raichur district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/investors-meet-slated-for-feb/article35355123.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Headache disorders were most prevalent neurological ailments in 2019’||Headache disorders (comprising migraine and tension-type headache) were the most prevalent neurological ailments in India in 2019, affecting 488 million people, noted the first comprehensive estimates of disease burden due to neurological disorders in India. The paper titled “The burden of neurological disorders across the States of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 1990–2019” has been published in The Lancet Global Health on Wednesday (July 14) by the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative. According to the paper, between the two types of headache disorders, the DALY (Disability-Adjusted Life Years) contribution of migraine to total neurological disorder DALYs was much higher than the tension-type headache. In 2019, the prevalence of migraine was higher in females aged 35-59 years than in males of the same age. Prevalence increased with age and peaked at around age 40-44 years, followed by a gradual decrease in both females and males, the paper noted. “Variations in the crude DALY rate of headache disorders were minimal between the States in 2019. The crude prevalence and DALY rate of headache disorders had a strong significant positive correlation with the Socio-Demographic Index (SDI) of the States, but the age-standardised rates had no significant correlation,” the paper pointed out. The crude prevalence and DALY rate of headache disorders increased in India from 1990 to 2019, but no significant change occurred in the age-standardised prevalence. Pramod Kumar Pal, Professor of Neurology at Nimhans, who is one of the authors of this neurological disease burden analysis, said headache disorders are the most prevalent neurological disorders after stroke. While the contribution of stroke to total neurological disorder DALY in India is the highest at 37.9%, headache disorders follow at 17.5%, he said. Of the 488 million people found to be suffering from headache disorders, 213 million people have migraines and 374 million have tension-type headache, according to the paper. Dr. Pal said the numbers could even be more as headaches are often not reported. “Generally classical migraines tend to disappear with age and new onset of migraines do not usually happen after 50 years. New onset of headaches in the elderly indicate a much more serious medical condition and need to be investigated to rule out tumours and other neurological issues,” Dr. Pal said. “Migraines and tension-type headaches apart, headaches due to eye strain, anxiety and depression-related and cervical spondylolysis are also of concern. All affect productivity and need to be investigated irrespective of the age. These are not taken into consideration in this article,” he said. The contribution of non-communicable neurological disorders to total DALYs from all causes in India doubled from 4% in 1990 to 8.2% in 2019, whereas the contribution of communicable neurological disorders decreased from 4.1% in 1990 to 1.1% in 2019. Injury-related neurological disorders contributed to 0.6% of total DALYs in 2019, compared with 0.2% in 1990. The proportion of total DALYs due to all neurological disorders (combining communicable, non-communicable, and injury-related disorders) changed marginally in India, from 8.3% in 1990 to 9.9% in 2019, Dr. Pal explained. N.K. Venkataramana, Chairman and Director Neurosciences at Brains Hospital, said although headache disorders have been one of the most common neurological problems for several years we never had any reliable data so far. “This study has brought out the interesting and alarming facts that millions of people are suffering from headaches and over the decade it has been steadily increasing,” he said. The common reasons for the increase in headache and migraine among women are stress, pollution and lifestyle. In the last decade, there has been a phenomenal increase in women empowerment but at the same time increase in work-related stress, dual responsibility, poor dietary habits, social habits like smoking, all these have contributed to the increase in the number of migraine headaches among women, especially those in the most productive age group, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/headache-disorders-were-most-prevalent-neurological-ailments-in-2019/article35355108.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pressure mounts to make public ‘caste census’ report||Pressure to make public the Social and Educational Survey – 2015, popularly known as the ‘caste census’, seems to be mounting. Most Backward Classes Vigilant Forum, an organisation that has come together amid reservation demands by several ‘upper’ castes, has taken up a campaign for the same. As part of this efforts, the forum is set to file a writ petition in the High Court of Karnataka seeking directions to the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes and the State government to make the report public. Ahead of the monsoon session of the State legislature, the forum met leaders, including the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Sreenivas Poojary. They have also sought time to meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Responses of the commission to right to information (RTI) applications by members of the forum show the survey was completed in 2015 at a cost of Rs. 162.67 crore, but the report is yet to be submitted to the government. H. Kantharaj, who headed the survey as chairman of the commission, handed over the report to the member-secretary of the commission, but not to the government, on September 22, 2019, the day he was to step down from the post, sources said. “There has been no scientific rationale for the OBC reservation matrix in the State. To correct it, caste census report is the best tool,” said M.C. Venugopal, president of the forum, adding that it was an enormous waste to spend crores on the project that is only gathering dust. He said they were pushing for it being made public beyond party lines. However, national general secretary of the BJP C.T. Ravi has hit back at the move, terming it “Congress sponsored”. “Mr. Siddaramaiah could have accepted the report himself, but he did not as there have been dissenting voices within not only the Congress, but also the backward classes commission.” While Mr. Ravi claimed that two members of the commission had not signed the report, K.N. Lingappa, former member of the commission, clarified, “There are two parts to the exercise — survey and its findings, and reconfiguration of the OBC reservation matrix based on the survey data. The first part constitutes raw data in 40 volumes which has been passed unanimously.” However, he added that two members, including himself, had differences over the recommendations on reconfiguration of the reservation matrix. “We were in the process of preparing our dissent notes, when all of a sudden the State government sacked us on September 22, 2019. But this does not in any way affect the legitimacy of the survey itself,” he said. ‘Will wait for HC’s word’ K. Jayaprakash Hegde, commission chairman, told The Hindu they were yet to examine the report. He said the commission would wait for directions from the High Court. “There is already a petition challenging the survey itself being heard by the High Court. Now, there will likely be a petition seeking submission of the report. So it is better to wait,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pressure-mounts-to-make-public-caste-census-report/article35355114.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka signs MoUs with leading firms to provide job skills to youth||The State government on Thursday signed eight agreements with leading companies for scaling up skills among youth to enable them to get jobs. The MoUs were exchanged between the government and companies in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister for Skill Development, Entrepreneurship, and Livelihood. The MoUs included starting courses related to the automotive sector in select ITIs in the districts of Bengaluru, Ramanagaram, and Tumakuru in collaboration with Toyota Motors. Karnataka has developedkaushalkar.comweb portal for the benefit of migratory workers and has been organising virtual job melas through Skill Connect web portal to facilitate placements in industries, the Chief Minister said. The International Migration Centre has been established to help youth find jobs in foreign countries based on the demand for human resources, he added. He said the government intends releasing Rs. 400 crore to 1,93,000 SHGs as Community Investment Fund under the National Rural Livelihood Campaign. Karnataka Skill and Livelihood Taskforce was formed to create 10 million jobs in the next five years. The taskforce is expected to submit its report shortly, the Chief Minister said. Dr. Narayan said under the programme, 150 ITIs would be upgraded into technology hubs. The government plans to sign 40 MoUs with various companies and out of these, eight were signed on Thursday. Companies with which MoUs were entered into included Wipro, GE, and Narayana Hrudayalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-signs-mous-with-leading-firms-to-provide-job-skills-to-youth/article35355119.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC permits felling of 350 trees for metro project||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday permitted Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited to cut around 350 trees for the metro project and directed the corporation to plant 4,000 saplings as compensatory afforestation in the Old Military Dairy Farm at Hebbal instead of 3,500 saplings as proposed by the corporation. However, the court described as “vague” the proposal of planting 3,500 saplings of 33 different varieties of species as the BMRCL, in its proposal to the Tree Officer (TO), had not indicated how many saplings in each of the identified species would be planted. Also, the court recorded its disapproval on the conduct of the TO for not ascertaining from the BMRCL the number of sapling in each of the shortlisted varieties as this information would have helped the TO in considering whether the site is suitable for growth of saplings. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, passed the order during the hearing of a PIL petition filed in 2018 by Dattatraya T. Devare and the Bangalore Environment Trust complaining about the non-implementation of the provisions of the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976 in the city. As BMRCL had pointed out that implementation of the metro project is being delayed, the Bench permitted the felling of trees as BMRCL agreed to the court’s suggestion to plant 4,000 saplings. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the TO to indicate the number of saplings to be planted in each of the shortlisted varieties and to follow this norm in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-permits-felling-of-350-trees-for-metro-project/article35355097.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTI activist loses leg in ‘revenge attack’||In a gory incident, an armed gang attacked a 50-year-old RTI activist, leaving his right leg severed, near his farm in Taverekere, Ramanagaram, on Thursday. The incident occurred around 11.30 a.m. when Venkatesh was walking near his farm. The assailants came on bikes and attacked him with weapons. As a result, his right leg was severed and he sustained a deep cut on his right hand when he tried to resist the attack, the police said. The assailants sped away leaving Venkatesh in a pool of blood before passers-by rushed to his help. He was taken to a near-by hospital where he is being treated in the ICU. A senior officer, quoting the doctors, said Venkatesh was out of danger. Doctors have subjected him to surgery. According to the police, Venkatesh was actively filing RTIs for many government projects, and had also filed several cases related to corruption. A number of projects have been stopped because of his complaints. It is suspected that the attack was an act of revenge. “We have taken up a case of attempt to murder, and are investigating the case from all possible angles. We have also got clues about the attackers and are trying to nab them,” said an investigating officer.  According to the police, Venkatesh was actively filing RTIs for many government projects, and had also filed several cases related to corruption. A number of projects have been stopped because of his complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rti-activist-loses-leg-in-revenge-attack/article35355106.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to issue e-freeship cards to SC students||For the first time, post-matric students belonging to Scheduled Caste communities will receive ‘e-freeship card’ from the government for the transfer of scholarship from this academic year. The card will act as a government guarantee to educational institutions towards payment of fee and the institutions have been asked not to insist on collecting fee from such students. Educational institutions have been mandated to install facial recognition biometric system to capture the attendance of the students to ensure that scholarship money is well utilised. “Both the card and Aadhaar-based facial biometric system has been mandated by theUnion government to be implemented from this academic year,” Additional Chief Secretary Rajveev Chawla told presspersons here on Thursday. “The facility for students to apply for e-freeship card will be opened in the next eight to 10 days. While the State will fund the biometric facilities in government institutions, the biometric facility will have to be set up by private institutions with their own funds,” he added. Separate desk To provide convenience to students who are not tech savvy, every education institution has been mandated to set up a desk for state scholarship portal (SSP) and appoint a nodal officer tohelp generate e-freeship card. “If these facilities are not opened by institutions, students with their sensitive documents may end up in cyber centres, and chances of misuse becomes high,” e- Governance Department sources said. As many as 65 universities, 14,000 colleges, 243 courses, and 2,516 course/combination across the State have been brought under the SSP portal. The unified portal has in all brought 1.25 crore pre-matric students and 40 lakh post-matric students in the State under it. While 6.62 lakh post-matric students from all the communities eligible for scholarship had applied for scholarship in 2019–2020, 13.72 lakh students had applied in 2020–21. For the pre-matric scholarship disbursement, the State received 53.65 lakh application in 2018–2019, and 43.96 lakh and 36.99 lakh applications for 2019–20 and 2020–21, respectively. Mr. Chawla said the entire process was paperless and money would go directly to the student’s account. The e-freeship card is being implemented on a pilot basis by the National Payment Corporation of India. Mr. Chawla said that though currently students belonging to SC communities would be brought under the new system, it could be eventually extended to all those students who were receiving government benefits. Mr.Chawla said the Karnataka’s model had influenced the Union government to restructure the guidelines for post-matric scholarship. e-voucher proposed Meanwhile, the Centre for e-Governance has proposed to the Karnataka government to implement ‘e-vouchers’ for students receiving scholarship. The UPI pre-paid e-vouchers that will be given to students in lieu of money can be encashed only by the college in which the student is studying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-issue-e-freeship-cards-to-sc-students/article35355120.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two persons caught in web of online fraud||Online fraudsters cheated an assistant coach of the Indian basketball team and made away with Rs. 25,000 from his account on July 7. The victim, Mohit Bhandari , a resident of JP Narayan national youth sports centre in Chikkajala, filed a complaint with the North-east Cyber Crime police on Tuesday after getting the details of the transactions from his bank, situated in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. The incident occurred when Mr. Bhandari was busy in an official meeting when he received a message for a KYC update with warning to do it immediately . Mr. Bhandari hurriedly filled the form and clicked on the OTP generated in theprocess. Within seconds, Rs. 25,000 was deducted from his account. He immediately informed the bank explaining the situation with a request to cancel the transactions, but it was in vain. A similar incident occurred with Niranjan Singh, an Army man . The accused sent him a message with a request to update KYC for his SIM connection. As soon as he filled the link, Rs. 39,900 was debited from his account. Mr. Singh filed a complaint with the East Cyber Crime police on Tuesday. The police said that this is a most common form of online fraud and despite repeated warnings and reminders, people tend to fall for them and lose money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-persons-caught-in-web-of-online-fraud/article35355095.ece
16 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Digital training on agri and allied sectors||People from urban and peri-urban areas will get an opportunity to connect with the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru as the UAS-B Alumni Association is organising short-term digital training and specialised talks on a wide range of subjects for them. The association, which comprises experts from agriculture and allied sectors, will offer digital training in 22 subjects from balanced nutrition to wine-making, and from management of indoor plants to Bonsai. There are also subjects such as importance of medicinal plants, importance of fruits and vegetables in diet, homemade bakery products, maintenance of landscape garden, mushroom cultivation, kitchen garden, bee keeping, gulkan-making, and management of pets, among others. According to association president Dr. K. Narayana Gowda, anyone can register for this free course, which will fetch the participant a certificate. They have to register through a Google form (https://forms.gle/cXtQH825ZN11hC1X6) and indicate their subject of preference. Course directors, P.K. Basavaraj (9449152884) and Saralakumari (9611567094), can be contacted for further details. Dr. Gowda told The Hindu that the association had decided to particularly focus on urban dwellers as the university had always been reaching out to farmers through Krishi Vigyan Kendras and extensive network of specialists. “But for an occasional workshop or talk on urban gardening, we have not shared our expertise with urban dwellers. However, a large number of urban dwellers too are interested in some of our research subjects. Hence we decided to reach out to them,” he said, pointing out that specialists in different fields would handle the courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-training-on-agri-and-allied-sectors/article35355107.ece
16 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six forest officers transferred||The State government on Wednesday issued a notification transferring four IFoS officers and two SFS officers. According to it, the new postings of the officers are: Malathi Priya, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Bengaluru Rural; P. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Bannerghatta National Park; Karikalan V., Deputy Conservator of Forests, FTATI, Kadugodi, Bengaluru; Surya Sen, Deputy Conservator of Forests, headquarters, Bengaluru; N.E. Kranthi, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Chikkamagaluru Division; and S. Balakrishna, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Haveri Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-forest-officers-transferred/article35355116.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MSIL liquor shops: HC finds no fault in law||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the rules that allows the government-owned or controlled companies to operate retail liquor shops sans limitation fixed on the number of liquor shops based on population as per the provisions of the Karnataka Excise Act, 1965, and the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968. The court said non-application of limitation of number of shops that can be established cannot be applied to government-owned companies like MSIL as the citizens have no fundamental right to do trade or business in intoxicating liquor and citizens have the right to carry on trade or business only subject to the limitation fixed by the State. Dismissed Justice Hemant Chandangoudar passed the order while dismissing a batch of petitions filed by private licenced liquor shop owners questioning the Rule 3(11-C) of the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968 that allowed MSIL to establish retail liquor shops in a taluk sans limitation fixed based on population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/msil-liquor-shops-hc-finds-no-fault-in-law/article35355117.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold loan company executive booked on charge of stealing from workplace||The Adugodi police have registered a cheating and criminal breach of trust case against the relationship executive of a gold loan company after he was allegedly caught stealing 308 grams of gold valuables and pledging the same in his own firm . The cheating came to light when Binet George, branch manager of the company, evaluated the pledged gold valuables on July 13, a process done every three months, and found five packets of gold valuables were missing. As per the company policy, the pledged gold was kept in a cover and each cover was given a code with the weight of the gold, details of the person, and the date when pawned . Ms. Binet summoned all the employees, including the accused Mahesh Kumar, who was the key holder during the period. A detailed inquiry led him to confess to the stealing of valuables. Mahesh confessed that he had pawned two out of five packets in the company’s Hongasandra branch, while he had given the remaining three to his relatives to pledge them in the same branch where he is working. Based on his confession, the officials recovered the gold valuables and filed a police complaint to initiate criminal action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-loan-company-executive-booked-on-charge-of-stealing-from-workplace/article35355103.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ambulances distributed||The Karnataka State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (KSSIDC) has handed over ambulances to five district hospitals under its CSR initiative. According to a KSSIDC release, Bidar and Hospet (Vijayanagar) were given two ambulances each and one each were given to Mysuru, Ranibennur, and Byndoor. KSIIDC chairman Shailendra K. Beldale handed over the keys at a programme at Kanija Bhavan on Race Course Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambulances-distributed/article35355094.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State inks deals with over 20 companies||The State government on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with more than 20 companies spread across various sectors, including electric vehicles, data centres, aerospace, and defence, to attract investments worth Rs. 28,000 crore and generate 15,000 direct employment opportunities. Since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, the State government has cleared more than 520 projects of industries with a total investment of Rs. 77,000 crore spanning multiple sectors, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said during the signing of the MoUs at the Invest Karnataka Conclave.Karnataka had garnered Rs. 28,600 crore worth of investments in the last six months in the form of MoUs and investment proposals, Mr. Yediyurappa added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-inks-deals-with-over-20-companies/article35355122.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,977 new cases, 48 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,977 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,78,564. Of these, 462 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 48 deaths, the toll rose to 36,037. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 3,188 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 28,10,121. The State now has 32,383 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.42%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.42%. As many as 1,38,274 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,06,415 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-1977-new-cases-48-deaths/article35355098.ece
16 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jala Spandana phone-in tomorrow||The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold the Jala Spandana phone-in programme on July 17 between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. at 16 places across the city. The programme is being organized to receive and solve the issues relating to water and sewerage, according to a BWSSB release. For details, visitwww.bwssb.gov.in. People can also contact helpline number: 1916 or send a WhatsApp message to 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jala-spandana-phone-in-tomorrow/article35355101.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet panel meeting||A Cabinet sub-committee meeting was held on Thursday to discuss the recommendations made by the Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission. Revenue MinisterR. Ashok discussed with officials the possibility of abolishing the posts of four regional commissioner and instead establishing a regional commissionerate in Bengaluru, said a press release from the Revenue Department.Among the other issues discussed were merging of neighbourhood planning authorities with BMRDA and bringing pension schemes of various departments under Revenue Department pension scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-panel-meeting/article35355115.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ZP, TP polls opposed||Owing to COVID-19 pandemic, the State Cabinet has opposed the holding of elections to zilla and taluk panchayats till December, 2021. However, the Cabinet approved holding elections to the posts of office-bearer of cooperative banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zp-tp-polls-opposed/article35355121.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Leopard found dead with bullet injury||A leopard was found dead in a mango orchard in Hosadoddi village, Ramanagaram district, on Wednesday evening. V. Devaraju, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Ramanagaram district, said the animal was around five years of age. “It seems to have been shot at from a very close range in its stomach. There is only one bullet injury, with both entry and exit wounds,” he said. The mango orchard, where the leopard was found dead, is less than 500 metres away from Tenginakallu forest area, and leopard sightings are common in the area, sources said. “There have been no recent reports of leopards preying on cattle in the surrounding villages,” Mr. Devaraju said. The Forest Department has registered a case under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and is probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-found-dead-with-bullet-injury/article35355093.ece
16 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Acid attack: Life term for four||The second additional district and sessions judge in Chikkamagaluru, on Thursday, sentenced four people convicted of throwing acid on a woman, to life imprisonment besides a penalty of Rs. 5 lakh each. The convicted are Ganesh, 36, Mohammed Kabir, 30, Vinod Kumar, 38, and Abdul Majid, 38. They hatched a conspiracy and threw acid at Sumana, who was running a beauty parlour at Menase near Sringeri, on April 18, 2015. Ganesh, the prime accused, was forcing Sumana to marry him. As she refused, he had threatened that he would spoil her life. By then Sumana was separated from her husband, and Ganesh was said to be the reason for the differences between the couple. Sudheer M. Hegde, who was then Police Inspector of Sringeri, investigated the case and filed the charge sheet. The matter was heard for nearly six years. B.S. Mamatha, who represented the prosecution in court, told The Hindu: “The court has sentenced four people to life imprisonment besides imposing a penalty of Rs. 5 lakh each. The total amount of Rs. 20 lakh will be given to the victim as compensation”. Following the acid attack, Sumana lost one eye and underwent 18 surgeries. Speaking to media after the judgment was pronounced, she said “No woman should go through what I have been. I wish this punishment stops such crimes in future.” “I survived so far with the support of my aged parents, my sister, and my brother-in-law. I have been taking care of my son,” she said. She currently works as a contract labourer in the Agriculture Department. “I appeal to the State government to offer me a permanent job so that I can look after my son,” she said. Sumana was 29 years old when the incident happened. She recalled the efforts of Mr. Hegde, who is now ACP at Madivala in Bengaluru. Manjunath Sangreshi, the 2nd additional district and sessions judge, in his judgment directed the member secretary of the District Legal Services Authority to provide maximum compensation for the victim as prescribed under the Victim Compensation Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acid-attack-life-term-for-four/article35355511.ece
16 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||99 fresh cases in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district reported 99 fresh cases of COVID-19 and three more deaths on Thursday. The total number of deaths touched 1,024. Among the new cases, 54 are from Shivamogga, 13 from Bhadravati, six in Thirthahalli, three in Shikaripura, 11 in Sagar, four in Hosanagar, two in Sorab and six are from other districts. As on Thursday, the number of active cases is 772. In Hassan, 158 new cases were reported. With that, the total number of cases increased to 1,04,874.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/99-fresh-cases-in-shivamogga/article35355513.ece
16 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man found murdered||A person was found murdered at a dhaba at Channarayapatna on Wednesday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Vishakantaiah, 55, of Dodderi village in Channarayapatna taluk. He had left his daughter’s house at Juttanahalli on Tuesday on his bike. Somebody hit him with a sharp weapon. He was found dead with deep injuries the next day. Channarayapatna police have registered a case based on the complaint filed by his daughter, Geethamani. Senior police officers visited the spot and the investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-murdered/article35355504.ece
16 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Authorities remove structures in unauthorised layouts||In a bid to send a strong message to real estate developers who form residential layouts without getting the requisite permissions, the Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) on Thursday cleared structures in unauthorised layouts in Dharwad. Led by HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, the authorities used earthmovers to clear drains and other structures in residential layouts in Lakamanahalli of Dharwad. What had irked the authorities was that although a week ago a demolition drive was carried out at the same spot, the developers had again erected boundary stones for plots. Mr. Kalburgi told presspersons that the demolition drive against unauthorised residential layouts will continue as HDUDA wanted to protect gullible people from getting duped by developers who sell plots and then disappear. Ultimately, the residents will have to run from pillar to post for justice after having invested their hard earned money in such layouts, he said. The layouts in Lakamanahalli were developed in an area of 10 acres. HDUDA Commissioner N.H. Kummannavar, members Chandrashekhar Gokak, Sunil More, Urban Planning Member Vivek Karekar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/authorities-remove-structures-in-unauthorised-layouts/article35355370.ece
16 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Independent municipal corporation sought for Dharwad city||Even as preparations have begun for holding elections to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC), members of the Dharwad Bar Association have put forward a demand for having an independent municipal corporation for Dharwad. Though on several occasions in the past, such demands have been made, they have been of no avail. On Thursday, members of Dharwad Bar Association led by senior counsel V.D. Kamaraddi and others submitted a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Dharwad. Submitting the memorandum, the advocates contended that ever since the municipal corporation was established in 1962, the municipal commissioner was stationed at Hubballi. “Only twice in a week the commissioner attended office at Dharwad. Consequently, development has taken a back seat in Dharwad and preferential treatment is being given to Hubballi,” they said. Despite having four universities, a High Court Bench and several educational institutions, Dharwad lacked basic amenities. They said that 80% of Dharwad is yet to see proper underground drainage system. To overcome all these problems, the State government should set up an independent municipal corporation for Dharwad so as to facilitate comprehensive development of the city, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/independent-municipal-corporation-sought-for-dharwad-city/article35355368.ece
16 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ballari-Hubballi railway section inspected||General Manager of South Western Railway Gajanan Mallya along with other senior officials inspected the Ballari-Hubballi section of the railway zone and checked various safety parameters, a press release said. According to the release, Mr. Mallya inspected Ballari Railway Station, the Goods Shed and the running room in Ballari and conducted Window Trail inspection from Ballari to Hubballi.  En route , he inspected Level Crossing Gate No 90 and Minor Bridge No 154 between Papinayanakahalli and Bayaluvoddigeri, Major Bridge No 104 on the Tungabhadra in the Hosapete-Munirabad Section and Goods Shed improvement work at Koppal and the road underbridge No 12 A between Hulkoti and Annigeri. Safety measures Mr. Mallya also interacted with the gateman at Level Crossing Gate 90 and track maintenance staff at the Tungabhadra bridge and discussed about various safety aspects to be ensured in train operations, the release said. The General Manager was accompanied by Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division of South Western Railway Arvin Malkhede and other senior railway officials, including S.P. Gupta, Manoj Mahajan and Harishankar Verma, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ballari-hubballi-railway-section-inspected/article35355371.ece
16 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||31 students of GMIT selected by Accenture||A total of 31 students from GM Institute of Technology, Davangere, were selected during a Campus Interview conducted by information technology company Accenture recently. Principal of the college Y. Vijayakumar said that more multinational companies will be conducting campus selection soon. The college has to its credit the highest number of placements during the current academic year, in which 450 students received 526 offer letters, Training and Placement Officer of GMIT Tejaswi Kattimani has said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/31-students-of-gmit-selected-by-accenture/article35355367.ece
16 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||MP takes stock of preparations to handle floods in Kalaburagi||Taking note of the forecast for heavy rain, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav, on Thursday, convened an emergency meeting to take stock of the preparations made by the district administration to handle the emerging situation. Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jothsna, Police Commissioner Y.S. Ravikumar, Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankar Vanikyal, City Municipal Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande and other senior officers attended the meeting. “Don’t focus only on flood-prone areas along the river banks. There are other areas such as slums and residential areas in the low-lying areas in Kalaburagi that also get severely affected in the event of heavy rain. You need to identify such areas and make preparations,” Mr. Jadhav said and directed Mr. Lokhande to personally visit areas likely to be affected by floods and put up a mechanism in place to handle the situation. Pointing to the administrative hassles that flood victims have to pass through for getting relief and rehabilitation benefits, Mr. Jadhav told Ms. Jyothsna to see that public servants pay visits to flood-hit areas immediately and offer the required assistance. “Our officers should immediately respond to the needs of victims before the latter demand for it. They should visit villages where houses are damaged and crops destroyed in floods. They should ensure that the benefits of relief and rehabilitation reach the eligible beneficiaries at the earliest. The helpline established by the district administration should be very quick in responding to calls,” he said. Ms. Jyothshna briefed Mr. Jadhav about the preparations that the district administration has made for handling the flood situation, if any. “We have identified flood-prone villages along the banks of the different rivers in the district. We recently cleaned drains to facilitate easy flow of floodwaters. We have formed teams comprising fire fighting personnel and trained volunteers and deployed them in every flood-prone village to handle the likely flood situation. We have also designated nodal officers for each taluk to monitor the rescue, relief and rehabilitation work. Relief centres have been opened in every taluk,” Ms. Jyothsna told the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-takes-stock-of-preparations-to-handle-floods-in-kalaburagi/article35355375.ece
16 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to include vacant librarian posts in recruitment notification||Members of Kalyana Karnataka Librarians Association, Karnataka State SC/ST Library Professionals Association and Karnataka University Librarians Association on Thursday expressed displeasure over the omission of librarian posts from the recruitment notification. Suresh Jange, who heads Kalyana Karnataka Librarians Association and Karnataka University Librarians Association, and Ganapati Shinde, president of Karnataka State SC/ST Library Professionals Association, addressing a press conference here said that though librarian posts are lying vacant across various government degree colleges and universities across the State, the government has called for applications for filling 1,242 posts of associate professors and 310 posts of principals. It has failed to recruit librarians to fill 147 vacant posts. “Ironically, no recruitment of librarians has been made in the last 12 years. The last appointments were made in 2009. Though the associations have repeatedly urged the State government to fill these posts for the smooth functioning of libraries, no action has been initiated,” Dr. Jange said. In 2006, the government recruited 73 librarians, he added. Members of these associations Parashuram Kattimani and Savitri Krishna said that 147 posts of college cadre librarian in the State are lying vacant and not even a single university among the 28 universities in the State has a regular librarian. Shortage of library staff is affecting the functioning of libraries in educational institutions, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-include-vacant-librarian-posts-in-recruitment-notification/article35355366.ece
16 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Number of exam centres goes up to 967 from 584||In view of the pandemic situation, the Department of Public Instructions has taken a slew of steps, including increasing the number of examination centres and reducing the number of students in an examination hall, to contain COVID-19 among students appearing for SSLC examination scheduled on July 19 and 22. The number of examination centres has been increased to 967 from 584 in the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region. As many as 1,68,719 students will appear for the examination in the region this year. In Kalaburagi district, the exam centres have been increased to 194 from 142, in Bidar to 164 from 105 and in Yadgir, it has been revised to 92 from 57. The number of exam centres in Raichur has increased to 179 from 84, in Koppal to 103 from 71 and in Ballari, 222 centres have been established against the earlier number of 125. The district-wise number of students appearing for the exam is: Bidar 23,896, Kalaburagi 38,864, Yadgir 14,064, Raichur 32,100, Koppal 20,969, and Ballari 39,099. The Kalyana Karnataka Road Transportation Corporation has arranged transport for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/number-of-exam-centres-goes-up-to-967-from-584/article35355373.ece
16 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Families risk their lives crossing rivulet on foot, seek bridge||Not more than a kilometre away from Jalsoor Gate on the Sullia-Puttur-Mani NH 275, nine families who live across a rivulet have been demanding that the government construct a bridge to help them cross the water body, especially during the monsoon. Of the families, eight belong to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who say that no one has heeded to their demand since decades. The issue came to the fore after one of the residents shared on social media a video clipping and a photograph of a woman being shifted on a stretcher across the rivulet on feet. One of the residents at Marasanka, near Jalsoor Gate, Satish Naik told The Hindu that his relative Devaki, 70, who had suffered a fracture, had to be carried on the stretcher on July 13 by crossing the rivulet amid heavy rain. She was shifted to the government health facility at Sullia on that day. “Though there is a footbridge to cross over the rivulet near Marasanka it is not spacious to shift patients. It is risky during the monsoon as it slips,” he said. “We have been submitting memoranda to all elected representatives including S. Angara, MLA, Sullia Assembly segment, for long. Mr. Angara is Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport now. We had high hopes on the six-time MLA. But our demand has not been realised,” Mr. Naik said. The resident maintained that there are some more aged persons in the locality who required medical assistance. There is no way but to shift them crossing the rivulet on feet to reach Jalsoor. President of Jalsoor Gram Panchayat K.M. Babu said that elected representatives are aware of the demand which is genuine. But some persons will have to part their private land for constructing the bridge and the road as government land is not available. “There is a taluk-level Karnataka Development Programme Review Committee meeting on July 19 which will be presided over by Mr. Angara. We will meet the Minister on that day to find a solution,” Mr. Babu said.  President of Jalsoor Gram Panchayat K.M. Babu said that elected representatives are aware of the demand which is genuine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/families-risk-their-lives-crossing-rivulet-on-foot-seek-bridge/article35355740.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Samithi seeks restoration of cancelled train service||Patrons have urged the Ministry of Railways to immediately restore the services of Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Tri-weekly Express (16515/16516) that was temporarily cancelled as per Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. The Rail Prayanikara Hitharakshana Samithi, Kundapur, in a letter to KRCL Chairman and Managing Director said that trains and flights were the available mode of transport during the recent lockdown. Instead of helping people by operating the Yeshwantpur-Karwar day train, Konkan Railway asked South Western Railway to cancel the services between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar, the samithi said. The tri-weekly day service was of much help to regular office workers, people visiting hospitals in Udupi and Mangaluru. The temporary cancellation has affected all these sections of people. With the State government relaxing travel curbs imposed during the lockdown, movement of people between cities has increased manifold, the samithi said and added that there is a need for the resumption of the cancelled services. Since it was Konkan Railway that had sought cancellation of the service between Mangaluru and Karwar, now it should write to the Railway Ministry for restoration of the train, it demanded. Samithi member Gautam Shetty said that no sooner the service was reintroduced after one year due to COVID-19 first wave from April 12 this year, KRCL wrote to South Western Railway to cancel the service on April 19 citing poor occupancy. Vistadome coaches Citing the introduction of Vistadome coaches on Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction day train services by the Railway Ministry, including on the partially cancelled Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Tri-weekly Express, the samithi demanded that the restored services between Mangaluru and Karwar too should have Vistadome coaches. The coastal region is endowed with rich natural beauty comprising a number of rivers, vast extents of paddy fields and coconut groves, hills and forests. The State government is making every effort to promote and popularise coastal tourism and Vistadome coaches running through the stretch will compliment the efforts. Passengers travelling on regular trains on the stretch can enjoy the beauty of the coastal region in a limited manner and hence, there is a need for introducing Vistadome coaches on the Yeshwantpur-Karwar Express that is sought to be restored, the samithi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samithi-seeks-restoration-of-cancelled-train-service/article35355732.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||179 mobile phones, 67 vehicles seized||The police seized 179 mobile phones and 67 vehicles after a parade of 252 persons accused in various cases of thefts here on Thursday. As many as 32 accused were booked on the charge of consuming narcotic drugs. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the parade was carried out after thefts were reported recently in some parts of the city, including the one at a showroom of a high-end mobile phone showroom in Balmatta. “We wanted to check whether the accused are continuing with their old habits, including drug peddling. We wanted information about those involved in recent thefts,” he said. As many as 200 police officers and personnel were involved in this drive that started in the morning. The police went to the houses of the accused and seized 179 mobile phones from them. The accused were inserting SIM cards registered in different names and making use of these mobile phones. They also seized 67 vehicles, which did not have proper records, from the accused. As 32 accused tested positive for narcotic drugs consumption, they were booked under Section 27 (B) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, he said. The parade on Thursday was the third one after Mr. Kumar assumed charge as Police Commissioner in January. The first was organised in the second week of January. It covered those with criminal background and against whom rowdy-sheets have been opened. The second that was held a few days later covered those involved in narcotic drugs peddling and cattle theft cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/179-mobile-phones-67-vehicles-seized/article35355737.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials at the international airport here arrested two passengers on the charge of smuggling gold and seized 703 grams of gold valued at Rs. 34.46 lakh on Thursday. A Customs release gave the names of the arrested as Mohammed Ansar Kayyar (34) from Uppala, Kasaragod district in Kerala, and Mohammed Moosa Miyas (18) from Kozhikode, Kerala. They were intercepted, based on intelligence inputs and profiling, after they arrived from Dubai by an Air India Express flight No IX 248. They had concealed gold in paste form inside the bottom portions of their suit cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-at-airport/article35355734.ece
16 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Call centre proposed to verify payment of stipend to endosulfan victims||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Thursday proposed setting up a call centre to verify whether endosulfan victims are receiving their monthly stipend or not. During a meeting called to review relief measures of endosulfan victims, Dr. Rajendra said though some with more than 25% disability were receiving stipend every month, there were a good number who are not aware about the amount deposited in their account. There are some persons who are facing issues in receiving the amount. There was no system at present to check the receipt of the stipend by victims. Dr. Rajendra asked officials to set up a call centre to call the persons every month to inquire about receiving the stipend. If they are not getting stipend, action should be taken forthwith to ensure deposit of the amount and the action so taken should be informed to victims. If victims are not aware about deposit of the amount, the call centre should inform them about the date the stipend has been deposited. The Deputy Commissioner referred to his recent visit to Nettanige Mudnur of Puttur taluk where family members of three endosulfan victims told him they were not receiving stipend. “When records were checked we found there was no break in payment of stipend. The victims were unaware about the deposit,” he said. Dr. Rajendra asked officials to ensure that stipend released by the government reaches the victim on time. If there is any delay in payment of stipend, officials concerned will be held responsible, he said. There are a total of 4,412 endosulfan victims in Dakshina Kannada of which 3,653 with more than 25% disability are receiving monthly stipend. While 2,718 with more than 60% disability receive stipend of Rs. 3,000, 935 persons with disability between 25% and 60% receive stipend of Rs. 1,500. From July, this amount has been revised to Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 2,000 respectively. Zilla Panchayat CEO Kumara said more than 80% of physically-challenged persons in the district, including endosulfan victims, have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-centre-proposed-to-verify-payment-of-stipend-to-endosulfan-victims/article35355742.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested in robbery case||The Mangaluru East Police on Wednesday arrested Abdul Dawood (35) of Attavar on the charge of assaulting a woman and robbing her of Rs. 14,000 in cash at a salon here on July 1. The police said that Dawood came to Bliss Signature Unisex Salon at Kadri and assaulted the woman at the reception counter. He reportedly molested her and made away with the cash. After a compliant was filed, the Mangaluru East Police secured CCTV footage that showed the misconduct of the accused. Working on some technical and other clues, the police traced Dawood and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-in-robbery-case/article35355736.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Konkan Rly. criticised||Kumta-Honnavar MLA Dinakar K. Shetty regretted that though the State government had allowed operation of trains and flights during the lockdown to tackle COVID-19 second wave, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) wrote to the Railway Ministry to cancel both the day and night express services between Karwar and Bengaluru. Instead of coming to the help of people, KRCL exhibited its antipathy and demanded cancellation of both the trains on the basis of unscientific booking data, Mr. Shetty in a letter to Konkan Railway Chairman and Managing Director said. As the Railway Ministry did not approve of cancellation of the night express, the service operated with more than 80% occupancy during the lockdown exposing Konkan Railway’s false claims, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/konkan-rly-criticised/article35355730.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minor booked||The Urwa Police have booked a 17-year-old daughter of Novel Sequeira, also an accused, in a case related to the assault on two police personnel in a police station here on Wednesday. The minor has now been kept in the Children’s Home for girls. Novel Sequeira and Johan Sequeira were arrested on Wednesday evening. The incident occurred when Novel Sequeira had come along with Johan Sequeira, her legal advisor, to withdraw a case of harassment filed in May last week by Novel Sequeira’s daughter against a member of the owners association of an apartment complex in Chilimbi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-booked/article35355735.ece
16 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLA promises to address woes of city bus operators||Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath on Thursday said that certain issues being faced by city bus operators in entering the new bus stand facility created inside the State Bank Terminal will be addressed immediately. Interacting with the crew and operators of private city bus operators at State Bank here, Mr. Kamath said that the new facility was created after taking Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association into confidence. Bus owners had not brought up problems being faced by the crew then and he visited the bus stand soon after learning about their problems that were being aired on public forum. The MLA said that road dividers near Rao and Rao Circle that were said to be impeding the entry of city buses into the terminal will soon be removed facilitating easy entry of buses. Similarly, other issues will be addressed in consultation with the traffic police, he said. Association president Dilraj Alva told The Hindu that the ground becomes slushy when it rains at the new facility and this was posing hurdle for operators as well as passengers. The MLA has promised to arrange proper ground surface at the earliest. The administration has also taken steps to shift the goods vehicle stand, which accommodates more than a 100 such vehicles, from the State Bank Terminal, Mr. Alva said. Mayor Premananda Shetty, Mangalore Urban Development Authority Chairman Ravishankar Mijar, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) M.A. Nataraj and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-promises-to-address-woes-of-city-bus-operators/article35355738.ece
16 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||10.07 L in DK vaccinated||With administration of 10,400 vaccines on Thursday, a total of 10,07,688 people have so far received COVID-19 vaccine in Dakshina Kannada. In terms of number of people vaccinated, Dakshina Kannada district now stands fourth. The BBMP leads with 64.44 lakh recipients. With 5,956 people vaccinated in Udupi district on Thursday, a total of 6,54,838 people have received vaccine in the district so far. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hndu  that a coordinated effort by healthcare staff with organisations namely Indian Red Cross has helped in sustaining vaccination drive. “In the last one month, Dakshina Kannada has been among the top three districts in terms of number of people vaccinated per day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1007-l-in-dk-vaccinated/article35355743.ece
16 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Epigraphists stage protest over the raw deal given to branch||A protest entailing 31 epigraphists who have been ignored by the government while restructuring the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) was held on Thursday. There are about 31 epigraphists on the payrolls of the ASI posted in Mysuru, Nagpur, Lucknow, and Chennai and they staged a silent demonstration in front of their respective offices. This was to urge the government to reconsider and review the restructuring exercise of ASI under which not a single new post had been created for the epigraphy branch. The epigraphists called for strengthening the epigraphy branch to help “complete the pending work of 100 years” by creating more posts. The All India Archaeological Services Association said in a release that India is a repository for rich epigraphical wealth and these epigraphs are ancient records left by the people of bygone ages throwing light on various aspects of political, administrative, cultural, economic, religious and social history. There is no Indian history without epigraphy and epigraphs are the only authentic sources for understanding the true history and culture of Indian people, the association said. It said though the epigraphy branch has 135 years of legacy, due to the lack of sufficient staff, only 50% of the inscriptions have been published in departmental publications. “Unfortunately, in recent times, thousands of inscriptions which are storehouses of our history and culture, are being destroyed in the name of developmental activities like repair, renovation of the temples, mining, quarrying, etc,” the association added. It called for strengthening the epigraphy branch to save the ancient Indian historical data and pointed out that the present existing staff of 31 epigraphists all over India, was not sufficient for the “noble task of rescuing inscriptions from their permanent destruction,” the association said. It is difficult with meagre strength of 31 posts in the branch to undertake village-to-village survey of the country; to copy and study inscriptions written in different regional languages and scripts, said the epigraphists. They said in view of the immensity of task of surveying, deciphering, studying, and publishing of inscriptions found in various languages with local dialects used in different States, at least two trained epigraphists should be posted in each State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/epigraphists-stage-protest-over-the-raw-deal-given-to-branch/article35355379.ece
16 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to be promoted as next hub for tech||The activities of Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), an initiative sponsored by the State government, will be launched in Mysuru on Friday to help accelerate and position the city as an alternative destination for technology and innovation beyond Bengaluru. Mysuru is emerging as a preferred destination for businesses across several industry verticals and the KDEM Mysuru cluster has been brought together for the purpose. As the first step, the government has put together an advisory committee comprising industry leaders - Pavan Ranga, director, NR Group and CEO Rangsons; Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, MD and CEO, Lahari; Sanjay Srinivasmurthy, managing director, Silicon Road Ideation Labs; and Krishnadas Unni, executive director, Client Innovation, IBM from Mysuru - to head the KDEM Mysuru cluster-specific activities. The Mysuru cluster is also supported by TiE Mysuru and K-Tech, according to the committee. The cluster will be launched in a virtual session starting at 11.30 a.m., which will bring together the mission heads from the government - Ramana Reddy, Additional Chief Secretary to Chief Minister and Additional Chief Secretary to Government - Department of Electronics, ITBT and S&T; and B.V. Naidu, chairman, KDEM and the Mysuru cluster. The session will cover topics such as ‘objectives and partnerships’, ‘accelerating growth’, ‘the beyond Bangalore initiative’, ‘Brief about KDEM and progress so far’, and ‘Mysuru launch strategy’, a release from KDEM said. Event is open only through registration. To register, visithttps://events.jaatre.live/registration/99539081/20? p1=Email&p2=&p3=&p4=&p5= Mr. Naidu, in the release, said: “KDEM will act as a knowledge bridge between industry and government by helping and supporting in the implementation of policies promoting industries. KDEM also envisages supporting GoK to reach the target of USD 150 Bn in the State’s IT exports.” Mr. Pavan Ranga said the focus is on building the State as a brand and enhancing its leadership position across segments. “As Bengaluru has been established as an IT hub, we would like to make Mysuru the next destination for global business and boost our economy.” “Through this initiative, we want to contribute towards digitisation of our nation. KDEM-Beyond Bengaluru chapter will help position Karnataka well with technology sector-specific investment reports. With this relaunch, the core committee will focus on skilling two million people in the new emerging technologies and help the nation achieve its Mission 2025-$5-trillion economy,” Mr. Ranga said. KDEM is an initiative launched by the State government in 2020 with an objective to build the innovation and technology ecosystem Beyond Bangalore and contribute 30% to the State’s GDP by 2025. The key milestones include the creation of 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs through startups and IT/ITES services.  The government has put together an advisory panel comprising industry leaders to head KDEM Mysuru cluster activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-to-be-promoted-as-next-hub-for-tech/article35355512.ece
16 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Signs of monsoon revival||The South West Monsoon has shown signs of regaining traction with intermittent rains in Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu since the last 48 hours. The rainfall has been uniform and widespread with overcast sky throughout the 48-hour period. But concerns remain over low storage levels in the major reservoirs. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Kodagu has received 48.01 mm of rainfall during the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. This is against a normal of 26 mm for the same period. Mysuru has received 7.7 mm against a normal of 2.9 mm while Mandya received 5.4 mm against a normal of 2.9 mm during the same period. Chamarajanagar received 5.7 mm against a normal of 2.5 mm. Notwithstanding signs of monsoon gaining vigour, the cumulative rainfall from June 1 to July 15 in the catchment area of the Cauvery is below normal. The rainfall in Kodagu district is 35 per cent below normal. The district has received only 625.5 mm against a normal of 963.6 mm so far. Against the normal of 430 mm, Kodagu has received only 204.3 mm uring the month. As a result the water level at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir remained low compared to the corresponding period last year. On Thursday, the level was 89.5 ft against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 124.80 ft. while it was 104.43 ft. last year. Chikkamagaluru and Hassan are parts of the catchment area for Hemavathi. But the rainfall in these regions too was deficient. Against a normal of 270.7 mm for July 1 to 15, Chikkamagaluru district received 131.1 mm, the shortfall being 52 per cent. Between June 1 and July 15, the district received 405.6 mm against a normal of 598.4 mm, the deficit being 32 per cent. The inflow into the Kabini has, however, increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/signs-of-monsoon-revival/article35355510.ece
16 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Kabini water for area developed by MUDA||The residential area of R.T. Nagar developed by Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will be supplied Kabini water from Friday. The pipeline connecting R.T. Nagar water tank to the mainline drawing water from Kabini has been linked and will be inaugurated by Minister for Urban Development Byrathi Basavaraj. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev said the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board has completed the linking of the pipelines and was ready for commissioning. “However, regular piped water supply to the area may take another 15 days after trial runs are completed.’ “There are not many houses in R.T.Nagar at present, and the quantum of water required will be less. But as it is a fast developing locality the supply will cater to the future requirement of the locality. At present the local residents were dependent on other sources including borewell for their daily water requirements,’, said Mr. Rajeev. However, he pointed out that the Kabini connectivity is only to the MUDA-developed R.T. Nagar for the time being and scores of private layouts and plots developed by various societies around R.T. Nagar will continue to receive water through other sources as at present. The Kabini drinking water project was originally mooted in 2008 and was commissioned in 2012 to meet the requirements of south western parts of Mysuru which was witnessing a construction boom. The stretch along the Outer Ring Road continues to be among the fastest growing areas of Mysuru and the extending piped water supply from Kabini is expected to give an impetus to site owners awaiting civic amenities before opting to construct a house in R.T. Nagar. The Kabini drinking water project helped augment supply to parts of Kuvempunagar, Aravindanagara, Dattagalli, and Srirampura. Water is drawn from Bidargodu and the system has capacity to pump 12 MGD per day which will be shored up to 30 MGD to cater to the future requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kabini-water-for-area-developed-by-muda/article35355508.ece
16 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jumbo electrocuted on pvt. farm near Bandipur||An elephant was found electrocuted on a private farm in a village close to the Omkara range of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Thursday. The female elephant was around 35 to 40 years and was foraging in Halathur village when it came in contact with a live electric wire. Assistant Conservator of Forest Paramesh said the land owner, Jagannath, had illegally tapped electricity from an overhead transmission line to protect the standing ground nut crop from wild boars. This is the second elephant electrocuted in the same region and a similar incident had taken place in October 2020. Though it resulted in a joint meeting of staff of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) and the Forest Department, the vigilance wing of the CESC should be proactive in cracking down on illegal power tapping, said Joseph Hoover, wildlife activist and member, State Wildlife Board. He said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is also the State Wildlife Board Chairman, should direct CESC to crackdown on such practices. Mr. Paramesh said the CESC should also dissuade the local farmers from tapping power through illegal means and help prevent the recurrence of such incidents. Meanwhile, the Forest Department has filed a case against the land owner for the death of the elephant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jumbo-electrocuted-on-pvt-farm-near-bandipur/article35355516.ece
16 July 2021||Mysuru/hassan,KARNATAKA||IMD issues alert for heavy rains||The Indian Meteorological Department has issued a heavy rainfall alert over coastal, Malnad and interior regions of Karnataka. It said the present off-shore trough along the Karnataka-Kerala coasts and low pressure area over the coastal areas of Kutch and neighbourhood and associated cyclonic circulation could result in moderate to very heavy rains till July 21 over coastal Karnataka and Malnad. Manoj Ranjan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, has said that districts should relocate people living in low lying and vulnerable areas. The KSDM also called for establishing a 24x7 emergency operation and control centre right up to taluk levels and review the preparedness of the district disaster management plans It has warned that landslips may be triggered in vulnerable areas besides waterlogging and flooding of low-lying areas. The district administrations have also been instructed to ensure that hospitals have a secondary source of electricity in case of any outage. Meanwhile, rains with gale has led to telephones and trees being uprooted inKodagu district. The Forest Department and CESC personnel were deployed to clear the road for traffic. The authorities also visited the construction site of a barrage and removed logs blocking the flow of water as it was causing level to increase in the upstream. Washed away One person was washed away in a rivulet on Wednesday evening near Avandoor village in Madikeri taluk. His body was retrieved later. The victim was identified as Chinnappa (70). There have been reports of landslides from the hinterland of the district. Six families have been evacuated from Talatamane on Madikeri-Mangaluru highway due to the landslips. Flooding Many parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan have been receiving moderate to heavy rains for the last two days. Hosanagar taluk in Shimovagga district recorded high rainfall in the 24 hours before 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The rain gauge at Nittur recorded 224 mm, the second highest in the State after Hebri in Udupi district, where the rainfall was recorded at 228 mm. Shivamogga district received an average of 35.3 mm of rainfall against the normal of 24.1 mm. Chikkamagaluru recorded 30.1 mm, against 17.7 mm. The highest was recorded at Nemmar (157 mm) in Sringeri taluk. Hassan district registered 13.7 mm against the normal of 9 mm. Anemahal in Sakleshpur taluk recorded the highest of 132 mm. Minor landslides have been reported in Sakleshpur and Chikkamagaluru taluks, affecting the movement of vehicles. Following the increase in inflow at Yagachi reservoir at Belur, the officers have issued a warning that water could be released from the dam at any time. Similarly, Harangi dam officials have issued warnings to people alongside the Cauvery in Arkalgud taluk as water could be released from the dam anytime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imd-issues-alert-for-heavy-rains/article35355506.ece
16 July 2021||Vijayawada,KARNATAKA||‘A.P. govt. lacks sensitivity in dealing with rape cases’||The Andhra Pradesh government lacks the sensitivity required in dealing with the cases of rape and molestation in spite of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s claim to make the State a safe place for women and the launch of Disha app, BJP Mahila Morcha national president Vanathi Srinivasan has alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ap-govt-lacks-sensitivity-in-dealing-with-rape-cases/article35355112.ece
16 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Mega Lok Adalat on Aug. 14||S. Sridhar, Principal District and Sessions judge and chairman of District Legal Services Authority, has said that a mega Lok Adalat will be held on August 14 in all courts in Yadgir district to enable litigants to settle their disputes before courts amicably. Addressing a press conference in Yadgir on Thursday, Mr. Sridhar said litigants should make use of this opportunity and settle their cases. As many as 1,160 cases had been identified for settlement in the district and number will possibly go up till the date of the Lok Adalat, the judge said. Of the 1,160 cases, 77 cases are criminal compoundable followed by 91 are filed under NI Act, 52 money recovery suits, 83 MACT cases, 43 cases filed under MMRD Act, 33 matrimonial cases, 180 partition suits, 36 specific performance suits, 45 FDP cases, 39 execution cases, 61 cases filed under 125 CrPC, 74 BDR cases, 191 petty cases, and 52 other civil cases, he said. Three Benches in the district court and two each Benches in Shahapur and Surpur courts will be established for the purpose. Each Bench will have a judge, advocate, and conciliator to complete the process, he added. Mr. Sridhar called upon litigants to take part in the Lok Adalat and settle the cases as the court fees which they had paid would be refunded if cases are settled. He appealed to follow the guidelines/SOP issued by the High Court of Karnataka due to the pandemic. The court will ensure drinking water facilities to the participants. Saheel Ahmed S. Kunnibhavi, civil judge and member secretary of District Legal Services Authority, and Mounesh, treasurer of Yadgir Bar Association were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-lok-adalat-on-aug-14/article35355377.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Invasive growth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/invasive-growth/article35355110.ece
16 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pattom’s telegram has pride of place here||It’s been eight years since the State-run telegram service fell silent. The telegram, one of the oldest communication services and once the quickest that touched the lives of people across the country by delivering messages of joy and grief for more than 160 years, died a natural death on July 14, 2013 after bowing to the emergence of modern technologies . But, there are people who still keep a telegram as a souvenir. The Alappuzha-based K. Nagendra Prabhu Foundation is in possession of a rare telegram sent by former Chief Minister Pattom A. Thanu Pillai 56 years ago. AP Governor Dated June 5, 1965 Pillai, the then Governor of Andhra Pradesh, sent the telegraphic message to N. Gopaladasa Prabhu to condole the death of his father K. Nagendra Prabhu, president of the Thirumala Devaswom and a prominent public figure of the time. The foundation made public the telegram on Thursday on the occasion of Pattom Thanu Pillai’s 136th birth anniversary. Says N. Gopinatha Prabhu, youngest son of K. Nagendra Prabhu, “my father and Pattom Thanu Pillai were contemporaries and towering personalities of the time and they had a very good personal relationship, not one connected to politics. My father died on June 2, 1965, but Pillai received the news of his demise late. The telegram sent by him to my elder brother was received on June 5”. Mr. Prabhu is the chairman of the foundation. According to Mr. Prabhu, the telegraphic message is being kept safe by the foundation as a “valuable piece of history” both in the original form and in digital format. Nagendra Prabhu was known for his contributions to the educational and social uplift of the people. The Thirumala Devaswom Medical College (TDMC) in Alappuzha was founded in 1963 by the Thirumala Devaswom, under his leadership, as the first private medical college in the State. It was taken over by the government in 1972. “It was during Pillai’s tenure as Chief Minister the government approved the establishment of a medical college in Alappuzha based on discussions and proposals submitted by the Alleppey Medical College Committee headed by my father. By the time the TDMC was started on March 6, 1963 Pillai was no longer the Chief Minister of the State,” says Mr. Prabhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pattoms-telegram-has-pride-of-place-here/article35355480.ece
16 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||791 test positive in Alappuzha||The district reported 791 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. It also recorded three COVID-19- related deaths. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 8.65%. Of the fresh cases, 778 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 13 others remains unknown. The 791 cases include 88 logged from Alappuzha, 34 from Bhudhanoor, 31 from Cherthala South, 29 from Muthukulam, 28 each from Cherthala and Purakkad, 26 from Kayamkulam, 24 from Perumbalam, 22 from Ezhupunna, 21 from Pandanad, and 20 from Mararikulam South. Meanwhile, 611 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/791-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article35355482.ece
16 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||MLA tenders apology||P.P. Chithranjan, MLA, on Thursday tendered an unconditional apology after a video of him wiping his face using a face mask went viral. In a message posted on his social media account, Mr. Chitharanjan admitted that it was a mistake. “My actions have sent a wrong message and I regret it,” the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-tenders-apology/article35355475.ece
16 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Thoppil Bhasi’s wife dead||Ammini Amma, wife of late Thoppil Bhasi, one of the doyens of Malayalam theatre, died on Thursday. She was 85. She breathed her last at a private hospital in Pathanamthitta. Her cremation will be held at Vallikunnam at 2 p.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thoppil-bhasis-wife-dead/article35355483.ece
16 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Leptospirosis alert issued in Wayanad||The Health Department has issued a leptospirosis alert in Wayanad in the wake of recent reports of a spread in the district. As many as 27 suspected leptospirosis cases, 14 confirmed cases, and two deaths were reported in the district in a fortnight, District Medical Officer R. Renuka told The Hindu . As many as 87 suspected cases, 36 confirmed cases, and three deaths were reported in Wayanad in the past seven months, she said. The majority of the cases were reported in July under the Varadoor primary health centre limits in Kaniyampetta grama panchayat, she added.  Many people, especially MGNREGA and farm workers, who spent time in muddy and dirty waters, were susceptible to the disease, said Dr. Renuka. Those with symptoms such as fever and body pain should contact the nearest health centres, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leptospirosis-alert-issued-in-wayanad/article35355447.ece
16 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Satheesan ridicules govt’s change of stance on Mani||Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Thursday said that the State government’s change of stance in the Supreme Court on former Kerala Congress leader K.M. Mani had come in the wake of Jose K. Mani joining the LDF. The government on Thursday stated in the apex court that Mr. Mani was not corrupt and that the LDF members were protesting in the Assembly against the government's presentation of the budget in 2015. Referring to the statement of CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, Mr. Satheesan said the LDF had said then that the budget should not be presented by K.M. Mani, and if necessary, it should be presented by then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. Mr. Satheesan said the government was trying to save prominent CPI(M) leaders involved in the ruckus and vandalism in the Assembly in 2015. He said that MLAs had the privilege of immunity from prosecution in their conduct in the Assembly. However, any crime inside the House could not be considered a privilege. The Supreme Court had reiterated the same issue, he said. Lockdown criticised Mr. Satheesan said that the lockdown implemented by the government was unscientific. The government was refusing to accept the suggestions put forward by experts, including the Indian Medical Association. Unnecessary restrictions and lockdowns were being implemented across the State and they were creating a lot of problems for the people. Lockdown measures had not helped in controlling crowd, and traders were facing huge problems. He said that a COVID prevention committee should be formed to study and understand the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-ridicules-govts-change-of-stance-on-mani/article35355433.ece
16 July 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Digital land resurvey to be completed soon: Minister||Revenue Minister K. Rajan on Thursday said that the digital resurvey of land would be completed soon in the State. Speaking to the media here, the Minister said the resurvey was 54% complete and the target was to complete the resurvey in 100 villages in 100 days. As part of this, signal stations would be set up at 40 places in the State, he said. Mr. Rajan said the Revenue Department was moving forward with the three objectives of land for all, document for all and service for all. The Minister said that 12,000 land deeds would be disbursed within 100 days. An integrated portal for land exchange would be set up by including departments of registration, revenue and survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-land-resurvey-to-be-completed-soon-minister/article35355431.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Aqua Park project gains momentum||Groundwork for the proposed Integrated Aqua Park project in Kochi has gained momentum, with the expert committee constituted to take the project forward meeting here on Thursday. The meeting chaired by Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian decided to complete the spadework for the Rs. 250-crore project. As a first step, a detailed project report (DPR) has to be prepared and all statutory clearances, including environment clearance, obtained. The DPR may have to be prepared by empanelled project consultants with international expertise, said Fisheries Department Joint Director Asha Augustine, who is also the convener of the expert committee. The project, which will be spread over 133 acres in Puthuvypeen, will have a mangrove botanical garden and a dolphin research institute for conservation and management of coastal and marine ecosystems. Hubs of multifarious fisheries activities / facilities for production of quality seed and feed, seed rearing, fish culture, pre- and post-harvest infrastructure, technology incubation centres, which will generate employment through business models including start-ups and sea food marketing and logistics centres, have been proposed. The dolphin research institute has been proposed in collaboration with the Centre for Marine Living Resources and Ecology for creating awareness about native dolphin species and their conservation and research. Dolphin sighting programmes with the support of the Centre have also been proposed. An oceanarium with modern aquaria and aqua museum, facilities for promoting recreational fisheries, and eco-tourism projects have also been proposed. Kerala Aqua Ventures International Limited will lead the oceanarium component of the project. The marine aquaria will be of international standards and will have state-of-the-art infotainment facilities. The oceanarium will be an attempt to disseminate the importance of fisheries through the installation and operation of the marine aquaria, according to the project document. The Central government will support the project, which has been proposed in the public-private-participation (PPP) mode. An initial budgetary allocation of Rs. 12.5 crore has been made, which could be utilised for groundwork and preparation of the DPR, said Ms. Augustine. Incidentally, the Fisheries Department had proposed a oceanarium project five years ago. Though a DPR was prepared by a consultant, the project did not take off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aqua-park-project-gains-momentum/article35355714.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant crushed to death at worksite||A migrant worker on Thursday met with a tragic end after he was crushed between a scaffolding and a collapsed concrete structure while working at the site of an apartment complex under construction at Panampilly Nagar. The deceased was identified as Sanjeev Singh, 22, a mason from West Bengal. Two others had a providential escape as they crept to safety. The workers were engaged in plastering on the exterior of the building hanging from a scaffolding attached to a harness at a height of around 40 metres when the accident took place around 11.30 a.m. A concrete beam of 5.50-metre length and 2.40-metre width together with a decorative side brick wall, collectively weighing nearly 1,500 kg, on the terrace above the 14th floor of the building got detached from the main structure. It slid outside and precariously hung suspended in air in the process crushing the victim on the scaffolding. “The unfortunate man could be seen hanging as if in thin air from quite a distance, which made for a frightening sight,” said T.B. Ramakrishnan, station officer, fire station, Gandhi Nagar, who led the 10-member rescue team. 10 firefighters It took the team of 10 firefighters nearly two-and-a-half hours to fetch the victim. The operation proved onerous, as firemen did not have direct access to the victim. “We had to cut an access route through the terrace to reach him. Before that, we had to fasten the precariously hanging collapsed structure and the victim himself with ropes, so that neither he nor the rescuers fell during the course of the operation. We then cut off the iron pipes of the scaffolding that freed the victim who was moved to the terrace,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he was declared brought dead. The beam supporting the collapsed structure was not attached to the main structure, and the decorative wall atop it was jutting outside leaving the whole standalone structure imbalanced, Mr. Ramakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-crushed-to-death-at-worksite/article35355708.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Wheelchair to light up life of father-daughter duo||The world will now be a changed one for 39-year-old Lijesh and his little daughter Nova from Choondy. Little Nova will be able to see the world sitting on the lap of his father thanks to an electric wheelchair he is set to receive on Friday under the Social Justice Department’s scheme for distributing assistive devices to the differently abled. Mayor M. Anilkumar will inaugurate the programme under which five electric wheelchairs and three specially-designed wheelchairs will be distributed to the cerebral palsy-inflicted at the old age home at Thevara. Lijesh has been rendered immobile and fated to live a boxed life inside the four walls for the last 38 years after an injection taken at the age of one-and-a-half years had gone awry. His wife and mother could hardly wait to see the father-daughter duo moving around on the wheelchair. “They have been my pillars of support without which I would not have been able to survive the rigours of this locked-up life,” said Lijesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wheelchair-to-light-up-life-of-father-daughter-duo/article35355457.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC quashes KSEB plan to procure lower workload poles||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has quashed the tender floated by the Kerala State Electricity Board for procuring electric poles of 8 m length with a working load of 140 kg. The Bench, comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali, passed the verdict on Thursday while allowing a public interest litigation filed by Mohammed Nizar and two others from Palakkad. The court made it clear that the board could invite tenders in accordance with its earlier decision for procuring poles of 8 m length with a working load of 200 kg. Accidents up The petitioners contended that the specification, as provided in the tender notification, was against the working load of poles of 8 m length with 200 kg workload as stipulated by the Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. as well as the earlier decision taken by the KSEB Ltd. The KSEB’s decision would jeopardise the safety of the people because accidents due to breakage of poles with low workload were increasing at an alarming rate in the State. The court noted that the board at one point of time was of the clear opinion that breakages were caused due to the flaw in structural design of 8-m poles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-quashes-kseb-plan-to-procure-lower-workload-poles/article35355492.ece
16 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC dismisses bail plea of 10 accused in Kodakara case||The Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed the bail petitions of 10 accused in the Kodakara black money robbery case. Dismissing the bail petitions, Justice K. Haripal observed that there were numerous mysterious aspects to the case. The complainant had told the police that Rs. 25 lakh was looted by the culprits. But during investigation, it had come out that Rs. 3.5 crore was being carried in the vehicle and the entire money was looted. The court said there were numerous circumstances to think it was a premeditated act and that the accused had moved after hatching a conspiracy. The source of the money carried in the vehicle, the purpose for which it was carried etc., had not been not traced. Many aspects of the crime remained to be unravelled.  The bail petitions were filed by Muhammad Ali, Raheem, Areesh, Martin, Labeeb, Rouf, Abdul Shafi, Babu alias Vattur Babu, Abdul Shukkur, and T.W. Edwin. The petitioners contended that the investigation was in an advanced stage and their further detention was not necessary. V. Sreeja, public prosecutor, submitted that the investigation was “at the middle stage" and it would hamper the progress of the investigation if the petitioners were released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-10-accused-in-kodakara-case/article35355563.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||App will rush snake rescuers to the spot||Don’t panic if you see a snake at your house or at a public place. Keep a safe distance from the reptile, click its picture on your smartphone, and upload it to SARPA, the Snake Awareness Rescue and Protection App. Help will reach you in no time. Since January this year, the army of rescuers trained by the Kerala Forest Department have saved 2,606 snakes from across the State. Mostly, cobras were found in human habitations and rescued in the past seven months, according to the data available with the department. During this time, 1,075 cobras, 509 Indian rock pythons, 361 rat snakes, and 195 Russell’s vipers were rescued, said Muhammad Anwar, Deputy Director, Forest Training Institute, Arippa, Thiruvananthapuram. Though snakes could be seen at human habitations round the year, their presence is mostly noticed during monsoon and immediately after summer showers, says Sandeep Das, herpetologist. They may move out to safer places when their habitats are flooded during monsoon. The presence of these reptiles are also noticed when the snakelings hatch, he said. Deadly four Though over 110 snake species have been recorded in the State, only around 40 are found in human habitations. Common krait, cobra, Russell’s viper and saw-scaled viper are the deadly four that could inflict a lethal bite. Rare cases of spit viper bites have been recorded. No effective anti-venom is available for the species, said Mr. Das. 827 rescuers The department has so far trained 827 rescuers, including forest staff and volunteers. Malappuram has the highest number of snake rescuers, with 132 persons enlisted. Once the picture of the snake is uploaded, alert messages will be generated for the rescuers who will reach the spot by means of geo-tagging. The rescued snake would be released to its suitable habitat, said Mr. Anwar. The app also has the contact number of hospitals where anti-venom is available and the navigation support for reaching the hospital. Response time The response time to a snake alarm call can range from 15 minutes to two hours depending on the availability of rescuers in a given locality. The intervention of the rescuers have led to significant fall in the snakebite incidents, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-will-bring-snake-rescuers-to-the-spot/article35355432.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Education dept. to hold counselling session||The number of students having A+ in all subjects in the SSLC examination has registered an almost three-fold increase this year, from 42,000 last year to over 1.21 lakh. Besides, there is the near 100% pass. This is likely to lead to a mad scramble for admissions to preferred courses and even schools in the higher secondary sector. Even after accounting for the students who may choose alternatives such as ITI and polytechnic courses, there still could be excessive pressure for admissions to the over 3.62 lakh higher secondary seats across government, aided and unaided schools in the State. More options Students may have to go for more options in terms of both courses and schools this time, education sources said. Realising this, the General Education Department, under its Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell (CGACC), is conducting an orientation session, Focus Point, for all who have passed the SSLC exam. Two-hour session A two-hour session will be held over Zoom for students from all 14 districts on Saturday and Sunday. The decision to hold such a session was based on a proposal by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty during an interaction with department officials. “The session to be held by our 300-odd trained career guides will address confusions of students and help them make higher studies and career choices based on their aptitude,” said C.M. Azeem, State coordinator, CGACC. In the second phase, career guides at higher secondary schools will form WhatsApp groups of students from the neighbourhood to further help them with their doubts. Personal interaction Later, the career guides will make themselves available for personal interaction with students at schools in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/education-dept-plans-counselling-session/article35355554.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Centralised inspection system for units by Aug.||Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve has said a centralised inspection system for industrial units is expected to be in place by August this year. He told reporters on the sidelines of a Meet-the-Minister programme in Kochi on Thursday that the department would implement a centralised grievances redressal system and a land allotment policy for industrial units. These had been long-standing demands of industrialists, especially micro, small, and medium industries. The unified land allotment policy would help ease the process of land allocation, now under supervision of agencies such as Kinfra, the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation and district industries centres. Mr. Rajeeve said a team of senior IAS officers had been engaged to look into the initiatives being taken up by the government to make investing in the State easier and more smooth. The department had been in touch with many organisations to get their opinion on the steps to make Kerala a more investor-friendly State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centralised-inspection-system-for-units-by-aug/article35355494.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Automatic signalling to speed up train movement||The Southern Railway has confirmed that it will install automatic signalling system in the Ernakulam-Shoranur corridor to speed up train movement and enable the introduction of more trains, Hibi Eden, MP, said. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas announced this at a meeting held in Chennai on Thursday to review the progress of railway projects in the Ernakulam Lok Sabha constituency. Two sectors Automatic signalling will be adopted in the Ernakulam-Poonkunnam and Poonkunnam-Thrissur sectors. Funds for the first stretch are expected to be included in the supplementary budget, Mr. Eden who participated in the meeting said, quoting railway officials. “The Southern Railway will also forward the feasibility report to develop an integrated coaching terminal, which I said could be christened Ernakulam Central, in 110 acres of underutilised railway land on the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu stretch. I apprised the General Manager and other senior officials of the need to kick-start work on the project, since it will enable inter-modal integration of different commuting modes thanks to its proximity to the Vyttila Mobility Hub which already has a bus terminal, metro station, and a Water Metro terminal,” Mr. Eden said. He also informed that he had demanded the introduction of trains from Ernakulam to Salem and Jaisalmer, extension of Amrita Express to Rameshwaram, an Ernakulam-Velankanni (via Kollam) train and increasing the frequency of train services to Bengaluru. The Southern Railway officials have agreed to take them up with the Railway Board. Platform extension Quoting railway officials, the MP said the diesel loco shed at Ernakulam Junction would be converted into an electric-loco shed. The officials further agreed to extend one more platform at the station, so that it could host trains with 24 coaches, and to establish an elevated link from the nearby metro station and railway station.  Diesel loco shed at Ernakulam Junction will be converted into an electric-loco shed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-shoranur-rail-corridor-to-have-automatic-signalling/article35355562.ece
16 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC asks two KAT members to continue||A Division Bench of the High Court on Thursday directed two judicial members of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) whose tenure would come to end on July 19 to continue till the appointment of a new Chairman or till their replacement by new members, whichever is earlier. A Bench comprising Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath passed the order on a writ petition filed by the Kerala Administrative Tribunal Ernakulam Advocates’ Association. The tenure of Justice T.R. Ramachandran Nair, chairman, and administrative member Somasundaran ended on September 15, 2020 and May 26, 2021 respectively. The tenure of judicial members Benny Gervacis and V. Rajendran will end on July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-asks-two-kat-members-to-continue/article35355490.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Reopening of shops: govt. view sought||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the State government to inform the court of its opinion on the opening of retails outlets of textiles and other shops on all days. The court passed the directive on a writ petition filed by the Kerala Textiles and Garments Dealers Welfare Association seeking a directive to the State government to allow the dealers to open their shops on all days. When the petition came up for hearing, the court orally observed that crowd-control measures were not being effectively implemented. There were instances of people gathering at various public places without observing COVID-1-appropriate behaviour. The court posted the petition to July 22 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reopening-of-shops-govt-view-sought/article35355491.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC refuses to extend time on disease aid||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has declined to extend the time for depositing Rs. 50 lakh in a special account for providing financial aid for the treatment of rare disease afflicted children. Compliance report The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali, while turning down the plea of the government to extend the time by six months on Thursday, directed the Health Principal Secretary to deposit the amount as ordered earlier by the court and file a compliance report by July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-refuses-to-extend-time-on-disease-aid/article35355493.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held with drugs||The city police on Thursday arrested three youngsters on the charge of selling drugs to college students. The arrested were identified as Azhar, 19, and Faisal, 20, of Kalamasserry, and Chandradeep, 19, of Edappally. They were nabbed from near IMA Hall at Kaloor. The police said that they used to supply drugs on demand to college students for a high price. The police are after the main supplier, who sourced drugs for the gang from Bengaluru. The Palarivattom police have registered a case and are likely to seek the custody of the accused for further probe. A team comprising members of the Ernakulam Assistant Commissioner’s Squad, Palarivattom, and Kochi Metro police stations made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-with-drugs/article35355707.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mobile app to locate skilled workers||The Ernakulam district panchayat is set to launch a mobile application for locating skilled workers to resolve daily domestic and industrial issues. The Skill Registry application has been developed with the assistance of the State Skill Development Mission, Kerala Academy for Skills Excellence, and the Kudumbashree Mission. The registration of skilled workers is progressing fast, said district panchayat president Ullas Thomas. Data entry operations on skilled labour availability are progressing, Mr. Thomas said. So far, 42 services have been listed quite exhaustively. They include drivers too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-app-to-locate-skilled-workers/article35355711.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mobile aqua lab flagged off||Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian on Thursday flagged off a mobile aqua lab. The lab has facilities for assessing water quality parameters, including pH, ammonia, and temperature. The lab is expected to serve around 2,500 fish farmers. K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA; R. Girija, Fisheries Director; N.S. Sreelu, Additional Director; Nousher Khan, Deputy Director; Ignatius Munro, Joint Director;M.S. Saju, and P. Sandeep attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-aqua-lab-flagged-off/article35355715.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2 killed in accident||Two youngsters were fatally knocked down by a tanker lorry at Vyttila Junction on Thursday around 11.45 a.m. The deceased were identified as Winson, 24, of Alappuzha; and Jeemol, 24, of Thrissur. Both were employed in a private hospital and were returning from a bank when an empty tanker knocked them down from behind. The Maradu police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-killed-in-accident/article35355717.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water Metro commissioning on August 15||The trial run of the first ferry of the long-overdue Water Metro project will be held from July 23, while the Rs. 747-crore project will be commissioned on August 15, it was announced at a meeting held here on Thursday. The first ferry is expected to operate on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route, for which terminals are almost ready at Vyttila and Kakkanad. It was also decided to complete land acquisition for the Kochi metro’s Kakkanad extension by August 31, official sources said. The extension is awaiting the Union Cabinet’s sanction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-metro-commissioning-on-august-15/article35355712.ece
16 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,536 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 1,536 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. The number of those who got infected through local transmission stood at 1,517. The source of infection in 16 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 9.84%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Payipra (56), Elankunnapuzha (47), Vengoor (44), Kuttampuzha (36), Chellanam (36), Thripunithura (36), Nayarambalam (36), Thrikkakara (35), Pallipuram (35), Kalamassery (32), and Nellikuzhi (32). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayampuzha, Ernakulam North, Kalady, Thirumaradi, Vadavucode, Elamkulam, Thoppumpady and Sreemoolanagaram. As many as 13,525 persons in the district are under treatment after testing positive, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1536-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35355718.ece
16 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Move for cement terminal flayed||Residents of Pallithottam are up in arms against the rehashed plan to start a cement terminal in the densely populated coastal area. Though the government had earlier abandoned the project following strong resistance, the Ports Department made a recent move to explore the possibilities of reintroducing the proposal. Despite fishers and trade union representatives voicing their opposition, the authorities are reportedly moving ahead with the project. Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil had discussed the project with officials during his visit to the district on June 29 and the news has generated much resentment among the residents. “In 2019, the government had promised us that it will not go ahead with the project. Trying to renew it after the elections is nothing but cheating and we suspect foul play in the new Minister considering it a priority,” said Johnny, a resident. “For us, it is a closed chapter and we were shocked to see the new development. ,” said Kollam district Matsya Thozhilali Union president H. Basil Lal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-for-cement-terminal-flayed/article35355474.ece
16 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Boost to tourism in Kottayam||Taking note of the potential for village tourism in the district, the State government has embarked on a plan to develop Kottayam as the hub of sustainable tourism in Kerala. Responsible Tourism Addressing a meeting of tourism stakeholders in the district recently, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said the plan envisaged identifying at least one tourism destination in each local body and developing these locations by adopting Responsible Tourism. The district, which comprises renowned rural destinations such as Kumarakom, Aymanam and Vaikom, holds a huge potential for tourism development, he added. The development of village tourism, according to him, will offer new experiences to travellers , besides ensuring growth of the rural economy. The sector’s expansion will be in strict line with the sustainable development agenda of the UN World Tourism Organisation. As part of the initiative, the Minister is slated to convene a meeting to review the tourism projects in Kottayam on July 18. This will be followed by meetings of elected representatives of local bodies within July 30 to identify the new projects. K.Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator of the Responsible Tourism Mission, G.Sreekumar, deputy director of the Tourism Department, and Bindu Nair, secretary of the District Tourism Promotion Council, attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boost-to-tourism-in-kottayam/article35355485.ece
16 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Good show by students of Olassa school for the blind||Overcoming many hurdles, students of the Government School for the Blind at Olassa — the lone high school for visually impaired students run by the State government — have cleared this year’s SSLC examinations with flying colours. All the eight students of the school have passed the exams. Four scored A+ in all subjects, a rare fete in itself. Among the remaining four, two got A+ in nine subjects while the remaining two got A+ in seven and four subjects respectively. What, however, differentiates this success story from others is not how they coped with blindness to score big but how a group of goodwill-driven persons inspired them to breach the limits and script success. From a severe shortage of teaching staff to the barriers of remote learning for children with disabilities, these youngsters had to overcome a set of very unusual challenges this year to achieve the fete. Teacher-volunteers E.J. Kurian, headmaster, attributes the incredible success primarily to the effort taken by four teacher-volunteers who worked overtime to address the special educational needs of their wards. “Fresh appointments were not done for the academic year due to the COVID-19 crisis while the scope of remote learning was much limited due to the significant disabilities of our students. Just when these issues began to cast a shadow over the future of our students, these four people, who had earlier worked here in temporary vacancies, came up,” he said. Since the school hostel remained closed due to COVID-19, the students could only attend the classes from their homes. “To overcome the challenges posed by restricted access to students, we devised a plan to help them do the schoolwork in homes. Accordingly, the children were made to follow the classes in KITE-Victors channel, which were immediately followed up with online classes. The teachers, meanwhile, prepared audio notes and shared them through the common social media account,” explained Mr. Kurien. Sheena M.S., one of the teacher-volunteers, said the teachers too had to readjust everything and learned many of the things as the classes progressed. “A reopening of the school, which came four months ahead of the examination, helped us make up for the loss of direct classes. But as students who learn about things through voice and touch, they missed the crucial experimental sessions in science and mathematics,” she recounted. Vacant posts Buoyed by the success, the school authorities have now approached the Education Department seeking to fill the vacant posts for teachers in the school. “The Parent and Teacher Association has submitted a representation to this effect to the District Development Committee while the Kottyam district panchayat and Minister V.N. Vasavan have offered us all support,” the headmaster said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-show-by-students-of-olassa-school-for-the-blind/article35355477.ece
16 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) to woo professionals||The Kerala Congress (M), which seeks a transition from its mass-based structure to a cadre-based organisation and revive its shrinking vote base, will soon come up with a feeder organisation exclusively for professionals. A decision to constitute the new department was made during a steering committee meeting of the party in Kottayam earlier this month. The platform seeks to create a network of professionals from different fields comprising media, health, Information Technology and architecture. “Sebastian Kulathungal, legislator from Poonjar, has been entrusted with the coordination of the platform,” said an official statement from the party. Commenting on the initiative, a senior party leader said the move followed the realisation that the agenda of political discourses were being set by the educated youngsters, both online and offline. “It's an attempt to open up the party structure to the new set of voters and expand its social base,” observed the leader. Good number According to him, a good number of young professionals from the Central Travancore districts – the core focus area of the KC(M) belonged to the families that maintained a close connection with the regional party. “By engaging them through the new platform, the party seeks to bridge their perceived distance to the Kerala Congress ideology,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-to-woo-professionals/article35355486.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sheeja Sasi is new Kozhikode district panchayat president||Sheeja Sasi of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Thursday assumed charge as the new president of the Kozhikode district panchayat. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy administered the oath of office to Ms. Sasi after she won the election held in the district panchayat hall in the morning. The election was necessitated after Kanathil Jameela resigned the post following her successful run from the Koyilandy constituency in the Assembly polls. Ms. Sasi, who was heading the development standing committee, secured 16 votes while her opponent, Ambika Mangalath of the Congress, received nine votes. A member was absent in the 27-member council. In the local body polls held in December last, Ms. Sasi had won from the Perambra division. She was president of the Chakkittapara grama panchayat during the 2015-20 period. The district unit of the CPI(M) nominated Ms. Sasi to the post after the State Election Commission said the post should be filled before the by-election. Earlier, the party had decided to nominate a member after by-election to the Nenmanda division from where Ms. Jameela had won. This was to accommodate senior leader K.K. Lathika, former legislator of Kuttiyadi. The party had been weighing options to bring Ms. Lathika to electoral politics as she was not nominated to contest the Assembly polls in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sheeja-sasi-is-new-kozhikode-district-panchayat-president/article35355440.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Facilities yet to be stepped up at MCH COVID treatment centre||The new building constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, is yet to be fully utilised for COVID-19 treatment because of lack of facilities and manpower. It was converted as a COVID treatment facility in the last week of April when the second wave of the pandemic hit the district and the number of infected persons started going up. The building was supposed to have 200 beds with centralised oxygen facility. Two floors of the five-storeyed structure are being utilised for the purpose. Sources, however, said that all the infected patients were yet to be fully shifted to the building as it doesn’t have an oxygen regulator. These devices are designed to regulate or lower oxygen pressure from a cylinder to levels that is safe for patients. Right now, of the around 100 patients in the PMSSY block, only eight of them require intensive care unit support. Some payment issues are cited for the delay in installing the device. The facility also reportedly doesn’t have enough manpower, ie doctors and nurses and other supporting staff. “Though the PMSSY block was declared as an exclusive COVID treatment facility, the number of ICU beds has not been increased so far. All the COVID patients are yet to be shifted here. Because of this, non-COVID treatment at the main hospital is affected,” one of the doctors told The Hindu . He claimed that only relatively stable patients are being shifted to the PMSSY block right now. Because of the delay in shifting infected persons, even sick patients in general medicine, surgery and orthopaedics wards are lying on the floor and in the corridors. It is believed that the college authorities are holding talks with the district administration to sort this out. They are also seeking to expedite the work on the medical intensive care unit. As soon as the work is over, the patients right now admitted to ortho ICU would be shifted there. “There is already talk about a possible third wave of the infection. The medical college hospital needs to have more facilities for ICU care and oxygenation to counter it,” another doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facilities-yet-to-be-stepped-up-at-mch-covid-treatment-centre/article35355442.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,692 fresh cases recorded||As many as 1,692 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Thursday. District Medical Officer V. Jayashree said in a release that 1,674 of them were locally acquired infections and the source of 12 others was not known. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 14.39%. Kozhikode Corporation reported 327 cases of local transmission of the infection, Thamarassery 46, Koduvally and Olavanna 43 each, Kizhakkoth 41, and Kayakkodi and Maniyoor 40 each. As many as 1,339 people recovered from the infection. The active caseload stands at 16,724. Meanwhile, the district Health Department cautioned against the rise in daily TPR and infected persons in Kozhikode. The number of daily cases crossed 2,000 after 54 days on Wednesday. The TPR was 15.41%. It was on May 28 that the infection rate surpassed 15% before. The daily cases, however, had declined after May 21 when 2,383 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. It had come down to 500 at one point. The highest number of fresh cases was reported on May 6 (5,704). The daily TPR had reached 32.9% on May 3. As many as 53,244 people were under treatment on May 7. However, in June, it dropped below 1,000. This month, however, the number crossed 1,000 every day except two days. Right now, eight local bodies have their TPR above 30%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1692-fresh-cases-recorded/article35355444.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wild elephant attack: hillside farmers resume protest||A section of hillside farmers owing allegiance to the We Farm farmers’ collective on Thursday resumed their sit-in in front of the Peruvannamoozhi forest office alleging that the department had failed to control the wild elephant menace in Chakkittappara panchayat. It was on July 10 that large acres of agricultural land came under the attack of wild elephants. Following the incident, a farmer and his family members had resorted to a sit-in in front of the Peruvannamoozhi forest range office. On Wednesday, a wild tusker again entered his field and caused huge damage. Leaders of We Farm complained that the situation remained the same even after a recent discussion chaired by the Divisional Forest Officer to settle farmers’ complaints. Though one of the farmers who suffered serious loss in wild elephant attack staged a sit-in to draw the department’s attention, it failed to evoke any favourable response, they claimed. Joy Kannanchira, chairman of We Farm, said the settler farmers in the area suffered a loss of Rs. 40 lakh within the past two months alone in the wild elephant attack. “Rubber tappers are not even in a situation to do the job due to elephant scare. The animal should be tranquillised and shifted to another area for ensuring farmers’ safety,” he said. “Our plan is to continue with the protest till the animal is chased away from the spot. The Forest Department is showing a cold approach without understanding farmers’ concerns,” said Jijo Thomas, a functionary of the We Farm collective. The protesters also sought department-level action against the Peruvannamoozhi range officer who allegedly ignored farmers’ grievances.  Our plan is to continue with the protest till the animal is chased away from the spot Jijo Thomas Member, We Farm collective||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-elephant-attack-hillside-farmers-resume-protest/article35355437.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Woman dies in wall collapse||A 72-year-old woman was killed when a retaining wall collapsed and fell on her at Puthuppadi near Adivaram in Kozhikode district on Thursday. The victim was identified as Kanakamma, wife of late Kochuparambil Sadanandan. The incident took place around 10.30 a.m. Though local residents managed to carry out rescue operations within a few minutes after the incident, she reportedly succumbed to injuries on the spot. Her body was recovered in 30 minutes and shifted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. The woman met with the accident while doing some household work in the rear side of the old house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-dies-in-wall-collapse/article35355438.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gulf returnee’s abduction: three in judicial custody||The three persons arrested by the Koyilandy police on Wednesday in connection with the alleged abduction of a Gulf-returnee were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. The police said K.K. Noushad, 31, T. Mohammed Salih, 38, and K.T. Saifudheen, 35, abducted Ashraf Ahammed for seizing a huge cache of gold he smuggled through the Calicut international airport. The police suspect Ashraf, who returned from the Gulf on May 26, to be a carrier under the radar of gold smuggling rackets. On Tuesday, a five-member gang from Koduvally barged into the house of the Arikkulam native and abducted him at gunpoint. He was taken to an unknown spot and assaulted, following which he suffered a leg fracture. He was later let off. The assailants used blades to injure the youth to elicit details of the gold he allegedly carried. The police said the assailants were part of a gang of smugglers from Koduvally. They came in search of Ashraf as he allegedly exchanged the smuggled gold with a gang based in Kannur. Officials said they had not taken the statement of the abducted youth at face value. Ashraf was involved in a gold-smuggling operation six years ago via the Karipur airport. He was also a suspect in some of the recent gold-smuggling cases involving the Koduvally and Kannur-based gangs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gulf-returnees-abduction-three-in-judicial-custody/article35355503.ece
16 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Accused in molestation case arrested from Kovalam||The Mukkom police on Thursday arrested a 60-year-old man who allegedly molested a widow at her home last month. Sajeev Kumar, the accused who was absconding after the incident, was detained from a tourism cottage at Kovalam in Thiruvananthapuram. A number of women’s organisations had launched an indefinite protest seeking the arrest of the retired teacher who was reportedly involved in many similar incidents in the past. He had been convicted by the court in one of the cases. The victim had also approached the Women’s Cell and the Kerala State Women’s Commission as the man tried to evade police investigation. It was on June 30 that the incident leading to the complaint took place. The woman’s son was also at home when the accused committed the molestation attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-molestation-case-arrested-from-kovalam/article35355451.ece
16 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Senior INTUC leader dead||K.C. Ramachandran, 81, senior Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) leader, passed away here on Thursday. He had been ailing for some time. Mr. Ramachandran was the general secretary of the Kozhikode District Congress Committee when Wayanad was part of it. He was among the founders of an INTUC unit at the now defunct Gwalior Rayons, Mavoor. Mr. Ramachandran also worked as the national executive committee member, State vice-president, and Kozhikode district president of the INTUC, among other posts. He is survived by his wife, Kanakalatha. Ramachandran’s final rites were performed on his house premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-intuc-leader-dead/article35355449.ece
16 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||P.M. Varier takes charge as Arya Vaidya Sala chief||P. Madhavankutty Varier (P.M. Varier) assumed office of the managing trustee of the Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala on Thursday. He succeeds Aryavaidyan P.K. Warrier, who died last Saturday. Trustees P. Raghava Varier, K. Muraleedharan, and K.R. Ajay; chief executive officer G.C. Gopala Pillai; joint general manager P. Rajendran; and charitable hospital medical advisor P. Balachandran, were among those who greeted Dr. Varier, who is also the chief physician of Arya Vaidya Sala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-varier-takes-charge-as-chief-of-arya-vaidya-sala/article35355446.ece
16 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Aid to reopen industrial units in Palakkad||The District Industries Centre (DIC) here will provide aid to revive closed industrial units in the district. The DIC will give up to Rs. 15 lakh for the restoration of industries that have been lying closed for more than six months and have the potential for revival. The scheme is being implemented by the State Department of Industries and Commerce under a programme titled Revival and Rehabilitation of Defunct MSMEs (Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises) and Cashew Processing Units. Industrial units that stopped functioning because of the ban on plastic will be exempted from the six-month-closure clause. The DIC will offer capital grants and working capital incentives for the revival of the MSMEs. When Rs. 12 lakh will be given in aid for defunct MSMEs, Rs. 15 lakh will be given for defunct cashew-processing units. For building renovation, 25% of the total revival project cost will be given. However, this should not exceed Rs. 2 lakh. For plant, machinery and electrification, 40% of the total revival cost will be given. However, this should not exceed Rs. 8 lakh. Up to 50% margin of the working capital will be given in this scheme. The aid in this segment will be limited to Rs. 2 lakh for defunct MSMEs and Rs. 5 lakh for cashew units. For working capital revival, there should be loans from approved financial institutions. Applications Applications can be submitted in the prescribed format with the necessary documents to Assistant District Industries Offices in the Palakkad, Ottapalam, Mannarkkad, Chittur and Alathur taluks. The applications should be recommended by Industries Development Officers of block panchayat and municipal offices. The defunct industries getting financial aid from the DIC should resume functioning in three months and should continue at least for three years. Failure in this can invite legal proceedings and punitive action, said the DIC general manager. For details, the DIC here can be contacted at 0491 2505385 or 2505408. Taluk-level industries centres too can be contacted at 0491 2505570 (Palakkad), 0492 3221785 (Chittur), 0492 2224395 (Alathur), 0466 2248310 (Ottappalam) and 0492 4222895 (Mannarkkad).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-to-reopen-industrial-units-in-palakkad/article35355555.ece
16 July 2021||RANCHI,KERALA||32 migrant workers rescued from Kerala: Jharkhand govt.||Thirty-two migrant workers and five children hailing from the Santhal Parganas region of Jharkhand were rescued from Kerala where they were forced to work in a tea garden in adverse conditions, a State government official said on Thursday. These distressed workers were brought to Dhanbad by train this morning and from there ferried to Dumka by a special bus arranged by the State government. On Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s intervention, a joint initiative by the Labour Department’s State Migrant Control Room and a social organisation PHIA Foundation helped rescue 32 workers from Jharkhand and five children from Kerala. Anita Marandi, a resident of the Dumka district in Jharkhand, thanked Mr. Soren for listening to her plea when she and other migrant workers found themselves in a problematic situation in Kerala. Like Anita, 32 other migrants, hailing from Dumka are also happy. The Dumka Deputy Commissioner appointed an officer at the district level after talking to the Collector in Idukki. The Dumka district administration and the State migrant control room constituted a team in Kerala. “Aadhaar card and other necessary documents of the workers which were seized by the contractor have been recovered with support from the local police,” the official said. Investigations revealed that the contractor from Jharkhand duped these workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/32-migrant-workers-rescued-from-kerala-jharkhand-govt/article35355489.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A turning point likely in snakebite treatment||Snakebites account for around 58,000 deaths in the country annually. Despite the high rate of snakebite envenomation, India’s response to the ‘neglected tropical disease’ remain inadequate. Without a proper diagnostic system, the conventional clinical practice involves administering a polyvalent anti-snake venom (ASV) which are currently developed using the venoms of four species, viz., Russel’s viper ( Daboia russelii ), spectacled cobra ( Naja naja ), common krait ( Bungarus caeruleus ) and the saw-scaled viper ( Echis carinatus ). Oommen V. Oommen, Honorary Director of the Centre for Venom Informatics that functions at the University of Kerala, says the cocktail of such venoms could save lives, but not without exposing patients to several ailments at a later stage. Present complications The antibodies raised against the venom of certain species could often cause severe anaphylaxis reaction in the victim. Acute pulmonary edemas, cerebellar ataxia and uveitis are some of the complications that could follow, thereby affecting the quality of life, the former chairman of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board says. Now, Indriyam Biologics Pvt. Ltd., a start-up incubated at SCTIMST-TIMed, a technology business incubator at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, has achieved considerable success in innovating a diagnostic device that could be used for species-specific identification of snake envenomation within minutes. Dileepkumar R., chief executive officer and founder of the company, points out the ‘V-sens’ snake venom detection biosensor could prove handy in detecting the envenomation status with a drop of the victim’s blood, similar to the use of a glucometer. “This innovation replaces the conventional polyvalent ASV treatment method with a specific monovalent technology and helps in reducing the allergen load on the patient as well as the associated side effects,” he said. The technology, for which doctors Jaideep Menon of Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi and Joseph K. Joseph of Little Flower Hospital, Angamaly, have been collaborating, is set for certifications and clinical trials before it can be released for commercial use. Snake Hub app Indriyam’s one-year old mobile application Snake Hub, which is part of its two-pronged strategy in snakebite management, has found considerable success in creating awareness.  This innovation replaces the conventional polyvalent ASV treatment method with a specific monovalent technology and helps in reducing the allergen load on the patient as well as the associated side effects Dileepkumar R. CEO, Indriyam Biologics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-turning-point-likely-in-snakebite-treatment/article35355435.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Five new Zika cases in capital||Five more cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection surfaced in the capital district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases reported so far in the State to 28. Of the five new cases reported on Thursday, which were confirmed at the National Institute of Virology’s Alappuzha unit, two were from within the Anayara cluster, while three cases have been confirmed from Kunnukuzhi, Pattom and East Fort, far outside the cluster. On Tuesday, another case, totally unlinked to the cluster had been reported at Sasthamangalam in a 41-year-old pregnant woman who has no travel history. Difficult to detect Epidemiologists have pointed out that even though the current crop of cases have been reported only from the capital district, it is very difficult to detect ZIKV, unless one specifically looks for it. Given the high density and the omnipresence of Aedes Aegypti, the primary vector for ZIKV across the State, it is highly possible that the geographic spread of the infection is much larger than what has been revealed now. The Health Department reported that while five samples had tested positive for ZIKV on Thursday, 16 samples had tested negative for the same. However, this might be no consolation as an RT-PCR test can detect ZIKV only during the viraemia phase, when the virus is active in the body. No symptoms About 80% of the cases would have no symptoms and the remaining would have only mild symptoms which resolve itself within a three or four days. Hence the timing of the sample collection for testing is very crucial. If samples of patients who were symptomatic, tested negative, it could be just that the PCR test did not pick up the infection, not that they never had ZIKV . This means that any pregnant woman amongst those who tested negative, would also have to be monitored closely and mosquito control measures would have to be carried out intensively across all pockets from where cases with fever and rashes and other symptoms were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-more-test-positive-for-zika/article35355452.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State gets Rs. 4,122 cr. GST dues||The Centre on Thursday released Rs. 4,122.27 crore to the State as GST (Goods and Services Tax) compensation dues through a special borrowing arrangement. The announcement came just hours after Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi to seek a speedy release of the amount. The Rs. 4,122.27 crore is part of Rs. 75,000 crore released by the Finance Ministry to States and Union Territories on Thursday under a back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST compensation. Addressing delay The money released to Kerala and other States is raised through Centre's borrowings in five- and two-year securities. Following the GST Council meeting in May this year, it was decided that the Centre would borrow Rs. 1.59 lakh crore and release it on a back-to-back basis to address the delay in compensation payment caused by cash shortage in the GST compensation fund. Mr. Balagopal, who met Ms. Sitharaman in New Delhi on Thursday, had conveyed Kerala's demand that the GST compensation dues totalling Rs. 4,500 crore should be released at the earliest, given the strain on the State finances caused by COVID-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also had brought the matter to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a meeting earlier this week. Mr. Balagopal, talking to reporters in New Delhi after meeting Ms. Sitharaman, said Kerala would continue to press for an extension of the GST compensation period by another five years, given the economic downturn caused by the pandemic. The arrangement where the Centre compensates States for shortfalls in GST revenue would come to an end in the current financial year.Rs. Mr. Balagopal demanded a moratorium on repayment of loans, especially by small borrowers, amid financial woes caused by the pandemic.   Amount released through a special borrowing arrangement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-gets-rs-4122-cr-gst-dues/article35355498.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Responsible investment is the keyword for P. Rajeeve||The State government has been moving ahead with several wide-ranging measures with an intent to turn Kerala into a model destination of responsible investment in the country, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has told The Hindu . “The conversation the world over has shifted from ease of doing business to responsible investment. Around one-fourth of the investments globally over the past year have happened with a focus on Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG). When labour costs increase, especially in the apparel industries which employ unskilled labour, they shift to other locations. Kerala has a brand value of its own globally. It is a safe place with a highly skilled workforce. We are focussing on how to utilise this effectively, with ventures suited for the State,” says Mr. Rajeeve. The continuation of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has ensured that there is no need for a change in policy, but only measures to strengthen the existing policy of ensuring ease of doing business. The first Cabinet meeting had decided to bring in a Bill for a grievance redressal and industrial disputes mitigation mechanism, he says. “We are continuing the path-breaking measures to improve ease of doing business with three important steps -- making it easier for starting a business lawfully, centralising inspections and decriminalisation of some clauses by updating existing rules. An expert committee is looking into all laws dealing with industries and update or remove the outdated ones,” he says. As per the proposed Industries disputes mitigation Bill, which is to be presented in the Assembly later this month, a two-tier system will be implemented at the State and district level for grievance redressal. Decisions by these bodies, which will be taken within a stipulated period, will be binding on all departments. Kitex controversy However, more than the policy-level interventions, the government has a bigger task in managing perceptions, especially after the controversy around Kitex group. When asked about this, he said the whole controversy seemed like a marketing strategy to utilise this perception of business unfriendliness, which is false. “We have been interacting with business bodies including FICCI, all of whom have attested to the business friendliness of Kerala,” he says. The Minister now hints at more companies reaching out to set shop here. Last week, Tata Elxsi inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Kinfra to expand its facilities in Kerala, with an investment of Rs. 75 crore in the first phase. Hindalco Industries, under the Aditya Birla group, held a meeting this week regarding an aluminium extrusion plant.   For full interview: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/kerala-will-be-turned-into-a-model-destination-for-responsible-investment-industries-minister/article35336197.ece||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/responsible-investment-is-the-keyword-for-p-rajeeve/article35355500.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cabinet reviews infra projects||The State Cabinet on Thursday reviewed the current status of Kerala’s priority infrastructure projects. It decided to complete land acquisition for extending the Kochi Metro Rail to Kakkanad (11.2 km) before August 31. The government will discuss the progress of the project with the Chief General Manager, Southern Railway. The Kochi Water Metro project will commence a trail run on July 23. The government will inaugurate the scheme on August 15. The government has handed over the sketch and location map of the proposed Sabarimala airport to the Union Ministry for Civil Aviation. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tasked the Revenue Department to expedite land acquisition for the Kochi Urban Development and Water Transport Scheme. Kitco will finalise the project report for the 80-km Thiruvananthapuram-Vizhinjam ring road. The Centre had sanctioned the Rs. 4,500-crore project that planned to open up the hinterlands of the capital district for development. The Cabinet also discussed the Kannur City Road Improvement Scheme. It ordered a speedy acquisition of land for the project. The government also decided to push ahead with National Waterway. Mr. Vijayan also asked various departments to ensure they report vacancies arising out of retirement and promotion to the PSC in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cabinet-reviews-infra-projects/article35355496.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Redesign Muthalappozhi groynes: coastal forum||The Theeradesa Nethruvedi has urged the government to redesign the groynes at Muthalappozhi against the backdrop of recurring accidents involving fishing boats in the region. Staging a sit-in in front of the Secretariat, the organisation demanded that the government redesign the structures as per a scientifically robust plan. For years now, the local fishermen have blamed the unscientific construction and placement of the groynes at the entrance of the Muthalappozhi harbour as the reason for the accidents reported from the region. According to Theeradesa Nethruvedi president Veli Varghese, around 45 fishermen have lost their lives over the past years in the accidents here. “The unscientific construction of the groynes has also led to massive coastal erosion over the years. Sand banks have formed near the harbour mouth which also pose a danger,” he said. Compensation Further, the organisation has demanded compensation for fishermen who have lost working days due to weather alerts preventing them from going to sea, and rehabilitation measures for coastal communities facing the threat of coastal erosion. M. Vincent MLA inaugurated the sit-in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/redesign-muthalappozhi-groynes-coastal-forum/article35355751.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vizhinjam handles 347 crew change operations in one year||With more vessels opting for outer anchorage crew change off the Vizhinjam coast, the port has emerged as a revenue source for the government, notwithstanding the shortage of tug boats and infrastructure facilities. Inaugurating the first anniversary of the crew change operations at the port on Thursday, Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil said 347 vessels including container ships, tanker vessels and gas tankers had used the facility for seafarers to sign off and take on replacements over the year. Ever Globe, a 2.19-lakh tonnage container ship, sailing under the flag of Panama from Egypt to Colombo, was the first to use the crew change facility on July 15, 2020. Highlighting the need to improve the port’s facilities, the Minister said coastal freight transport was a cheaper alternative to movement of goods by road. Traders would hence find it more attractive. The Minister added that the proposed coastal highway linking all ports in the State would speed up cargo transport. Several shipping firms had evinced interest in operating coastal services between the Kochi, Beypore and Azheekal ports. The Minister feted shipping agents and officials involved in the crew change operations at Vizhinjam. As many as 2,737 crew members had signed off from anchored vessels and 2,807 seafarers had signed on using the crew change facility at Vizhinjam over the last one year. One vessel had undergone a management change and three ships were sanitized during the period.  Container ships, tanker vessels and gas tankers used the port for crew change, bringing in revenue for State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vizhinjam-handles-347-crew-change-operations-in-one-year/article35355752.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poverty survey to be over in four months||With the State Cabinet approving the guidelines , the survey to identify five lakh of the poorest families in the State is expected to be completed within four-and-a-half months, Local Self-Governments Minister M.V. Govindan has said. The Cabinet has also appointed Santosh Kumar, Additional Development Commissioner (Rural Development Commissionerate), as the nodal officer of the activities. The programme was one of the first major announcements made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after taking charge in the Left Democratic Front’s second term. He had announced that the government aimed to uplift all families below the poverty line within the next five years. The main aim of the programme is to identify destitute families, who have not got the benefits of any of the existing schemes, and bring them above the poverty line through various projects at the grassroots level. Micro plans have been prepared ahead of the survey. Pilot surveys Pilot surveys will be conducted to ensure that the main survey remains error-free. Coordination committees will be formed at the ward level as part of the survey, for which a management information system and a mobile application will be used. The respective grama sabha or ward sabha will have to approve the list of poor people from each of the localities, before it is finalised. Mr.Govindan says the government will ensure that only the deserving find a place on the list. The poor families will be identified by considering all basic parameters, including food, shelter, health, and employment. Families without any income, those having bedridden patients with serious illnesses, those having differently abled members and not having steady source of income, migrant worker families permanently residing in the State and not having a regular source of income, those having senior citizens and any other category of families that are facing poverty will be identified. Special focus will be on Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families, fishworker families, and the urban poor.  Government will ensure that only the deserving find a place on the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poverty-survey-to-be-over-in-four-months-govindan/article35355594.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Job-oriented courses launched by ASAP||The Higher Education Department and Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) launched a range of new-generation, job-oriented courses to mark World Youth Skill Day on Thursday. The courses on IT, media, healthcare and banking sectors will be applicable for undergraduates, postgraduates and final-year UG students. ASAP and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Academy will jointly offer a course in cloud computing. Other IT courses, including cyber security, full stack developer, artificial intelligence and machine learning, will also be taught. The other programmes include pharma business analytics, healthcare decision analytics, clinical research, pharmacovigilance, and clinical data management. Fee subsidy ranging from 50%-75% will be provided for deserving candidates. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said ASAP would offer a graphic design course for female graduates from rural areas. ASAP chairperson and managing director Usha Titus said the courses would involve mandatory internship in companies. Details are available on the ASAP web portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-oriented-courses-launched-by-asap/article35355759.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mayor meets officials||Mayor Arya Rajendran on Thursday chaired a meeting of various organisations and departments to discuss the preventive measures against Zika virus. Service organisations, trade unions, representatives of hotel and restaurant associations, officials of the public works, Water Resources department, KSRTC and Railways participated in the meeting. The departments and organisations promised measures to destroy mosquito sources in the respective offices and workplaces. The Mayor requested the officials to consider observing one day as dry day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-meets-officials/article35355750.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Entrance exam for Army recruitment||The Common Entrance Examination (CEE) for those who qualified in the Army recruitment rally and medical exam conducted in February-March 2021 is scheduled to be held on July 25 at Colachal Stadium, Pangode Military Station, Thiruvananthapuram. The exam is held for various categories such as Soldier General Duty, Soldier Technical, Soldier Technical Nursing Assistant / NA Veterinary, Soldier Clerk/Store Keeper Technical/ Inventory Management and Soldier Tradesmen (10th & 8th). Successful candidates should o report to CEE venue on July 25 at 1 a.m. (early morning) along with admit card in original and writing material like black ball pen, clipboard (without any sticker or writing). Candidates must observe all COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrance-exam-for-army-recruitment/article35355755.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR in State inches close to 11% mark||The State reported 13,773 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,25,742 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate seemed to rise again and was 10.95% on Thursday. The State’s active case pool has been rising steadily for the past two or more weeks and on Thursday again rose to 1,19,022. There were 12,370 recoveries on the day. The cumulative case fatality in the State crossed 15,000 and now stood at 15,025, with the State adding 87 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official toll on Thursday.   Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,917, followed by Kozhikode 1,692, Ernakulam 1,536, Thrissur 1,405, Kollam 1,106, Palakkad 1,105, Kannur 936, Thiruvananthapuram 936 and Alappuzha 791 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-in-state-inches-close-to-11-mark/article35355502.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Encyclopaedia of laws to be released today||The State Institute of Encyclopaedic Publications (SIEP) is coming out with an encyclopaedia of laws in Malayalam which attempts to throw light on important laws of the past and present and legal science subjects. Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian will release the 640-page ' Niyamavijnanakosham ' by handing a copy to Industries Minister P. Rajeeve here on Friday. The fourth in a series of theme-based encyclopaedias published by the SIEP, the encyclopaedia contains nearly 1,000 articles on the legal system and legal science, and covers national, international and State laws and legal institutions. Priced at Rs. 840, the encyclopaedia starts off with an article on the All India Services Act, 1951, and closes with a biographical sketch of Hugo Grotius, the 17th century Dutch jurist and scholar. The encyclopaedia contains the life sketches of eminent figures, including Aristotle, who have left their mark on the history and development of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encyclopaedia-of-laws-to-be-released-today/article35355558.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Blockchain course by digital varsity||Digital University Kerala (DUK) is offering a free foundation course on blockchain technology for schoolchildren and graduates. The online course is being organised in collaboration with the Kerala Blockchain Academy (KBA) and the Kerala Development Innovation and Strategic Council (K-DISC). According to Asharaf S., Dean (Research and Development) and professor-in-charge of KBA, the course in designed to benefit people from all backgrounds, including engineering, science and arts. “The 30-hour programme will offer a deep understanding of the capabilities and limitations of blockchain technology and also its future. Participants will also receive a digital blockchain-powered certificate from the institution,” he said. Registration for the programme will begin on July 19. The classes of the first batch will commence on August 1. Those completing the foundation programme can later enrol for a free certificate programme on Ethereum. To register, visithttp://prajna.duk.ac.in/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-varsitys-initiative/article35355595.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PhD entrance exam put off||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has postponed its PhD entrance examination to July 27. The examinations, earlier scheduled to be held on July 18, was postponed in view of the State-wide weekend lockdown. The deadline for registration of regular and supplementary examinations of eighth semester BArch is June 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-postpones-phd-entrance/article35355450.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Submit Jain panel report, court tells CBI||A district court on Thursday directed the CBI to submit the Justice D.K. Jain committee findings. The committee had examined the ‘police frame-up’ that culminated in the infamous 1994 ISRO spy case. It also sought the case diary pertaining to the State police probe against former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in that year. Mr. Narayanan is the de-facto complainant in the case. The CBI had discharged him of the case. The Supreme Court had upheld the CBI’s closure report and ordered the prosecution of former law enforcement officers alleged to be responsible for the wrongful incarceration of Mr. Narayanan. The court is currently hearing the bail plea of Siby Mathews, who is an accused in the CBI’s case. Mr. Mathews had headed the Special Investigation Team that probed the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/submit-jain-panel-report-court-tells-cbi/article35355747.ece
16 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||936 more test positive, 1,158 recover||The district recorded 936 COVID-19 cases and 1,158 recoveries as the active caseload slid to 9,777 on Thursday. The test positivity rate on the day stood at 7.2%. 13 deaths The death toll rose to 3,051 with 13 more deaths being attributed to COVID-19. While 846 of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission, the source of infection is unknown in 89 cases. One health care worker has also tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 32,125 workers in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/936-more-test-positive-1158-recover/article35355749.ece
16 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||In Thrissur, a pongala protest against fuel price hike||The Thrissur District Congress committee organised a pongala protest in the district on Thursday against the escalating fuel prices. Protesting against the refusal of the State and Central governments to decrease the tax on petroleum products, Congress workers set up pongala hearths at 1,100 centres in the district. Pongala hearths were set up around Swaraj Round in the city. “At a time when people are struggling to make both ends meet, the Modi government at the Centre and the Pinarayi government in the State are pushing people to more hardship by charging high tax on petroleum products,” said T.N. Prathapan, MP, inaugurating the protest at Swaraj Round. All democratic forces should join in the protest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-thrissur-a-pongala-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article35355557.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Just short of soaring high||When the end credits of some films roll up, we wonder how little we know about the protagonist. Malik’s opening sequence, stretched over an uninterrupted ten minutes, exists in a diametrically opposite world, where establishing the character and painting his various hues before the narrative takes off, is paramount. In those frenetic opening minutes, when Ahammadali Sulaiman (Fahadh Faasil) is preparing to leave for Haj, we get hints of his chequered past, the tone of his relationships with his family as well as with some powerful people, his stature as a revered, and feared, leader of the local Muslim population, and his uncertain future. That character sketch is so arresting that we almost do not pay attention to the fact that the shot was uninterrupted, which is how good cinematography should be, unobtrusive and non-gimmicky. After the immensely successful Take Off and C U Soon , writer and director Mahesh Narayanan ups the game in his third outing Malik , with a multi-layered narrative weaved around a manufactured conflict between two communities, which leads to much bloodshed. The conflict here hinges around Sulaiman aka Ali Ikka, who is arrested over an old terrorism-related charge. The police wants him eliminated, for there is much bad blood between him and the force. The writer certainly has drawn elements from a riot, which happened in the Kerala coast some years ago. Rather than to this real-life riot, the film has more similarities to traditional gangster narratives, and recent films like Vada Chennai , with its portrayal of the early, relatively innocent days of the protagonists, the slow shift into the sale of smuggled goods, the natural animosities that are created in this line of business and the betrayals that follow. Colourful characters It is as much a story of the evolving relationships between the local communities in adjacent coastal villages and the colourful characters who populate these shores. Almost all of them get interesting character arcs, be it Ali’s wife Roseline (Nimisha Sajayan), her brother and Ali’s friend-turned-foe David (Vinay Forrt) or Abu (Dileesh Pothan). Though Ali towers over the local population, he is hardly ever larger than life, rather we are aware of his frailties and we get a feeling that he could fall. The script, subtly, looks at how extremists as well as power-hungry elements in every religion try to create and widen fissures with other communities and pour oil into simmering tensions, all for their own narrow benefits. At the same time, special care is taken in separating Ali from these elements, despite his violent past. It seems to create a thin veneer of justification for his acts as in the larger interests of the people, rather than for his own ends. Some other convenient takes, like blaming the police for almost the entire bloodshed, are resorted to, which stops the film just short of soaring high.  Malik is envisioned and executed as a mass entertainer on a larger scale (and for a larger screen), with Sanu Varghese’s camera and Sushin Shyam’s background score taking it up a few notches. Mahesh Narayanan is here to stay, irrespective of whether the scale or screen is large or small. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malik-falls-just-short-of-soaring-high/article35355710.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Immediate steps after bite are crucial, says expert||Jaideep C. Menon is a cardiologist at Amrita Hospital, Kochi, and a member of the ICMR task force on snakebite and is on the WHO expert panel on snakebite.  It is estimated that of every 100 snakebites, approximately 65 are non-venomous. Half of the remaining 35 are ‘dry’ bites, where a venomous snake bites without actually injecting venom. Only 15%-17% of the bites result in envenoming. Most of the bites are accidental when snakes feel threatened and result from an instinctive reflex. Where do they occur Majority of bites occur in individuals at their work sites; fields, plantations, saw-mills, brick kilns, poultry farms, homes and increasingly of late in snake-rescuers who handle snakes in an irrational manner. Most of the bites occur in villages in individuals between 25-60 years of age with deaths having enormous social and economic fallout. Snakebites peak immediately after the onset of the monsoon and are very common after floodwaters recede. Most snakes deliver in July-September; one should be particularly wary if one juvenile snake is seen as there is a likelihood of larger numbers around. ‘Allay anxiety’ The panic that most victims develop on getting bitten is partly responsible for the ensuing complications and increased absorption of venom. The steps to be taken immediately are to allay anxiety, to keep the bitten limb dependant (below the level of the heart) and never to cut or suck the bitten part. A tight ligature or tourniquet, if tied on the bitten limb, retards arterial blood flow leading to more complications and should be condoned. If bitten, rush to the nearest hospital to ascertain whether envenomed or not. Anti-snake venom (ASV) is the only scientific cure for snakebite. The measures followed to avoid snakebite include keeping the house clean and devoid of rats, keeping the periphery of the house free of litter, keeping chicken coops away from the house, using a flashlight at night, using footwear, a well-tucked mosquito net while sleeping, and not stacking firewood against the wall of the house.  (as told to   G. Krishnakumar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/immediate-steps-after-bite-are-crucial-says-expert/article35355456.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A day at Euclid garden||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-day-at-euclid-garden/article35355560.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Airing demands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airing-demands/article35355758.ece
16 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RAS wants contract system for water supply abolished||The Rayalaseema Abhivrudhi Samithi has written a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, seeking his intervention in the resolution pertaining to water supply to more than 1,600 villages. The Samithi expressed its dismay at the lack of any budgetary provisions for the schemes pertaining to supply of water through pipelines in the State and demanded such provisions be made so that people did not suffer due to lack of drinking water. Releasing the letter at a media conference on Thursday, Samithi convener G. Obulu, who is also the honourary president of the Neelakantapuram Sriramireddy Water Supply Scheme Workers’ Union, said that the State government, which was in deep financial crisis, could save money by abolishing the contract system of Operation and Management of several Centralised Piped Water Supply schemes and the Sri Sathya Sai Water Supply Scheme and the Sriramireddy scheme. Pending salaries Eve as the L&T is managing some aspects of water supply schemes, it has refused to pay salaries to workers on the ground that the State government was yet to clear a due of Rs. 41 crore, he pointed out, adding that some contractors had not paid the Provident Fund amounts of the workers for the past 10 months and some others had not paid the salaries for the last to six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ras-wants-contract-system-for-water-supply-abolished/article35355069.ece
16 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Zero tolerance against corruption is top priority’||The Anantapur Police will adopt a zero tolerance policy against corruption and a coordinated effort will be made to ensure law and order is maintained, said Fakkeerappa Kaginelli after taking charge as the District Superintendent of Police here on Thursday. “It will take a week or two for me to understand the specific problems of the district, even as I worked in another Rayalaseema (Kurnool) district for more than two years. I will put a credible mechanism in place to deal with the situation,” said Mr. Fakkeerappa. All the good practices in day-to-day work and employee welfare introduced by my predecessor B. Satya Yesu Babu will be continued, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zero-tolerance-against-corruption-is-top-priority/article35355527.ece
16 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU faculty selected as CSIR pool scientist||An academic consultant (temporary faculty member) Matli Penchal Reddy in the Physics Department of Sri Krishnadevaraya University has been selected as the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) pool scientist to conduct research for three years in ‘Aluminium Composites’ under the guidance of Professor K. Ramagopal. In a release here on Thursday, V-C M. Ramakrishna Reddy said it was a great honour for the university to achieve this fellowship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sku-faculty-selected-as-csir-pool-scientist/article35355523.ece
16 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine members of T.N. gang held in highway robbery case||The police on Wednesday night arrested nine members of a gang allegedly involved in highway robberies, on the outskirts of Chittoor and seized Rs. 32 lakh in cash, three SUVs, two country-made weapons, lathis, uniforms of the Tamil Nadu Police, iron rods and nine mobile phones from their possession. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told the media that the gang members, hailing from Vellore and Ranipeta districts of Tamil Nadu, would stop the vehicles on the secluded stretches on the national highways and rob the passengers at gunpoint. “The gang members would lure businessmen on the pretext of providing them currency notes in Rs. 2,000 denominations in exchange of Rs. 500 notes, promising 10% profit to the latter. The gang was wanted in several cases of spreading of rumours that the Centre would go for demonetisation once again, “ said the SP. Modus operandi In this process, the gang led by one Shaik Abdullah alias Saikrishna (40) from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu allegedly lured two Kerala-based businessmen Ashok and Mohammad, with a promise of giving Rs. 1 crore in Rs. 2,000 denominations in exchange of Rs. 90 lakh. Mr. Ashok has business in the Gulf countries, while Mr. Mohammad is a financier. The duo reportedly reached Vellore on July 1, with a cash of Rs. 45 lakh, all in Rs. 500 denominations. Shaik Abdullah arranged 10 gang members at various places between Chittoor and Vellore. The duo was asked to wait near a petrol pump on outskirts of Chittoor . The gang allegedly threatened the two businessmen and decamped with the Rs. 45 lakh they were carrying. Acting on a complaint lodged with the Chittoor East police on July 2, a special party was formed with Circle Inspectors K. Balaiah (Chittoor East) and Vikram (Special Branch). Acting on a tip-off about the movement of the gang in Gopalapuram Mitta locality on Chittoor-Vellore border on July 14 night, the special party intercepted nine members of the gang who were travelling in three vehicles. The SP said that gang leader Shaik Abdullah and his aide Ramraj from Vellore were absconding. Special parties have been formed to trace them. The accused were produced before the court in Chittoor and remanded. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-members-of-tn-gang-held-in-highway-robbery-case/article35355071.ece
16 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pet dog ‘foils’ bid to rape girl||A dog is known to be man’s best friend. The incident at Gollapalle village of Penumuru mandal in the district proves this once again. The pet rushed to the rescue of a 17-year-old girl and foiled the attempt of a 27-year-old man of the same village to outrage her modesty. According to information, the incident happened on Wednesday night when the girl was asleep on the terrace of her house. On finding the accused trying to force himself upon her, the girl screamed for help. The dog rushed to her rescue, pounced upon the accused and reportedly bit him. When people in the neighbourhood woke up to the commotion, the accused escaped, but not before the dog gave him a good chase. The police arrested the youth at Penumuru bus stand on Thursday morning while he was trying to board a bus. A case was registered and the accused was sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pet-dog-foils-bid-to-rape-girl/article35355540.ece
16 July 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||W. Godavari SP reviews security at Polavaram project sites||Rahul Dev Sharma who took charge as the he Superintendent of Police of West Godavari district from his predecessor K. Narayan Naik on Thursday visited Polavaram project and discussed the security at the project site with the officers. The SP, who inspected the project site, spillway and sluice gates, asked the police officers to treat the complainants who visit the police stations with respect, and give a priority for issues related to women and the elderly people. Mr. Sharma reviewed the law and order situation and security at the project as many VIPs are visiting the site frequently. He enquired about the issues pertaining to the flood situation in the Agency area with Polavaram DSP K. Latha Kumari. The project officials explained Mr. Sharma about the flood level and the discharge from the sluice gates. Polavaram CI A.S.N. Murthy said that steps were being taken to strengthen the Godavari bund as flood level was rising. Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy’s tour programme to Polavaram project on July 14 has been cancelled, said the officials. Mr. Sharma, a 2010 batch IPS officer, has served as the Superintendent of Police of Visakhapatnam Rural and Kadapa districts, and as the Group Commander of the Greyhounds. He also met Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao and Collector Kartikeya Misra and discussed the law and order situation and other issues. Outgoing SP Narayan Naik was given a warm farewell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/w-godavari-sp-reviews-security-at-polavaram-project-sites/article35355067.ece
16 July 2021||GUDIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Respond to complaints quickly: Krishna SP||Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal visited the Gudivada DSP office on Thursday and asked the police officers to respond to complaints quickly and render justice to victims. The SP enquired about the status of different cases with DSP N. Satyanandam. He asked the police officers to be available to the public, track the movements of criminals and take measures to control crime. The new SP met Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani). Mr. Siddharth also met Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu and Collector J. Nivas in their chambers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respond-to-complaints-quickly-krishna-sp/article35355775.ece
16 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raise VSP and RLIS issues in House, Jagan tells party MPs||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy held a meeting of the YSRCP Parliamentary Party on Thursday where the party MPs chalked out the strategy to be adopted in the upcoming session. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the MPs to raise the Polavaram, privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) among other major issues pertaining to the State in the Parliament. After the meeting, YSRCP national general secretary and Parliamentary Party leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy told the media that the MPs would raise the issue of investment clearance of Rs. 55,656 crore for the revised estimated cost of the Polavaram project, which has been pending for 29 months. They would request the Central government to release Rs. 33,000 crore related to relief and rehabilitation works of the project immediately. He said they would raise Telangana’s illegal usage of water from inter-State irrigation projects and said the Andhra Pradesh government had moved the apex court seeking to hand over the operation and maintenance of such projects, including the Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar, to the Centre. He said they would demand the Centre to notify the tribunal’s judgement on the Vamsadhara project. “We will oppose privatisation of the Vishakapatnam Steel Plant and raise the issue in Parliament,” he said. Dues from Telangana Pending electricity dues of Rs. 6,112 crore were still to be received from Telangana and the A.P. MPs would demand the Central government to intervene and solve the issue, he said. There were also some imbalances in the National Food Security Act due to which Andhra Pradesh was bearing the loss and they would also raise this issue and seek justice. He said the MPs would demand release of pending arrears of Rs. 5,056 crore related to ration rice and MGNREGS arrears of Rs. 6,750 crore, approval of the Disha Act and assistance for development of infrastructure facilities in 17,000 layouts. Tribal University They would seek approval for setting up the Tribal University in Saluru constituency and also to fulfil promises made during the State reorganisation, including the Special Category Status to the State. Effective COVID-19 management of the State government would also be mentioned in the Parliament, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raise-vsp-and-rlis-issues-in-house-jagan-tells-party-mps/article35355546.ece
16 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers approach NGT against Telangana LI project||Farmers belonging to the Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam and Rayalaseema regions filed a complaint before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the ongoing Palamuru Lift Irrigation Project in Telengana. Senior counsel P.S. Raman, appearing for Gautam S. Raman on behalf of the farmers, had brought to the Notice of the tribunal that the Telangana government was proceeding with the construction of the irrigation project despite earlier undertakings that the same would be limited only to supply of drinking water until the Environmental Clearance was obtained. After hearing Mr. P.S. Raman, the tribunal was pleased to constitute a committee to examine the ongoing project and to furnish a report as to whether the ongoing construction was compliant with the EIA notification and other extant laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-approach-ngt-against-telangana-li-project/article35355553.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kokapet lands fetch royal sum for TS govt.||Kokapet lands proved to be a gold mine for the cash-strapped government, with the highest bid in the online auction reaping Rs. 60 crore per acre on Thursday, the day when the e-auctions were conducted by HMDA for eight plots. In all, the total revenue garnered from the auction stood at Rs. 2,000.37 crore. The single plot of 1.65 acres put up for sale in Golden Mile Layout fetched a total of Rs. 99.33 crore in the auction, bid successfully by Rajpushpa Realty. The winning bids ranged between Rs. 31.2 crore and Rs. 60.2 crore with a weighted average bid amount of Rs. 40.05 crore per acre, a note from the HMDA informed. HMDA has undertaken the online auction of 49.949 acres of land at Neopolis Layout in Kokapet abutting the Financial District, through MSTC platform. Uniform upset price was Rs. 25 crore per acre, with minimum bid increment of Rs. 20 lakh or its multiples per acre. HMDA had a total land of 634 acres in Kokapet, of which 167 acres were sold through auction in 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kokapet-lands-fetch-royal-sum-for-govt/article35355401.ece
16 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘hacked’ to death by his brothers||A man was hacked to death by his brothers as a property dispute took an ugly turn late at S.Gollapalli village in Kadapa district on Wednesday night. Bommu Subbukrishna Reddy (34) was thrashed with wooden logs and hacked to death. His wife Bommu Srilekha, who pleaded with her husband’s brothers B. Nagi Reddy and B. Subbu Reddy to spare him, was severely injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-hacked-to-death-by-his-brothers/article35355072.ece
16 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 scribes held for ‘demanding’ money from lorry owner in E.G.||Seven “non-accredited reporters” working for the vernacular media were arrested on Thursday on the charge of stopping a lorry and demanding money from its owner for allegedly transporting rice meant for public distribution scheme. The accused, hailing from East Godavari district, were identified as Akondi V.V. Satya Suryanarayana, Chirra Nagaraju, Ainavilli Vijaya Babu, Undurthi Ravi Kumar, Palivela Raju, Ummidisetti Venkateswara Rao and Ch. Rajendra Prasad. “The accused had allegedly stopped the lorry transporting rice from Tanuku to Guntur on July 14 and demanded Rs. 2 lakh from its owner after accusing him of illegally transporting the stock. They allegedly threatened to get the lorry seized by alerting the Civil Supply authorities,” Amalapuram DSP Y. Madhava Reddy said. Following a complaint lodged by the lorry owner, the police swung into action. ‘No accreditation’ “The journalists have not been accredited by the government. They claim to be working for vernacular newspapers and TV channels. Cases have been registered against them,” Ravulapalem CI V. Krishna said. They were produced before the court on Thursday, he added. The police seized four vehicles and seven cell phones from the possession of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-scribes-held-for-demanding-money-from-lorry-owner-in-eg/article35355547.ece
16 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durgabai Deshmukh award to Kalpakam||East Godavari Joint Collector (Welfare) G. Rajakumari on Thursday presented the Durgabai Deshmukh Award-2021 to New Delhi-based Echuri Kalpakam during the Durgabai Deshmukh Jayanthi celebrations organised in virtual mode here. The Kakinada branch of the All India Women’s Conference (AIWC), has instituted the award this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/durgabai-deshmukh-award-to-kalpakam/article35355583.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly ruckus: SC refuses to accept Kerala govt.’s argument||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to accept the Kerala government’s argument that the Speaker and not the police has the authority to take action against the Left Democratic Front MLAs who vandalised the Legislative Assembly during the Budget speech in 2015. “So, let’s say in an extreme case, if an MLA empties his revolver inside the Assembly, can you say the House is supreme on this?” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud retorted at the Kerala government side. The court was also not convinced by the State government’s line that withdrawal of prosecution against the errant MLAs was in public interest. “How is it in public interest or in service of public justice to seek withdrawal of prosecution when MLAs have damaged the sanctum sanctorum of democracy?” Justice Chandrachud asked. Justice M.R. Shah asked why the State government was trying to defend the accused persons in the case. The court has reserved for judgment the appeals filed by the Kerala government and accused persons, which include Kerala Education Minister V. Sivankutty, against a High Court order which had confirmed a Magistrate’s decision to refuse the Prosecutor permission to withdraw the criminal case. Televised images from the day of the incident show legislators come to blows on the House floor and hurl chairs, computers and other public property soon after Finance Minister K.M. Mani began his Budget speech during the United Democratic Front government’s tenure. The apex court has consistently taken a strong prima facie view against the conduct of the MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assembly-ruckus-sc-refuses-to-accept-kerala-govts-argument/article35355013.ece
16 July 2021||PENUKONDA (ANANTAPUR DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. on a mission to renovate roads in State’||The State government has embarked on a mission of renovation of roads in the State at a cost of Rs. 2,200 crore and works in the first phase of the project worth Rs. 1,800 crore are in progress, Minister for Roads and Buildings Malagundla Sankaranarayana said here on Thursday. Addressing the media after attending some programmes in Roddam mandal, the Minister said that Rs. 4,000 crore taken as loan from the New Development Bank (NDB) were being utilised to improve the condition of the State Highways and the Major District Roads (MDRs). “However, there has been a temporary halt in works at many places due to the rain and unsuitable land terrains. The works will be resumed as soon as the monsoon gives a respite,” said the Minister. The State government will be spending Rs. 15,000 crore on the renovation and laying new national highways in the State for which tenders would be called for soon, the Minister said. Funds diversion The Minister alleged that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), during its tenure, had diverted funds of Rs. 2,000 crore that was taken as loan through the Road Development Corporation (RDC) for the ‘Pasupu Kumkuma’ scheme, Mr. Sankaranarayana said. “We had to repay the loans raised through the RDC and Rs. 1,000 crore that was due to contractors by the time the YSRCP government assumed the office,” the Ministers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-on-a-mission-to-renovate-roads-in-state/article35355525.ece
16 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will consider workers’ demands: Aurobindo||Aurobindo Pharma Limited vice-president (HR) U.N.B. Raju on Thursday said that the management was positive on enhancement of wages of contract workers and regularisation of the services of many of them after considering qualification, experience and skills. Along with management representatives N.R. Rajareddy and N. Venkata Rao, he held discussions with the leaders of the Aurobindo Pydibhimavaram Contractors’ Association at the unit at Pydibhimavaram in the district. Association leaders Pasupuleti Appalaraju and Lankapalli Prasada Rao said that the previous wage agreement lapsed in March 2021 and it needed to be renewed apart from enhancement of special allowance. They also sought regularisation of the services of the workers under the supervision of technical contractors. They proposed medical assistance for the workers suffering from chronic diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-consider-workers-demands-aurobindo/article35355575.ece
16 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bring petrol, diesel prices under GST’||District Congress Committee president Boddepalli Satyavati on Thursday urged the Union government to bring petroleum products under the GST purview to ensure transparency in prices. Along with party leaders, she staged a protest against the skyrocketing petrol, diesel and LPG rates. People led a happy life with less taxes and more development during the Congress regime, she said. “The Narendra Modi government is fleecing public with heavy direct and indirect taxes. It has failed to ensure smooth administration and development in spite of huge tax collection. People are willing to bring back Congress to power in 2024 general elections,” said Ms. Satyavati. Congress Party BC Cell convener Sanapala Annajirao and DCC vice-president D. Govind Mallibabu also took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-petrol-diesel-prices-under-gst/article35355579.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s test positivity moves closer to 11%||Kerala reported a small drop in absolute numbers of COVID-19 cases at 13,773 on Thursday from over 15,600 the previous day, but the test positivity rate (TPR) for 1,25,742 samples was 10.95%. Active cases, rising steadily for the past two or more weeks, on Thursday touched 1,19,022. The cumulative case fatality crossed 15,000 and stood at 15,025, with 87 more recent deaths being added to the official toll. Another 2,415 patients were hospitalised, and 24,885 were being treated in hospitals. Total ICU admissions of COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, showed a slight dip on Thursday at 1,951. The number of patients requiring ventilator support showed a significant dip to 689. The cumulative case burden stood at 31,17,083. Malappuram district reported the highest new cases at 1,917, Kozhikode 1,692, Ernakulam 1,536, Thrissur 1,405, Kollam 1,106, Palakkad 1,105, Kannur 936, Thiruvananthapuram 936, Alappuzha 791, Kasaragod 674, Kottayam 555, Pathanamthitta 530, Wayanad 325, and Idukki 265 cases. Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,977 new cases, taking the total to 28,78,564. Active cases stood at 32,383. Of these, 462 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 48 more deaths, the toll rose to 36,037. The TPR for the day touched 1.42% Andhra Pradesh reported 24 deaths and 2,526 infections on Thursday, taking the toll to 13,081 and the tally to 19,32,105. The number of active cases was put at 25,526. The daily TPR of 93,785 samples was 2.69%. Prakasam district reported six deaths in the past day Krishna reported five and Chittoor four. They were followed by Guntur, Nellore and West Godavari (two each) and Anantapur, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam (one each). Most districts reported fewer than 500 infections in the past day, and four districts reported fewer than 100 cases. East Godavari reported 404 infections, Chittoor (391), Prakasam (308), Krishna (269), West Godavari (235), Nellore (210), Guntur (178), Kadapa (157), Visakhapatnam (119), Srikakulam (91), Anantapur (80), Vizianagaram (49), and Kurnool (35). Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu reported 2,405 new COVID-19 cases and 49 deaths on Thursday, taking its tally to 25,28,806 and toll to 33,606. With 3,006 people being discharged after treatment, the total figure touched 24,65,250. The State’s active cases stood at 29,950. The last time the number of active cases was below the 30,000-mark was on April 7 — over three months ago. Coimbatore topped the tally with 256 cases, followed by Thanjavur (163) and Erode (159).  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-test-positivity-moves-closer-to-11/article35355028.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert as Kerala capital reports 28 Zika cases||With 28 Zika cases being reported from Thiruvananthapuram district, the Kerala Health Department has sent a State-wide alert to test all cases of fever with rashes for Zika virus (ZIKV) infection. The Ministers for Health and Local Self Government (LSG) held a joint review meeting here on Thursday to organise coordinated micro-level plans for containment across districts. Even though ZIKV cases had not yet been reported from other districts so far, a high level of alert needed to be maintained in all districts as the vector, Aedes aegypti, was present in high density in all districts, it was pointed out at the meeting. Health Minister Veena George said seasonal dengue cases too had begun to be reported from all districts and hence intensive vector control measures, including source reduction, fogging and mobilisation of the public to make individual homes Aedes-free was the need of the hour. The list of Aedes hotspots would be prepared and handed over to local bodies for launching control measures. District medical officers and Health and LSG officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-as-kerala-capital-reports-28-zika-cases/article35355024.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s Goshala at Palamaner to become a research hub||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is all set to transform the Sri Venkateswara Goshala at Palamaner into a state-of-the-art research hub, where focus will be laid on promotion of the indigenous cow breeds. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, who visited the 450-acre dairy farm on the outskirts of Palamaner on Thursday, said a campaign would be launched to educate farmers on cow-based ‘Panchagavya’ products. This, he said, would become a new enterprise that would ensure profits to farmers. The TTD plans to shift 1000 indigenous cows and bulls, presently housed at the Tirupati dairy farm, to the Gosahala for research. Mr. Reddy asked the officials to construct additional sheds for the cattle. “The Goshala will be promoted as a watershed project, in collaboration with the Department of Rural Development, and this is an appeal to corporate groups to contribute for the development of infrastructure,” Mr. Reddy said, while urging the field experts to partner with the TTD in promotion of indigenous breeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttds-goshala-at-palamaner-to-become-a-research-hub/article35355073.ece
16 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sakshatkara Vaibhavam ends with Garuda Seva||The annual ‘Sakshatkara Vaibhavam’ conducted at the Sri Kalyana Venkateswara temple at Srinivasa Mangapuram near here came to a grand close with Garuda Seva performed on Thursday evening. As is the practice, the deity was placed on Garuda Vahana and the procession was restricted in tune with the COVID-19 guidelines. In the morning, celestial bath (Snapana Tirumanjanam) was given to the idols of the Lord and His consorts Sridevi and Bhudevi, in private.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sakshatkara-vaibhavam-ends-with-garuda-seva/article35355528.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Property tax hike, user charge issues rock VMC meeting||Protests by the opposition party corporators over the proposed hike in property tax and levying user charges for garbage collection rocked the second council meeting of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) held on Thursday even as a special council meeting has been slated for July 19 to discuss the issues. Several Telugu Desam Party corporators and the lone CPI(M) corporator and floor leader B. Satya Babu were suspended from the meeting by Mayor and council chairperson R. Bhagya Lakshmi after they staged protest, disrupting the proceedings of the council meeting without any discussion on points raised in the agenda. Later, the TDP cooporators and their CPI(M) counterparts staged a sit-in outside the Council Hall and raised slogans, alleging that the YSRCP governing body had failed in conducting the council meeting. Mr. Satya Babu was removed from the Council Hall by marshals before he was detained and shifted to Governorpet police station. TDP floor leader N. Balaswamy and others were also detained and sent to Governorpet police station where they staged a protest against the ‘illegal arrests’ by the police. Earlier in the day, TDP corporators rallied into the VMC office premises by holding placards and posters, demanding cancellation of the government orders that enabled a hike in property tax based on the valuation of property, and user charge on garbage collection. Left Party leaders and activists including senior leader Ch. Babu Rao, former corporator Gade Adi Lakshmi, D. Kasinath, CPI leader D. Shankar and others who attempted to lay siege to the VMC office were arrested. Proposals passed Meanwhile, the council took up 82 proposals and 142 issues raised in the agenda. Most of the proposals were unanimously passed by the council and office remarks were sought regarding some points. Minister Velampalli Srinivas, MLC Md. Karimunnisa took part in the council meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/property-tax-hike-user-charge-issues-rock-vmc-meeting/article35355777.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||24 deaths and 2,526 cases in State||The State reported 24 COVID-19 deaths and 2,526 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the toll to 13,081 and the tally to 19,32,105. The death rate remained at 0.68%, while the recovery rate reached 98%. The total recoveries reached 18,93,498 with 2,933 patients recovering in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases was put at 25,526. The daily positivity rate of 93,785 samples tested was 2.69% and the overall positivity rate of 2.33 crore samples tested remained at 8.29%. Prakasam district reported six deaths in the past one day, while Krishna reported five and Chittoor four. They were followed by Guntur, Nellore and West Godavari (2 each) and Anantapur, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam (one each). There were no fatalities in four districts. All the districts reported fewer than 500 infections in the past one day, while four districts reported fewer than 100 cases. East Godavari reported 404 infections. It was followed by Chittoor (391), Prakasam (308), Krishna (269), West Godavari (235), Nellore (210), Guntur (178), Kadapa (157), Visakhapatnam (119), Srikakulam (91), Anantapur (80), Vizianagaram (49), and Kurnool (35). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,71,553), Chittoor (2,25,882), West Godavari (1,66,586), Guntur (1,65,594), Anantapur (1,55,355), Visakhapatnam (1,50,620), Nellore (1,30,602), Prakasam (1,25,748),Kurnool (1,22,744), Srikakulam (1,19,749), Kadapa (1,08,745), Krishna (1,05,030) and Vizianagaram (81,002).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24-deaths-and-2526-cases-in-state/article35355534.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop move to restructure schools, UTF tells govt.||Opposing the proposed school restructure programme by the government as part of reforms in the education sector, leaders of the Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation (APUTF) on Thursday hit the road demanding withdrawal of the related Circular 172. The federation held a State-wide protest demanding that the government drop its plan to merge Classes 3, 4 and 5 in high schools in the name of implementing the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. They said, contrary to the Education Minister’s assurance that the NEP would be implemented only after discussing the key issues with all the stakeholders, the officials of the Department of School Education were engaged in making arrangements for merger of Classes 3, 4 and 5 in the high schools. They said the move was against the clause in the Right to Education Act that children should have access to primary schools within a distance of 1 km. The different timings and teaching levels of the primary and high schools might cause inconvenience to the primary children, they said. Increasing the distance of the schools to 3 km might result in school drop-outs, especially among the girl students, they cautioned. They suggested that instead of dividing the primary schools, the government should establish a primary school in every village, comprising pre-primary education along with Classes 1 to 5. A teacher should be appointed for every class, besides a headmaster, they added. ‘Withdraw Circular 172’ Reiterating their demand for withdrawal of Circular 172, they said any decision in this regard should be arrived at only after the issue was discussed with all the stakeholders. The UTF leaders said close to 15,000 teachers and more than 11,000 parents in 659 mandals across the State participated in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-move-to-restructure-schools-utf-tells-govt/article35355780.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||EWS reservation a historic development: Kannababu||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said that the YSRCP government’s decision to provide 10% reservation to the candidates of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) in government recruitments is a historic development that helps a large number of job aspirants. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Kannababu said the reservation would be implemented in all the upcoming recruitments in the State. Though court cases were pending against the provision of EWS reservation, the government decided to go ahead in the interest of the job seekers and after consulting legal experts, the Minister said, and added that there would be no subcategories in the 10% reservation. Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had cheated the Kapus by offering them reservation under the BC category and seeking 5% quota in the 10% allocated for the EWS category, he alleged. He said all the families with an annual income of less than Rs. 8 lakh would be eligible for the reservation in government jobs. The government also increased the maximum annual income from Rs. 6 lakh to Rs. 8 lakh for the candidates to be eligible for EWS reservation in educational institutions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ews-reservation-a-historic-development-kannababu/article35355530.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release White Paper on State’s debts in last two years: CPI||The CPI has demanded that the State government release a White Paper on the loans borrowed by it in the last two years. Addressing the media here on Thursday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said TDP leader and Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman Payyavula Keshav and Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy were engaged in a war of words over Rs. 41,000-crore “unaccounted for expenditure.” “The truth behind the allegation is not being established. What is preventing the government from giving a reply to the Principal Accountant General’s letter even after two months? Why is the Finance Minister not confirming that the Bills are genuine?” Mr. Ramakrishna sought to know. Referring to Mr. Rajendranath Reddy’s observation that every State would avail itself of loans, the CPI leader said the State’s finances were in the red. “The situation is so worse that the loans taken from the RBI are not being credited into the government’s account but being adjusted against the old debts,” he said. “There is no ambiguity in the division of debts of the combined State between the residuary Andhra Pradesh and Telangana soon after the bifurcation in 2014. The YSRCP government should release a White Paper on the debts during the TDP rule and during the last two years,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. Polavaram issue Referring to the problems of the Polavaram evacuees, Mr. Ramakrishna said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had belied their hopes by cancelling his visit to the project site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-white-paper-on-states-debts-in-last-two-years-cpi/article35355778.ece
16 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||860 acres allotted for JSPL steel plant||The State government has permitted the APIIC to allot 860 acres of land at Thamminapatnam and Momidi villages of Chilakur mandal in Nellore district to the Jindal Steel & Power Limited (JSPL) for the establishment of an integrated steel plant. A G.O. (MS. No. 54) to this effect was issued by Special Chief Secretary (industries and commerce) R. Karikal Valaven. It was stated that the JSPL, a part of the OP Jindal Group, had proposed to set up a 2.25 MTPA integrated steel plant for manufacturing TMT bars and wire rods with an investment of Rs. 7,500 crore (excluding land cost) that would provide employment to 2,500 persons directly and 15,000 indirectly over a period of four years. It had also sought allotment of 1,000 to 3,000 acres at Thamminapatnam and Momidi villages. The proposal was placed before the Secretaries’ committee in November 2020 as per the land allotment policy for taking a view on the allotment of land to the JSPL. The committee had recommended that the proposal be sent to the State Investment Promotion Committee and the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) for allotting the land at the rate fixed by the price fixation committee of the APIIC. The name of the project proponent was subsequently changed as Jindal Steel Andhra Limited, which would be a joint venture of the JSPL and its sister concern Nalwa Steel and Power Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/860-acres-allotted-for-jspl-steel-plant/article35355535.ece
16 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State making tall claims on women’s safety’||The Andhra Pradesh government lacks the sensitivity required in dealing with the cases of rape and molestation in spite of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s claim to make the State a safe place for women and the launch of Disha app by him amidst fanfare, BJP Mahila Morcha national president Vanathi Srinivasan has alleged. The YSRCP activists were involved in a majority of the sexual harassment cases, and it reflected the grim scenario in the State, Ms. Vanathi Srinivasan alleged while addressing the media after participating as chief guest in the Mahila Morcha State executive committee meeting here on Thursday. The culprits in many cases were being safeguarded by the government, while tall claims were made on women safety, the BJP leader, who was also Coimbatore South MLA, alleged. “The State Women’s Commission chairperson also is not sensitive enough in her efforts to curb atrocities against women,” she alleged. Prohibition “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has failed to keep his word on imposition of total prohibition in the State after coming to power. It has been the demand of the BJP too for a long time,” she said. Ms. Vanathi Srinivasan said the focus was on building a team of at least 10 activists in each booth and taking the Prime Minister’s welfare schemes, a large number of which were women-centric, to every house in Andhra Pradesh. Besides, emphasis was laid on taking up political and social issues confronted by women, she added. Commenting on the skyrocketing petroleum prices, she attributed it to the high local taxes. “But, to cover-up their failures, the States are blaming the Centre,” she said. BJP former State president K. Lakshminarayana was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-making-tall-claims-on-womens-safety/article35355537.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP moves NGT over ‘illegal’ bauxite mining||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders on Thursday wrote a letter to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), urging it to inquire into the alleged bauxite mining in agency areas in the State and protect the forest land. TDP MLC Gummadi Sandhya Rani, former Minister Kidari Sravan Kumar, former MLA Gidi Eswari, and Telugu Mahila State president Vangalapudi Anitha wrote the letter to NGT Chairman Adarsh Kumar Goel. They said the Supreme Court had banned mining in the Scheduled Areas. “Illegal mining is being carried out unhindered in the Scheduled Areas of East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. The State government has been issuing permits to mine laterite. The YSRCP leaders, in collusion with a section of government officials, are mining bauxite, destroying the livelihoods of tribal people and forest ecology,” the TDP leaders alleged in the letter. They accused the YSRCP government of circumventing the Supreme Court’s judgment and issuing mining permits for laterite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-moves-ngt-over-illegal-bauxite-mining/article35355548.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Date for admission to KGBVs extended||In view of the prevailing pandemic, the last date for submitting the applications for admission to classes 6 and 11 classes in the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs), run under the Samagra Shiksha wing of the School Education Department, has been extended from July 15 to 20. In a statement on Thursday, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi said applications were also invited to fill the remaining seats in classes 7 and 8 in the 352 KGBVs. She said only orphans, school drop-outs and girls coming from poor families belonging to the SC, ST, BC and other minority communities should apply in the online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/date-for-admission-to-kgbvs-extended/article35355550.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsapur to Nidadavolu train restored||The officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) have restored the Narsapur-Nidadavolu-Narsapur train. The daily DEMU train will run as a regular passenger special with the revised train numbers 07673 and 07674, from Friday. The train will run with unreserved express fare, with existing stoppages and timings, the officials said. Passengers can travel with unreserved tickets (purchased from the UTS Counters) at all the stations, where the train halts, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narsapur-to-nidadavolu-train-restored/article35355068.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entrance tests for admissions in SW institutions||A.P. Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society secretary B. Navya said the entrance exam for admission into Intermediate first year would be held on July 29 from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and for Class 5 on August 1 from 10 a.m to 12 noon. Thursday (July 15) was the last date for submission of online applications . Students seeking admission in Intermediate first year could download their hall tickets from the websitehttps://apgpcet.apcfss.in/ Interand those seeking admission in Class 5 fromhttps://apgpcet.apcfss.infrom July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/entrance-tests-for-admissions-in-sw-institutions/article35355781.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extended runway commissioned||The extended runway at the Vijayawada International Airport was commissioned on Thursday with the landing of the Air India flight from New Delhi at 7.10 a.m. The runway’s length had been increased from 2.2 km to 3.3 km, and it would now be able to handle Code-E type aircraft such as Boeing 747, airport Director G. Madhusudhan Rao said. Mr. Rao said that the newly installed Doppler Very High Frequency Omni Range (DVOR), a radio navigation aid, was also commissioned in line with the runway threshold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extended-runway-commissioned/article35355531.ece
16 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB asks TS-Genco to stop drawing Krishna water||A day after the A.P. government filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court against the drawal of Krishna water from Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects by Telangana for power generation, the Krishna River Management Board wrote a letter requesting the Director (Hydel) of TS-Genco to immediately stop further release of water through the three projects as it was agreed that the quantum drawn for generating electricity was incidental to irrigation and drinking water needs. It was imperative to follow the water release orders of the KRMB, its member (power) L.B. Muanthang said in the letter. He cited a previous correspondence in which Telangana was asked to stop the release of water through Srisailam Left Power House (SLPH).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-asks-ts-genco-to-stop-drawing-krishna-water/article35355539.ece
16 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engg. college celebrates Youth Skills Day||A.V. Ratna Prasad, principal, Velagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College, on Thursday exhorted students to master industry 4.0 technologies to be able to secure high-ranking jobs. Addressing students as part of the UN World Youth Skills Day celebrations in the college marked by a webinar, he said there was no denying the fact that COVID-19 had brought in many challenges but it had also brought opportunities in the technology sector and students should utilise them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engg-college-celebrates-youth-skills-day/article35355779.ece
16 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC list of selected candidates||The APPSC has displayed on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of provisionally selected candidates to the post of lecturer in the Government Degree Colleges in the A.P. Collegiate Education Service for history, commerce and geology subjects and for the post of Forest Beat Officer and Assistant Beat Officer in the A.P. Forest Sub Service (General Recruitment).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-list-of-selected-candidates/article35355549.ece
16 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Funds sanctioned for clearing dues payable to Discoms||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 346 crore for clearing the electricity dues / consumption charges payable to the Discoms by the Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRI) for the month of June 2021. Of the amount, the EPDCL will get Rs. 175 crore, the CPDCL Rs. 98 crore and the SPDCL Rs. 73 crore, as per G.O. Rt. No.90 issued by Energy Secretary N. Srikant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/funds-sanctioned-for-clearing-dues-payable-to-discoms/article35355538.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate during second wave yet to fall as desired||The positivity rate for COVID-19 is yet to fall to the desired levels in the district, say health officials. The district administration was of the opinion that the positivity rate during the second wave would drop to 1% by June 20. Though the number of active cases has come down substantially, the positivity rate is still hovering between 3% and 4.5%. In the last two days, over 400 out of 10,000 samples tested positive for COVID. The second wave, which health officials say was predominantly caused by the Delta variant, created havoc in April and May, with the district recording over 60,000 cases. The curve started to decline begininning in June and by the first week of July, the number of daily cases vacillated between 100 and 150, which was a significant drop from the 2,000 cases per day recorded in May. “We expected the daily cases to fall below 100 by the end of June, and drop even further in July. However, there is an increase in cases since the first week of July, ever since the restrictions on partial curfew have been relaxed,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. “The restrictions have been relaxed in a phased manner since June 20, and now the curfew is in force only from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. We cannot have sustained lockdowns as they would badly impact the economy and the earnings of the people,” said a senior official in the district administration. ‘Throwing cautions to wind’ “People should realise that relaxation in curfew is only to allow people to step out to buy essentials or go to work. But what we are seeing is a completely different scenario with many people throwing all caution to the wind. Tourist spots are jampacked, and people are roaming around beaches without wearing masks. Social distancing too has gone for a toss,” said Dr. P.A. Ramani, IMA-Visakhapatnam president. Vaccination According to Dr. Sesh Mohan Debta of Apollo Hospital, vaccination only helps as a safeguard and cannot guarantee foolproof protection from the virus. “Even people who are vaccinated should follow all COVID protocols as the virus is here to stay and not go so early,” he cautioned. “Within a span of six months, we saw at least two deadly variants hitting the Indian population. The virus is mutating fast, and it is becoming difficult to understand the mutation and its effects such as rate of transmission, progression of the disease and its reaction to antibodies including vaccines. So, the best way is to keep following safety protocols,” said Dr. Debta. Doctors are of the opinion that the pandemic may stay for another two years with multiple cycles, until it is neutralised by a dormant mutant which can happen only when the people go through a multiple vaccination cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-during-second-wave-of-covid-19-yet-to-fall-as-desired/article35355581.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals’ long-pending demand to materialise soon, says MLA||The long-pending demand of the tribal people living in non-scheduled areas, to include non-scheduled villages, which have over 50% tribal population, in the Fifth Schedule, will materialise soon, Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi has said. Speaking at a meeting, organised by the ITDA at Paderu in the district on Wednesday, Ms. Bhagyalakshmi said the inclusion would enable them to get the benefits being given to their counterparts, living in scheduled areas, under various government schemes. Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna explained that tribal families, living in non-scheduled areas, were comparatively backward in development. Presiding over the meeting, ITDA Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna said that the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution provides for special rights to the tribal people. Special funds were being allotted for the welfare of tribal people living in scheduled areas. He said that proposals would soon be sent to the government for inclusion of non-scheduled villages, which have more than 50% tribal population, in the Fifth Schedule. Mr. Gopalakrishna directed the Mandal Development Officers and the Tahsildars concerned to hold gram sabhas in the eligible non-scheduled villages and send the gram sabha resolutions to his office. The resolutions would be placed in the Tribal Advisory Council meeting, to be held on July 23, for a final decision on the issue. Paderu Sub Collector V. Abhishek, Narsipatnam RDO Anita, Assistant Project Officer V.S. Prabhakar and Mandal Development Officers and Tahsildars of non-scheduled mandals participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-long-pending-demand-to-materialise-soon-says-mla/article35355782.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 119 new cases in 24 hours||The district reported 119 COVID-19 infections on Thursday, taking the cumulative tally to 1,51,132. This is for the third consecutive day that the number of daily infections surpassed the number of recoveries. Between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning, 82 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. This takes the number of COVID-19 recoveries to 1,47,925. The death toll increased to 1,039 after one more person succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases increased to 2,168.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-119-new-cases-in-24-hours/article35355784.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC launches Gujarat, Rajasthan tour packages||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has launched two special air tour packages from Visakhapatnam to Gujarat and Rajasthan. In a press release issued on Thursday, IRCTC South Central Zone Area Officer B. Chandra Mohan said that the first package, scheduled from September 9 to 14, will cover Ahmedabad, Dwaraka, Somnath and Statue of Unity. The cost for single occupancy is Rs. 31,565, double occupancy Rs. 25,940 and triple occupancy Rs. 25,365. Giving the details about the second package – ‘Rajasthan Desert Circuit’, which is scheduled from October 12, to 19, 2021, Mr. Chandra Mohan said that the cost for single occupancy is Rs. 42,755, double occupancy is Rs. 34,635 and triple occupancy Rs. 33,770. This package covers Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Bikaner. Interested persons can contact Mr. Chandan Kumar on 8287932318 or 0891-2500695 or at the IRCTC Office at Visakhapatnam Railway Station for booking. For details, visitwww.irctctourism.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-launches-gujarat-rajasthan-tour-packages/article35355580.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly woman found dead at home||An elderly woman, aged around 70, was found dead at her home in Sabbavaram late on Wednesday evening. Police sources said the woman, identified as V. Appalanarasamma, was staying alone ever since her husband passed away two years ago. On Wednesday afternoon, some unidentified miscreants gained entry into her home and killed her, suspect police. Locals who informed the police about the incident said the woman might have been strangled to death by the miscreants. Police suspect that the elderly woman might have been murdered during a robbery bid. Sabbavaram Inspector R.V.V.S. Chandrasekhar said that the family members of the woman are unable to ascertain whether any valuables are missing from the home. “During the inquest, the woman’s family expressed that she might have been murdered over financial issues. We cannot confirm whether any person is being suspected of the murder,” Mr. Chandrasekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-woman-found-dead-at-home/article35355770.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jute mill owners told to clear workers’ dues||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao instructed the management of Chittivalasa Jute Mill to clear the pending bills of the workers at the earliest. Mr. Srinivasa Rao held a meeting with the workers’ union as well as the members of the jute mill management at his residence here on Thursday. The Minister said that after coming to power, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the jute mill management to clear the workers’ dues. During the meeting, the workers’ union said that after closure of the jute mill, the management never showed any interest in resolving their problems. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the management should pay Rs. 5,000 to the wives of those workers who died during their service period. The company should also send the service details as asked by the PF Department. The Minister said that the management has assured of clearing the dues of apprenticeship employees by July 31 and the remaining dues by August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jute-mill-owners-told-to-clear-workers-dues/article35355786.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth goes missing at RK Beach, girl rescued||A 19-year-old youth reportedly went missing at RK Beach on Thursday. A female friend who had also ventured into the water along with him, was rescued from drowning by lifeguards present at the beach. Police said a group of four friends had gone to the beach on Thursday evening. Two of them, identified as Mani Babu and Sarojini, ventured into the sea and were reportedly pulled deeper into the waters by strong currents. Lifeguards present at the spot immediately rushed to their rescue and managed to pull the girl to safety, but were unable to locate the youth. Police launched a search operation for him which was called off after sunset. Both of them are learnt to be Intermediate students. Lifeguards said the duo ignored signboards erected prominently along the beach warning tourists not to venture into the water. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-goes-missing-at-rk-beach-girl-rescued/article35355771.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena leaders meet striking VSP employees||Leaders of Jana Sena Party led by Kona Tata Rao visited the relay hunger strike camp of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee at Kurmannapalem to extend solidarity with the agitating steel plant workers on Thursday. Mr. Tata Rao said that the JSP was against the privatisation of the steel plant. He said that according to the instructions given by JSP founder Pawan Kalyan, they would participate in the agitations of the steel plant workers, including the two-day dharna at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. They demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy join the agitation in support of the agitating workers. Meanwhile, members of Parirakshana Porata Committee undertook a padayatra at the plant to mobilise support for the ‘Chalo Parliament’ agitation on August 2 and 3. President of the steel plant recognised union J. Ayodhya Ram said that thousands of workers would take part in the dharna at New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-leaders-meet-striking-vsp-employees/article35355791.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 4 tonnes of ganja destroyed||A total of 4,186 kg ganja seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), in separate cases, was disposed of by way of incineration, in the city on Wednesday. The destroyed ganja is said to be worth over Rs. 6.27 crore and was destroyed by the officials from the Customs Department. The seized stuff was handed over to the Customs by the DRI over a period of time and it was incinerated at Ramky Enviro Engineers in Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-4-tonnes-of-ganja-destroyed/article35355783.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development works reviewed||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao took part in a review meet with officials from various department including Housing, Rural Water Supply, Panchayat Raj, and Roads & Buildings (R&B) to take stock of development projects in the district, here on Thursday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the State government has allotted Rs. 500 crore for 1,978 works related to Panchayat Raj which are under various stages of completion. He said that as part of Jal Jeevan Mission in RWS works, 3,377 works are being taken up at a budget of Rs. 433.32 crore. Of them, 1,756 works are in progress while 1,344 works are in the tender issuing stage. He was informed that Rs. 752.19 crore was allotted for construction of 137 roads in the district. The Minister also enquired about works being undertaken under different schemes in Bheemili constituency. He also enquired about the construction of houses in the constituency and asked officials to facilitate all amenities at the colonies for the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/development-works-reviewed/article35355787.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-LTT express restored||In order to clear the extra rush of passengers, East Coast Railway has decided to restore the Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special train with effect from Sunday (July 18). The train was cancelled till July 31, due to ongoing safety works between Bhalwani-Bhigwan section of the Solapur division of Central Railway. The 08519 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special express will now leave Visakhapatnam daily at 11.20 p.m. and will reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on the third day of its journey at 4.15 a.m., till further notification. In the return direction, the 08520 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Visakhapatnam special express will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus daily at 6.55 a.m. from July 20 and will reach Visakhapatnam the next day at 10.40 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-ltt-express-restored/article35355789.ece
16 July 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apply for APICET-21 before August 14||Convener of the A.P. Integrated Common Entrance Test (APICET-2021) G. Sasibhushana Rao has said that the portal for online submission of applications is made available from July 15. Prof. Rao said that candidates could visit the website – https://sche.ap.gov.in/icet – for detailed information. The tests would be conducted on September 17 and 18, and the last date for submission of applications online without late fee was August 14, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apply-for-apicet-21-before-august-14/article35355551.ece
16 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||(Meeting on proposed Trafficking Bill)||Visakha NGOs Forum will be conducting a meeting on child trafficking to discuss various points on the proposed Trafficking of Persons (Preventive, Protection and Rehabilitation} Bill-2021. The meeting will be held on Saturday (July 17), at AU NSS Hall from 10.15 a.m. onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meeting-on-proposed-trafficking-bill/article35355790.ece
16 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free meal programme launched||Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy on Thursday urged charitable organisations to continue their service activities to instil confidence among poor people who were facing financial difficulties due to a drop in economic activity owing to COVID-19. He relaunched the free meal programme at Teresa Club and congratulated the club president K. Thammanna Setty and secretary K.T. Kuriyakose for taking up service activities in a big way. He said that the free meal programme was the need of the hour as many people were unable to make their ends meet due to the loss of their income sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-meal-programme-launched/article35355577.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||10% reservation for EWS in govt. jobs||This will, however, be subject to the outcome of several writ petitions and Public Interest Litigations (PILs) filed in various courts and interim orders of the High Court. The following are the operational guidelines for implementation of the 10% reservation: Persons who are not covered under the existing scheme of reservation for SCs, STs and Socially and Educationally Backward Classes and whose gross annual family income is below Rs. 8 lakh are to be identified as EWS for the benefit of reservation. The income includes income from all sources i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession etc. for the financial year prior to the year of application. The term family for this purpose will include the person who seeks benefit of reservation, his or her parents and siblings below the age of 18 years as also his or her spouse and children below the age of 18 years. Regarding initial appointments in the posts and services, the G.O. says persons recruited under EWS category will be adjusted against the roster points earmarked for them. The orders on the roster points earmarked for 10% reservation to EWS category will be issued separately along with other rules to be framed or amended and guidelines to be formulated, if any. One-third for women One-third of the initial appointments in posts and services under the State government earmarked for EWS will be allocated to women among them. This reservation will be horizontal. The persons seeking the benefit of reservation under EWS category have to obtain the necessary EWS certificates from the Tahsildars concerned. As far as the posts notified for appointment by the Government of India (GoI) are concerned, the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment will be applicable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-reservation-for-ews-in-govt-jobs/article35355552.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Succour to the needy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/succour-to-the-needy/article35355773.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC (Please take Advt Interest)||Piaggio India launched the Aprilla SXR 125 at Ora Motors in the city on Thursday. Chairman of Pydah Group of Institutions, Pydah Krishna Prasad, launched the vehicle, while the first vehicle was delivered by Kankatala Group MD K. Mallik, in the presence of Ora Motors director Mr. Krishnakant. Ora Motors has 25 branches in Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Kakinada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc-please-take-advt-interest/article35355785.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain reminds denizens of October 2020 floods||Torrential rain overnight has left behind a trail of destruction in the city by Thursday morning, reminding people of the devastating floods in October last year. Sleepless nights Several localities were flooded, forcing people to spend sleepless nights as rainwater entered homes. The eastern part of the city recording the highest of 20.6 centimetres of rainfall has taken the maximum brunt where overflowing lakes have drowned the surrounding areas. Colonies in East Anandbagh, a locality in Malkajgiri area, which are flooded every time there is a rain, experienced the same yet again. Ayyappa Colony in Bandlaguda, a chronic inundation point, has received abundant flows from upstream of Bandlaguda lake by dint of its location inside the Full Tank Level (FTL). Kodandaram Nagar and Seesala Basti, two more colonies prone to inundation, have been flooded yet again by surplus water from Saroornagar. In Hayatnagar, flood water from Kummari Kunta lake entered homes in Padmavathi Nagar Colony, while the same from Bairamalguda lake drowned areas such as Altaf Nagar, Sainagar, and Harijana Basthi. Flooding was also experienced in Errakunta area where surplus water from the lake gushed onto the streets. A number of storm water drains overflowed due to silt and rampant growth of water hyacinth weed, posing a grave danger to people’s lives. Stench remains Unbearable stench and sewage water pervaded many streets owing to overflowing sewerage manholes and catch pits. Trees fell in scores during the rain, which obstructed the traffic right since Thursday early morning. Trucks were seen filled with logs of fallen trees being carried away. Rain related complaints GHMC officials informed that efforts were continuously on to clear water from affected areas, and several families have been shifted to function halls close by. On Thursday, GHMC has received a total of 669 rain related complaints through various grievance redressal lines, of which 596 have been resolved, a note informed. As per the readings from the automatic weather stations across the city up to 4.30 a.m. on Thursday, Bandlaguda in Uppal received the highest rainfall at 20.6 cm, while areas including Hayatnagar, Saroornagar, Ramanthapur, Hasthinapuram, Nagole, L.B. Nagar, Lingojiguda, and Rajendranagar, received very heavy rainfall ranging between 12-19 cm. Other localities receiving heavy rainfall include Saidabad, Musheerabad, Bahadurguda, Charminar, Kapra, Marredpally, Nampally, and Asifnagar. For the next 24 hours, the Meteorology department has predicted cloudy weather, light to moderate showers, and at times intense spells or thunder showers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-reminds-hyderabadis-of-october-2020-floods/article35355398.ece
16 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR writes to Defence Minister on closure of AOC roads||Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao has urged Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to instruct the Local Military Authorities (LMA) of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) for restraint in unauthorised closure and blocking of roads. In a letter to the Union Minister, he said the closure of roads was affecting millions of citizens’ travel in north and north-eastern parts of Hyderabad city. He requested the Union Defence Ministry to pass necessary instructions to the LMA Hyderabad to immediately open all these roads and further restrain them from taking any unilateral and arbitrary decision for closure of any of the public roads without following the due process, as contemplated under Section 258 of Cantonment Act 2006. The Minister said that in July 2020, the Local Military Authorities had shut down four important roads — Allahabad Gate, Gough Road, Wellington Road, and Ordinance Road citing a surge in COVID-19 cases. “It is distressing to note that these roads are closed often for reasons bordering on frivolity. The State had taken up all required necessary measures to contain COVID including lockdown in May and June but surprisingly, roads are now closed despite the lockdown having been lifted,” he said. Mr. Rama Rao argued that no public road can be closed by Local Military Authority or any authority other than a Cantonment Board and without following the procedure laid down under Section 258 of the Cantonment Act 2006. “The LMA often takes shelter under an order of the High Court of AP given on September 26, 2014,” he said. The Minister also highlighted the fact that Ministry of Defence in September 2018 had reviewed the matter and directed that no public road in the Cantonment area should be closed by the LMA without following the due process. “With regard to the High Court order, the State government has requested the Defence Ministry to hand over 42.202 acres of land for the purpose duly waiving the cost of land for transfer, the licence fee for elevated portion and also a waiver of property compensations. The same was discussed in the last video conference held on April 20, 2021, convened by the Secretary, MoD and was agreed upon by the government of India. We are awaiting instructions on this,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-writes-to-defence-minister-on-aoc-roads/article35355405.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power generation resumes||Continuing heavy rains in the catchment areas of Krishna and Godavari rivers and their tributaries have kept the flood into most of the reservoir in the two basins steady on Thursday too. The inflows have helped the authorities resume power generation at Jurala and Lower Jurala hydel stations after a gap of two weeks. According to the engineers at Jurala, power generation in one of the units of 6×39 MW power house at the project site was commenced around 9.30 am on Thursday as the inflows crossed 10,000 cusecs mark and another unit was switched on after a gap of two hours. Later, one more unit was switched on around 2.30 pm allowing the Genco authorities to resume generation at the 6×40 MW power house the Lower Jurala Hydro-electric Station. Steady inflows As the Almatti and Narayanpur projects in Karnataka were getting steady inflows of 45,000 cusecs and 50,000 cusecs, respectively, as of Thursday evening the authorities there were discharging 45,000 cusecs and 57,000 cusecs of flood downstream towards Jurala. Inflows into Tungabhadra project, also located in Karnataka, have increased to 10,000 cusecs and are forecast to go up further with heavy rains in the catchment areas. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has indicated continuation of flood into Almatti and Tungabhadra reservoirs with Mahabaleshwar (5.7 cm) and Agumbe (15.8 cm) recording heavy to very heavy rain during the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on Thursday. The agency has forecast rising trend in inflows into Almatti based on the flood at Hippargi Barrage in the upstream. In the Godavari Basin, Sriramsagar was getting over 1.38 lakh cusecs of flood with its storage crossing 65 tmc ft against capacity of 90.3 tmc ft as of Thursday evening. At Medigadda Barrage, over 1.64 lakh cusecs of flood was being discharged against the inflows of about 1.27 lakh cusecs with forecast of rise in the flood. Singur and Nizamsagar reservoirs were getting over 2,000 cusecs each and the Lower Manair Dam was getting nearly 11,000 cusecs. Inflows into Kaddam have come down (5,100 cusecs) and the engineers there have stopped flood discharge to build up level in the reservoir. Yellampally Barrage was getting nearly 33,000 cusecs flood from the local catchment areas. Sundilla Barrage was discharge flood getting from Yellampally as it is but the gates at Annaram Barrage were closed in the evening to build up storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-generation-resumes/article35355415.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khammam records highest cases for 4th consecutive day||Khammam continues to register the highest number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana as 80 people from the district tested positive on Thursday, followed by 71 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Out of the 1,10,355 samples tested on Thursday, 710 were detected with the infectious disease, and the results of 1,357 were awaited. Four more COVID-19 patients died. Khammam has been recording the highest number of cases than the remaining 32 districts for the last four days. While 82 people in the district tested positive on Monday, it was 84 on Tuesday, 96 on Wednesday, and 80 on Thursday. The new 710 cases include 52 from Nalgonda, 51 from Warangal Urban, 47 from Mancherial, and 46 from Pedapalli. No case was recorded in Narayanpet and Nirmal. From March 2, 2020, to July 15 of this year, a little over 2.02 crore samples were tested and 6,34,605 people were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 10,101 were active cases, 6,20,757 have recovered, and 3,747 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-records-highest-cases-for-4th-consecutive-day/article35355389.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plastic surgery not limited to cosmetic procedures||The popular image that comes to mind when we hear the word ‘plastic surgery’ is cosmetic technique to enhance looks. But, plastic surgeons from government hospitals said that this is only a minor aspect of their work. The main work includes reconstruction of defects or deformities caused at birth, or by burns, cancer, and trauma. On World Plastic Surgery Day celebrated on Thursday, these surgeons held awareness programmes at Osmania General Hospital, Afzalgunj, and ESIC Medical College, Sanathnagar. Post-COVID patients who suffered from deformities caused by Mucormycosis would be operated, the doctors said on Thursday. Head of the Plastic Surgery department at ESIC Medical College Dr. B. Mani Kumari said that spectrum of their work includes sub divisions of plastic surgery such as maxillofacial injuries, industrial accidents, road accidents, defects after cancer resections, major burns, birth defects like cleft lips, and general problems like pressure sores, ear and nose defects. Majority of the patients who suffer from burns or road accidents are admitted at Osmania General Hospital. Head of the Plastic Surgery department here Dr. P. Lakshmi said that they attend to patients who suffer from deep burns, electrical burns, and even the superficial burns. “While superficial burns can heal if treated with skin substitutes such as collagen, vaseline dressing, silver cream, deep burns requires surgical debridement, skin grafting from same person or mix of skin from skin banks,” said Dr. Lakshmi. She added that other procedures including congenital anomalies such as cleft lip, microvascular surgeries, cosmetic procedures, are performed free of cost. There have been cases where patients were treated by OGH plastic surgeons for one to two months. Dean of ESIC Medical College Dr. M Srinivas, and superintendent of OGH Dr. B. Nagender took part in the programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plastic-surgery-not-limited-to-cosmetic-procedures/article35355392.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Errakunta lake oozes on all sides||Errakunta lake of Nacharam oozes on all its sides like a gigantic spider. Water from the lake gushes forth onto the road, which, strangely enough, is at level with the maximum water spread area. To the first time visitor, it would look as if the lake has breached its bund. However, one would be surprised to know there is no bund for the lake for quite some time. There is no trace of bund even in the HMDA maps from 2014. “Flooding is a perennial problem, surfacing every monsoon. To address it, we have got this drain constructed recently,” says Saizen Shekhar, a local leader and husband of corporator Shanti Saizen Shekhar. The drain, poorly constructed without any scientific basis, could not stop the lake from occupying the road from all sides, which is blamed on GHMC not clearing silt and weed. Water dangerously poured over a wall preceding the drain, the purpose of which nobody could guess and which only served as an obstruction. Another age old drain with six pipelines emptied the lake from where the weir lay, but clearly the volume of water far surpassed the drain’s carrying capacity as vouched by the overflowing streets. “The lake was fine during our childhood. I remember it flooding only once, perhaps in the late 90s. The existing drain was enough to clear off the surplus water. There was a bund too. Due to the lake, there was abundant ground water for us,” recalls Mohd. Tasleem, an erstwhile resident of the area. His family had to shift to Raghavendra Nagar due to constant flooding for the last four to five years, which he attributes to encroachments. Indeed, fresh encroachments since the lake was notified in 2014 could be seen from a side. Truckloads of earth and debris were dumped into the lake, starting from the compound wall of a graveyard, which jutted into the lake’s buffer zone as demarcated in the HMDA maps. Not compound wall alone, but residential buildings, road and religious structures came up in what was demarcated as the buffer zone. “The lake’s natural weir is on the side of the old drain, where encroachment is rampant. Authorities should develop the old drain rather than experimenting,” Mr. Tasleem says. Despite several complaints, Irrigation officials have not taken any action against the encroachment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/errakunta-lake-oozes-on-all-sides/article35355400.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB writes to TS, AP to stop power generation||Ahead of the Ministry of Jal Shakti’s plans to notify the purview of Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards (KRMB & GRMB), KRMB authorities have written to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh once again to stop power generation and work on Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) right canal, respectively. In a letter addressed to Director (Hydel) of TS-Genco on Thursday, Member of KRMB L.B. Muanthang requested stoppage of water drawal through power generation at Srisailam Left Bank Hydro-electric Station, Nagarjunasagar power house and Pulichintala power house at the respective dam sites. It is the second letter to Telangana by the river board in a month’s time. The river board member brought to the notice of TS-Genco Director that a letter was addressed earlier too to draw water at Srisailam for power generation only in case of extreme grid exigency. He also mentioned three letter written by AP requesting the board to issued directions to Telangana to stop power generation at the three projects during the last week of June. Mr. Muanthang requested TS-Genco to stop further release of water immediately through Srisailam Left Bank power house, at Nagarajunasagar and Pulichintala as it was agreed in the past that the quantum of water drawn for power generation was incidental to irrigation and drinking water need. In such a backdrop, “it is imperative to follow the water release orders issued by the river board”, he noted. In a letter addressed Engineer-in-Chief of AP, another Member of the river board Harikesh Meena asked AP to stop works on RDS right canal as the project was not appraised by the board and approved by other statutory agencies. Even the detailed project report was not submitted, he pointed out. In a letter to Telangana, he also sought Telangana reply on AP’s complaint on utilisation of water for minor irrigation sources. Andhra Pradesh had complained to the board that Telangana was availing 175.5 tmc ft water for MI sources against the allocation of 89.1 tmc ft. Meanwhile, a delegation of water users’ association of Krishna Delta in Andhra Pradesh met Chairman of KRMB M.P. Singh here on Thursday and complained about the “wastage of water” (discharge towards the sea) from Prakasam Barrage due to power generation being done by Telangana without Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala getting filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krmb-writes-to-ts-ap-to-stop-power-generation/article35355425.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad ahead in home sales: Knight Frank report||Hyderabad showed the most growth, among eight major residential markets in the country, in terms of new home sales and launches during January-June 2021. While the home sales increased 150%, compared to the same period last year, to 11,974 units, new launches at 16,712 units were 278% higher, according to the latest report of property consultancy Knight Frank India. The increase – from the 4,782 units sold and 4,422 units new launched in H1 2020 -- can be attributed partly to a pronounced base effect, the report ‘India Real Estate January – June 2021’ said. It is also due to the IT industry, a major employer in the city, not impacted by the pandemic. “With no threat of income disruption, affordable prices and low home loan rates, the city posted its highest ever home sales in a half-yearly period during H1 2021,” the report launched on Thursday by the consultancy said. Besides Hyderabad, the report covered the markets of National Capital Region (NCR), Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Kolkata. However, launches and sales declined sequentially in Q2 2021 on account of the COVID-induced lockdowns. Unsold inventory levels grew to 11,918 units in H1 2021 “largely contributed by new launches,” the report said. Branch Director – Hyderabad of Knight Frank India Samson Arthur said Hyderabad continues to be a promising residential destination for end users and investors alike on the back of the governments thrust on improving the infrastructure. According to the report, developers responded to the growing residential demand in Hyderabad. In terms of micro markets, West Hyderabad continued to account for the largest share in new launches. Around 63% of the total sales were concentrated in the western region of the city. One of the trends the report sought to highlight were a substantial pick up in demand for larger homes over the past few months on account of the pandemic-induced work from home trend. Consequently, share of homes priced Rs. 1-2 crore in the total launched units grew from 18% or 1,544 units in H2 2020 to 27% or 4,444 units in H1 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-ahead-in-home-sales-knight-frank-report/article35355406.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uncertainty over number of vacancies continues||Uncertainty continues over the exact number of vacancies in government departments. After an elaborate exercise that spanned almost a week, different departments submitted a list of vacancies relating to direct recruitment to the Cabinet which met here for two days on Tuesday and Wednesday. According to the list circulated in the form of an annexure, there are 56,979 direct recruitment vacancies including 44,022 in government departments and another 12,957 in the grant-in-aid and other institutions. The Home department stands first in the number of direct recruitment vacancies with 21,507 posts vacant followed by the Health department with 8,942 vacant posts. Higher Education (2,605), Revenue (1,407), Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (1,391), Irrigation (1,222) and Environment, Forests and Science and Technology (1,061) are the other departments with more than 1,000 vacancies in the direct recruitment category. Backward Classes Welfare department tops the list in terms of grant-in-aid and other institutions with 3,407 vacant posts followed by SC Development department with 1,796 vacancies. Minorities Welfare department (1,393), Secondary Education (1,357), Higher Education (1,220), Tribal Welfare (1,133) and Health (1,106) are among the departments with a high number of vacancies in grant-in-aid and other institutions, according to the list. PRC exercise The number of vacancies in different departments in the Pay Revision Commission which conducted an elaborate exercise with the departments for finalising the cadre strength stands at 1.91 lakh. A majority of the staff strength as well as vacancies, according to the PRC report, are in five departments. The report said the Home department had 37,182 vacancies, Health (30,750), School Education (23,798), Panchayat Raj (12,628) and Revenue (7,961). These five departments accounted for 69.8% cent of the sanctioned strength and constituted 76.88% of the working strength. Finance department officials however maintained that the vacant position had been exaggerated heavily and this has resulted in giving scope for misconceptions about the situation. The figures that were being circulated were not appropriate and even the PRC could not arrive at a factual estimate of the vacancies. “They (PRC) have not included a number of institutions like residential schools in finalising the working strength,” a senior Finance department official said when contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uncertainty-over-vacancies/article35355426.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong. defends oil bonds, saying it checked inflation||Congress MP Deepender Singh Hooda has ridiculed the Modi government’s efforts to blame the Congress on oil bonds saying the bonds’ interest was just Rs. 7,000 crore annually while the government was earning Rs. 4.53 lakh crore on fuel taxes. He said the oil bonds issued by the UPA government protected the Indians from the huge international fuel prices thus keeping the inflation in control but the BJP government was trying to divert their ‘fleecing’ of people raising oil bonds issue, he said at a press conference here on Thursday. Mr. Hooda was here as part of the Congress nationwide campaign to expose the government on the increasing prices of oil, cooking gas and food items. He addressed the media along with Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy, TPCC Campaign Committee chairman, Madhu Yaskhi, TPCC working presidents Mohd. Azharuddin, J, Geeta Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav and Mahesh Kumar Goud, and senior leaders Damodar Rajnarsimha and Shabbir Ali. The Rajya Sabha member said the Modi government increased the fuel prices a record 66 times earning Rs. 25 lakh crore but did not spare the common man when their incomes had fallen due to the pandemic. In 2014 when the UPA gave up power, the excise duty on petrol was Rs. 9.48 per litre and it had increased to Rs. 41.90 now, he said adding that the excise duty on diesel was Rs. 3.56 per litre and it was Rs. 31.80 now. Despite the crude oil prices in the international market falling by over 50% the Modi government went on increasing the fuel prices, he claimed. Ridiculing the Make in India slogan of the government, he said the crude oil production in India was 23.04% of the domestic needs while it had reduced to 15.08%. This was directly related to the ditching of the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) like the ONGC where the capital was reduced thus hitting its exploration activities. Mr. Hooda said the unemployment rate was 8.1% and it was the highest in the last 70 years according to the Centre of Indian Monitoring Economy report and even the NSSO reports also reflected the same. He also claimed the economic growth in the country had hit a downward trend much before the pandemic. Mr. Hooda said the Union government’s response to the pandemic was poor. While other countries were putting money in people’s hands the Modi government was snatching through high fuel prices and loss of jobs. The Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced by the Prime Minister remained on paper and the beneficiaries were nowhere seen. However, fleecing of people continued with unprecedented collections from people who were already battered with job losses and poor economic growth. ‘Criticism ridiculous’ Mr. Hooda said Congress had been raising these issues both inside and outside Parliament. But media had been deliberately playing out the government’s version more than the opposition’s voice. Mr. Revanth Reddy said the KCR government was collecting Rs. 32 as tax per litre of petrol out of the Rs. 105. Though the actual cost of petrol was Rs. 40 the Centre was collecting Rs. 32 and KCR government was earning Rs. 32 per litre. Mr. Reddy said a Chalo Raj Bhavan call was given against the rising prices on July 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-defends-oil-bonds-saying-it-checked-inflation/article35355418.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SICMA to provide 100 oxygen concentrators||South Indian Cement Manufacturers’ Association (SICMA) will be providing 100 oxygen concentrators of 10 litres per minute capacity to Telangana government. A body of major cement manufacturers’ in south India, it said that the concentrators have been procured through contributions received from member companies. SICMA CEO Gopinath, Bharti Cements Director Marketing M. Ravinder Reddy and Sagar Cements MD S. Anand Reddy met Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and conveyed to him that the devices would soon be delivered to beneficiaries identified by government. Mr. Ranjan appreciated the gesture in supporting the State’s COVID relief efforts, the Association said in a release on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sicma-to-provide-100-oxygen-concentrators/article35355395.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State receives good rainfall, with 17 districts reporting ‘large excess’||The State continued to receive heavy rains during the current monsoon with 17 districts reporting rainfall in “large excess”. Thirteen districts received excess rainfall and three – Mancherial, Nagarkurnool and Peddapalli — reported normal rainfall so far during the present season. Hyderabad, its surrounding districts, Nizamabad, Rajanna Sircilla, Yadadri Bhongir, Karimnagar, Kamareddy, Mahabubabad, Jogulamba Gadwal and Nalgonda are among the districts which reported large excess rainfall during the current season. Siddipet (128% deviation) and Yadadri-Bhongir (102%) reported rainfall in excess of 100% while Medchal-Malkajgiri (93%) and Warangal Urban (92%) too received heavy rainfall during the past fortnight. According to Telangana State Development Planning Society, southwest monsoon arrived in the State on June 5 a week ahead of the schedule. The monsoon covered the entire State by June 10 with rainfall being reported from most parts of the State. The State received average rainfall of 26.7 mm against the normal 9.9 mm in the last 24 hours with highest rainfall of 217.6 mm recorded in Chegunta of Medak district. The cumulative rainfall from June 1 till date has been 368.7 mm against the normal rain of 236.3 mm with a deviation of 56%, the TSDPS data said. According to the forecast by the India Meteorological Department, seasonal rainfall was most likely to be normal in the northern parts of the State and it could be excess in the central and southern parts. The normal annual rainfall of the State was about 905.3 mm and about 80% of it (720.5 mm) would be received from the southwest monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-receives-good-rainfall-with-17-districts-reporting-large-excess/article35355416.ece
16 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||An app to help students aspiring to go abroad||In a big boost to students aspiring for overseas education, a unique Uni2Go Platform and mobile app, which will provide comprehensive information at the under-graduate and post-graduate levels and simplify the selection process, were launched at the THub on Wednesday. The app was launched online by Commissioner for Collegiate Education Naveen Mittal in the presence of former Indian cricketer VVS Laxman and former DGP Anurag Sharma. Mr. Laxman had an interactive session with students present at the event. The Uni2Go (University2Go.in) platform and app are a new start-up by a father-daughter duo of Nishidhar Reddy Borra and Rithika Reddy. It simplifies the study abroad search process and aims at helping students with admissions, scholarships and visas to popular study destinations. “The AI powered platform is one-of-its-kind. Students get to know the eligibility, fee details, scholarship information, compare courses and directly apply,” said Rithika, who is still a student. Moreover, its free and experts provide students with support reviewing their applications as well. Uni2Go has also been selected to undertake the Lab 32 programme at THub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-app-to-help-students-aspiring-to-go-abroad/article35355387.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Road accident fatalities go up in capital city||A larger number of people lost their lives in road accidents from January to June this year as compared to the corresponding period last year. The percentage increase in the deaths is 27.61% The Hyderabad Traffic Police released the data on Thursday which stated that as many as 105 persons were killed in 2020. The number rose to 134 this year over the same period. Of the 134 victims, 39 are pedestrians. Driving on the wrong side of the road killed as many as eight persons in the current year. This is more than those who were killed on account of drunken driving – six. However, the largest number of deaths caused was due to over-speeding. Police said that as many as 95 persons were killed due to high speed driving. Negligent driving Meanwhile, 15 deaths occurred on account of negligent driving. In three other cases, the drivers or riders were less than 18-years-old. Other violations such as driving without a license, triple riding, driving while using mobile phones, minors riding or driving vehicles, signal jumping and riding two wheelers without wearing helmets increased since last year substantially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-accident-fatalities-go-up/article35355412.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man from Ivory Coast held for cheating||A man from Ivory Coast who allegedly cheated a woman of Rs. 41 lakh after he offered to buy her formula of herbal products has been apprehended, police said on Thursday. The Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police identified the accused as Messi Danho Frank, 34, a native of Bingerville in Ivory Coast. The accused landed in India in 2018 on a business visa. Police said that June 29 they received a complaint from a woman, a resident of Mehdipatnam, who stated that one James Mario from the United Kingdom had offered her Rs. 5 crore for herbal medicine and their formula which he claimed he would sell. The accused allegedly told the victim that he had wired Rs. 5 crore to her bank account. A week later, unidentified persons, claiming to be Reserve Bank of India officials, contacted her and said that she has to pay taxes on the Rs. 5 crore, after which the unsuspecting victim was made to transfer Rs. 26 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-from-ivory-coast-held-for-cheating/article35355589.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New ration cards||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered distribution of new ration cards in the State from July 26 to 31. The ration cards were to be distributed to 3.60 lakh or so eligible applicants in the presence of Ministers and MLAs in their respective constituencies. Mr. Rao gave the instructions in this regard to Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar, a release of CMO said. The new ration card holders will get their quota of rice from August itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-ration-cards/article35355417.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC parcel service to Vizag launched||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Thursday announced that its Parcel Cargo and Courier Service (PCCS) will now be available from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport to Visakhapatnam. The PCCS began operations last year in an attempt to increase the revenue of the TSRTC. The Parcel Cargo and Courier Service now caters to those who are changing homes with packing and moving services being made available. Industrial equipment too can be moved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-parcel-service-to-vizag-launched/article35355428.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City doctor’s technique finds place in global journal||A sequence of ten operative steps performed from initiation of dissection to completion of surgery titled ‘Goel’s technique of Laparoscopic Hysterectomy for Endometrium Carcinoma’ was published in the recent edition of International Surgery Journal. The technique was conceived by surgical oncologist and laparoscopic surgeon practising at CARE Hospitals, Banjara Hills, Dr. Vipin Goel. Laparoscopic hysterectomy is performed in endometrial carcinoma, a type of cancer in uterus. “The sequence of the steps and the distinct way it is carried out without the use of vaginal manipulators or Myoma screws make this technique unique,” he said. The use of various vaginal manipulators for traction can lead to cancer cells entering systemic circulation and cause recurrence of cancer. Also, it could lead to bleeding, he added. “This technique has been standardised to decrease the complication rate to a minimum. The main quality is the emphasis given on the identification of the anatomical parts. No structures are amputated till proper identification. Every surgeon performs the operation according to the surgeon’s comfort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-doctors-technique-finds-place-in-global-journal/article35355390.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nurses protest at Dharna Chowk||Nurses recruited to government hospitals on outsourcing basis when the pandemic had hit last year, protested at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park on Thursday, demanding regular service or continuation of contract for one more year. The 1,640 nurses had started their protest 10 days ago alleging that some of them were asked not to attend duties any more. The nurses were recruited to various tertiary care hospitals on outsourcing basis for a period of one year (from April 1, 2020, to March 30 this year. They held placards stating that their protest will continue till they get their jobs back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nurses-protest-at-dharna-chowk/article35355393.ece
16 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CREDAI show in Hyderabad from Aug. 13||The annual CREDAI Property Show in Hyderabad will take place between August 13 and 15 at Hitex. This was announced by the office bearers of the organisation at a presser. Earlier, the show scheduled for April 16-18 was postponed following the outbreak of COVID pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. ‘Market picked up’ “The market has picked up and there is pent up demand for new properties. 40% of launch of new properties are in Hyderabad,” said P. Ramakrishna Rao of CREDAI. “We have to learn to live with the new normal. We have online registrations to reduce human interactions at the entrance and we will follow all SOPs to ensure that the visitors and exhibitors are safe,” said Rajashekar Reddy of CREDAI. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) is an umbrella body of private real estate developers. “We have reduced the number of stalls to 100 as against 150 so that there is more space and social distancing can be maintained,” said Mr. Reddy who linked Telangana’s real estate growth to higher job generation and business friendly policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credai-property-show-at-hitex-from-aug-13/article35355396.ece
16 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ABVP opposes closure of Kamala Nehru Polytechnic||Activists of ABVP held a rally at the Kamala Nehru Polytechnic College in Exhibition Grounds demanding that the college should admit students for the 2021-22 academic year immediately and stop the plans to close down the college. Hundreds of students participated in the rally, raising slogans that the historic college established to promote education among women and skill them should not be closed down. ABVP city convenor Kamal Suresh and ABVP State technical cell convenor Thota Srinivas led the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/abvp-opposes-closure-of-kamala-nehru-polytechnic/article35355410.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank fraud accused arrested||Two persons accused of submitting fake bank invoices, and inflating costs of machinery to avail funds sanctioned under the Prime Ministers Employment Generation Programme (PMGEP) were apprehended, police said on Thursday. The Central Crime Station police identified the accused as Mudavath Srinivas (37), and Palathya Ravi (25). Both are residents of Khaja Bagh in Saidabad. The accused and several others availed loans from the Indian Overseas Bank’s Pathergatti branch, approximately Rs. 1.4 crore, under the PMGEP scheme to start a unit which manufactures bricks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-fraud-accused-arrested/article35355413.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Promotions continue in Excise Dept.||The promotions in the Telangana Prohibition and Excise Department continued on Thursday as well. A day after 50 officials got to know that they have been promoted, 142 more people received the promotions. Minister V Srinivas Goud said on Thursday that 28 people were promoted to Assistant Excise Superintendent posts, three as chemical examiner, five as staff officers, 52 as Prohibition and Excise inspectors, 27 as officer superintendents, 47 as senior assistants. Mr Srinivas said that postings to the officers and staff will be issued shortly and vacancies in the department will be filled up through TSPSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/promotions-continue-in-excise-dept/article35355590.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NFC celebrates first CEO’s 97th birth anniversary||Nuclear Fuel Complex (NFC) celebrated the 97th birth anniversary of the project director and first chief executive and project director, N. Kondal Rao (1975-1984) on Thursday. He was responsible for production of the first PHWR fuel bundle which was used in the first half-charge of Rajasthan Atomic Power Station-I at Rawatbhatta. The bust of Dr. Rao was garlanded by chairman & chief executive, NFC, Dinesh Srivastava, during the celebrations in which the first CEO son N. Prabhakar also participated. The strong base set up by the first CEO in early 1970s has resulted in development of new technologies and production processes for enhanced production and quality with safety. He also appreciated the contributions of all the staff members of NFC for their support in meeting all the targets set-up by NFC for the last two years in spite of COVID-19 pandemic. The NFC has taken all precautions during the pandemic period, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nfc-celebrates-first-ceos-97th-birth-anniversary/article35355408.ece
16 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two arrested for siphoning off funds of coop bank||The Hyderabad Cyber Crime police apprehended two persons for allegedly carrying out fraudulent transactions at the Telangana State Co-operative Apex Bank and siphoning off over Rs. 1.96 crore. The accused are Yaseen Basha (23) and Mohd Rafi (22), both residents of Chandanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-arrested-for-siphoning-off-funds-of-coop-bank/article35355404.ece
16 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||British diplomat plants two saplings||Andrew Fleming, British Deputy High Commissioner in Hyderabad, planted two saplings as a part of Green India Challenge, initiated by Rajya Sabha MP Joginpally Santosh Kumar. He planted saplings in response to the challenge given by former US Consul-General in Hyderabad, Katherine Hadda, and Municipal Administration Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/british-diplomat-plants-two-saplings/article35355588.ece
16 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Tension at Collectorate||A tense situation prevailed at the Collectorate here on Thursday when demonstrators tried to gatecrash into the hub of the district administration during a protest organised by the CPI district council demanding scrapping of the GO 13 pertaining to sale of vacant government lands. Police dispersed the protesters when they tried to barge into the Collectorate building during the demonstration. Addressing a demonstration held at the Dharna Chowk, CPI district leaders demanded that the State government immediately withdraw the GO 13 to protect vacant government lands across the State for future requirements. Condemning the State government’s alleged move to e-auction vacant government lands in Hyderabad and its surrounding areas, they alleged that it would only benefit big industrialists and realtors. CPI State executive member B Hemantha Rao and district secretary P Prasad took part in the dharna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-collectorate/article35355422.ece
16 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TPCC to fight for jobless youth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A Revanth Reddy has said the TPCC will soon chart out a future course of action to fight for the cause of unemployed youth in the State. Mr Reddy on Thursday had a telephonic conversation with S Venkataramaiah, father of S Nageshwara Rao, an educated unemployed youth of Gangadevipadu in Penuballi mandal, who allegedly ended his life by consuming pesticide depressed over “lack” of job opportunities on Wednesday. He consoled the father of the deceased youth and assured him that the TPCC will soon take up a programme to highlight the unemployment issue and fight for the cause of unemployed youth in the State. “I am pained by the loss of your well-educated son and his suicide is a pointer to the plight of unemployed youth under the Telangana Rashtra Samithi dispensation in Telangana,” Mr Reddy said while speaking to the grief-stricken father of the deceased youth over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-to-fight-for-jobless-youth/article35355424.ece
16 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||PDSU faluts govt.||A day after unemployed youth S Nageswara Rao of Gangadevipadu village in Penuballi mandal allegedly committed suicide due to “unemployment”, the PDSU and PYL district committees on Thursday said the State government’s “apathy” in addressing the issue of unemployment led to the suicide. A delegation visited the house of the deceased youth. (Roshini, suicide prevention helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pdsu-faults-govt/article35355423.ece
16 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Inflows to Musi Project on the increase||Volume of inflows to Musi Project rose by at least six times on Thursday. The project has its eight of the 12 crest gates lifted to a height of eight feet to discharge close to 40, 000 cusecs at 6 p.m., reminding the initial days of 2020 floods in Hyderabad, in the northward. While the day started with an outflow of 4597 cusecs and comfortably logging about 2000 cusecs as inflows, the accumulation gradually increased to 4500 cusecs by 1 p.m. But in the next two hours the inflows doubled (10, 365 cusecs). Estimating the inflow to be reaching maximum within a short time, officials decided to raise the gate level initially from one foot to one-and-a-half feet, and by 4 p.m. the eight gates were lifted to a height of eight feet. No time in the day the inflows exceeded the discharge (maximum being 29,526 cusecs), but officials predict incessant rain and flood situation in Hyderabad on Wednesday and Thursday would cause sudden and huge inflows at the Project around evening. Officials and ground staff are alert in all the shifts, unlike last year, to avoid any situation arising out of underestimating the flood. In October 2020, as much as 1.73 lakh cusecs was the discharge to regulate the inflows at a record 1.83 lakh cusecs. It was only at around 4 a.m. on October 15, officials in an emergency measure breached the Project’s bund near Ratnapuram village to reduce the holding capacity. The year had new records for the project – for storage exceeding full reservoir level of 645 feet and discharging 16 tmcft water on single day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inflows-to-musi-project-on-the-increase/article35355414.ece
16 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Applications invited||Applications are invited for appointment of agents by Postal department on the basis of commission. According to H. Sharath Kumar, Superintendent, Head Post Office, those who passed 10th class and aged between 18 and 50 are eligible for submitting application. They have to deposit Rs. 5,000 with the department. Interested can directly attend interview on July 20 at old bus stand or divisional office at Masjid at 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited/article35355421.ece
16 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Do not vacate us forcibly, say Mallannasagar oustees||Suspecting foul play by officials, oustees of Vemulaghat and Etigaddakishtapur in Toguta mandal urged the officials not to get them vacated till the construction of houses was completed at Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony at Mutrajpally and houses were handed over to them. Oustes from these villages arrived at Special Deputy Collector’s (Land Acquisition) office in Siddiept and submitted a memorandum. They alleged that they were being threatened by some people for forcible vacation the way it took place at Kothcaguttapally of Annapurna reservoir and Mamidyala and Bahilampur of Kondapochammasagar. “Officials have published declaration without taking measurements of our houses, back yard and front yard space and cattle sheds. Now you cannot take up survey work without the permission of the High Court. Removing basic facilities in villages and increasing the height of the Mallannasagar bund is also against the directions issued by the High Court,” oustees said in their memorandum. The project oustees stated that power and water supply to villages was being disrupted. “We were promised a compensation of Rs. 11.5 lakh per acre for our lands in 2019. But we were paid only Rs. 11 lakh,” the outees said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-vacate-us-forcibly-say-mallannasagar-oustees/article35355592.ece
16 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Yatra from Gajwel to Pragathi Bhavan||In a novel way of expressing gratitude towards Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao for realising Kaleshwaram irrigation scheme and bringing Godavari water to drought-hit areas, some youth from R&R Colony of Mutrjpally started Padayatra from Gajwel to Pragathi Bhavan. During the yatra, they sang the song – Chandrasekhara Chandrasekhara Pahmimam and Chandrasekhara Chandrasekhara Rakashamam (Oh Lord Chandrasekhara please bless me and protect me). Vijay Kumar, one of the participants, and another, Kanaka Sena, were arrested and released as they had no permission for Padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yatra-from-gajwel-to-pragathi-bhavan/article35355420.ece
16 July 2021||New delhi,||Aerial objects banned in city till August 16||Delhi Police Commissioner Balaji Srivastava on Thursday issued orders prohibiting the flying of aerial objects like drones, paragliders, and hot air balloons, ahead of Independence Day celebrations. The order shall remain in force in the Capital for a period of 32 days from Friday till August 16 for security reasons, officials said. According to police, it has been reported that certain anti-social elements or terrorists inimical to India may pose a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations by using “sub-conventional aerial platforms”. Therefore, the police chief has prohibited the flying of such aerial platforms over Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aerial-objects-banned-in-city-till-august-16/article35355230.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Israeli embassy blast: Delhi court grants bail to four arrested from Ladakh||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to four persons, arrested from Ladakh for their alleged involvement in the low-intensity IED blast that took place near the Israel Embassy on January 29, court sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/israeli-embassy-blast-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-four-arrested-from-ladakh/article35355227.ece
16 July 2021||Kabul,||Taliban offer truce for prisoner release||The Taliban have offered a three-month ceasefire in exchange for the release of 7,000 insurgent prisoners, an Afghan government negotiator said on Thursday, as Pakistan confirmed the militant group had control of a key border crossing. “It is a big demand,” said Nader Nadery, a key member of the government team involved in peace talks with the Taliban, adding the insurgents also demanded the removal of their leaders’ names from a United Nations blacklist. It was not clear how the government would react to the ceasefire offer, or how new it was, and it comes as the United States accelerates the pace of a troop withdrawal due to be finished by August 31. A spokesman for the Taliban said he was only aware of the suggestion of a ceasefire over the forthcoming Eid al-Adha holiday. Mr. Nadery’s revelation came as Pakistan security forces used tear gas on Thursday to disperse hundreds of people who tried to force their way across the border from Chaman to Spin Boldak in Afghanistan. On Thursday, Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry confirmed the border crossing was in the hands of the Taliban. “They have taken control of Spin Boldak border crossing,” said Ministry spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri, a day after the Taliban seized the town. The border was closed on Wednesday by Pakistan officials after the Taliban seized Spin Boldak and raised insurgent flags above the town. “An unruly mob of about 400 people tried to cross the gate forcefully. They threw stones, which forced us to use tear gas,” said a security official on the Pakistan side. He said around 1,500 people had gathered at the border on Wednesday waiting to cross. Jumadad Khan, a senior government official in Chaman, said the situation was now “under control”. An Afghan Taliban source told AFP that hundreds of people had also gathered on the Afghan side, hoping to travel in the other direction. “A formal meeting to open the border is scheduled for today, and hopefully, it will open in a day or two,” he said. Later on Thursday, a Pakistani official said the border would open on Friday. The crossing provides direct access to the Balochistan province in Pakistan, where the Taliban’s top leadership has been based for decades, along with an unknown number of reserve fighters who regularly enter Afghanistan to help bolster their ranks.  Spin Boldak is the latest in a string of border crossings and dry ports seized by the insurgents in recent weeks as they look to choke off revenues much needed by Kabul while also filling their own coffers.  Muska Dastageer, a lecturer at the American University of Afghanistan, said the Taliban ceasefire offer was a likely attempt by them to consolidate the positions they have gained so swiftly in recent weeks. “A ceasefire now would effectively prohibit ANDSF [Afghan National Defense and Security Forces]  from retaking the crucial border points which Taliban have captured recently,” she said on Twitter, referring to Afghan forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-offer-truce-for-prisoner-release/article35354962.ece
16 July 2021||Beijing,||China to ban unvaccinated adults from schools, hospitals||Millions of Chinese people face bans from public spaces, including schools, hospitals and shopping malls, unless they get a COVID-19 vaccine, under new rules covering nearly two dozen cities and counties. COVID-19 first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019, but since then, the country has largely brought it under control, and Beijing is determined to keep it that way. The new rules, which follow the emergence of the highly contagious Delta variant across Asia, will be imposed on numerous second-tier cities in a possible marker of what is to come for the whole country. China has a national target of inoculating 64% of its 1.4 billion population by end of the year. In Chuxiong city in the southern province of Yunnan, all residents above the age of 18 need to get at least one dose of the vaccine by July 23, according to a government notice. Those who fail to meet the deadline “will not be allowed to enter public facilities including hospitals, nursing homes, kindergartens and schools, libraries, museums, and prisons or take public transport”. A month later, two shots will be required. Similar notices were issued in at least a dozen cities and counties across the country, including six in eastern Jiangxi province, one in Sichuan, one in Guangxi and three in Fujian province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-ban-unvaccinated-adults-from-schools-hospitals/article35354965.ece
16 July 2021||Washington,||U.S. Senate votes to ban items from China’s Xinjiang region||The U.S. Senate passed legislation that would ban products imported from China’s Xinjiang region, the latest move to pressure Beijing over what Washington says are major human rights abuses against the Muslim Uyghur community. The Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which cleared the Upper chamber by unanimous consent on Wednesday, is intended to bar the import of products made through forced labour, which is allegedly being used in the northwestern Chinese region. ‘No more’ “The message to Beijing and any international company that profits from forced labour in Xinjiang is clear: no more,” Republican Senator Marco Rubio said in a statement. “We will not turn a blind eye to the CCP’s [Chinese Communist Party’s] ongoing crimes against humanity, and we will not allow corporations a free pass to profit from those horrific abuses.” The measure now heads to the House of Representatives, which must pass it if it is to reach President Joe Biden for his signature. The U.S. has already taken action against China over Xinjiang, in addition to Secretary of State Antony Blinken meeting survivors of Xinjiang internment camps last week in Washington. The U.S. also banned imports of solar panel material from a Chinese company and placed restrictions on four others for alleged use of forced labour in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-senate-votes-to-ban-items-from-chinas-xinjiang-region/article35354971.ece
16 July 2021||Havana,||Cuba allows travellers to bring in food duty-free||Travellers arriving in Cuba can now bring in food, medicine and other essentials without paying customs, the government said Wednesday in a concession to angry and unprecedented street protests. Prime Minister Manuel Marrero said in a televised address there would be no limit placed on these goods coming in and the change will be in effect until the end of the year. Cubans took to the streets on Sunday over economic hardship marked by shortages of food, electricity and other essentials. One of the demands was for people arriving in Cuba to be able to bring in food, medicine and personal hygiene items without customs duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cuba-allows-travellers-to-bring-in-food-duty-free/article35354966.ece
16 July 2021||Washington,||‘General feared Trump’s Reichstag-style takeover’||The Pentagon’s top General feared late last year that then-president Donald Trump would abrogate the Constitution to retain power in a move resembling Adolf Hitler’s 1933 Reichstag takeover, according to a new book. Joint Chiefs Chairman Mark Milley saw Mr. Trump’s refusal to accept defeat to Joe Biden in the November election as a possible sign that he intended to retain power by any means, according to excerpts from the book by Washington Post reporters Carol Leonnig and Philip Rucker that were reported by the Post and CNN on Thursday. “This is a Reichstag moment ... The gospel of the Fuhrer,” Mr. Milley told Pentagon aides, the authors report. In 1933, Hitler took advantage of a suspicious fire at the Reichstag, the German Parliament, to suspend civil liberties and concentrate authority in his government, setting the stage for the Nazi consolidation of power. When Mr. Trump called for a march on Washington by supporters in November, Mr. Milley expressed worries that he was deploying “brownshirts in the streets”, the book says, referring to Hitler’s violent followers. And as Mr. Trump persisted in claiming, with no evidence, that there was poll fraud and planned another rally on January 6, when his followers attacked the Congress, Mr. Milley schemed with other top officials to resign, one by one, to signal that they would not go along with any coup by the outgoing president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/general-feared-trumps-reichstag-style-takeover/article35354970.ece
16 July 2021||Johannesburg,||S. Africa calls up troops to crush looting||South Africa mustered its army reserves on Thursday in a bid to quell looting that has stoked fears of shortages and dealt a crippling blow to its already battered economy. “All reserve members are to report for duty at first light tomorrow morning 15 July 2021 at their respective units,” Army Chief Lieutenant-General Lawrence Mbatha said in orders issued overnight as the unrest entered its sixth day. Soldiers should “report ready with their necessary equipment”, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. On Wednesday, the government said it would call out around 25,000 troops to tackle the emergency — 10 times the number that it initially deployed. Police Minister Bheki Cele hailed the boost from the military, saying he was confident it would “turn around the volatile situation in parts of KwaZulu-Natal” province, the epicentre of the unrest.  The unrest began a day after former president Jacob Zuma — who commands support from some of the country's poor — began a 15-month jail term on July 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-africa-calls-up-troops-to-crush-looting/article35354969.ece
16 July 2021||Brasília,||Brazil's Bolsonaro in hospital, may need surgery: govt||Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro is suffering from an “intestinal obstruction”, the government said on Wednesday, after the far-right leader was admitted to hospital due to persistent hiccups. He had been complaining publicly since last week about suffering from the hiccups following a July 3 surgery on a dental implant.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazils-bolsonaro-in-hospital-may-need-surgery-govt/article35354963.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the Indian stock market in a bubble?||Since the nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister in March last year, the Indian economy has faced its worst contraction in history. Yet, the country’s stock indices, the Sensex and the Nifty, have almost doubled in price from the low that they hit in April 2020. Many analysts and even the Reserve Bank of India now believe that stocks are in a bubble. In this conversation moderated by Prashanth Perumal J., Anand Srinivasan and Alok Jain discuss the current state of Indian markets. Edited excerpts: Can you shed light on the divergence between the stock market and the real economy? Anand Srinivasan:The markets are going up on liquidity. Basically, all central banks are printing money and this money has to go somewhere. So, what we are having is asset price inflation. The prices of gold, crypto assets, stocks, and even collectibles have increased dramatically. While we may look at the Indian market in isolation, we have to understand that this is not the only market that is going up. All equity markets are going up. When you see year-to-date comparisons, India is not in the top five countries whose exchanges have done well. There is a lot of money chasing very few stocks which are of high quality. Nearly 45% of the index is controlled by five stocks. The Nifty is trading at around 29 times its earnings and its price-to-book ratio is at 4:23. So, the markets are indeed highly overvalued. Also, Nifty earnings per share is at Rs. 559, and Rs. 100 of this can be attributed to tax sops to corporations. These have driven prices of these companies up further. But the reality of the rest of India is different. India and the rest of the world are going through a K-shaped recovery where the rich are accumulating a larger share of resources from the rest. Do current valuations worry you or even matter to you? Alok Jain:We don’t look at valuations because our focus is on price trends. We follow the principle of “ Bhav Bhagwan Che (Price is God)”. We believe that price incorporates all the information that is required to be incorporated into a stock. However, as Anand said, it’s a liquidity-driven rally. It is always a liquidity-driven rally. We tend to equate the real economy with the stock market at all times, but they hardly ever meet. That is the sole reason 90% of all economists and analysts in the market are not able to call what’s going to happen next. Traditional valuation models are getting broken because the whole money supply equation is changing. If Japan can trade at 34 times earnings, the U.S. at 28 times earnings, and China at 19 times earnings, Nifty could trade at 40 or 30 or 20. You take your pick and you can justify it there. Coming back to liquidity, the Fed has pumped about $5 trillion or so and so have other central bankers. We are sitting in a vulnerable situation across markets. So, there is no real model that you can rely upon for investing when there’s endless money flowing around. One should ride the trend till the end and not sit out of the market. AS:Alok says everything is about liquidity. I will pick up two cases from history. Let’s talk about 1989 when the Nikkei peaked at 40,000. Now, 31 years later, the Nikkei is nowhere near 40,000. It is still about 30% below its peak. The Dow Jones in 1929 crashed from 800 to double digits. It took the index 25 years to recover this loss. So, this party has to come to an end sometime. We don’t know when exactly but the early warning signs are there. American inflation is running at 4% for the first time in many years and Indian inflation has been consistently higher than what the RBI projected 10 out of the last 12 months. Some say this inflation is transitory. But one year of inflation is not transitory. We have to wait and watch because as inflation begins to bite, that is when politicians will remove the punch bowl and the party will come to an end. I don’t see this happening until early-2022 because U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell will not want to spoil the party now — his nomination is due. Alok, what is your technical view on the market while looking at the charts? AJ:From our perspective, nothing much has changed. The way we work is that we have long-term models which measure momentum and we then allocate across stocks. So far, we have not seen our models go to cash. As the market plateaus or starts to go down, our models tend to go into cash gradually and that has not yet started to happen so there is no concern right now about the uptrend. Over the last month or so, the markets have kind of stagnated. But there is enough opportunity and activity within the mid-cap and small cap space. So, nothing really has changed. There may be an episode of profit booking but that would be a very normal reaction. The fear actually is that any market could become the next Japan where the market spends years consolidating so that valuations can catch up with price. This could be just like what we’ve seen in the real estate market. In case liquidity keeps gushing through, we could be at 18,000 on the Nifty and the resulting pain could be deeper and longer. So, we need to be ready with a plan to exit the market. AS:If I look at any of the big names who have made money over the last 150 years, they didn’t make money by riding the market. They made money only by staying invested and finding quality companies at good prices. Liquidity in the markets will come and go. From the late 1990s to today, America has been under the influence of steroids injected by the U.S. Federal Reserve. So we’re looking at a gush of liquidity over 20 years. But the history of markets shows that interest rate cycles do turn. It is hard to predict when the cycle will turn, but it should turn in the next five years. When the interest rate cycle turns, equities will witness a fall. That is the time to accumulate equities. In America, it was between 1969 and 1974 that Warren Buffett made most of his stock purchases. Then, there was the period in 1987 when there was a major crash. In 2002, there was a major crash again. The only difference is that the pullback in stock prices this time has been much faster and more violent, which has not allowed people like Mr. Buffett to buy. But markets still have pockets of values. Alok, what is your take on the fundamentalist viewpoint on markets? AJ:There’s nothing wrong in the fundamental view. The only question is, while Mr. Buffett is quoted so many times, how many people can act like Mr. Buffett? You can’t really emulate the qualities of great investors. So, we need to find more common man strategies, so that you can live your life peacefully and also have healthy returns on your money instead of just hoping for positive long-term returns. In Japan, the generation that started earning and investing money from 1990 has not seen any gains so far. How many would survive in that kind of an environment? That can happen to any country. So, just investing based on great names, quality and great fundamentals did not ensure positive returns to Japanese investors. There are very few lucky guys who can really say that they started investing 20 years ago and that they’re sitting with multibaggers. That’s not the average investor’s journey. Our approach to the market is very, very clear. We will not predict where the market is going. Instead, we will allow the market to tell us what to do. AS:Since Alok said people have not made money in Japan, let me quote a story. About one and a half years ago, Mr. Buffett decided to buy in Japan. He went to the bank and took a loan of several billion dollars at near-zero interest rate, payable over 25 years, and bought five big companies which had a dividend yield of over 5%. He uses the dividends to pay off the loans and now basically owns a 5% stake in five Japanese business conglomerates free of cost. That is value investing. So, you basically get money free, you put it into a company whose dividend will pay off the loan with low interest, and then you can relax. This is the way it should be. I agree it is very difficult. It takes enormous patience. If people cannot do this, then the alternative is to buy the index for the long term. Just keep buying the index over the next 30-40 years and go to sleep. Put in 50-60% of your money into the index and the balance in bonds and go to sleep and the index will take care of it. Does investing in the index sound like a sensible strategy to momentum investors? AJ:Interestingly, if you look at the index, the index itself is a momentum portfolio. Every six months, the index committee will sit around and throw out the laggards from the index, and bring in stocks that are rising. So, the index is actually a beautiful momentum index. You can buy index ETFs (exchange-traded funds) or index funds at a low cost and actually run a momentum strategy. That can be your base momentum strategy. Then you can take premium products and run premium momentum strategies. My short point here is that if the index itself is like a momentum strategy that really validates momentum investing. AS:The index in India is a very shallow index. When I say index, I am talking about a broad index like the S&P 500. Unfortunately, we don’t have mutual funds which follow the BSE 500 in a big manner. The best you can do is buy the Nifty and the Nifty Next 50. If you get an index for the Nifty 500, buy the Nifty 500 and go to sleep. The difference between momentum investing and the Nifty strategy is we keep the Nifty and buy more of it when the index goes down. What makes the difference between following the Nifty strategy and the momentum strategy is that I have to pay a 2% fee to the manager. In the case of the Nifty, I have to pay only 0.05% to the manager. This fee difference makes a big difference over a period of 10 or more years. AJ:The S&P 500 is also similar to a momentum portfolio. It is rebalanced four times in a year instead of two times as is the case with the Nifty. And in the last decade, 200 companies have gone out of S&P 500 and 100 new companies have come into the index, so it is a beautiful momentum portfolio. Additionally, there is over 200 years of data showing that momentum as a factor has beaten other factors such as value and growth. How do you see the markets going forward? AS:I see this bubble continuing to play out depending on two things. One is inflationary expectations because inflation expectations will determine when the U.S. Federal Reserve will raise interest rates. If U.S. President Joe Biden allows inflation to run to 7% or 8%, then he may be forced to bring it down, and the Fed will be forced to apply the brakes very quickly. If this episode of inflation turns out to be transitory, the current momentum in stocks will continue for a year or so. It all depends on the inflation trajectory. AJ:The inflation bogey is upon us, and I don’t foresee inflation dying out. More than inflation, real interest rates need to be watched, because a nominal interest rate rise may also get absorbed in the market. It will take some external event probably for the U.S. Fed to change course. So, the current trend seems par for the course.  We tend to equate the real economy with the stock market at all times, but they hardly ever meet. That is the sole reason 90% of all economists and analysts in the market are not able to call what’s going to happen next. Alok Jain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-the-indian-stock-market-in-a-bubble/article35354960.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A strong Indian state must be humane too||Father Stan Swamy passed away in a Mumbai hospital last week, on July 5, while his case for bail was going on in the Bombay High Court. On being informed of his death, the Bench hearing his case is reported to have observed, “with all humility at our command, this is a shocking news. We passed that order, to take him to the hospital of his choice. We have no words to express our condolences....” Fr. Swamy, 84, was suffering from Parkinson’s disease, bilateral hearing loss, back pain and “generalised weakness”. His health had begun to deteriorate since his incarceration in Mumbai, after his arrest on October 8, 2020, by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), in the Bhima Koregaon case. On May 28 he was moved to a private hospital, following a court order, but his condition had worsened. Meanwhile the court had continued hearing his bail application but not arrived at a decision. Global criticism Like the Bombay High Court Bench, Fr. Swamy’s many admirers in India and abroad would have been “shocked” at his death while still in custody. This important fact — that he continued to be in custody in Mumbai — will not be missed by those who followed the case, including human rights organisations abroad, for Fr. Swamy had wished to be allowed to return to Jharkhand, but tragically that was not to be. Naturally, even then the law would have taken its course in respect of the trial. The Indian system’s treatment of Fr. Swamy has attracted substantial and pointed criticism from significant international quarters. Mary Lawlor, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of Human Rights Defenders, after his death, plainly made the accusation that he was arrested on “false charges of terrorism”. The European Union’s Special Representative for Human Rights, Eamon Gilmore, did not go so far, but said that the European Union had been “raising his case repeatedly with the [Indian] authorities”. In a statement on July 6 on Fr. Swamy’s death, Liz Throssell, the spokesperson for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, stated, “We are deeply saddened and disturbed” and went on to describe him as a “long standing activist, particularly on the rights of indigenous peoples and other marginalised groups”. The United States State Department expressed sadness at his death and called him a “Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist”. And, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom “condemned in the strongest terms the deliberate neglect and targeting by the government of India that led to the death of Father Stan Swamy… long-time human rights defender”. A defence that is wooden While denying him bail, a special NIA court concluded that the “material placed on record thus prima facie denote[d]” that Stan Swamy “was not only the member of the banned organisation Communist Party of India (Maoist) but he was carrying out activities further in the objective of the organisation which is nothing but to overthrow the democracy of the nation”. This opinion clearly has not been taken into consideration nor has it been found to be credible by international observers. Fr. Swamy has continued to be described as a human rights activist. It is also doubtful that the defence of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), that “Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law”, will find many takers in respect of the Fr. Swamy case, both with regard to his arrest as well as denial of bail. In response to criticism in the case, the MEA, on July 6, also noted that “India’s democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level Human Rights Commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society. India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens (https://bit.ly/3kh4CCN)”. This, no doubt, is true as a general proposition. However, these words will inevitably be refracted through the prism of denial of bail to an ailing, very old man who was considered by influential sections of international opinion to have been an activist for the tribal people, assisting them in the preservation of their rights and their way of life. Also, inevitably, they will not be able to forget that it took almost a month for the jail authorities to provide a straw, sipper and winter clothes to Fr. Swamy, as Parkinson’s disease made it difficult for him to hold cups or glasses. The ‘straw and sipper’ may become a visual metaphor, for words too paint pictures. These aspects, among others, will raise questions about the MEA’s statement especially among Christian church groups abroad because Fr. Swamy was a Jesuit priest and it will not be unnatural for them to take some interest in the matter. Perceived path of the state All this will also be viewed in the context of the events of the past few years, when international liberal opinion has been deeply concerned by what it perceives as the direction taken by Indian society and polity. There is of course no question of pandering to such opinion on India’s core security interests in issues relating to terrorism from abroad and indiscriminate violence driven by ideology-driven direct perpetrators of violence against the state causing, inter alia , the loss of innocent lives. However, diplomacy requires engagement with international liberal opinion, not wooden and inflexible assertions of general principles only. The Government has refused to engage with either domestic or global liberal opinion. What has to be realised is that even as the national public culture and mores seek to shed the vestiges of both their anglicised and Persianate past, it needs to retain the old value of caring. Indeed, a strong and effective state can and must also be a humane state, which it hardly was in the case of Fr. Swamy. When India embarked on the great national enterprise after Independence, it did so on the principle that it would achieve development not through an authoritarian polity but a democratic and liberal one, despite the obstacles and challenges that lay in the way. For the superior judiciary Yes, special laws were, and continue to be required to meet the challenges that arise from violence that cannot be confronted under the ordinary criminal statute. Their application, however, requires constant review. As jail is the rule and bail the exception for those charged under special laws, there should be very strong evidence to substantiate these charges. But in some cases, this is obviously not so. Consequently, the accused while languishing in jail for many years are acquitted during trials indicating that there was insufficient evidence ab initio to lock them up. This is unacceptable and the superior judiciary needs to redress the situation through an audit of such cases. Fr. Stan Swamy’s case should provide an impetus to put such an audit machinery in place as India approaches the 75th year of its Independence. It will also reassure international opinion that India is a responsive state. Vivek Katju is a former diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-strong-indian-state-must-be-humane-too/article35354951.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Interference an investigating officer can do without||It is an accepted axiom in a democracy such as India that the Executive shall abide by the Constitution. By the same logic, the bureaucracy is answerable to the lawfully elected government. It is this unassailable legal position which keeps a check on police conduct in a democratic nation. Writing just after a Minneapolis police officer was sentenced in the United States, on June 25, to 22-and-a-half years in prison for the horrific murder of a hapless citizen, George Floyd, and the enormous media publicity it has received the world over — Floyd was videotaped in May 2020, that showed him dying as the officer was kneeling on his neck — my uneasy feeling is that government and public distrust of the police will further widen. Even a straightforward and law-abiding policeman will hardly be believed. The onus will be on him to prove that he is honest and humane. The Minneapolis court verdict will no doubt receive support from everyone who believes in a system of checks and balances. My question, however, is whether happenings of this kind and our own horrific episode in Sattankulam, Tamil Nadu, when in June 2020, a 58-year-old father and his 31-year-old son were subject to police brutality and died, justify further curbs on the police authority to investigate an established crime. I know well that I will be in the minority when I plead for at least a slightly kindlier view of police conduct and more latitude to them in the standard operating procedures which they follow, especially when they investigate a complicated crime. Top court’s observation It is in this context that I cite a recent Supreme Court of India observation (https://bit.ly/2VCeBYS) that courts have no authority to direct an investigating officer to in turn direct the arrest of any particular individual connected with a crime. This view should be examined in the background of growing instances of subordinate judicial officers, and even High Courts sometimes, directing the investigating officer to effect the arrest of a particular individual who has come to adverse notice as a suspect in the commission of a crime. I am happy that the highest court of the land has intervened in the matter. I have come across many instances of courts bullying police officers, asking why ‘x’ has been arrested and not ‘y’. Such directions cut at the roots of criminal justice ethics, because the bedrock of English jurisprudence that we have adopted with some modifications is the principle that anyone hauled up by law should be considered innocent unless he is proved guilty The direction to the police with regard to arrests during a criminal investigation is harmful to police morale and cuts at the roots of field policing. Court observations that smack of a lack of faith in police ability and integrity will make grass-root level policemen even more arbitrary than now and force them into carrying out questionable actions that will cast aspersions on an officer’s ability to think for himself. I strongly believe that the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) vests sufficient discretion in the investigating officer to take such decisions as arrests and searches, and even the dropping of further action after registering a first information report Court interference — mind you, it is not intervention — in the day-to-day investigation is not only undesirable but is also not sanctioned by law. I am of the view that except for the Supreme Court, in whom the Constitution vests enormous authority and discretion which are not questionable, the lesser courts shall not give directions in the matter of arrests and searches. Courts should remember that the police are a well-established hierarchy that is obligated to ensure objectivity during a criminal investigation. Every investigation is supervised by at least two immediate senior officers. In the more important cases, there are a few more levels. It is their duty to ensure that every investigation is handled lawfully and impartially. Where supervisory officers fail in their duty because of sheer indolence or buckle under external pressure, they deserve to be pulled up by courts. But not before they are found guilty of indifference or malfeasance. FIR is mandatory We need to educate the Executive and the common man that it is now well-established law that a first information report is not an act of charity to the aggrieved complainant. It is mandatory that every police station in the land should register a complaint under the relevant sections of a statute the moment a cognisable offence is made out in the complaint. The complaint may be false or frivolous in order to settle personal scores. But the basic requirement is registration. There is another safeguard against police misconduct. The CrPC makes it obligatory for the investigating officer to write a diary that details the action taken every day following registration. To such a diary are attached witness statements. When in doubt, the competent court, which already has a copy of the first information report, can demand to see the case diary. If the content of such a diary establishes the complicity of an individual, the court can question an investigating officer as to what he proposed to do on the basis of such evidence. Directing an investigating officer to go ahead with an arrest even before he has scrutinised the evidence collected is unsustainable in law. Holding up a mirror I am not pleading the cause of police officers, many of whom are burdened with the task of unravelling the truth in a complicated occurrence. I also concede that there are many dishonest police officers at all levels who work overtime to sabotage an investigation with a view to saving an offender or are waiting to please a rank outsider for monetary consideration. To paint all police officers with the same brush is hugely unfair to a majority of investigators. To sum up, I would place the blame for the ills that affect the police, particularly in the area of criminal investigation, squarely at the door of many senior officers who are waiting to be browbeaten by outsiders or are looking for unethical avenues to aggrandise themselves. R.K. Raghavan, a former Central Bureau of Investigation Director, is currently Professor of Criminal Justice and Policing at the Jindal Global School, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/interference-an-investigating-officer-can-do-without/article35354953.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A star who stood his ground||The recent demise of thespian Dilip Kumar has led to an outpouring of grief on social media and quite rightly so. The nation has just lost one of its most consummate actors who will always be cherished for his versatility. While reminiscing his work, people will discuss Daag , Naya Daur , Madhumati , Sagina Mahato , Shakti and other films. Though he had retired from acting and was ailing for a long time, his presence served as a reminder of a sensibility that has now come to elude the contemporary Hindi film industry. Standing up for causes Kumar was a successful actor, a superstar so to speak who never withheld from speaking his mind or endorsing the causes that he believed in, most of which were humanitarian. He was regularly involved in relief work during the various riots that rocked Mumbai. He stood resolute with Deepa Mehta when she was vilified and attacked during the release of her controversial film, Fire . Kumar frequently spoke against and denounced acts of fascism and majoritarian fanaticism. In the late 1990s, he went to Lucknow to express solidarity with the cultural organisation, Sahmat, after it met with a vicious attack by communal goons. Kumar’s detractors bayed for his blood and often threatened him with consequences by regularly protesting outside his Mumbai residence, but the actor refused to yield to political pressure. This idealism or ability to confront the truth is a rarity in contemporary Bollywood. Increasingly, over the last few years, its films have taken a hypernationalistic turn, often distorting history to please a certain majoritarian sentiment. This distortion of history via film is an effective strategy aimed at proselytisation. There are several examples of such films, including Kesari , Tanhaji and Panipat . The trend of such films has increased. Several are in the pipeline clearly with an eye on commercial benefits. What are the top stars of Bollywood doing to combat the climate of hate that prevails in the country? Most of them have gone silent. Some who spoke up in the past were viciously trolled into silence, their films threatened with boycott. Commercial gains have suppressed larger interests. At the end of the day, it is a commerce-driven industry, and the personal wealth of the stars is also determined by the prospects of their films. However, this same lot that can’t stop talking about Kumar as an inspiration to them needs to engage in some self-reflection. Here, perhaps we also need to ask: was Dilip Kumar part of a different India where an actor could protest and still get work without the fear of larger curbs? It must be said that Kumar was also enthused by the progressive ideals of a newly independent India which the current lot of superstars lack completely. Far from reality The ongoing pandemic has further radicalised our viewing habits. With a surge of OTT platforms, there is a new access and heightened awareness amongst the mainstream Hindi cinema audience about other Indian film cultures such as Tamil and Malayalam. New as well as old films are released and available on these platforms. Watching Malayalam and Tamil cinemas specifically alongside contemporary Hindi cinema has made audiences realise that the larger questions and concerns facing the country are perhaps posed in those film cultures beyond the glamour citadel of Mumbai whose cinema seems to be increasingly irrelevant to the reality of contemporary India. Contemporary Hindi cinema has nothing to compare with films like Karnan or Veyilmarangal . Purely fantasy-based escapist cinema can never outperform cinema confronting the real. What will Hindi cinema do when this realisation dawns upon its audiences? May be Kumar’s death could be reckoned as a wakeup call to attempt necessary course correction. Kunal Ray teaches literary and cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-star-who-stood-his-ground/article35354956.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Ending the impasse||India’s relations with China have been in deep freeze for over a year. The crisis on the LAC remains unresolved, and tens of thousands of soldiers from both sides still remain deployed in forward areas. Against this backdrop, Wednesday’s meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe assumes significance. Their last meeting in Moscow, in September 2020, took place in the aftermath of the Galwan Valley clash and at a time of a tinderbox-like situation south of Pangong Lake, with troops and artillery dangerously close to each other on the heights of the Kailash Range. A political agreement then paved the way for both sides to disengage in February, but the agreements in Galwan and Pangong Lake, where both sides have put in place no-patrolling zones, have not been followed at other disputed sites, in Depsang, Demchok, Gogra and Hot Springs. Will the Dushanbe meeting similarly break the impasse? The initial readouts from both sides do not inspire confidence. Mr. Jaishankar said the unresolved situation was “visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner” and “assessing the overall relationship”, it was peace on the border that provided “the foundation for the development of ties since 1988” when the post-1962 freeze ended. Mr. Wang did not appear to view the boundary dispute with the same seriousness, instead calling for it to be kept “in an appropriate place” while “expanding the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation”. Where both sides did agree is in their assessment, as Mr. Jaishankar put it, that “a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side”. The difference from Moscow to Dushanbe is that China, which last year was equally concerned after India’s counter-deployments to take the heights of the Kailash Range where even shots were fired in warning — the first firing since 1975 — now appears to be in no hurry to restore the status quo elsewhere. India, having declared that normalcy cannot be possible without disengagement and de-escalation and signalled its intent with measures including scrutiny on Chinese investments — bilateral trade, however, is still booming beyond pre-pandemic levels thanks to huge imports of medical supplies — will now have to stay the course to underline its resolve on restoring the status quo . Mr. Wang also said that Beijing’s “strategic judgment on China-India relations remains unchanged”. Whether China’s PLA, which has been dragging its feet on negotiations to restore the LAC status quo since February, shares that judgement remains to be seen. The only way for Beijing to demonstrate that is indeed the case will be to resume negotiations on the LAC at the earliest. Unless a full restoration of peace and a de-escalation on the borders happen, the relations in all other spheres will remain cloaked in distrust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ending-the-impasse/article35354946.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Growing precarity||The latest inflation data based on retail and wholesale prices are yet again flashing cautionary signals as spiralling costs continue to dog the pandemic-hit economy. CPI-based inflation stayed stuck above the RBI’s 6% upper bound for the second straight month, with June’s provisional annualised 6.26% only a touch slower than the six-month high pace of 6.3% registered in May. Inflation at the retail level was largely propelled by sharp increases in key food item prices including oils and fats, which surged almost 35% from a year earlier and gained 2.9% from May’s levels, as also egg, which jumped 19.4% year-on-year and 6.2% from the preceding month, and pulses and products, which climbed 10% from June 2020. As RBI officials reviewing the State of the Economy in the central bank’s monthly Bulletin released on Thursday observed, fuel inflation, which excludes petrol and diesel, surged to a record 12.7% in June driven by LPG, kerosene and the rural poor’s mainstay, firewood and dung-cake. And, disconcertingly, LPG and kerosene prices have also registered increases so far in July. Transport costs remain persistently high as both petrol and diesel prices continue to rise, with the former now averaging Rs. 102.92 a litre in the four major metros as on July 12, and diesel at almost Rs. 94, according to the Bulletin article. With global crude oil trending higher, the unabated rise in domestic transportation costs is bound to reflect in retail prices of farm produce and products shipped from factories. Wholesale price inflation also stayed stubbornly high at 12.07% in June, after May’s record 12.94%, as price gains in the fuel and power category soared 32.8% annually, and those of manufactured products edged up to 10.88%. Medium and small-scale industrial units, already struggling to cope with the pandemic’s impact on demand and overall finances, now face rising raw material and input costs. With manufacturing activity contracting in June for the first time in 11 months as per IHS Markit’s PMI, the economy is visibly struggling to regain traction in the wake of the second wave, which has eroded demand and consumptive capacity in both urban and rural markets. Add to this the looming possibility that this year’s monsoon rains may be less than adequate, either temporally or spatially, disrupting agricultural output and the outlook for both inflation and growth gets significantly clouded. With cumulative rainfall since June 1 being 5% below average and 12 weather subdivisions spanning 37% of the country’s area experiencing deficient rainfall as on July 15, and the pandemic still nowhere near under control, the risk of precarity and hardship rising in the rural hinterland is very real. The Government must, at the very least, cut fuel taxes to ease the burden on consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/growing-precarity/article35354947.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. decides to amend Constitution||The Government has taken the final decision to bring forward a far-reaching Constitution Amendment Bill during the current session of Parliament drastically amending the amending processes of the Constitution [New Delhi, July 15]. The Bill seeks to empower Parliament to make any law in furtherance of the Directive Principles even if such law contravened the fundamental right enshrined in the constitution. The Government proposes to introduce the Bill within the next fortnight and get it passed before the end of the budget session, unless it runs into some unexpected procedural difficulties giving the Opposition an opportunity to stall it. The constitutional experts of the Government are still struggling hard to remove the legal lacuna and smoothen the rough edges to ensure its easy passage by securing the widest possible support in both Houses of Parliament. While the ruling party has the requisite two-thirds majority of its own in the Lok Sabha, the Government will be obliged to do deft lobbying in the Rajya Sabha to make doubly certain that this Constitution Amendment Bill does not meet with the same fate as the Privy Purses Bill last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/govt-decides-to-amend-constitution/article35354954.ece
16 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Inflation to persist at elevated levels for a while: RBI officials||The tapering of the second wave, coupled with an aggressive vaccination push, has brightened near-term prospects for the economy but inflation will remain elevated for some more months, senior RBI officials wrote in an article on the ‘State of the Economy’ in the RBI’s monthly Bulletin. While several high frequency indicators of activity were recovering, a ‘solid increase in aggregate demand’ was yet to take shape. On the supply side, agricultural conditions were turning buoyant with the revival in the monsoon, but the recovery of manufacturing and services sectors had been interrupted by the second wave, they added. The pick-up in inflation was driven largely by adverse supply shocks caused by the pandemic, including increases in margins and taxes, and sector-specific demand-supply mismatches, the article’s authors wrote. “These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect,” they contended. Inflation, which had ruled above the tolerance band during June-November 2020, had again moved above the upper tolerance threshold in May and June. ‘Kharif harvest key’ “The sense is that inflation will persist at these elevated levels for some months before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22, when the kharif harvest arrives in markets,” they posited. The economy was struggling to regain the momentum of recovery that had started in the second half of 2020-21 before it was interrupted by the second wave, the RBI officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/inflation-to-persist-at-elevated-levels-for-a-while-rbi-officials/article35354931.ece
16 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Wipro Q1 net profit jumps 35%||Wipro Ltd. posted a 35.2% rise in consolidated net profit to Rs. 3,230 crore for the quarter ended June 30, and said it was well-placed for double-digit growth in the year. Revenue rose 22.4% to Rs. 18,250 crore. It forecast revenue growth of 5-7% for the quarter ending September 30, with expected revenue in the $2.535 billion-$2.583 billion range. “Even at the lower end of our guidance, we will cross the $10-billion annual run rate of revenues,” said CEO & MD Thierry Delaporte. “The Q1 performance and Q2 guidance set us up for a well ahead of double-digit growth for the full year, even excluding Capco.” he added. Demand was robust and the quality of the company’s overall pipeline was better than before, he said. “Our top 3 markets grew in double digits. All markets were witnessing solid demand and deal wins were exceptionally strong in the Americas,” he said in his commentary. Wipro, however, witnessed a drop in operating margin to 18.8% in Q1, compared with 21% in the quarter ended March. “While 1.3% was due to Capco acquisition, the remaining 90-basis point impact was due to our significant investment in talent,” explained Jatin Dalal, chief financial officer. In the IT services segment, which accounts for more than 95% of Wipro’s gross revenues, the company reported 21.3% growth in revenue in constant currency to $2.41 billion from a year earlier. Sequentially, IT services revenue growth was at 12% in constant currency terms. Headcount rises 12,178 In Q1, the IT firm added a net of 12,178 employees to take total headcount to 209,890. Saurabh Govil, chief human resources officer, Wipro said, “We are seeing an unprecedented intake of freshers. We will send out offer letters to 30,000 freshers this year who would join the company next year.” The company intends to onboard more than 6,000 freshers in the second quarter. Wipro’s attrition jumped to 15.5% in Q1 from 12.1% in the immediately preceding three-month period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-q1-net-profit-jumps-35/article35354929.ece
16 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Financial inclusion is a policy priority: Das||To make the post-pandemic recovery more inclusive and sustainable, financial inclusion would continue to be a policy priority for the RBI, Governor Shaktikanta Das said at The Economic Times Financial Inclusion Summit on Thursday. Considering the role played by microfinance in bridging gaps in the last mile, a consultative document for harmonising regulatory frameworks for various regulated lenders in microfinance had been issued recently, he said. “The primary objective is to address the concerns relating to over-indebtedness of microfinance borrowers; enable market mechanism to rationalise the interest rates; and empower the borrowers to make an informed decision by enhancing transparency of loan pricing,” Mr. Das said. Stating that financial inclusion promoted inclusive growth by making financial services, including credit and other safety nets, available to the bottom of the pyramid, he said lessons from the past and experiences gained during the COVID-19 pandemic clearly indicated that financial inclusion and inclusive growth reinforce financial stability. Greater financial literacy would enable banks, NBFCs, and MFIs to enhance their customer base and products and diversify their balance sheets, he added. Mr. Das said payment systems were seen as the lifeline of an economy. They were increasingly being recognised as a means of achieving financial inclusion and ensuring that economic benefits reach the bottom of the pyramid, the RBI Governor added. Digital adoption Highlighting the rapid adoption of digital payments in the country, he said the number of Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPI) had increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 53% from 41 crore in May 2017, to 226 crore in May 2021. “The trends indicate that such instruments have become immensely popular for making small-value payments,” he said. The extent of digital penetration, he said, could be gauged from the fact that, each day on an average during June 2021, payment systems in India had processed more than 15 crore transactions amounting to almost Rs. 4.5 lakh crore per day. The UPI platform facilitating payment transactions through smartphones had revolutionised the payments landscape in India, he said. “UPI has witnessed over 280 crore transactions in June 2021. Globally, there has been a lot of interest in UPI,” Mr. Das added.  The UPI platform, enabling transactions via smartphones, has revolutionised the payments landscape in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/financial-inclusion-is-a-policy-priority-das/article35354932.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Home sales rose 67% in H1, COVID-19 slows pace’||New home sales in eight top markets across India increased 67% to 99,416 units during January-June, even as the pandemic’s second wave impacted the momentum that had begun in the second half of 2020, property consultancy Knight Frank India said in its latest report. Launches at 103,238 units in the first half (H1) of 2021 were 71% higher year-on-year, with a majority of the sales happening in January-March. The second wave’s impact was evident on a sequential basis with sales and new launches declining 62% and 43% in the April-June quarter. Affordable housing or residential properties below Rs. 50 lakh felt the heat with their share in total sales declining by about 500 basis points. The report, ‘India Real Estate — Residential, January-June 2021’, said this trend was directly related to the challenges thrown up by the pandemic which reduced the economic confidence of homebuyers in that category due to the threat of job loss, lower income, CPI inching up and other challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/home-sales-rose-67-in-h1-covid-19-slows-pace/article35354927.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||June exports rise 32%, imports surge 74%||Exports from India rose almost 32% to $49.85 billion in June from the year earlier month and were 17.17% higher than the pre-COVID level of June 2019. Imports stood at $52.18 billion, rising 73.65% in June year-on-year and 1.08% higher than June 2019, according to the quick estimates released by the Commerce and Industry Ministry on Thursday. Merchandise exports grew 48.3% to $32.5 billion in June and were almost 30% higher than June 2019, while services exports based on an estimation stood at $17.35 billion or 9.1% higher than June 2020 and about 1% lower than June 2019. “With surging exports and relatively subdued gold imports in May-June 2021 dampening the aggregate trade deficit to a three-quarter low $31 billion in Q1 FY2022, we expect the current account to revert to a small surplus in that quarter,” ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/june-exports-rise-32-imports-surge-74/article35354936.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||States get Rs. 75,000 crore of GST dues||The Finance Ministry on Thursday released Rs. 75,000 crore of GST compensation dues to States and Union Territories and said this would help them plan their public expenditure for improving health infrastructure and other capital spending projects. Raised via market borrowings by the Centre, the funds were passed on as back-to-back loans to States and account for 47.16% of the Rs. 1.59 lakh crore proposed to be raised for their GST compensation dues in FY22. “This... Rs. 1.59 lakh crore would be over and above the compensation in excess of Rs. 1 lakh crore (based on GST cess collections) that is estimated to be released to States/UTs with Legislature during this financial year. The sum... of Rs. 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY22,” the Ministry said in a statement. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has assured that a special meeting of the Council would be held to discuss issues related to States’ GST recompense, including their demand to extend the compensation period beyond five years. ‘Bodes well’ “The release of these funds from the [Centre’s] own borrowings... corroborates the inference that healthy tax and non-tax revenues have boosted its cash flows,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. States ramping up expenditure would complement the pickup in momentum seen after the phased unlocking and boded well for sustaining the nascent revival in the economy, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-get-rs-75000-crore-of-gst-dues/article35354937.ece
16 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Government kick-starts LIC IPO process||Kick-starting the process for LIC disinvestment, the government has invited bids from merchant bankers and legal advisors for advising it on the proposed mega initial public offer. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) would appoint up to ten merchant bankers and one legal firm for assisting and advising on the stake sale. The last date for putting in bids is August 6, as per a notice issued by DIPAM.  Listing of LIC is crucial for the Centre as it aims to raise Rs. 1.75 lakh crore in FY22 from minority stake sales and privatisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/government-kick-starts-lic-ipo-process/article35354940.ece
16 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Q1 low base to lift growth to double digits’||Economic recovery has gained momentum after the lifting of localised lockdowns imposed in the aftermath of the second wave, but is ‘incomplete,’ according to a ICRA report. The Indian economy will grow in double digits for the April-June period on the low base of 2020-21 but will still be short of the levels observed in the first quarter of FY20, it said. “The real GDP in Q1FY22 will trail the Q1FY20 level, while recording a double-digit y-o-y expansion,” it said. The nationwide lockdown had resulted in a 23.7% GDP contraction in the June quarter of FY20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/q1-low-base-to-lift-growth-to-double-digits/article35354942.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Power usage returns to pre-Covid level||India’s power consumption grew almost 17% in the first fortnight of July to 59.36 billion units (BU) and returned to pre-pandemic level mainly due to easing of lockdown curbs and delayed monsoon, according to Power Ministry data. Power consumption during July 1-14 last year was 50.79 BU. It was recorded at 52.89 BU in the first fortnight of July in 2019. Thus, consumption has not only grown year-on-year but also returned to the pre-pandemic level.  Experts say the recovery is mainly due to delayed monsoon and a surge in economic activities amid easing of lockdown restrictions by States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-usage-returns-to-pre-covid-level/article35354941.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||Sudhanshu Vats to join Pidilite as dy MD||Sudhanshu Vats, former MD & CEO, EPL Ltd., will join Pidilite Industries Ltd. as deputy MD from September 1, the company said on Thursday. An alumnus of IIM-Ahmedabad and NIT Kurukshetra, Mr. Vats has a 30-year career spanning diverse firms. M.B. Parekh, executive chairman, Pidilite said the talent and experience of Mr. Vats will be of great value to Pidilite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sudhanshu-vats-to-join-pidilite-as-dy-md/article35354933.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||WNS Q1 profit rises 80% to $26.8 million in June quarter||WNS (Holdings) Ltd. said its profit for the quarter ended June 30 surged by 80.6% to $26.8 million from the year-earlier period on easing pandemic-related pressures, revenue growth and client expansion. Revenue grew by 21.9% y-o-y to $253.2 million. Revising the guidance for 2022, it said net revenue is expected to be between $961 million- $1,009 million, up from $868.7 million in FY21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wns-q1-profit-rises-80-to-268-million-in-june-quarter/article35354934.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Lamborghini brings Huracán STO to India at Rs. 4.99 cr.||Italian super sports luxury carmaker Lamborghini on Thursday unveiled the Huracan STO model in India at a price tag of Rs. 4.99 crore (ex-showroom). The Huracan STO - Super Trofeo Omologata is a road- homologated super sports car. It is powered by a V10 naturally-aspirated 640 hp engine, capable of accelerating from 0-100 km/hr in three seconds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lamborghini-brings-huracn-sto-to-india-at-rs-499-cr/article35354939.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Google Cloud announces second ‘Cloud Region’ in India||Google Cloud announced expanding its footprint in India with its second ‘Cloud Region’ in the country. It is located in Delhi-NCR. “It is a large commitment from us in capital and infrastructure investment and is designed to allow us capture the opportunity that we see around growth coming from existing and new customers,” said Thomas Kurian, CEO, Google Cloud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-cloud-announces-second-cloud-region-in-india/article35354943.ece
16 July 2021||Chelmsford,||‘89-Wyatt’ power short-circuits India||Opener Danni Wyatt smashed an unbeaten 89 off only 56 balls to overshadow an elegant 70 by Smriti Mandhana as England claimed an easy eight-wicket victory over India in the third T20 International to wrap up the series 2-1 here on Wednesday. Having already lost the three-match ODI series by the same margin, the Indian women, under Mithali Raj and Harmanpreet Kaur, have now lost four successive white-ball series including the two against South Africa at home. The evening belonged to Wyatt, who took on an out of form Radha Yadav (0/37 in four overs) and Poonam Yadav (0/32 in four overs). Wyatt came out of the crease to counter Poonam’s loopy slow deliveries and hit her all over the park. Good support She was ably supported by all-rounder Nat Sciver, who chipped in with 42 off 36 balls with four boundaries after having bowled economically to take one for 16 in four overs. Earlier, Smriti’s stroke-filled 70 (51b, 8x4, 2x6) powered India to 153 for six in 20 overs. After losing opening partner Shafali Verma in the first over and Harleen Deol in the fourth, Smriti added 68 for the third wicket with skipper Harmanpreet Kaur (36, 26b, 5x4, 1x6). Setback The loss is a big setback for the Indian team which is set to play the 50-over World Cup in New Zealand early next year. India will next travel to Australia and the tour also features a day-night Test match.  The scores:   India 153/6 in 20 overs (Smriti Mandhana 70, Harmanpreet Kaur 36, Sophie Ecclestone 3/35) lost to England 154/2 in 18.4 overs (Danni Wyatt 89 n.o., Nat Sciver 42). England won by eight wickets and eight balls to spare, clinches the three-match series 2-1.   Player-of-the-match: Danni Wyatt; Player-of-the-series: Nat Sciver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/89-wyatt-power-short-circuits-india/article35355080.ece
16 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Pant isolating after July 8 positive test for COVID-19||At least two members of India’s touring contingent in the United Kingdom have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant and training assistant Dayanand Garani have contracted the virus during the Indian squad’s break after last month’s World Test Championship final loss to New Zealand. Besides Pant and Garani, a BCCI statement confirmed that reserve opener Abhimanyu Easwaran, wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha and bowling coach Bharat Arun have been isolated for having been identified as close contacts of Garani, a throwdown specialist. As a result, India’s squad, which reassembled in London over the last couple of days, has travelled to Durham without these five individuals. The BCCI statement added that Pant, who has been isolating on his own, was diagnosed on July 8 while Garani was confirmed to have been contracted COVID-19 on Wednesday. While Pant will have to clear two successive negative RT-PCR tests, the other four who have stayed back at the team hotel in London will have to quarantine for 10 days. It means that India may struggle to find a wicketkeeper for the warm-up match in Durham. K.L. Rahul may be forced to keep wickets against the Select County XI from July 20 ahead of the first Test in Nottingham on August 4. No response  The Hindu on Monday had reached out to BCCI secretary Jay Shah and chief executive Hemang Amin to confirm whether four cricketers had been in isolation but the duo did not respond. Interestingly, a day later, Shah sent an email to all the members of India’s contingent to take extreme precautions in the wake of the Delta variant outbreak in the UK. However, the email was sent hours before the three-week break ended. During the break, multiple players and support staff members attended marquee sporting events including Euro 2020 and the Wimbledon, which had large crowds. Some cricketers also travelled to Scotland for a break. It is understood that once Pant, who attended a Euro game at Wembley, was confirmed to have contracted the virus last week, three other players — a spinner, a pacer and a reserve pacer — served the isolation period before being cleared to enter the biosecure bubble and board the bus to Durham. The BCCI statement confirmed that all members of the touring contingent were administered a second dose of the vaccine during the last three weeks.  Pant will have to clear two successive negative RT-PCR tests The other four will have to be quarantined for 10 days BCCI statement confirmed that all the members and their families have been administered second dose of vaccine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pant-isolating-after-july-8-positive-test-for-covid-19/article35355035.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In pursuit of history and a piece of precious metal||History will be repeated when men’s hockey team captain Manpreet Singh carries the Tricolour, along with boxing legend M.C. Mary Kom, at the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympic Games. Manpreet will be India’s first hockey player to do so after Pargat Singh in 1996. The inspiring midfielder and his well-knit team will be keen to see history revisit India on the turf as well. In four decades, India has not made it to the semifinals. The most successful hockey nation in the Games’ history has not earned a podium finish after its gold in 1980. The men and women have given themselves an extra ounce of motivation by making a nationalistic announcement — any medal, if it comes, will be dedicated to the COVID-19 warriors of the country. Manpreet and his squad have prepared well for the arduous task of achieving a long-desired medal. Steeling the body and the mind to overcome doughty opponents and tricky situations has been one of the key aspects of their preparations. The well-balanced team has pedigree and promise. The defence is experienced, the midfield is energetic and the forward line is sharp. Drag-flicker Harmanpreet Singh and Co. will enhance the goal-scoring scope. Medals in top level events — including the Champions Trophy, World League, Asia Cup, Asian Games and Asian Champions Trophy — apart from recent wins over reigning Olympic champion Argentina in the FIH Pro League have instilled self-belief in the side. The experience of playing against Germany and Great Britain will also help. Clubbed in Pool A with Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Spain and Japan, the Graham Reid-coached team has the potential to break the jinx. The women’s hockey team, which made it to the Rio Games after 36 years, is eager to take the next big step by ensuring a respectable finish in Tokyo. The team has shaped well under the guidance of coach Sjoerd Marijne. Led by the iconic Rani Rampal over the last four years, it has claimed medals in elite events, including the Asia Cup, Asian Games and Asian Champions Trophy, apart from securing a top-eight finish in the 2018 World Cup. Solid leadership group Rani forms a solid leadership group with vice-captains Deep Grace Ekka and Savita. Like a beacon light, they will play a key role in steering the side, consisting of youngsters as well as seasoned campaigners, on the Olympics’ high-pressure platform. The side has developed qualities such as fighting till the end, playing without fear and understanding each other’s role well. The players will need to stay calm and rely on their fitness to execute the plans well. Some proven customers in the back line, apt performers in the middle and an interesting combination of seasoned hands and greenhorns up the field sum up the team’s strengths. Gurjit Kaur will be the leading hand in penalty corner conversion. Members with loads of experience but relatively less exposure may spring surprises on opponents. Exposure tours to Germany and Argentina early this year should prove beneficial. India, placed with World, European and Pro League champion Netherlands, Olympic champion Great Britain, Germany, Ireland and South Africa in Pool A, will have to give its best in order to achieve a dream finish. The hot and humid weather of Tokyo should make both the Indian teams feel at home. Hockey fans will eagerly wait to see how seamlessly the Indians switch to Games mode in pursuit of a piece of the historic metal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-pursuit-of-history-and-a-piece-of-precious-metal/article35355038.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||From epic dominance to harrowing drought||India’s dominance in hockey for nearly three decades, spanning six Olympics in the previous century, is one of the Games’ epic tales. Olympic glory first gave the country, which was firmly under British rule, its own identity, and in subsequent years earned it a lot of pride on the global stage. India’s first gold medal, even if it was against a depleted field in the 1928 Amsterdam Games, was an unheard-of moment for a nation experiencing its freedom struggle. The 1932 Los Angeles Games established the country as one of the sport’s powerhouses. The following edition in Berlin enabled India complete a unique hat-trick of gold medals in hockey wizard Dhyan Chand’s farewell Olympics. In the post-World War II London Games in 1948, independent India won its first gold medal, beating the host 4-0 in the final. The Tricolour going up on English soil and the national anthem playing in London was special. India reasserted its supremacy in 1952 in Helsinki, and made it three-in-a-row after Independence, and six-in-a-row overall, in Melbourne. The 1956 edition triggered the mouthwatering India-Pakistan rivalry, with India managing a 1-0 win in the summit clash. India took silver for the first time in the 1960 Rome Olympics, after losing to Pakistan 1-0, but regained gold with an identical victory over its arch-rival in Tokyo four years later. Internal issues were responsible for bronze medals in 1968 and 1972 in Mexico and Munich respectively. But India saw a new low, returning without a medal on astro-turf from the 1976 Montreal Games. The boycott-marred 1980 Moscow Olympics was the last Games where India won a hockey medal, a gold. The lowest point came when the team failed to qualify for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.   Roll of honour   Gold: 1928 (Amsterdam), 1932 (Los Angeles), 1936 (Berlin), 1948 (London), 1952 (Helsinki), 1956 (Melbourne), 1964 (Tokyo), 1980 (Moscow).  Silver: 1960 (Rome).  Bronze: 1968 (Mexico City), 1972 (Munich).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/from-epic-dominance-to-harrowing-drought/article35355042.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sania looking for an elusive Olympic medal||For someone who redefined the levels of excellence in the world of women’s tennis, the 34-year-old Sania Mirza is all geared up to chase one more goal — an Olympic medal. The six-time Grand Slam-winner, making her fourth Olympics appearance, will take part in the women’s doubles competition, along with Ankita Raina at Tokyo. “I consider it a great honour and privilege to be representing my country for the fourth time in the Olympics in Tokyo,” she said in a chat with The Hindu . “Yes, it is quite amazing that when I started out in tennis almost three decades ago, it was all about dreaming of winning a Grand Slam. I had never imagined I would one day jointly hold the record of most appearances (four) in Olympics by an Indian woman. This is another record that I will be personally very proud of!,” Sania said. “It has been reasonably good under the prevailing pandemic conditions but, ideally, I would have liked to have got a few more matches under my belt before heading into the Olympics,” she said. “The Tokyo Games are obviously going to feel very different without spectators. And, the stringent rules and restrictions are definitely making things more difficult,” she said. “Ankita has been ranked in the top-100 in doubles and that is something none of my earlier women partners have managed,” Sania said. “Of course, it is never easy for any player to immediately adjust to playing against the best in the world and we will definitely need to punch way beyond our weight to make an impression at the Tokyo Olympics,” she said.  Ideally, I would have liked to have got a few more matches under my belt before heading into the Olympics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-looking-for-an-elusive-olympic-medal/article35355048.ece
16 July 2021||MILWAUKEE,||Bucks rally to draw level with Suns||Khris Middleton earned his nickname in Game 4 of the NBA Finals as “Cash Money” came up clutch in the biggest game of his life. Following back-to-back 40-point efforts by Giannis Antetokounmpo, Middleton emerged as the Bucks’ saviour with a playoff-career high 40 to overshadow 42 points from Suns guard Devin Booker. “Late in the fourth quarter, we just ran sets that enabled me to get to my spots,” Middleton said. “After that I’ve just got to make reads. Thankfully, I hit some shots.” Boucing back Middleton scored 10 consecutive points and the Milwaukee Bucks rallied from a nine-point deficit to claim Game 4, 109-103, and tie the Phoenix Suns at 2-2 in the best-of-seven NBA Finals. “I don’t count shots. I let the shots come to me and I take it,” Middleton said. “I don’t count stats or shots until the end of the game.” Middleton made the money plays in the final two minutes with a freakish nod to Antetokounmpo, whose block of Deandre Ayton kept the Bucks’ lead at four points with 1:15 to play. Antetokounmpo deferred more than usual and had 26 points, 14 rebounds, eight assists, three steals and two blocks. For most of the night, only fouls stopped Booker. The Suns’ top scorer scored 42 despite being dogged most of the second half by foul trouble. Booker’s effort was his ninth game in these playoffs over 30 points. He had 10 points on 3 of 14 shooting in Game 3. Phoenix shot 51.3% from the field and held the Bucks to 40.2%. The series now shifts back to Phoenix for Game 5 on Saturday and Middleton said the Bucks had to take the momentum with them.   The results:   Milwaukee Bucks 109 (Middleton 40, Antetokounmpo 26) bt Phoenix Suns 103 (Booker 42). Series tied 2-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bucks-rally-to-draw-level-with-suns/article35355077.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Excited to become a better bowler: Rakshan||Hyderabad’s young fast bowling talent, Rakshan Reddy, believes that the special camp at the MRF Pace Foundation in Chennai, starting July 19, will help him improve his skills. The 21-year-old, who was the highest wicket-taker among fast bowlers in the 2019 Vinoo Mankad Trophy (under-19) with 19 wickets from eight matches, said he was called for a similar camp last season as well, but it had to be put off due to the pandemic. “I am grateful to Senthil Sir (M. Senthilnathan, chief coach of MRF Foundation) for this wonderful opportunity. I am excited and looking forward to being a much better fast bowler, as some of the big names will be there to teach us,” Rakshan told The Hindu . “Because of my height (6’3”) I get a lot of bounce off the wicket. And, I feel I am generally pretty accurate. “So, I will try to be a much stronger and faster bowler after the MRF camp,” said the young fast bowler, a big fan of England’s Jofra Archer. “Having played for India under-19 in the Quadrangular Series in South Africa and then against Afghanistan in 2020 October and picking four wickets from three matches, I got a feel of what it means to play at the highest level,” he said. “With my dad (Tirupathi Reddy), also a cricketer who represented Hyderabad in the under-23 and under-25 grades, being my first coach, my interest in cricket was natural,” he said. “Thanks to the support of the Hyderabad Cricket Association, I got the chance to play in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and the Vijay Hazare Trophy tournaments and picked one wicket each in the two matches I layed,” Rakshan said. “Now coached by Alfred Absolom Sir (former Hyderabad Ranji pacer), my target is to play for India one day and be the best fast bowler,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/excited-to-become-a-better-bowler-rakshan/article35355384.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||BCCI working group set to swing into action||Despite the delay in its appointment, the BCCI’s newly formed working group for domestic cricket is hoping to address the priorities of various stakeholders. The BCCI annual general meeting on December 1 last year had authorised the office-bearers to form a working group to formulate a compensation package for cricketers and officials after the 2020-21 season was curtailed by the COVID-19 outbreak. The working group, appointed earlier this week, includes Rohan Jaitley (North Zone), Yudhvir Singh (Central), Jaydev Shah (West), Devajit Saikia (North-East), Avishek Dalmiya (East), Santhosh Menon and Mohammad Azharuddin (South). Interestingly, the BCCI letter to its affiliates on July 10, informing them of the formation of the group, has no mention of a compensation package. “It has been verbally discussed and I am sure we will be involved in devising the details. From what we gather, the package that is being worked out will be to make up for the loss of tournaments that could not happen last season,” said a member of the group, on condition of anonymity. In addition to the compensation package, the group will also be tasked with executing the forthcoming domestic season, set to start on September 21. “Yes, the BCCI has announced the schedule, but besides finalising the venues, we will also have to see if the format requires any tweaks to minimise risks,” said another member of the group. In the letter to the associations, BCCI secretary Jay Shah noted that the working group comprised representatives of “member associations, including former cricketers”. Cricketer’s perspective The cricket community is hoping that the ex players in the working group — Azharuddin, the former India captain and Hyderabad Cricket Association president, and Jaydev Shah, the Saurashtra Cricket Association chief and First Class veteran — will consider matters more from a cricketer’s perspective than an administrator’s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-working-group-set-to-swing-into-action/article35355203.ece
16 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Important to always believe in yourself, says Sindhu||World champion P.V. Sindhu’s advice to the budding talent in any discipline is to believe in themselves, enjoy the sport and show the desired passion. The Rio Olympics silver medallist, speaking at the virtual interaction of Bridgestone’s campaign ‘Chase your Dreams’ on Thursday, said that some might be successful very early in their career and some very late. Years of hard work “But, the most important thing is to always think that ‘I can do it’. It requires years of hard work to reach the levels of some of the greats of the sports,” Sindhu said. “I am sure if all the parents advise and guide their children interested in sports in the right way, they are bound to succeed,” she said. On what have been the biggest lessons in her journey so far, Sindhu said focus, endurance and performance were the key to her success story.  “One has to remain focussed, make the right kind of efforts, and must have a vision. Nothing comes our way easily. Everyone has to have a goal and keep chasing it, as this campaign suggests,” she said. Indian Olympic Association joint secretary Namdev Shirgaonkar thanked Bridgestone for the support to the Olympics contingent. “We are sending the biggest squad for the Tokyo Games with many firsts. And we are hopeful of a memorable performance,” he said. Bridgestone India MD Parag Satpute, and Deepak Gulati, Chief Marketing Officer, Bridgestone, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/important-to-always-believe-in-yourself-says-sindhu/article35355206.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||We have to play fearlessly no matter what, says coach Powar||Ramesh Powar wants the Women in Blue to play fearless cricket. “We will do that, but you can’t enforce that on the players in my first series (on returning as the coach),” he said at virtual press conference from Chelmsford, where India played its last match of the England tour on Wednesday. “They have been playing (according to) some ideology for the last two or three years, so I have to assess what suits them.” He, however, said that he had already discussed with the players about the need to play fearless cricket. “If you see this game (the final T20I that India lost by eight wickets), we were 24 for two after five overs, but we ended up with 153,” he said. “We have to play fearlessly no matter what... otherwise every team will dominate you.”  Powar, in his second stint as the women’s coach, feels the team has to sort out a few areas, including batting and pace bowling, before the World Cup to be held in New Zealand in March-April next year. Pressure on opponents “The middle-overs batting, after the PowerPlay is something we have to work on,” he said. “Mithali is batting very well but we need (people to) support her so that we could put pressure on the opponents.”  He said he would be looking to widen the pool of pace bowlers. “We already have five bowlers with the team and will add five more,” he said. “We will look at the domestic cricket, (ideally) for tall fast bowlers.” Looking back at India’s magnificent fightback in the Test match, he said he and the rest of the supporting staff helped the largely inexperienced team with inputs. “They had a lack of situational awareness,” he said. “We helped them (with our knowledge) as we have the experience of playing First Class cricket.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-have-to-play-fearlessly-no-matter-what-says-coach-powar/article35355257.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||SRCC wins FIDE B-School Super Cup||Delhi-based Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) dispatched three Russian teams in the knockout phase to win the inaugural FIDE Binance Business Schools Super Cup online chess title. Slow start After a slow start, SRCC topped the eight-team Group-A with a tally of 22 points, despite suffering a 1.5-2.5 shock defeat to Zambia’s Mulungushi University. After two teams from each of the four groups qualified for the quarterfinals, SRCC defeated Moscow-based MGIMO 3.5-0.5. In the semifinals, SRCC overpowered Grandmaster Joel Lautier-led Moscow School of Management 3-1. In the two-match final, SRCC proved superior to MIPT Business School 2.5-1.5 in the first match and then claimed the second 3-1 to emerge the champion. Woman International Master Vantika Agarwal won all her seven games after joining the action from the fifth round of the league phase. Ankit also won all four games in the knockout after contributing four points from six games in the league. Besides SRCC, there were six other Indian teams from four institutions — Galgotia University, Indian Institute of Management (Jammu), T.A. Pai Management Institute (two teams each) and Bharathidasan Institute of Management — but none could get past the league stage.  The results:   Final: Match 1: SRCC bt MIPT Business School 2..5-1.5; Match 2: SRCC bt MIPT Business School 3-1.   Third place: Moscow School of Management bt University of Toronto 3-1.   SRCCs individual performance: Ankit Gajwa (8 points from 10 games); Vantika Agrawal (7/7), Tarini Goyal (captain) (6/7), Rishi Sardana (7/9), Arijith M. (3/4) and Jeet Jain (3/7) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srcc-wins-fide-b-school-super-cup/article35355208.ece
16 July 2021||Kochi,||Usha calls for a separate category for DSD athletes||She is the fastest quartermiler this year and when Namibia’s Christine Mboma came up with that amazing 48.54s in a meet in Poland recently, many felt that the 18-year-old would be the favourite at the Tokyo Olympics. But the other day, World Athletics removed Mboma and another Namibia quartermiler Beatrice Masilingi, the world’s third fastest this year, from its Tokyo list. The Namibian National Olympic Committee also explained through a media release that the World Athletics’ rules pertaining to ‘Athletes with Differences of Sexual Development’ required the two to undergo medical tests and since they were found to have high testosterone levels they would not be eligible to compete in events ranging from the 400m to the mile. The two will now be running the 200m in Tokyo. Another athlete, Niger’s Aminatou Seyni, was also forced to drop the 400m last year after she refused to take hormone suppressants for her elevated testosterone levels. P.T. Usha feels that there could be nearly 10 such athletes in the Indian circuit. “I feel that there are some eight to 10 DSD athletes who are competing in our national meets. When our teams go for international competitions, if somebody is found to be a DSD athlete in tests, that will be very shameful for the country,” said Usha in a chat with The Hindu . “So, we have be very careful about it. We should confirm that we don’t have any DSD athlete in our team. “In fact, there there should be a separate category for DSD athletes, apart from men and women divisions. Because their numbers seem to be increasing and it is a problem for ‘real’ women to compete against them.” The World Athletics’ DSD regulations only apply to athletes who are ‘biologically male’ (46 XY) but it does not stop them from competing in jumps, throws and long distance events in international meets and Usha feels that is not fair. “This issue used to be a big problem in the 400, 800 and 1500m but I can see many of them in other events. They should not be allowed to compete with real women in all events,” she said. “Earlier, they were very strict about it. During our time, we had gender testing and we were given a card too. Every team was tested. And only ‘real’ girls were allowed to compete.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usha-calls-for-a-separate-category-for-dsd-athletes/article35355205.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||All set for the Sprint Qualifying race||This weekend’s British Grand Prix will see the debut of a new format called Sprint Qualifying race. Here is a low-down on what the format is and how it will operate.  What: The new format will be a sprint race held on the Saturday, instead of the traditional qualifying, to set the grid for Sunday’s race.  How: It will be a 100-km race that will happen over 25-30 minutes with no mandatory pit-stops. The top-three drivers will get three, two and one championship points respectively. They also get a victory parade and be presented with specially-designed wreaths to wear around their necks. On Friday, instead of two practice sessions, there will be just an one-hour session followed by a traditional qualifying session later in the day, to set the grid for Saturday’s Sprint Race. There will be another one-hour practice session on Saturday before the Sprint race.  Why: The new system is being trialled is to have more excitement and track action of consequence on all three days of the weekend for the fans. It also helps both the circuit promoters and broadcasters.  Where: The new format will be held in Silverstone, Monza (Italian GP) and at one more venue in the calendar which is not yet finalised. The idea is to have this format at select venues to bring some variability during the season and not to replace the existing qualifying format altogether.  Have great respect for Lewis and we are taking nothing for granted   Max Verstappen   We are expecting a very strong performance from Mercedes and Lewis Christian Horner,Red Bull boss||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-set-for-the-sprint-qualifying-race/article35355081.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pragg stuns Sargissian||R. Praggnanandhaa stunned Armenia’s Gabriel Sargissian in 41 moves to inch closer to a place in the third round of the World Cup chess on Friday. On a day when D. Gukesh pulled off a creditable draw against 17th seed Daniil Dubov, B. Adhiban and D. Harika were the other winners among the 12 Indians on view during the first game of the second round. P. Iniyan and R. Vaishali lost.  Indian results (second round, game one):   Men: D. Gukesh drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus); P. Iniyan lost to Evgney Tomeshevsky (Rus); Alexandr Fier (Bra) drew with Vidit Gujrathi; B. Adhiban bt Neuris Delgado Ramirez (Par); Nodirbek Abdusattorov (Uzb) drew with Aravindh Chithambaram; Nihal Sarin drew with Sanan Sjugirov (Rus); Yasser Quesada Perez (Cub) drew with P. Harikrishna; R. Praggnanandhaa bt Gabriel Sargissian (Arm).   Women: Bhakti Kulkarni drew with Natalia Pogonina (Rus); D. Harika bt Medina Warda Aulia (Ina); Sarasadat Khademalsharieh (Iri) drew with Padmini Rout; Bela Khotenashvili (Geo) bt R. Vaishnavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pragg-stuns-sargissian/article35355032.ece
16 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam to play at AFC women’s tourney||Gokulam Kerala will play at this year’s AFC Women’s Club championship. The city-based club, which is the reigning champion of the Indian Women’s League, was nominated by the AIFF. “We are honoured to be nominated by the AIFF,” said the club’s chairman Gokulam Gopalan. “We are happy that our women’s team will play the continental championship before our men’s team. We will be starting our camp soon and we will try to land the first AFC cup to India.” He added the management would continue to investing in women’s football. “We want our women’s team to lift the AFC trophy first and set an example for our men’s team,” he said. Gokulam has become the country’s first club to get entry to both the men’s and women’s continental championships. The men had qualified for the AFC Cup by winning the I-League this past season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-to-play-at-afc-womens-tourney/article35355453.ece
16 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Blasters signs Harmanjot Khabra||Kerala Blasters has signed experienced defender Harmanjot Khabra for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season. Khabra, who has made the fourth highest number of appearances in the ISL, joins Blasters from Bengaluru FC. He also played for Chennaiyin FC for three seasons. A TFA product, Khabra made his professional debut with I-League side Sporting Club de Goa in 2006. “I am very excited to join Kerala Blasters. I look forward to donning the KBFC colors with pride and hunger and I’m very keen to meet my new teammates and start preparing for the journey ahead.” he said. Experienced “Khabra is a player who can bring much needed experience to our team. His passion, versatility and leadership will have a positive influence on our team.” said Karolis Skinkys, sporting director of Kerala Blasters FC. He is the fourth player to sign for Blasters this season after Sanjeev Stalin, Hormipam Ruivah and Vincy Barreto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-blasters-signs-harmanjot-khabra/article35355455.ece
16 July 2021||Mysuru:,||State-level online chess||The United Karnataka Chess Association (UKCA), Bengaluru, will be conducting a State-level women’s and junior’s open online chess championships on July 19 & 20 and the junior girls’ event on July 21 & 22.  AICF registration is mandatory. The last date for entry is July 17 The event will be held on TORNELO platform. For further details, call 9036464600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-level-online-chess/article35355078.ece
16 July 2021||Luz-Ardiden,||Pogacar wins 18th stage||Tadej Pogacar edged closer to retaining his Tour de France title as he claimed another landmark victory in the 18th stage, a 129.7-km mountain ride from Pau to Luz Ardiden on Thursday. The Slovenian’s brutal acceleration 500 metres from the line, at top of Luz Ardiden, could not be matched by his rivals as Denmark’s Jonas Vingegaard and Ecuador’s Richard Carapaz finished two seconds behind in second and third, respectively. Overall, Pogacar now has a advantage of five minutes 45 seconds over Vingegaard with Carapaz in third place overall, a further six seconds behind. Colombian Rigoberto Uran, fourth overall at the start, cracked in the penultimate ascent to the Col du Tourmalet to drop out of the top 10. Australian Ben O’Connor is now fourth, 8:18 off the pace two days before Saturday’s final individual time trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pogacar-wins-18th-stage/article35355085.ece
16 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Second game ends in a draw||Viswanathan Anand defeated Vladimir Kramnik at his own game at Dortmund on Wednesday. In the No-Castling Chess contest, designed by the Russian, Anand took a 1-0 lead in the four-game match for the Sparkassen Trophy. The first game didn't disappoint the curious chess fans, as the two battled it out for 66 moves. Anand, with white, was a piece up, but Kramnik tried his best to delay the inevitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-draws-first-blood/article35355029.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the shuttle fly high!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/let-the-shuttle-fly-high/article35355031.ece
16 July 2021||Durham,||Rhodes to lead ‘County Select XI’||Warwickshire captain Willfred Rhodes will lead a 14-member Select County XI in a three-day warm-up game against India here from July 20-22, the ECB said on Thursday.  County Select XI squad: Will Rhodes (Warwickshire, Capt.), Rehan Ahmed (Leicestershire), Tom Aspinwell (Lancashire), Ethan Bamber (Middlesex), James Bracey (Gloucestershire), Jack Carson (Sussex), Zak Chappell (Nottinghamshire), Haseeb Hameed (Nottinghamshire), Lyndon James (Nottinghamshire), Jake Libby (Worcestershire), Craig Miles (Warwickshire), Liam Patterson-White (Nottinghamshire), James Rew (Somerset), Rob Yates (Warwickshire) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rhodes-to-lead-county-select-xi/article35355033.ece
16 July 2021||HAMBURG,||Divij-Gille duo exits||Divij Sharan and Sander Gille of Belgium were beaten by Ivan Sabanov and Matej Sabanov of Croatia 6-3, 6-4 in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €1,168,220 ATP tennis tournament here. In the Challenger at Amersfoort (Nethdrlands), the duo of Arjun Kadhe and Michael Geerts of Belgium was beaten 6-3, 7-5 in the quarterfinals, by top seeds Sergio Galdos and Goncalo Oliveira.  The results: €1,168,220 ATP, Hamburg: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ivan Sabanov & Matej Sabanov (Cro) bt Sander Gille (Bel) & Divij Sharan 6-3, 6-4.   €44,820 Challenger, Amersfoort, Netherlands: Doubles (quarterfinals): Sergio Galdos (Per) & Goncalo Oliveira (Por) bt Michael Geerts (Bel) & Arjun Kadhe 6-3, 7-5; Pre-quarterfinals: Geerts & Kadhe bt Johan Nikles (Sui) & Carlos Sanchez Jover (Esp) 6-2, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-gille-duo-exits/article35355210.ece
16 July 2021||VADODARA,||Deepak Hooda quits Baroda||Experienced batsman Deepak Hooda has expectedly left the Baroda cricket team after a fall-out with skipper Krunal Pandya last season. NOC granted He has been granted NOC by the Baroda Cricket Association. The development was confirmed on Thursday by BCA secretary Ajit Lele. In January, the BCA had suspended Hooda, who had stormed out of the camp before the start of Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, for the last domestic season for “indiscipline” and “bringing disrespect to the game.” Hooda had claimed that Krunal had misbehaved with him. The 26-year-old Hooda, who made his first-class debut in 2014, has played 46 matches and scored 2,908 runs, with nine hundreds, 15 fifties. A right-arm off-spinner Hooda has also 20 wickets to his name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-hooda-quits-baroda/article35355209.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Shivraj powers IBBC to victory||Shivraj Kumar (32 points) powered Indiranagar Basketball Club (IBBC) to a 68-58 win over BSNL in the State A-division basketball league at Sree Kanteerava Stadium outdoor courts here on Thursday. Shivraj was unstoppable from beyond the arc, sinking eight three-pointers. The shooting guard used good footwork to create space and take his clean shots. Shivraj’s exploits took IBBC to its fourth win in six games. In another encounter, favourite Bank of Baroda (formerly Vijaya Bank) whipped JSC 79-30.  The results: DYES, Bangalore 85 (Srinivas 17, Shashidhar 14) bt Rajmahal BC 40 (Karthik 22); IBBC 68 (Shivraj Kumar 32, Suresh 10) bt BSNL 58 (Nikhilesh 18); Bank of Baroda 79 (Arvind 20, Karthikeyan 16) bt JSC 30; CMP 64 (Alwin 16, Rajesh 17) bt Beagles BC 59 (Erash 15) .    Narendra Chowdhary’s second-half goal helped BTM FC hold RWF FC to a 1-1 draw in the BDFA A-division football league on Thursday.  The results: A-division: RWF 1 (Sugander 32) drew with BTM 1 (Narendra Chowdhary 70); Jawahar Union FC 1 (Michael Nile 55) drew with BUFC 1 (Adarsh 46) .     The Karnataka Amateur Boxing Association will conduct open trials to select the State squad to compete in the National junior (boys and girls) championship, to be held at Sonepat later this month. The trials will be held at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium boxing hall on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shivraj-powers-ibbc-to-victory/article35355082.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: CDCA league, II div., Dev vs Medavakkam CC (8.30 a.m.), Sumangali (turf), Santosapuram; CCCA-M. Suresh Kumar Memorial Open, RKCA, 12.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article35355126.ece
16 July 2021||Gros-Islet,||Marsh takes Australia home||An all-round performance by Mitchell Marsh (75 and three for 24) earned Australia its first victory of the five-match T20I series as it hung on for a four-run win over the West Indies in the fourth match on Wednesday. West Indies leads series 3-1. With half-centuries already in the first two matches of the series, Marsh flayed the Caribbean bowlers as he scored 75 off 44 balls with six sixes and four fours to pace his team to a challenging total of 189 for six after choosing to bat. He also took three wickets. He put on 114 for the second wicket with Aaron Finch.   The scores:   Australia 189/6 in 20 overs (Mitchell Marsh 75, Aaron Finch 53, Hayden Walsh 3/27) bt West Indies 185/6 in 20 overs (Lendl Simmons 72, Evin Lewis 31, Mitchell Marsh 3/24). Australia won by four runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marsh-takes-australia-home/article35355079.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 07:16 IST,||Sudoku — July 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-16-2021/article35355797.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Training day||It is not just the protagonist’s surname that Toofaan (2021) and Ali (2001) have in common. Two decades after actor and fitness expert Darrell Foster moulded Will Smith’s Muhammad Ali into shape, he has done the same for Farhan Akhtar’s Aziz Ali, in Toofaan . Directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, this sports drama is set to release on Friday. Ahead of its premiere, Foster connects from his Los Angeles home to discuss the process of getting inside the mind and body of a boxer. He did that for Antonio Banderas and Woody Harrelson in Play It to the Bone , for Russell Harvard in Heart, Baby! and now, for Farhan Akhtar. The Bhaag Milkha Bhaag star is no stranger to movies that demand rigorous fitness routines, but playing a National-level boxer brought new challenges. “We went over the pugilism fundamentals first: balance, footwork, hand and eye-coordination. Then we taught him to work on the heavy bag, the speed bag, to skip rope — everything necessary for him to portray his character,” says Foster. In the year that he trained Farhan, Foster designed for him a personalised lifestyle management programme that looked after his cardiovascular fitness, muscle strength and endurance, and flexibility. Since Farhan’s character goes through an arc of losing weight, gaining it and then losing it again, the transformation was extreme. “When you have location issues, where you can’t necessarily shoot where and when you want, it is quite taxing on Farhan to keep changing his look — to starve himself at some point and force feed sometime else,” he says, applauding Farhan’s commitment. Prepping an actor for a sports drama or action is not just about extreme transformations or maintaining a high level of fitness, but also making sure the actor is in the right frame of mind, he says. “You have to deliver dialogue with the right amount of emotion, it is a mental task. And your brain operates on glucose and oxygen, so I can’t manipulate your carbo-hydration intake to the point that it begins to affect your ability to say your lines well. It requires training your intellect and your anatomy together, in congruence.” Which of course meant spending a lot of time getting to know Farhan, inside the ring. “It took time for me to understand whether it was simply a mood swing or whether it was his diet that was affecting his behaviour,” he shares, about how he began to accurately assess if Farhan was “firing on all cylinders”. His fitness methodology includes what he calls Action Scene Analysis. “Say Farhan does an action scene outside the ring, where he has to run and jump over some tables and take off running down the beach. I will analyse sequence by sequence to understand what muscle groups will be involved and then set up an exercise programme to facilitate that,” he says. The larger point being injury prevention. To do this, he has to work closely with the director and cinematographer. “If I’m having him throw a lot of lateral punches or straight punches for a scene today, I won’t have him doing weight training that involves shoulders. If he is sore from the upper body workout the day before, we will shoot from the waist below and get only the footwork. If we have a ring scene for which he needs to look great, and he has eliminated carbs and water for the day, I tell the director, let’s keep it just physical and not shoot any dialogues.” Foster appreciates the amount of control the director let him have over the shooting. “They were humble enough to step back and let you do what you do, and then ask, ‘can I get this shot done today?’. That’s what made it such a wonderful project to be a part of.”  It took time for me to understand whether it was simply a mood swing or whether it was his diet that was affecting his behaviour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/training-day/article35355459.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||One bin at a time||It was a dull day at Srinagar Handicrafts, one of the many souvenir shops dotting Ghanta Ghar. The tourists seemed to have disappeared like the migratory birds that visited the Valley. Zainab fervently hoped it wasn’t one of those days, when they went home without making a sale.  Ding! The wind chimes on the door sounded. Yayyy! Tourists! “Please visit again,” Zainab trilled, as Abba billed their purchases. “I’m never coming back to Kashmir!” declared the boy. “Raju!” his mother chided. “That was rude!” “I’m so sorry,” his father said. “It’s just that I’d told him so many stories...” “You called Kashmir Heaven on Earth,” the boy accused. “And it was. With its beautiful chinar trees, lush green gardens and the crystal clear Dal Lake...” “Crystal clear!” scoffed the boy. “All I saw was plastic bottles, food wrappers and all sorts of trash floating on it!” “There was a time when the lake’s water was clean enough to drink,” Abbu sighed. *** At home, Zainab was still thinking about what the boy had said. Dal Lake was rather dirty. Why, even her teacher had said that pollution was choking it. Worry clouded her face. What if it got dirtier? What if more tourists started feeling the same way? What if they went home and told people about it? And those others decided they wouldn’t visit Kashmir at all? Can something be done? How would Abbu make a living? How would Ammi manage the household? What if she had to drop out of school? She thought about the summer when curfew had been clamped and school had been shut for weeks. How terribly dull and utterly boring life had been! No! She couldn’t — wouldn’t — let that happen! If only she could do something about it. But what? An idea bulb popped above her head! “Ammi, where’s the blue bucket?” Her mother was puzzled. “You mean, the dirty old plastic mop bucket that cracked last evening?” “That’s the one,” Zainab grinned. *** Zainab was walking along the lake with her best friend Haseena. “I can’t believe you’re carrying that to school,” Haseena grimaced. “A broken mop bucket.” “I’m not taking it to school and I’ve mended it.” She hadn’t just fixed it; she had pasted a label on it. “USE ME”, it urged in bold sparkly capitals. She marched to the jetty and put the dustbin down. “So, this is your plan?” asked Haseena. Zainab nodded excitedly. “Imagine if all of us could contribute a dustbin to the city!” “Spend money? On a dustbin?” Haseena scoffed. “You know how tough things are.” Zainab’s face fell. The last few months had been rather difficult. Schools, offices, shops, businesses had been shut for weeks. She couldn’t expect people to spend their hard earned money on her dream project. “What if we made the dustbins?” she suggested. “Remember the Best out of Waste class?” *** On their way back from school, she decided to peek into the newly placed dustbin. It was empty. But there was a banana peel lying right next to it. “Told you it wasn’t going to work,” said Haseena. “You can place hundreds of dustbins around the city, but how will you make people throw the trash into it?” Zainab didn’t know the answer to that. All she knew was that she had to try. That week, the tourists at Shalimar Bagh walked past shoe boxes with “USE ME” scrawled on them. That weekend, the owners of houseboats docked at Dal Lake received willow baskets held together with duct tape that had “WASTE BIN” scribbled on them. The next week, thermocol dustbins popped up at Sri Pratap Singh Museum. And at Pari Mahal. And at Charminar Bagh. *** Later that month, Zainab and Haseena were walking along the lake. “Aren’t you tired of making dustbins?” asked Haseena. “How long will you keep doing it?” Zainab’s eyes drifted to the jetty, to the blue mop bucket, to the first dustbin. She watched as a tourist slowly ambled across and tossed a crushed water bottle in it. “As long as I can,” she replied, flashing a thousand-watt smile.  You can place dustbins around the city, but how will you make people throw the trash into it?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/one-bin-at-a-time/article35355660.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Brimming with beauty||Tanzania is the largest country in East Africa. With eight neighbours, it is among the top 10 countries in the world with the most international borders. It shares its borders with Kenya and Uganda to the north, Rwanda, Burundi, and Democratic Republic of Congo to the west, and Zambia, Malawi, and Mozambique to the south. It has a coastline along the Indian Ocean to the east. The islands of Zanzibar, Pemba and Mafia are also a part of Tanzania. Dar es Salaam is the administrative capital of the country while Dodoma is the legislative capital. The currency is the Tanzanian shilling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/brimming-with-beauty/article35355697.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Green sentinels||Govind was baffled. His cows had been browsing on the leaves of an Acacia tree just moments ago. But when he led them to another healthier one, they wouldn’t touch it. They did the same with the next couple of trees too. Only when they moved quite some distance away did they begin to eat from an acacia tree. When Govind got home with this story, “The first tree must have warned the others about the cows,” his father mused. “And the others must have given off a poisonous gas. So our cows refused to feed from them.” He was right. Scientists have discovered that Acacia trees emit a gas called ethylene when browsed upon. When this reaches neighbouring trees, it stimulate them to produce substances like tannins that make their leaves unpalatable.  They had formed what scientists call a ‘Wood Wide Web’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/green-sentinels/article35355664.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Into the Web||Best friends Wreck-It Ralph and Vanellope von Schweetz (from Wreck-It Ralph ) hang out every night at Litwak’s Family Fun Centre and Arcade. While Ralph is happy, Vanellope wants something new and exciting. So Ralph creates a secret bonus track during a race. Vanellope’s attempt to override player control while testing breaks the steering wheel. This leads to Sugar Rush being unplugged leaving the game’s characters homeless. Into the Internet So Ralph and Vanellope travel into the World Wide Web searching for a replacement and have to rely on the citizens of the Internet (netizens) to help find their way. Among those they come in contact with are website entrepreneur Yesss, the head algorithm and the heart and soul of trend-making site BuzzTube, and a search engine named KnowsMore. To raise money for the replacement part, Ralph and Vanellope find themselves in a popular racing-centred game, Slaughter House. Vanellope finds it exciting and wants to be a part of the game, upsetting Ralph? What’s next? Do they find a replacement part? Does Vanellope return to the arcade? Or does Ralph lose his best friend?  Bits and bytes:  Mary Costa is the only (living) original voice actor not to reprise her role as her Disney Princess, Aurora. Due to her age, she could not play a 16-year-old princess. Merida and Buzz Lightyear are the first characters from a Pixar film to make their first full appearance in a film not by Pixar. This sequel’s story takes place six years after Wreck-It Ralph (2012). It is the same interval between the release of the two films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/into-the-web/article35355691.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The Castle in the House Time to rebuild||Story so far: Shalu and Samit thought a cat broke their castle the first time. But how did it break again?  Shalu stared at the castle’s ruins. She heard Samit rush out and the murmur of voices. Samit came back to announce, “It was Nitin! Amma says he came yesterday when we weren’t here!” “But why ...” “I guess he was trying to help!” Samit shrugged. “But didn’t realise that he had destroyed the castle!” Seeing the look on Shalu’s face, he said, “But we can fix it, Shalu!” “It took so long,” Shalu’s voice quavered. “And we’ll do it again,” Samit promised. “It will mean working longer on it, that’s all!” Shalu cheered up because Samit made it seem so easy. No an easy task But of course, it wasn’t. They had to read the instructions again because all the parts had been scattered around the room. “It’s like Nitin hates us,” Samit said grimly. “Oh, no, he doesn’t!” Shalu protested so Samit kept quiet. “It’s a good thing it’s Saturday,” he said instead. “And I don’t have homework!” Shalu longed to ask if Samit was missing his phone. Weekends had earlier been devoted to playing on it. But, today, it sat in a corner, playing songs softly, while they worked. Amma had to drag them away for lunch. “Tomorrow,” Samit promised Shalu, “we’ll get back to it!” and she was happy. The promise was enough to make Shalu happy. The castle was so big! It grew even taller on Sunday because Samit decided to work on it all day. Amma made them a picnic lunch, with cheese sandwiches and milkshake, which they ate in the playroom. Shalu thought gratefully of Rajani Ma’am and her ‘No Phone’ plan, as she fell asleep. Samit was waiting for her when she got home from school the next day. “Guess what? Rajani Ma’am is happy because we have all been keeping away from phones. As a reward she is going to let us have our phones back tomorrow! Isn’t that great?” He saw the dismay on Shalu’s face and said, “Don’t worry, I’ll still help you finish building the castle!” Shalu smiled but was filled with despair. The minute Samit got his phone back, she would lose her brother again. “Almost done!” Samit sang out later that evening. The towers were in place and now the castle rose over Shalu. “Wonderful,” Amma and Papa said. “Only the moat needs to be fixed,” Samit said, fussing around the castle. “And I’ll do that tomorrow.” He looked at his sister, standing still and silent and asked, “Okay, Shalu?” “Okay,” Shalu said even though she knew nothing would ever be okay again. How could it when she was going to lose her brother again?  To be continued   Shalu smiled but was filled with despair. When Samit got his phone back, she would lose her brother again||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-castle-in-the-house-time-to-rebuild/article35355627.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Snakesssss Ahoy !||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/snakesssss-ahoy/article35355686.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Experience the non-magic||T o every witch, wizard and glum,   I’m Tootoolu Toop, a 10-year-old, fully trained witch of the Oonoodiwaga tribe from the Darjeeling mountains. Like every other ordinary human who wants to live a life of magic, us witches and wizards want to experience the non-magical world too (I do for sure). For me, the ‘ordinary’ world is nothing short of an adventure. So I have left my tribe to live life as a glum.   This is my story.  Tootoolu is on the run. From her mundane life of stirring grasshopper’s legs into potions and her underground home where her tribe has been in hiding for 569 years. Will Tootoolu find what she’s looking for — best friends, books and a chance to be who she truly is? Something strange is afoot at the Lotus Palace. This delicious adventure — set in Darjeeling about a young witch’s attempts at living a human life — is perfect for readers of Roald Dahl, Enid Blyton and David Walliams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/experience-the-non-magic/article35355674.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s furnish the place||Across  1 Decorative light hanging from the ceiling (10) 6 Long seat without a backrest (5) 7 A ____shelf can be found in a library (4) 8 What one does on a sofa (3) 9 Usually fixed on a dressing table (6) 12 A ____chair is for babies (4) 14 A massage table is usually found in this place (3) 15 Seat for a king (6) 17 Famous furniture store (4) 18 Curtains (6)  Down  1 Furniture for the bedroom (3) 2 Antique cupboard (7) 3 Office room furniture (4) 4 Waiting area with sofas (5) 5 _____ horse: found in the children's playroom (7) 9 ____piece: the ledge above the fireplace (6) 10 ___wood is used to make furniture (4) 11 These are placed around a dining table (6) 13 ____board: the panel behind the bed (4) 16 Used to hang curtains, towels, etc. (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lets-furnish-the-place/article35355641.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article35355655.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article35355618.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mocktail magic||Blissfully bananas   What you need:  Ice:½ cup Milk:½ cup Pineapple juice:½ cup Banana:1 Kiwi:4  How to make it:   Place all the ingredients in a blender and blend till smooth.  Pour into a tall glass and garnish with a skewer of kiwi and banana slices.  Bask in the hot summer sun and drink up this delightful mocktail||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/mocktail-magic/article35355638.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A diplomat’s love of drama||Of the many Indologists, Orientalists and Sanskrit scholars who have emerged from other countries over the decades, one gentleman from Poland stands out — Maria Christopher Byrski, who was the Polish ambassador to India from 1994 to 1996. Byrski had his first tryst with India in 1955, when he was a student of Indian Studies at the University of Warsaw. His fascination for Natyashastra , the ancient text on dramaturgy, brought him to Banaras Hindu University (BHU), where he earned a doctorate with a thesis titled ‘Concept of Ancient Indian Theatre’. While doing his research, he became fascinated by Koodiyattam, the only surviving Sanskrit theatre. During a visit to Kerala in 1963, Byrski watched the play Nagananda , staged by the late doyen Mani Madhava Chakyar, and that turned his fascination for the art form into an obsession, which still continues. Koodiyattam travels In 1964, the same Koodiyattam group performed in Varanasi at the invitation of Byrski, who was still a research student at BHU. It was a historic moment — the first time that Koodiyattam, a traditional art form from Kerala largely confined to the temple precincts, was staged in North India. This was followed by a performance of Swapnakam at Sampoornanand Sanskrit University and Abhisheka Nataka at the Maharaja of Varanasi’s Ramnagar Palace. Later, the then President, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, invited Chakyar to present the play at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Driven by his passion for Koodiyattam, Byrski later returned to Kerala, where Chakyar trained him in abhinaya and mudras. “That was a necessary experience for me, as I wanted to learn how mudras made you more vocal,” Byrski says. Communication between Chakyar and Byrski was channelled through his son T.K.G. Nambiar, a Hindi teacher; Byrski, a polyglot, was fluent in Hindi. Chakyar wanted him to stage a vesham , which would have required three more months of training, but Byrski could not stay as he was called back to Poland by his parent organisation, Solidarity, the revolutionary trade union movement. Byrski’s love for Sanskrit manifested itself in different ways. As ambassador, he even had his visiting card engraved in Devanagari script. In 1994, he was invited to give the annual Parikshith Memorial lecture, in memory of Rama Varma Parikshith Thampuran, in Tripunithura. While all the Sanskrit scholars who spoke before him expressed themselves in Malayalam, Byrski sprang a surprise by speaking ex tempore in chaste Sanskrit for one hour. Byrski calls India his gurubhoomi and describes it as “a composite civilisation of many cultures”. Twenty-five years after leaving the country, the former ambassador is still busy lecturing, studying and writing on Indian culture and Hinduism. His recent works include a monograph on ancient Indian theatre and a translation of all the 13 plays of Bhasa, as well as a new translation of Abhijnanashakuntala based on the Kashmiri version. He is currently working on a translation of Mudrarakshasa by Vishakhadatta. He has also published a study titled Meeting with Hinduism , in which he tries “to prove how fruitful a true meeting on equal terms of Hinduism and Christianity may be for Christians.” Also on the cards is a translation of select Vedic hymns into Polish.  The writer and culture critic   is a trained musician.   Byrski’s love for Sanskrit manifested itself in different ways. As ambassador, he even had his visiting card engraved in Devanagari script||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-diplomats-love-of-drama/article35354921.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The inheritance of loss||Yashoda Thakore first learnt of the famed courtesans Muddupalani and Rangajamma when she did her Master’s in dance. Her grandmother had recounted Muddupalani’s acclaimed work ‘Radhika Santvanam’ as a gem of Telugu literature, well-known for its ‘Radha bhava’. Yashoda was thrilled at the very idea that she could be a descendant of someone like Rangajamma who was renowned for her beauty and literary talent. Her professor painted these women as illusory beings! However, she found a silver lining in her hard-earned dancing career when she witnessed Maddula Lakshmi Narayana first perform — a woman who was probably in her 70s and was certainly not an “ethereal beauty” by today’s ‘standards’. “Draped in a silk sari replete with a waist belt, kaasulaperu and bulaaq, she blasted to life,” says Yashoda. “I wept quietly in the darkness but I felt relieved. Here was Maddula Lakshmi Narayana, a Kalavantulu woman who sang and danced! She was real! Her hair was haggard like mine. She was dark-skinned and possessed a bony structure. She was me!” Yashoda, in conversation with her student Sampreeti Malladi, captivates listeners through many such compelling narrations in her podcast ‘Her Story of Dance’. The expansive podcast discusses the alienation of Kalavantulu hereditary performing artistes of the coastal Andhra region from the dance discourse and educates the audience on caste, regionality and cultural hegemony in the context of the appropriation of art from these communities. A number of guest speakers bring in diverse perspectives to the discussion; the list of scholars and artistes who have pitched in is a long one — Saskia Kersenboom, Rumya Putcha, Annabattula Lakshmi Mangatayaru, Urmimala Sarkar, Yendamuri Subba Rao, Suneeta Rani, and Srividya Natarajan. Finding herself Yashoda’s search for her roots took her to little hamlets in Rajahmundry and other regions in Andhra Pradesh, where she met hereditary women like Kotipalli Hymavathi and relearnt pieces like ‘Salaam Daruvu’, a song of salutation presented as part of ‘Mejuvani’ sessions, which were typically private evening soirees for the elite. When Yashoda performed Devadasi Nrityam, she realised the responsibility and gratitude of representing the history of her community and became aware of the place of art in society. Male members of Kalavantulu households were talented musicians themselves. “My maternal uncle Saride Subbarao was an accomplished violinist who learnt from the guru of Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, whom he accompanied when he was young. Our families had several male professionals who played instruments,” says Yendamuri Subba Rao, a percussionist, who accompanies Yashoda when she performs Kalaapams, a forte of the hereditary women. Yashoda learnt the Bhama Kalaapam and the Golla Kalaapam from Annabattula Lakshmi Mangatayaru and her sister Leelasai, who are presently the only persons from the community who teach these unique theatre pieces. With the disenfranchisement of hereditary women artistes, especially in the post-Independence years, the fledgling members of the community discontinued learning and practising the art, as they were forced to look for more ‘respectable’ occupations. They adopted new social identities to gain acceptance. The male progeny took over the reins of the previously matriarchal families and eventually came to the conclusion that art was not for them. Censure and Unlearning The erasure of hereditary aesthetic sensibilities from modern-day classical dance is perhaps best reflected in the way shringara was viewed by the dominant cultural forces who ‘reconstructed and revived’ dance in the 1950s. “I learnt a Kshetrayya padam ‘Okasarike’, which was quite popular in the early 20th century, from Kola Subramaniam, a hereditary dancer. This padam is an explicit expression of female eroticism and teases Muvvagopala. It was censured by the ‘revivalists’ and deemed unfit to be taught to students,” says Yashoda. Dance was regulated heavily to reinforce patriarchal norms. “The sensual content in padams and javalis was used to keep hereditary women away from the art form but later the dance and the dancer were seen as distinct from one another to facilitate appropriation of the art.” Yashoda, a practitioner of both Kuchipudi and Devadasi Nrityam, feels that performing solo in Kuchipudi is a structured enactment where all dancers learn and present standardised choreography. Devadasi Nrityam offers a customised approach and is organically executed, prioritising the dancer’s individual capacity and body characteristics. Training under the Kalavantulu women was an exercise in unlearning for Yashoda, who had to peel off animated expressions and be cautious of her posture. An intriguing section in the podcast focuses on the transposition of the origin of regional dance styles based on mythological histories. Yashoda believes that these altered narratives played an important role in removing dance from the bodies of female hereditary dancers and relocating it to a distant mythical past, disregarding chequered socio-political events. Another segment details the Islamic and British influence on the culture of the hereditary artistes and reflects how classical dance was truly multi-cultural and syncretic. Yashoda has faced immense opposition and othering in her journey to claim her identity. In the final episode, she divulges her lived experiences of how she was blatantly slandered by numerous peers and sniggered at for her shringara expositions due to her social location. When it comes to reparation, there are no substitutes for representation and attribution. Yashoda hopes that the younger members of Kalavantulu families will take pride in their lineage and reclaim their rightful place in the art world. She also asks them to be mindful of the turmoil that their ancestors underwent to protect their clan amidst intense societal scrutiny. She says the hereditary performing community wishes to see everyone dance but expects that due credit is given, because this is largely the fountainhead of the current mainstream dance repertoire. “There is a certain grace in acknowledgement. These women not only existed in memory but will continue to exist in dance forever.”  The writer is a rasika of   classical music and dance and also plays the veena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-inheritance-of-loss/article35354925.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Laughter lines||A casual mention of a mutual friend’s name makes Chitralaya Gopu sit up, as he rummages through memory, which is impressively intact for someone in his 90s. “Can you believe it? I am talking about something that happened in the late 1940s,” he says with childlike enthusiasm, when we catch up at his Thiruvanmiyur residence. Dressed in a crisp grey kurta and veshti , Gopu reads out the highlights of his career that he has meticulously noted on a sheet of paper soon after the interview was set up. A cricket fan, Gopu draws an analogy between the game and his three-decade career. Gopu’s “first innings” began when he quit a well-paying export company job to join legendary filmmaker and high-school friend C.V. Sridhar as a dialogue assistant in Kalyana Parisu (1959). Long before the iconic combination began to rule the celluloid world, Gopu and Sridhar did plays together in school, where the former invariably played a comedian. Gopu was a confident comedic writer, but the one-liners he used were borrowed from his mother, who he thinks was the wittiest person he has ever met. He remembers the gag his mother pulled off when nagaswaram exponent T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai came to Chingleput in the 1940s for a performance. When she was asked if she had “heard” the performance, using the Tamil word kettiya , she responded instead to the meaning of the same word “to ask” and said, “I did, but he refused to give me the nagaswaram .” Even now the memory leaves Gopu in splits, and he recalls writing a similar gag in Shanti Nilayam (1969). The origin story Gopu’s brand of humour, drawn from absurd situations (think of Utharavindri Ulle Vaa ), coupled with Sridhar’s penchant for drama, soon found many takers and they became a formidable pair in Tamil cinema, delivering blockbuster urban comedies. “I focussed only on humour, while Sridhar was a very good writer of drama and sentimental subjects. It is not that we used to divide portions, but we would discuss and write. We had no ego issues because we were friends,” says Gopu. One such film that was born out of a casual discussion at the beach was Kadhalikka Neramillai (1964), often regarded as one of the greatest comedies ever. “I suggested he make it into a romantic comedy about a person faking his identity for love. I also suggested that he makes the humour situational... what if Muthuraman’s father himself makes an appearance and there is a twist. Sridhar appreciated my suggestions.” It was also the first film in which Gopu’s name appeared alongside Sridhar in the credits for story, screenplay and dialogues. Apparently, it was Sridhar and Gopu who identified Nagesh’s talent much before K. Balachander, something even Gopu concurs. He remembers getting a phone call from Nagesh after the release of Kadhalikka Neramillai complimenting him for the lines he wrote. An illustrious run Gopu’s second innings started when he branched out of Chitralaya to work independently in movies such as Moondru Deivangal , Sumathi En Sundari , Galatta Kalyanam and Kasethan Kadavulada . Among these, he admits that he was disappointed when Moondru Deivangal , directed by Dada Mirasi, didn’t work at the box office. “It was a sensible, sentimental film and was inspired from a Marathi film. In those days, Marathi and Bengali movies were making great stories. It didn’t work because it wasn’t of Sivaji’s standard,” he says, although people do reach out to him appreciating the film now. Another film which Gopu had great expectations from but didn’t do well was Shanti Nilayam . He may no longer be active, but his films still make for a good watch. Which explains why Kasethan Kadavulada is now being remade by R. Kannan. Mention this to him, and he says, “ I know nothing much about it, but AVM Saravanan had said that he won’t remake it because nobody can replace Thengai Srinivasan.” His routine today includes watching news on TV, reading books, and catching up on cricket. He admits he is not emotionally attached to films; prefers not to revisit some of his works. “I don’t share this with my family but every time I watch my film on TV, I get emotional and walk away. Because almost 80% of my friends have passed away and now I’m 90,” he says. Recently, on his birthday, he was moved watching a video carrying messages from friends and well-wishers, who spoke about his contribution to Tamil comedy. “When I saw Ramkumar Ganesan point to the portrait of Sivaji he was standing next to, I felt as if he was telling me that the late actor was watching me from above. I choked with emotion,” says Gopu.  Gopu was a confident comedic writer, but the one-liners he used were borrowed from his mother, who he thinks was the wittiest person he has ever met||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/laughter-lines/article35354887.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Tribute to a pallavi genius||It was a perfect tribute to the great master Chingleput Ranganathan by two disciples to mark his 10th memorial day. Ranganathan rigorously trained under the Alathur brothers (Srinivasa Iyer and Sivasubramania Iyer) in the the gurukula system for ten years. And that made Ranganathan not only an accomplished vocalist, but an authority in all aspects of laya. His debut performance was held in 1955 at Nerur Sadasiva Brahmendral’s Adhishtanam. Alathur Venkatesa Iyer, the Alathur brothers’ guru and the father of Sivasubramania Iyer, from whom Ranganathan learnt initially, accompanied him on the harmonium. It was this strong foundation that put Ranganathan on the path of musical glory. More than being a performing artiste, he was one of the most revered gurus. He set to tune the Thiruppugazh verses in 72 Melakarta ragas. The recent veena duet by his disciples Jaysri Jeyaraaj Krishnan and Jeyaraaj Krishnan for Madhuradhwani had all the hallmarks of the Alathur school, propelled as the concert was by intense emotion. The two trained under Ranganathan for about 17 years. The audio recording of their guru’s rendition of ‘Ra ra mayinti’ (Tyagaraja) in Asaveri set the tone for the concert. As if extending the raga mood, the duo began their concert with Dikshitar’s Navagraha kriti ‘Chandram bhaja manasa’ (Chatusrajathi Matya talam) in the same raga. Their school of music — they had their initial training under Anantharama Iyer in Calcutta — has an additional line in the kriti, ‘Kamaniya vara kataka rasyadhipam’. They also played a rarely heard chittaswaram, which conveyed the nuances of Asaveri. The duo next rendered a Tamil piece in Hindolam, Arunachalakkavi’s ‘Ramanukku mannan mudi’, a favourite of Ranganathan. Swarams were at ‘Pattam Katta Etthavandi’ An intricate RTP The piece de resistance was their master’s magnum opus, a Dasavataram Pallavi. The composer has aptly chosen to set it in Vachaspati raga, which is the 64th Melakartha — 6 and 4 adds up to ten, indicative of the ten avataras. A lovely alapana shared by the duo led to an engrossing Ragam Tanam Pallavi. The tanam when played on the veena sounds particularly charming and they played it in a special Ragamalika. It was special because, apart from raga Vachaspati, they included Natakapriya (the 10th Melakarta), Shyamalangi (the 55th Melakarta — five plus five is 10), Shadvithamargini (the 46th Melakarta — four and six make 10) and Harikamboji, the 28th (again, two and eight add up to ten) — all indicative of the theme Dasavataram. The intricate pallavi was set to khandajathi triputa tala in four kalais and started at the mukkaale araikkaal idam , or after the 7/8th place. The purvanga of the pallavi is ‘Matsya kurma varaha narasimha vamana mampahi’ and the utharanga, ‘Parasu ramachandra baladeva krishna kalki dasavatara’. B. Ganapathyraman, on the mridangam, worthy son of Chethalapathy Balu, deserves special mention. In spite of the short notice, he could grasp the mathematical complexities of the pallavi and accompanied the artistes brilliantly. Chingleput Ranganathan’s pallavis are known for musical excellence and tala intricacies. N. Rajaraman (ghatam) too rose to the occasion splendidly. Throughout the concert, their contributions to add richness was praiseworthy. Their thani in this intricate tala was crisp and perfectly executed. Jaysri and Jeyaraaj Krishnan concluded the recital with a tillana by their guru in Bagesri. Ranganathan, who has composed 35 tillanas, was so inspired by the way N. Rajam played Bagesri on the violin that he incorporated several of the sangathis in his tillana. Kudos to Yessel Narasimhan and Arkay Convention Centre for arranging this concert in memory of a great artiste.  The Chennai-based author   writes on Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tribute-to-a-pallavi-genius/article35354909.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Unwinding with Rewind||Arthur Conan Doyle once said, “There is nothing more to be said or to be done tonight, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellowmen.” More than a century later, three Mumbai-based music buffs, rather inadvertently, charted a similar course. Instead of a violin, they chose melodious songs of yesteryear, for half an hour on weekdays, to help their listeners briefly forget the misery of these pandemic-hit times. Music-based shows Meet Archisman Mozumder, Shankar Iyer and R. Balaji — the men behind these live, guided listening modules aired on Zoom for members. The trio, who started meeting at a common friend’s house at weekends to discuss music in 2010, have organised music-centric stage shows since 2014. In 2017, they co-founded Teesri Manzil Infotainment Ltd and held a series of shows across cities for companies. Today, with a handpicked collection of over 20,000 songs across genres, they are Team Rewind. For over a year, they presented ‘Rewind Song of the Day’ on Radio Nasha, and became familiar to FM listeners in Mumbai. Archisman or ‘Archie’, who has a strong understanding of classical and light music, has worked with several IT firms in India and abroad. He presently runs a partnership firm that deals with IT consumables. An ex-banker, Shankar loves to keep adding to his deep knowledge of light music, both Hindi and Tamil. His ability to recall instances and anecdotes make his shows popular. Likewise, with a matching desire to understand the finer nuances of film music, Balaji brings in new ideas and also adds his entrepreneurial experience to the company. These three 52-year-olds found their ‘calling’ during the first lockdown, when they started with one-hour complimentary offerings, from April 20 to May 3 last year, but this made way for a half-hour show every alternate weekday for subscribers, with a repeat live show the following morning for those in the U.S. Thoughtfully curated, with a selection of songs mostly drawn from Hindi films across the decades, and some in other Indian languages from time to time, the shows brought back the joys of listening to the radio, combining nostalgia with insights and trivia. In addition to this ‘R4’ series, there are shows presented by members, which became popular enough for Team Rewind to make them a weekly affair. Further additions include a fortnightly 45-minute Tamil weekend show from 8.30 p.m. as well as the ASEAN R4 series, a 45-minute show every Sunday aimed at listeners in Southeast Asia. Reflecting on the early days, Balaji says, “It began as an experiment during the lockdown, when we thought of playing some songs for our music-loving friends, before others joined in.” Shankar adds, “We always loved talking about music, but the idea was also to help people de-stress a little while listening to one hour of songs.” According to Archisman, it was Balaji’s idea to hold half-hour shows, thrice a week. “The intent of making it a profitable organisation was always there. Balaji was the one who was convinced that these guided listening sessions could be monetised.” Considerable preparation goes into the making of each show, mixing popular numbers with the odd rare song, highlighting little-known facts about singers famous and obscure, instrumentalists, composers, music arrangers and lyricists. And all this is reflected in R4’s success, with the shows whetting the listeners’ curiosity and leaving them hungry for more.   Thoughtfully curated, with a selection of songs mostly drawn from Hindi films across the decades, and some in other Indian languages from time to time, the shows brought back the joys of listening to the radio||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/unwinding-with-rewind/article35354904.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Guru Purnima lecture||Swami Parthasarathy will present an hour-long virtual lecture, ‘Live by Choice, Not by Chance,’ on the occasion of Guru Purnima. The event, co-hosted by Vedanta Cultural Foundation, USA, will be streamed on July 18, at 6.30 p.m. To register go to “https://vdnt.org/chennai (co-hosted by Vedanta Institute Madras)”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/guru-purnima-lecture/article35354906.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating a doyen||Music and dance competitions, lecture demonstrations, workshops and cultural events will mark the centenary celebrations of legendary dance guru K.N. Dandayuthapani Pillai. Inaugurated on July 14, a series of special events will be conducted through the year and simultaenously streamed on Zoom. The special programmes on the inaugural day included a documentary on the early life of KND, reminiscences from his direct disciples, focus on his experience in the film industry, and a special talk by veteran dancer Vyjayanthimala Bali. The year-long event will also bring together well-known dancers and artistes from the tinsel world who will share memories, experiences and anecdotes about the doyen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-a-doyen/article35354910.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Madhuradhwani’s special line-up||Madhuradhwani recently organised a series of special concerts featuring well-known artistes. Beginning July 17, the concerts will be streamed on Arkay Convention Centre’s Facebook page, at 6.15 p.m. The programmes to be featured are: July 17: Kolkata Padmavathi Saranathan; July 18: N. Ravikiran (chitravina) and N. Akilandeswari (veena); July 19: Rithvik Raja; and July 22: Sikkil Gurucharan’s thematic concert ‘Akhilam Madhuram’ at 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/madhuradhwanis-special-line-up/article35354912.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Memorial concerts||The memorial concert series, being presented by Naada Inbam on its Parivadini Music YouTube channel, at 6.15 p.m., will feature the following concerts between July 19 and 22. Vignesh Ishwar’s vocal concert, organised by Music Circle, on July 19; V. Subashri’s concert, organised by Naada Inbam, on July 21; and Vidya Kalyanaraman’s vocal concert, organised by DKJ Foundation, on July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/memorial-concerts/article35354914.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Narayana Tirtha jayanthi goes virtual||Rashtretara Telugu Samakhya in association with Sathguru Sri Narayana Teertha Trust, Kaza, and Thirupoonthuruthy Sri Narayana Tirtha Swamigal Trust will celebrate Sri Narayana Tritha’s 346th jayanthi virtually this year from July 20 to 25. The celebration will include literary sessions, Tarangam renditions and dance performances. The six-day online event will be streamed on Rashtretara Telugu Samakhya’s YouTube Channel. For details call, 98251 14404/ 94346 92453.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/narayana-tirtha-jayanthi-goes-virtual/article35354916.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Tarana festival||Ragamala presents ‘Tarana 2021’, the second annual online festival on July 17 featuring three concerts by young artistes. The day-long event begins with Shakir Khan’s ‘Sitarvaadan’ at 10 a.m. This will be followed by khayal and thumri presentation at 2 p.m. by Mitali Bhawmik with Kedar Naphade on the harmonium and Amod Dandavate on the tabla. The festival ends with Uday Bhawalkar’s dhrupad rendition at 6 p.m. For updates visit Ragamala’s website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tarana-festival/article35354917.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Albert Camus’s play in Hindi||The Delhi-based Pratyancha Theatre Group presents a Hindi adaptation of Albert Camus’s 1949 play Les Justes or The Just Assassins , titled Jaayaz Hatyaare and directed by Yogesh Kumar. Streaming on PayTM Insider, the adaptation by Suresh Bhardwaj and Deepa Sahi changes the setting from the true story of Russian Socialist-Revolutionaries assassinating a Grand Duke to Indian revolutionaries killing a British governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/albert-camuss-play-in-hindi/article35354891.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Play specially curated for children||InKo Centre, in association with Hyunjang Theater Company, will present Junk Clown , a play especially created for children. To premiere today at 6 p.m., the virtual play will be available on the social media handles of The Little Festival, Chennai; Ranga Shankara, Bengaluru; The Korean Arts and Cultural Centre, Guntur; and The Honorary Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Hyderabad. The play will be available for viewing until July 25. For updates visit InKo Centre’s website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/play-specially-curated-for-children/article35354897.ece
16 July 2021||July 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Monsoon melodies||‘Megh Paani Chhaya’, an event that will celebrate monsoon through music will be held today virtually from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Featuring young Hindustani vocalist Nishad Matange and folk singer Sourav Moni, it will be moderated by Kshitij Deshpande, SPIC MACAY, IISER, Pune. It will be streamed live on Living Waters Museum’s Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/monsoon-melodies/article35354901.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||No plan to reopen schools till jab process complete, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said there are no plans to reopen schools till the vaccination process is complete. “We are seeing trends internationally that there will be a third wave of COVID. So, until the vaccination process is complete, we would not like to take risks with children,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said no child will be denied admission in government schools in absence of a transfer certificate. Parents’ complaints The move comes after he received several complaints from parents that private schools were not giving transfer certificates until the full fee is paid. The government announced the decision to ensure that students do not miss out on quality education due to financial losses arising out of the pandemic. The Minister said students will be given admission in a government school and that the Education Department would ensure that the transfer certificate and other formalities be completed in a move to provide relief to parents. “Some private schools are holding back transfer certificates and asking parents to deposit the full fee first. For this reason, many parents are unable to get their children enrolled in government schools. Taking cognizance in this regard, the Directorate of Education (DoE) has been asked to ensure that provisional admission is granted to students. Also, DoE officials should directly secure the transfer certificate from the private school concerned and parents need not worry about it anymore,” Mr. Sisodia said. The Minister added that so far, 28,000 applications have been received for Nursery, KG and Class I for admission in the Delhi government’s Sarvodaya Schools. He also said 90,000 applications have been received for Classes VI to XII (except Class XI).  Directorate of Education has been asked to ensure that provisional admission is granted to students. Also, DoE officials should directly secure the transfer certificate from the pvt. private school concerned Manish Sisodia Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-plan-to-reopen-schools-till-jab-process-complete-says-cm/article35355236.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Cong. holds cycle rallies to protest fuel price hike||The Maharashtra Congress on Thursday held cycle rallies in Mumbai and several parts of the State to protest against the rising fuel prices and inflation in the country. State Congress chief Nana Patole led the rally from Hanging Gardens in Malabar Hill to Raj Bhavan. A delegation of party leaders and MLAs met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and submitted a memorandum highlighting key issues affecting people in the country, including providing political reservation for OBCs and withdrawing the three farm laws passed by the Centre. “People of the country are getting no respite from rising prices. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are advising States to reduce taxes. States do not get their rightful GST compensation, but the Centre is happily collecting taxes,” Mr. Patole said Mr. Patole said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was being guided by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar when asked about reports of differences emerging with allies the NCP and the Shiv Sena. “Uddhav ji , Balasaheb Thorat ji , Ajit Pawar ji are running this government. We are confident that we will complete five years,” he said. Election of Speaker The Rules Committee of the Assembly has recommended a change in rules to elect the Speaker through open voting instead of holding a secret ballot. The committee held its meeting on July 6 and the recommendation will be presented in the Assembly for discussion. Once approved, the rules will be changed. The Maharashtra Assembly is the only House in the country where the Speaker is elected through secret ballot. However, the BJP claimed that the rules were being changed as the government was not sure of having a majority in the House. “First of all, we have to check whether a Deputy Speaker is allowed to chair a meeting of the Rules Committee. Why is this government scared of a secret ballot? Don’t they have a majority?” asked Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. In reply, Mr. Patole asked whether the BJP was not in favour of ensuring transparency. “Even the Council chooses its chairperson through open voting. The change is being brought to ensure uniformity?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-cong-holds-cycle-rallies-to-protest-fuel-price-hike/article35355467.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘L-G rejects Delhi govt.’s list of lawyers’||The Delhi government on Thursday said that Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has refused to let a panel of lawyers constituted by it to appear in trials of cases registered against the protesting farmers. Cabinet meet “The L-G has asked the Delhi government to give Cabinet’s approval on a panel of lawyers suggested by the Delhi police. The police, who are investigating the cases registered against the farmers, want to appoint a panel of its own lawyers, upon which the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called an immediate meeting on Friday,” read a statement from the Chief Minister’s office. Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain has rejected Delhi Police’s proposal of appointing lawyers of the latter’s favour, as per the statement. “In view of this decision, the L-G has asked the Delhi government to call for a Cabinet meeting and has pressured the government to take a decision in favour of the police’s choice of lawyers,” the statement said. The government said that the farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for several months and the police have registered several cases against them. Fair hearing The Delhi government had formed a panel of lawyers for a fair hearing of the cases registered against the farmers. The city police, on the other hand, wants to push a panel of its own lawyers. In this regard, a list of lawyers was sent by the police to Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain for approval. After inspecting the list, Mr. Jain rejected it,” the statement read. Later, Mr. Jain sent a list of lawyers to the L-G, but he refused to give a nod to the list, the government said. A Raj Niwas source said the matter pertains to the request made by the police for appointment of special public prosecutors for the cases related to violence on the Republic Day this year. “It has nothing to do with ‘farmers protest’ as is being deliberately made out with ulterior motives. Individuals with predetermined agenda and vested interests deliberately carried out acts on January 26, 2021 in full media presence that were not only an affront to the national morale but aimed at bringing shame to India internationally,” the source said in response to the allegations. It stated that apart from the earlier disagreement on file, the L-G in the said meeting on July 1 with Mr. Jain, has “clearly and categorically expressed his disagreement” at the Home Minister’s turning down of the “valid request” of the police. “The same was also reiterated and clearly conveyed in a subsequent letter from L-G to CM requesting him to convene a meeting of the Council of Ministers to consider and decide upon the said disagreement at the earliest. The Cabinet, if at all, is doing just that,” sources stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-rejects-delhi-govts-list-of-lawyers/article35355248.ece
16 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Families of those held in U.P. say terror charges are baseless||The families of a rickshaw-driver and a battery seller, among those arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police from Lucknow on charges of plotting terror attacks in the State, are in a state of disbelief. They contend that the allegations levelled against the men are baseless. On July 11, the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested Minhaz Ahmad, 31, and Maseeruddin on charges that they were allegedly planning to carry out terror attacks in parts of Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Lucknow ahead of Independence Day. The ATS claimed to have recovered a large quantity of explosive items (IEDs) from the two men. The police also claimed they found a pistol on Minhaz during the search. Siraj Ahmed, a retired employee of the Economics and Statistics department, pleads his son Minhaz is innocent. “I totally refute it. I can never believe it,” Mr. Siraj Ahmed told The Hindu . He described his son as “kind-hearted, soft-spoken and merciful towards humanity.” Mr. Siraj Ahmed claimed that the ATS team which raided their house did not tell the family what they recovered during the operation. “They neither showed us what they recovered nor told us about it or presented us any list of items,” he said, adding that the police packed the things in large suitcases and bags. Minhaz, who has a diploma in electricals, jointly operated a battery shop. One of the e-rickshaw drivers who engaged with him was Maseeruddin. Pressure cooker On Sunday, Maseeruddin’s family had just completed a late breakfast when an ATS team came to his house and arrested him. His wife Sayeeda claims that the ATS took away with them a new pressure cooker she had purchased. The equipment was unused as Sayeeda hoped to store it for her eldest daughter’s future. “He [Maseeruddin] didn’t even know about the cooker. He had nothing to do with domestic purchases and stayed out driving rickshaw till 9 p.m. Along with the cooker, I had also bought a cooking gas and an electric iron,” she said. Ms. Sayeeda, who has four children, says she never heard anything unusual from her husband or the name of any outfit as alleged by the ATS. Mr. Siraj Ahmed said that since Maseeruddin was not in a sound financial condition, his son Minhaz would often help him with money and battery for his rickshaw. Before driving an e-rickshaw, Maseeruddin worked as a labourer in the Zardozi craft sector like many others in lanes of old Lucknow. 3 others held Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that on the basis of information acquired from the two during the police custody remand, three others were arrested. They were identified as Shakeel (35), Mohammad Mustaqeem (44) and Mohammad Moeed (29). Shakeel is named as an accused in the FIR and had a role in providing the weapons and helping Minhaz in purchasing the weapons, alleged Mr. Kumar. Shakeel also drives a rickshaw, said a local activist. Local module The ATS claimed that the men were working for a local module of the al-Qaeda terror outfit. The ATS said it worked on tips that the al-Qaeda had sent its member Umar Halmandi to India to operate its activities. Halmandi operated from Pakistan-Afghanistan border, police said. Halmandi was recruiting people to AQIS (Al Qaeda Indian Subcontinent) group and radicalising them, said the ATS, adding that after identifying some people he established a Lucknow module of the al-Qaeda, Ansar Gazwatul Hind. Mr. Siraj Ahmed says he never heard of any such name. “They are trying to snatch our crutches during old age,” he said, whose only son is Minhaz. The FIR lodged against the accused persons includes several clauses of the UAPA (13, 18, 18 b, 20 and 39), waging war against the government, collecting arms and concealing with intent to facilitate design to wage war. They were also booked under the Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/families-of-those-held-in-up-say-terror-charges-are-baseless/article35355223.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC declines plea to reduce dosage gap||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain a petition seeking to reduce the 12-16 week interval for the second dose of Covishield vaccine to eight weeks for persons over 50 years of age and those having comorbidities. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked Siddharth De, who filed the public interest petition (PIL): “Are you aware of any procedure? How are doses fixed? Who is fixing the doses? We will have to alter the procedure if at all we have the power to do so”. Dr. De’s counsel said that there was a COVID working group and other expert groups, which looked into the aspect. The counsel said based on studies conducted by scientists in the U.K., there was a need to reduce the dosage interval in view of the new variants of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-declines-plea-to-reduce-dosage-gap/article35355244.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Free power promise will work, but AAP needs more to win: experts||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which came to power in Delhi for the first time 2013, by fighting against the “high” electricity and water bills during the then Congress government, is trying to play the same game in its attempt to win a State outside Delhi. In the past fortnight, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal travelled to three poll-bound States and made the same announcement: If the AAP is elected to power, then each house will get up to 300 units of free electricity, old power bills will be waived off, there will be no power cuts, and free electricity to farmers. In the run-up to the 2013 Delhi election, the AAP, which was then a greenhorn, launched a ‘Bijli Paani Satyagraha’  and burned power bills across the city. It was one of the major planks on which they fought the election. Currently, the electricity bill will be zero for a household in Delhi if the monthly consumption is less than 200 units and also each house gets 20,000 litres of free water. Experts said that the current announcements will strike a chord with the voters, as the AAP government has been giving 200 units of free electricity per month to every household in Delhi.  Will have faith  Praveen Rai, political analyst, who works with the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) , said that people will believe more in the AAP, even if other political parties also make similar promises. “Why it will work for the AAP is because, even if other parties in these three States also promise the same, people will believe the AAP more as they have an example of Delhi to show, where people have been getting the benefit of it for years,” Mr. Rai said. Political analyst Neerja Chowdhury also agreed with the view and said that ‘ bijli-paani ’ was one of the first issues the AAP took up after the party was formed. “[Mr.] Kejriwal was lampooned for it and many asked where will the money come from? But the AAP won the election and implemented the promise on water in the first week itself and electricity later on and sustained it. This has built his credibility. Like we have a ‘Metro man’ in India, Kejriwal is the ‘ Bijli-Paani ’ man,” she said. Both of them said that the AAP has a good chance in Punjab in the 2022 Assembly elections. “During the 2020 Assembly elections in Delhi, even after the BJP playing the communal card, the AAP won the election. The result was a vote for the Delhi model of governance. The AAP has a good change in Punjab this time. In Goa, they had a decent local leadership, but then there were problems and they lost. In Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the AAP does not have a strong local presence and network of party offices. Even if they get 10% vote share this time, the party should keep working on the grassroot level and grow as a main political force,” Mr. Rai said. Ms. Chowdhury also said that the AAP will only be a third force in Uttarakhand and Goa. A good connection Mr. Rai said that in India, about 45% of the people are either poor or in the middle class and free power makes a good connection with them. “Even if it’s Rs. 800 or Rs. 1,000 a month, it is a big amount for them. Though welfare schemes have been there for a long time, the free power and water schemes were AAP’s brainchild,” he said. “The power bills are high in many States and during the pandemic, free electricity will be seen as a big benefit by people belonging to lower middle class and middle class. This, in itself, is not enough to win elections, but it is a good entry point for [Mr.] Kejriwal,” Ms. Chowdhury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/free-power-promise-will-work-but-aap-needs-more-to-win-experts/article35355251.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||ACB to conduct open inquiry into corruption charges against Singh||The Maharashtra government has given its permission to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to conduct an open inquiry into the allegations of corruption against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh made by police inspector Anup Dange, an ACB official said on Thursday. Mr. Dange was suspended last year and reinstated earlier this year. The ACB official said Mr. Dange alleged that he was approached by a man claiming to be Mr. Singh’s relative and demanded a bribe of Rs. 2 crore to reinstate him into the force. Mr. Dange was earlier attached to Gamdevi police station and is now attached to the Mumbai Police’s south control room. He levelled allegations against Mr. Singh in a letter to Maharashtra Additional Chief Secretary (Home) in February. Mr. Dange alleged that Mr. Singh had tried to shield some people having underworld links from the law when he was the DG of the ACB. In his letter, Mr. Dange said in November 2019, when he went to shut down a pub in south Mumbai, the owner claimed to know Mr. Singh well. Mr. Dange, however, went on to file a complaint after a scuffle broke out outside the pub while the police were taking action against the pub. Mr. Dange alleged that after Mr. Singh became Mumbai police commissioner, he suspended him. He claimed that a person claiming to be Mr. Singh’s relative approached him and demanded a bribe of Rs. 2 crore to reinstate him. “The ACB, which was conducting two discreet inquiries against Mr. Singh based on the complaints by Mr. Dange and another inspector, had sought permission from the Home Department to proceed with an open inquiry [on Mr. Dange’s complaint],” he said. Mr. Singh had been transferred from the post of Mumbai police chief in March this year over the handling of the bomb scare case outside Mukesh Ambani’s house. A few days after that, Mr. Singh had written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Anil Deshmukh, who was the then home minister, had asked police officer Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in the city. Mr. Deshmukh stepped down as a minister in April after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI inquiry into the allegations made against him by Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/acb-to-conduct-open-inquiry-into-corruption-charges-against-singh/article35355463.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Booked under UAPA, Umar Khalid seeks bail||A Delhi court on Thursday posted the hearing on the bail application of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid — arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the north-east Delhi riots — for July 27. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat asked the prosecution to respond to Mr. Khalid’s bail plea by the day following the hearing. Arrested Sept. last Mr. Khalid was arrested on September 13, 2020 in the north-east Delhi riots case being investigated by Special Cell, where charges under the anti-terror law UAPA have been invoked. Besides Mr. Khalid, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain, and several others, have also been booked under the UAPA. The Delhi High Court had recently granted bail to Mr. Tanha, Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in the UAPA case, saying the state had blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in its anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/booked-under-uapa-umar-khalid-seeks-bail/article35355225.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||As borders welcomed farmers, traders bore the brunt of stirs||It’s been almost eight months since farmers starting protests at Delhi’s borders and about the same time since businesses in the area have taken a hit. Manjeet Dahiya (32) — who runs a mobile shop near the first stage at Singhu border — said he has been running into losses since January. The losses have only been increasing, he said, adding: “This shop is on rent — Rs. 5,000 — which is also not possible for me to pay now.” Mr. Dahiya, who lives in Haryana’s Nahri, is also a farmer. He manages farming and shop simultaneously. “My mother, wife and daughter are dependent on my earnings. Farming helps me earn a little. I understand their [protesters’] concerns but this stir will not yield any solution. We can’t even try talking to them because they won’t understand.” He said when the protest began, the earnings were goodbut after the area was restricted for the public and roads were barricaded, “the shopkeepers here started incurring losses”. Suresh Pandey, who runs a grocery shop, said he had to take two of his three children out of the private school because he couldn’t afford fees. “My sons used to study in private school and daughter in a government school. I couldn’t pay the fees so school authorities stopped teaching them. I had no other option but to get their names struck off the rolls,” he said. Mr. Pandey’s rent for the shop is Rs. 15,000month but “I have not been able to pay rent for the last four months. I have told the owner that I will pay when I can to which he has agreed as of now. If the owner asks for rent, I have to shift my shop to a wooden cart. What other option do I have?” he asked. He said he is only able to manage food with the earning from the shop and has seven members in his family, including his parents, wife and three children. Vijay, who runs a spare parts shop in Kundli, said he had to fire four employees because he couldn’t afford them anymore. “No one comes here to buy because they get stuck in traffic for hours. There are no earnings. I don’t know how I will survive,” he said. Farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws since November 26 at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/as-farmers-thronged-borders-traders-bore-the-brunt-of-stir/article35355232.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Political blame game continues over demolition of church||Demolition of a church in south Delhi, which was built on government land, by Delhi government officials has kicked off a political blame game with the BJP hitting out at the AAP. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Wednesday claimed that the church was demolished by DDA, which is under the Central government. DDA officials refuted the claim and said that the urban body has not taken any such action. On Thursday, BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that it is “shameful” that the Chief Minister is a “big liar”. The church was demolished on Monday and on the same day, the District Magistrate (South), who is under the AAP government, alleged that Delhi government officials only did it. A notice for eviction served on July 7, before the demolition, was signed by the Block Development Officer (BDO) under the DM’s office. Officials from both BDO’s office and Forest Department of the Delhi government were present during the demolition, as per officials. Mr. Bidhuri said it is shameful that being a CM, Mr. Kejriwal was blatantly lying and trying to put the blame on the Central government. “CM did not hesitate even once before saying such a big lie. The DM, Ankita Chakravarti, has accepted that the demolition was carried out by the Delhi government indeed,” he said. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on how DDA could have demolished the church when the notice was given by the BDO and done by Delhi government officials. Meanwhile, E.K. Peter, a resident of the area, said he had filed several complaints since 2014 against the church, which was constructed on government land. “Before 2012-13, we used to pray on Sundays at Lado Sarai Little Flower Church. Then members of church started praying at a cross installed at the plot in Chhatarpur, where the currently demolished church later came up,” he said.  “In 2012-13, they first erected a cross inside the plot, but police removed it and it is still lying outside the plot. But after that they erected a small shed with tarpaulin as roof and eventually was changed to metal sheet. Over the years, it became bigger in size,” Mr. Peter, who lives about 2 km from the area, said. He also shared a purported photo of the plot from 2012-13, which read “Warning: This land belongs to Gram Sabha. Any tresspassing on this land is a punishable offence”, next to a cross inside the plot.  In 2012-13, they first erected a cross inside the plot, but police removed it and it is still lying outside the plot E.K. Peter Chhatarpur resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/political-blame-game-continues-over-demolition-of-church/article35355256.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neighbour and four others nabbed for kidnapping three-year-old boy||Five persons have been arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 3-year-old boy from north Delhi’s Timarpur , the police said on Thursday. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said the accused have been identified as Raj Rani (70), Anuj Rani (35), Seema (35), Sunita (29) and Sarvesh (49. On June 22, a man complained that his 3-year-old son has been missing and may have been kidnapped after which a case was registered. During probe, the police suspected the involvement of the complainant’s neighbour, Sunita. “Her mobile phone was put on technical surveillance and other suspects were then identified,” an officer said. On July 13, information was received that a woman and her mother in Jahangirpuri were trying to sell the child. “Immediately, a raid was conducted and Raj Rani and Anuj Rani were arrested. The child was then rescued,” Mr. Alphonse said. During interrogation, it was revealed that Seema, also from Jahangirpuri, handed over the child to Anuj who then gave him to her mother to take care of him. Seema was subsequently arrested. She allegedly told police that Sarvesh gave her the child after which he was arrested from Mukundpur. When questioned, Sarvesh said Sunita had given him the child. “Sarvesh had promised Sunita that he would give her Rs. 70,000 for the task. Due to the monetary crisis during the pandemic, she agreed to commit the crime,” Mr. Alphose said. Raj, Anuj and Seema committed the crime for easy money. Sarvesh is an auto-driver, they said. “They were looking for a possible buyer,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/neighbour-and-four-others-nabbed-for-kidnapping-three-year-old-boy/article35355234.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for robbing medical store owner of over Rs. 1 lakh using toy gun||Three men were arrested for allegedly robbing the owner of a medical store and his brother-in-law of Rs. 1.5 lakh and two gold chains in south Delhi’s Neb Sarai, the police said on Thursday. The accused — Vasu (22), Md. Sameer (21) and Ritik Arora (21) — threatened them with a toy pistol, they said, adding that two gold chains and Rs. 40,200 have been recovered from them. Inspired by crime series The accused told the police that they were inspired by several episodes of crime serials. Arora, the main accused, used to live with his partner in a rented flat. To meet their needs, he formed a group and was also took drugs and consumed liquor to gain confidence to commit the crime, a senior officer said. The police said the incident took place on the intervening night of July 7-8 when Nandan Kumar, owner of the medical store at IGNOU Road, was going home with his brother-in-law on their motorcycle. When they reached Sainik Farm area, three men on a motorcycle overtook them and robbed them at gunpoint. They also took the duo’s mobile phones. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur: “Our team identified the motorcycle used by the accused. During probe, traps were laid, and the accused were held from Dakshinpuri and Freedom Fighter.” During interrogation, the accused said they did recee — chased the victim or two nights before committing the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-held-for-robbing-medical-store-owner-of-over-rs-1-lakh-using-toy-gun/article35355238.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Campaign seeks extension of window for sending suggestions to MPD 2041||The “Main Bhi Dilli” campaign on Thursday demanded an extension of the 45-day window for citizens to send in objections and suggestions to the draft Master Plan for Delhi 2041. The need for local and zonal plans, recognition of diverse sectors of informal employment and a separate section on gender and women safety in the city, were some of the points raised by urban planners and volunteers with the campaign. The campaign also said baseline studies and existing land-use information had not been shared by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) yet and that the deadline for objections was only a few days away. Volunteers said the draft plan, which has three volumes, failed to reference each other and that there were contradictions across the same. Gautam Bhan of the Indian Institute of Human Settlements, said: “Giving 45 days for objections and suggestions is not fair. It is pivotal to understand that when citizens are ready to participate, the deadline should be extended. At least three to six months should be given...We have even written to the DDA...” Issues pertaining to housing, transport, livelihood and public spaces were also raised by members of the campaign, among other aspects. There should be mandatory reservation of public land for affordable housing and land-based reservations for EWS housings, said Mukta Nair of the Center for Policy Research, adding: “In the projection, they have not mentioned who the 34 lakh houses are for. How many are for the poor? Our demand is that a breakup of the same be given. Additionally, no government land has been committed for affordable housing...” Kalpana Viswanath, founder of “My Safetipin”, highlighted the need for an emphasis on gender and safety in the plan. “There should have been a separate chapter on gender. Streets have to be safe for women, children, disabled and transgenders. If we want to have a night time economy, then it has to be planned as to how it will also be gender friendly...,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/campaign-seeks-extension-of-window-for-sending-suggestions-to-mpd-2041/article35355239.ece
16 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Contractor booked for drowning death||The Nerul police have booked a contractor 10 months after an eight-year-old boy drowned in an open drain. On September 11 last year, Aniketrao Singh left his home to buy a packet of milk and was walking on the footpath amid heavy rainfall when he fell into the drain. Bystanders could not rescue him owing to the surging floodwaters. The fire brigade retrieved the body with the help of fishermen from Sarsole jetty two days later. A native of Uttar Pradesh, the boy’s mother died while giving birth to him. He then started living with his uncle’s family in Nerul, while his elder brother and father stayed back in U.P. The contract for the maintenance of the drain was awarded to Dattatraya Patil of Om Construction and subcontracted to Akshay Mhatre from Shiravane village, the police said. “The viscera was preserved after discussing the cause of death with doctors. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation provided the details of the contractor and we then registered an FIR on Tuesday,” assistant police inspector Swapnil Ijjapawar of the Nerul police said. Mr. Mhatre has been booked under Section 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/contractor-booked-for-drowning-death/article35355468.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘New excise policy will minimise corruption’||The Delhi government on Thursday defended its new Excise Policy 2021-22 before the Delhi High Court saying that it minimises corruption and gives fair competition in liquor trade. The Delhi government has been faced with several petitions challenging the new excise policy before the High Court. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the government on some fresh pleas on the issue. The court, however, did not pass any order on staying the policy or extending the July 20 deadline for applying for tender under the policy. One of the counsel opposing the policy argued that the new policy divides Delhi into 32 zones, but permitted only 16 players in the market. This, the counsel said, would lead to monopoly. “Control is for public welfare and not for you to run your business. It is for the public at large. It is not meant for you to run your business or put you in difficulty,” the Bench said. The petitions challenging the new policy claimed that it is illegal, unfair, arbitrary and violative of the Delhi Excise Act of 2009. The plea also seeks to quash the June 28 e-tender notice of the Delhi government, prescribing the procedure to be followed for inviting zone-wise electronic bids for grant of 32 zonal licences of retail vends of liquor for supply of Indian and foreign liquor brands in the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-excise-policy-will-minimise-corruption/article35355242.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress takes out cycle rally to protest price hike||The Delhi Congress on Thursday organised a cycle rally across the city to protest against price rise, frequent hikes in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, milk and other essential commodities. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar, along with AICC in-charge of Delhi Shakti Singh Gohil and co-in-charge Imran Masood, who were cycling from Lodhi Road to the DPCC office on DDU Marg, were detained by the Delhi police midway. Mr. Kumar said those who were under financial burden due to the COVID-19 pandemic have been further burdened by the unbearable hikes in the prices of petrol, diesel, cooking gas and all the essential commodities, with no relief coming from the Central or State governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-takes-out-cycle-rally-to-protest-price-hike/article35355255.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||‘Land Khadse’s kin bought belonged to MIDC’||An official of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) told the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that the land purchased by NCP leader Eknath Khadse’s wife Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari in 2016 belonged to the MIDC, the central agency told a court on Thursday. The ED, which sought extension of Mr. Chaudhari’s custody, argued in its application that the duo, therefore, could not have legally purchased this land near Bhosri in Pune district. The special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act extended the ED custody of Mr. Chaudhari, arrested on July 6, till July 19. The agency has alleged that Mr. Khadse, who was the revenue minister in 2016, “coerced and forced” officials to facilitate the illegal purchase. The NCP leader has denied wrongdoing. The regional officer of MIDC, Pune, said in his statement that the land belonged to the MIDC as per a 1971 notification, ED said. According to this officer, Mr. Chaudhari and Ms. Mandakini Khadse wrongly purchased the land from Abbas Ukani as it belonged to the MIDC through acquisition, the ED said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/land-khadses-kin-bought-belonged-to-midc/article35355460.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CM appeals Centre to award Bharat Ratna to Bahuguna||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday appealed to the Central government to award the Bharat Ratna to Chipko Movement leader Sunderlal Bahuguna. The Chief Minister made the appeal while unveiling a commemorative stone, portrait, and took part in a tree plantation drive at the Delhi Legislative Assembly in memory of the environmentalist who passed away recently. Mr. Kejriwal said that he would be writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to recommend Bahuguna for the award. “To honour Bahuguna with the Bharat Ratna will be an honour for the Bharat Ratna. It will inspire the youth of our country to realise the struggle he undertook in his life,” Mr. Kejriwal said while presenting a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh to the family of the environmentalist in honour of the legacy he has left behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-appeals-centre-to-award-bharat-ratna-to-bahuguna/article35355254.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army man, vendor arrested for supplying classified papers to Pak.||An Army man and a vegetable vendor have been arrested under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly providing classified documents to the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan, the police said on Thursday. The Army headquarters confirmed that the documents in question were classified in nature. Accused Habir-ur-Rahman (41) used to supply vegetables at the Pokhran Army base camp. He was held for getting sensitive documents from the Army man for money and providing them to the ISI. The police held Rahman on Tuesday from Pokhran in Rajasthan. The Delhi Police Crime Branch received information that some sensitive documents related to defence establishment were being sent to the neighbouring country via spy network. “We got inputs about the involvement of Rahman in the racket. Our team then conducted a raid and nabbed him after due verification,” said Special Commissioner of Police (Crime) Praveer Ranjan. During questioning, Rahman could not give any satisfactory reply as to why he was in possession of these documents or their source, said DCP (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj. We also found that the accused used WhatsApp to send the documents to his handlers, a senior officer said. It was found that Army man Paramjit supplied the papers to Rahman. The duo met when Paramjit was posted in Pokhran. He is now posted as a clerk at Agra Cantt. The police said Rahman had come in contact with a few handles in the spy racket when he was in Pakistan in 2019. Rahman was asked to share the secret documents with them and the money for doing the job was sent through the hawala network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/army-man-vendor-arrested-for-supplying-classified-papers-to-pak/article35355240.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||Ahead of Parliament session, Sharad Pawar meets Uddhav||Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar called on Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence, Varsha, in south Mumbai on Thursday ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. The monsoon session will commence from July 19 and continue till August 13. The State government has demanded that the Centre intervene and take steps to relax the 50% limit on reservations and restore the quota for OBCs in local bodies and in jobs and education for the Marathas. It has also sought three crore vaccines from the Centre every month to accelerate the inoculation drive in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ahead-of-parliament-session-sharad-pawar-meets-uddhav/article35355464.ece
16 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gang involved in rape, murder of women busted by Nuh Police||A gang — allegedly involved in two cases of kidnapping, murdering and raping women on the pretext of offering them lift — has been busted, the police said on Thursday. They suspect that the accused could be involved in more such cases. Acting on a tip-off, a Nuh Police Crime Unit arrested four persons, later identified as Devender, Manjeet, Rinku and Naasir, at Rangala Ghati village on July 13 while they were allegedly planning to commit a robbery. While Manjeet belongs to Palwal, the rest three are from Nuh. According to the police, the four kidnapped a woman on April 24, 2018, in their pick-up van on their way to Bhiwadi, raped her in Nuh’s Uthan village and murdered her. They threw her body in Gurugram canal near Bibipur. In another case, Devender was returning from his in-laws’ place in Garhi Hodal on July 20 last year when he offered a lift to a woman in his pick-up van. He brought her to his house and murdered her after committing rape. He disposed of her body in a “jheel” on Bilaspur road. Separate murder cases have been registered at Sadar Nuh police station in connection with both incidents. The accused have been taken on two days remand and being interrogated about their involvement in more cases. Further probe is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nuh-police-nab-four-involved-in-rape-murder/article35355224.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sharjeel seeks bail, denies encouraging violence||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition law, has moved a bail plea before a court here in a case related to making allegedly inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC at two universities here. In the bail plea, which came up before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat for hearing on Thursday, Mr. Imam claimed that he never participated in or encouraged any violence during the course of any protest or demonstration and is a peace-loving citizen. During the hearing, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing Mr. Imam, read parts of his speeches to the court and said that they do not fall within the meaning of sedition law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sharjeel-denies-encouraging-violence-moves-court-for-bail/article35355226.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccination dips by 50% due to shortage||The number of COVID-19 vaccines administered in the city in a day fell by about 50%, as the city is facing a vaccine shortage yet again, according to Delhi government data. The vaccine stock will last for only less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The city has faced a similar situation on Monday and a day later. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage in the city. Only 64,983 doses of vaccine were administered on Wednesday compared to 1,29,054 doses administered on Tuesday, as per the bulletin. Meanwhile, the city reported 72 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,35,353, according to health bulletin. There was only one death reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,022. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday flagged off the Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccination Programme at the Aam Aadmi Polyclinic in Paschim Vihar. He said that the vaccine that usually costs between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 6,000 will be administered for free at Delhi government’s centres and each child will get 3 doses at specified time period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccination-dips-by-50-due-to-shortage/article35355245.ece
16 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia meets athletes ahead of Olympics||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Sports University Karnam Malleswari on Thursday interacted with the four athletes from Delhi that will be representing India at the Tokyo Olympics 2020. Of the four, three athletes have been part of the Mission Excellence programme of the Delhi government that provides financial help and training to athletes. Mr. Sisodia said that the vision of CM Arvind Kejriwal has been realised as athletes who were a part of the Mission Excellence programme were representing India. “The Delhi government not only rewards the players who win medals, but also makes them worthy of winning medals by helping players during the days of their struggle and training,” Mr. Sisodia said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-meets-athletes-ahead-of-olympics/article35355249.ece
16 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SAD-BSP poll pitch: two Dy. CMs if we win||Ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that if voted to power, the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party alliance will have two Deputy Chief Ministers — one from Punjabi Hindus and the other from the Dalit community. After SAD’s core committee meeting, Mr. Badal said: “We understand that there are external forces which want to disturb the peace of Punjab by pitching communities against each other. We want to guarantee Punjabis that the SAD will continue to follow the policies of Mr. Parkash Singh Badal under which all religions were respected and honoured. We are committed to keeping all communities together and it is with this in mind that the SAD has decided to have a representative from the Hindu community as a Deputy CM once it secures power in Punjab”. Mr Badal had in April earlier this year announced on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar that the SAD would offer the chair of Deputy CM to a Dalit once voted to power. The SAD chief said the decision to have two Deputy CMs is symbolic of the strong emotional bonds that bind the different communities together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sad-bsp-poll-pitch-two-dy-cms-if-we-win/article35355219.ece
16 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam approves home delivery of liquor on experimental basis||The Assam Cabinet has decided to allow online sale and purchase and home delivery of liquor within the Guwahati Municipal Corporation area as an experiment for a month to avoid crowding outside liquor outlets in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Assam’s positivity rate has fluctuated between 1.53% and 1.74% over the past few days with more than 200 people testing positive in Kamrup (Metropolitan) district encompassing the corporation area measuring about 217 sq. km. ‘Crowding outside shops’ “We have taken the decision on an experimental basis after witnessing crowding outside liquor shops during the non-curfew hours. The experiment is on the basis of the directives of the Supreme Court and the Madras High Court,” State Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said after the Cabinet meeting late on Wednesday evening. The Supreme Court had in 2020 left it to the States to consider online sales and home delivery of liquor during the COVID-19 lockdown period to facilitate physical distancing. Mr. Mahanta said the Assam Cabinet also decided to provide employment to tea garden labourers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act during the winter season when tea production is less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-approves-home-delivery-of-liquor-on-experimental-basis/article35355220.ece
16 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana government undercounted deaths due to COVID-19: Cong.||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala has accused the Haryana government of undercounting COVID-19 deaths in the State during the second wave, in an attempt to cover up mismanagement. Citing the “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS), Mr. Surjewala in a statement alleged that the official figures had exposed the BJP-JJP government’s attempt to mislead the people. “Hiding the data will not hide the truth. Will Chief Minister Manohar Lal take responsibility for it? The BJP government should understand that hiding the data will not hide the truth and will not fool the intelligent people of Haryana,” he said. Mr Surjewala said that despite repeated warnings from the Congress party, no concrete arrangements were made by the government to handle the pandemic. “Due to the failure and gross mismanagement of the government, Corona surpassed the boundaries of big cities and reached the villages during the second wave. It is also clear from the official figures of the State government that it did not test or track the virus efficiently, neither in the villages nor in the cities. Of course, the excess deaths are due toCOVID-19 and if the government had done its job properly, thousands of those people could have been saved,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-government-undercounted-deaths-due-to-covid-19-cong/article35355221.ece
16 July 2021||Mumbai,||Dabholkar case: accused gets HC nod to attend father’s funeral||The Bombay High Court on Thursday permitted Vikram Bhave, an accused in the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, to travel to Ratnagiri to perform the final rites of his father, who died on June 25. The court had granted bail to Mr. Bhave in May, but had directed him not to leave Pune city, where the case is being tried. The accused filed an application this week, seeking permission to travel. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar on Thursday permitted him to go to Ratnagiri for three weeks and directed him to appear before the local police station once a week. It also directed the accused to report to the Deccan police station in Pune on his return. Mr. Bhave was accused of helping those who allegedly shot Dabholkar in 2013 with a recce of the spot and the escape route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dabholkar-case-accused-gets-hc-nod-to-attend-fathers-funeral/article35355461.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s water supply situation to improve soon: Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday said the water supply situation in the city will improve soon with the water level increasing at the Wazirabad Barrage. He said Haryana released 16,000 cusec of water in the Yamuna at Hathnikund barrage on Tuesday and it is likely to reach Delhi on Friday morning.Thereafter, the water crisis in the city will be resolved, Chadha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-water-supply-situation-to-improve-soon-raghav-chadha/article35355229.ece
16 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi forest department sets ball rolling for first urban wildlife corridor||The Delhi forest department officials have completed a survey and submitted a recommendation to construct a wildlife corridor on the Surajkund-Pali road close to the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, the first such passage in an urban setting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-forest-department-sets-ball-rolling-for-first-urban-wildlife-corridor/article35355518.ece
