18 July 2021||TASHKENT,||Taliban won battles, we will win the war: Ghani||The Afghan national forces will prevail over Taliban militants who are making advances on towns and border checkposts, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has said, conceding, however, that the Taliban had won some battles thus far. In an interview, shortly after a fiery speech accusing Pakistan of failing to prevent “jihadi” fighters from crossing the border and for not pushing the Taliban hard enough on talks, Mr. Ghani said he would keep dialogue open with Islamabad and continue the intra-Afghan negotiations with the Taliban in Doha. “Winning battles is not winning the war. They [the Taliban] have won battles. But they are going to lose the war, and we are determined,” Mr. Ghani said, when asked about recent Taliban gains, particularly on the border with Pakistan at the Spin Boldak-Chaman crossing, where Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed on Thursday. Mr. Ghani, who condoled the death, said there might be a need to “rebalance” the situation to win the war militarily but the larger goal of his government was to arrive at a political settlement in Afghanistan. The President stressed that he would want to avoid the fate of countries such as “Algeria, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Yemen” that continued to see strife. As a result, after several changes in its plans, an Afghan delegation, led by High Council chief Abdullah Abdullah, travelled to Doha on Saturday to begin “high-level” talks with Taliban leaders in an effort facilitated by the Qatar government and other countries to restart the stalled intra-Afghan dialogue. Asked if he felt abandoned by the West, after the abrupt U.S. pull-out and after comments by the British Defence Secretary that the U.K. was prepared to engage with the Taliban if it came to power in Afghanistan, he said, “No, no, I don’t. We have an engagement.” ‘India a true partner’ Mr. Ghani emphatically denied having asked India for military assistance in the face of the Taliban’s advances. India was a “true partner” in Afghanistan’s development, he said. “This [defeating Taliban] is our job. The period of international engagement, or use of force in Afghanistan is over,” he told The Hindu during his visit to Dushanbe to attend the Central and South Asia connectivity conference on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliban-won-battles-we-will-win-the-war-ghani/article35389366.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Decline of COVID cases slow in some parts: DPH||The decline of COVID-19 cases has been slow in some parts of Telangana. State’s Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao, stating this, urged people participating in ongoing Bonalu, and coming Bakrid celebrations to maintain COVID-19 appropriate behaviour including wearing masks appropriately, frequent hand sanitization, and physical distancing. He cautioned everyone participating in the Bonalu celebrations, including Potarajus, Pujaris, Rangam Devatas, and staff of temples, to follow the three precautions to prevent COVID-19 infection. “It is to remember that huge gatherings like these have triggered second wave of COVID, in massive proportions. This is also the season of many festivals including Bakrid, auspicious time for functions (marriages etc), wherein, if people are careless, we have to pay a heavy price. Let me caution you, the decline of cases has been slow in some parts of the state. It’s not over yet,” Dr Srinivasa Rao said in an advisory issued on Saturday. Earlier, other senior officials too expressed concern over large gatherings. The Director of Public Health reiterated that people with suspected COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, cold, cough, headache, body pains, throat pain, loss of taste or smell to immediately undergo isolation at home (even from other family members,who don’t have symptoms), and get tested for COVID. In case someone tests positive, patients have to consult doctors for immediate treatment. “Only public contribution by actively following COVID-appropriate behaviour will help in prevention or mitigation of third wave,” he said. ‘Third wave’ While the second wave of the pandemic has been on decline, the possibility of third wave and when it would set in was being discussed by officials and public alike. Officials in the State Health department are keeping track of the COVID-19 admissions in government and private hospitals. Number of admissions in ICUs is one of the factors considered to measure the incidence. Currently, the COVID-19 ICU admissions continue to be on decline. Over 3,000-4,000 ICU beds were occupied during the peak of the second wave in April. In the past week, the ICU admissions dropped from around 1,470 to 1,320. However, managements of a few corporate hospitals said there was marginal increase in COVID-19 admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fall-in-covid-cases-slow-in-some-parts-dph/article35389845.ece
18 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu may captain Congress in Punjab||The decks seem to have been cleared for the appointment of former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as president of the Pradesh Congress Committee after Harish Rawat, All India Congress Committee’s State in-charge, held a meeting on Saturday with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who said he would abide by the decision of party president Sonia Gandhi. Amid the power tussle between Capt. Singh and Mr. Sidhu ahead of the 2022 Assembly election in the State, Mr. Rawat flew to Chandigarh from Delhi to meet them and settle the “differences”. Mr. Rawat tweeted, “I have just returned to Delhi after meeting @capt_amarinderji. I am happy that many things which are being discussed outside have proved to be completely baseless and Captain Sahib has again reiterated his important statement.. In which he has said that whatever decision will be taken by honourable Congress president regarding the post of Punjab president, that decision will be acceptable to him, I will respect it.” “#Thankyou_Captain for your great statement,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-may-captain-congress-in-punjab/article35389368.ece
18 July 2021||Hassan,||‘Give us Internet or we won’t vote’||Citing poor Internet, residents of Kudaruru Zilla Panchayat in Sagar taluk have launched a ‘No Network, No Voting’ campaign. They have resolved to boycott the coming zilla and taluk panchayat elections demanding better Internet connectivity. Students have to walk long distances in search of vantage positions with good connectivity to attend online classes, braving heavy rains. The area has a population of over 14,000 people, including 1,000 students. As repeated appeals to elected representatives and the officers concerned did not yield any result, the people have formed a committee to highlight their demand. The Kattinakaru-Karani Tower Horata Samiti consists of people residing in Kattinakaru and Karani villages. While villagers boycotting polls for better roads or power is not uncommon, the latest demand reflects the increasing dependence on net connectivity in rural areas. “Children are forced to attend online classes sitting in places far away from their residence. Sometimes, even after walking for a long distance, one ends up getting only a patchy network. Besides schools, we have government offices, hospitals and other government establishments. All the staff members are facing difficulty in accessing the internet,” says Raja Naik Hemde, a member of the committee. The residents appealed to elected representatives ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections for increase in the number of BSNL towers. “We were hopeful that they would fulfil our demand. But, they did not. Now, the dependence on internet connectivity has increased following the lockdown and online classes. The Karnataka government has admitted that 50% of students do not get access to the internet. Yet, they are conducting online classes,” Hemde says. The representatives of the committee are planning to canvass support for a jatha (rally) soon to highlight their demandssue. Tumari Gram Panchayat, which is part of Kudaruru ZP, was declared a ‘digital village’ in 2018. However, even today the network is patchy in the village limits. G.T. Satyanarayana, former president of Tumari Gram panchayat, said Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, who attended the programme to inaugurate the digital village, had promised BSNL towers in the panchayat limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-us-internet-or-we-wont-vote/article35389575.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. eases COVID regulations for Bakrid||The State government has eased COVID-19 restrictions in view of Bakrid. There will be no weekend lockdown on Sunday. Textile, footwear, jewellery, fancy, home appliances, and electronic goods shops can open for business on July 18, 19 and 20 in localities where the average test positivity rate (TPR) is below 15% (A, B and C categories). In D category localities where the TPR is above 15%, the retail business is allowed only on Monday. Beauty parlours Beauty parlours and barber shops can function on alternate weekdays in localities where the average TPR is less than 10% (A and B category). So can electronic shops and electronic repair shops. The business timings are from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Places of worship can admit a maximum of 40 persons on festival days in all zones. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan clarified that they could permit not more than 20 persons in other zones. The management should enforce the mask mandate, physical distancing rules and COVID-19 safety protocol. Mr. Vijayan said only persons who had at least one vaccine dose should venture out for shopping. He said RT-PCR negative certificate was not necessary for those who have received two doses of vaccine. They need to carry the vaccination certificate for inter-State and inter-district travel. Not more than 10,000 people would be allowed to visit Sabarimala for monthly (Karkadaka) puja. The temple opened to admit visitors on July 17. It will close after pujas on July 21. Visitors should register themselves on the virtual queue portal of the State police in advance. Shooting to resume The government allowed shooting of television serials and films in localities where the average TPR is below 15%. The government also allowed engineering colleges and polytechnic hostels to admit students preparing for their semester examinations. Mr. Vijayan will review the pandemic situation again on July 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-eases-covid-regulations-for-bakrid/article35389849.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Central government releases Rs. 2,155.25 crore to Telangana||The State government has received a relief in terms of finances in the form of release of Rs. 2,155.25 crore by the Central government. The release comes under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of the Goods and Services Tax compensation assured by the Centre. The Centre had announced after the 43rd Goods and Services Tax council meeting in May-end that it would borrow Rs. 1.59 lakh crore for releasing the amount to the States and Union Territories with Legislature to meet the resource gap arising out of the short release of compensation on account of inadequate amounts in the compensation fund. The Union Finance Ministry said all States had agreed to the arrangement of funding of the compensation shortfall under the back-to-back loan facility. The States and Union Territories had very important role to play for effective response and management of COVID-19 pandemic and ensure a step-up in capital expenditure. The funds released would help the States/Union Territories in planning their expenditure among other things for improving health infrastructure and taking up infrastructure projects. The present release was in addition to the normal Goods and Services Tax compensation being released every two months out of the actual cess collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-govt-releases-rs-215525-crore-to-telangana/article35389840.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||No Muslim student will lose scholarship: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday sought to assuage the apprehension that Muslim students would lose out on merit-cum-means scholarships due to the 2011 Census-based restructuring of the educational endowment for academically and socially backward minority community pupils. “Not a single application for a scholarship from an eligible Muslim student will be rejected,” Mr. Vijayan said. The High Court had found that the earlier allocation in the 80:20 proportion was flawed. It directed the government to rectify the anomaly based on the 2011 Census date. The government constituted a three-member committee, which studied the issue. Various political parties of different ideological hues arrived at a general agreement to abide by the High Court direction at an all-party meeting convened by the government in May. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had extended the scholarship to students from other minority communities who suffered similar backwardness instead of restricting the grant to the Muslim population alone. ‘All have gained’ “It is an occasion for everyone to be happy. All have gained. Instead, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is sowing seeds of discontent in society. It is a dangerous gambit. Incendiary rhetoric will only help divide society. Everyone should avoid falling into the trap,” he said. Mr. Vijayan pointed out that Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan had welcomed the award. He had correctly inferred that the restructured award had caused no loss to the Muslim community. The rectification also benefited other minority communities. The IUML later arm-twisted Mr. Satheesan into mouthing its opinion. He said it was erroneous to compare the scholarship award for educationally backward minority community students with the reservation policy. The latter addressed social backwardness. Mr. Vijayan said the falsehood that the government had reset the scholarship structure to advantage socially and educationally forward Christians was “dangerous and divisive propaganda.” The IUML had no cause for complaint. Its stance on the issue would not augur well for social harmony, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-muslim-student-will-lose-scholarship-cm/article35389847.ece
18 July 2021||GUNTUR,||BC, SC, STs and women get half of nominated chairperson posts||Two years after storming into power in Andhra Pradesh, the YSR Congress Party government continued in its endeavour to widen the social base by allocating 56% of the 135 nominated posts of chairpersons of various corporations to the party leaders from backward communities, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and minorities. In yet another significant development, 68 of the 135 posts were given to women. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was so particular about 50% posts being given to women that the list had to be revised several times before the final announcement was made on Saturday. Senior party leaders said that the list had maintained a fine balance among the various caste groups, regional balances and could provide an opportunity for party leaders to showcase their skills in administration. Minister for Backward Classes Ch. Venugopala Krishna, Minister for Home and Disaster Management M. Sucharita, Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, MP Mopidevi Venkata Ramana and MP Nandigam Suresh released the list at Vijayawada. Gadala Bangaramma (BC) from Vizianagaram has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP Regional Board, Malla Vijaya Prasad as the chairperson of the AP Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation and K. Raju Kammila from Visakhapatnam as the chairperson of the New and Renewable Energy Corporation (NEDCAP). Davuluri Dorababu from East Godavari has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP State Housing Corporation and Dwarampudi Bhaskar Reddy as the chairperson of the AP State Civil Supplies Corporation. Vanka Ravidranath from West Godavari district has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP MSME Corporation and Dayala Naveen Babu as the vice-chairman of the AP Labour Welfare Board. However, the decision to nominate close family members of MLAs has raised attention as some party leaders felt the opportunity could have been given to others. Arun Kumar Mondikota, brother of MLA Monditoka Jaganmohan Rao of Nandigama (Krishna district, has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP Forest Development Corporation. Likewise, Aremanda Vara Prasad Reddy, whose wife Vijaya Sarada Reddy is the vice-chairperson of the Andhra Pradesh School Education, Regulatory and Monitoring Commission, has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP Tourism Development Corporation. Senior Kapu leader from Vijayawada Adapa Seshagiri has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP State Kapu Welfare and Development Corporation. Guntur district has bagged six posts. Apart from Mr. Vara Prasad Reddy, M. Seshagiri Rao (AP Grandhalaya Parishad), Kurra Naga Malleswari (History Academy), Sk. Asha Begum (Sheik Corporation) and Muntaz Pathan (AP State Handicap and Senior Citizen Corporation) were given posts. In Krishna district, Tatineni Padmavathy (APRTC Regional Board) and Mohana Rao (AP State Kamma Welfare and Development Corporation) have been nominated. Jupudi Prabhakara Rao, who had switched loyalties from the TDP, has been nominated as Adviser, Social Justice. Nellore district has bagged several important corporations. Pernati Susmita, wife of Syam Prasad Reddy, was nominated as the chairperson of the AP State Seed Development Corporation, Ponka Devasena, wife of K. Siva Kumar Reddy, was nominated as the chairperson of the Swatchandhra Corporation and Mettukuru Chiranjeevi Reddy as the chairperson of the AP State Police Housing Corporation. Aslam from Chittoor has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP Mineral Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bc-sc-sts-and-women-get-half-of-nominated-chairperson-posts/article35389342.ece
18 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. defers annual Kanwar Yatra||The annual Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh has been deferred this year, the State government said on Saturday evening. This comes three days after the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the State’s move to go ahead with the annual yatra amid fears of a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. “On the appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government, the Kanwar Sanghs have deferred the Kanwar Yatra this year,” said Navneet Sehgal, Additional Chief secretary Information, Uttar Pradesh. The Kanwar Yatra was cancelled last year amid the first COVID-19 wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-govt-defers-annual-kanwar-yatra/article35390054.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC with people to protect civil liberties: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramanaon Saturday asserted that the Supreme Court would stand by the people to protect their civil liberties, while Justice D.Y. Chandrachud cautioned that any semblance of majoritarian tendencies or clampdown on civil or religious freedoms would upset a sacred promise made to the ancestors who accepted India as their Constitutional Republic. The judge observed that the “danger to our freedoms may not only originate from those who are tasked to govern but also originate in the intolerance of persons in society as well”. The CJI said the people of India knew that “when things go wrong”, the Supreme Court, as the guardian of the largest democracy, “will stand by them”. The Constitution, together with the immense faith of the people in the judicial system, brought to life the Supreme Court;s motto Yato Dharma Sthato Jaya . “Where there is dharma, there is victory,” Chief Justice Ramana stated in the keynote address to a global audience at the Indo-Singapore Mediation Summit of 2021. At a separate event to commemorate the 101st birth anniversary of his father and longest-serving CJI Y.V. Chandrachud, Justice Chandrachud, who is line to be the CJI, stated: “Majoritarian tendencies, whenever and however they arise, must be questioned against the background of our constitutive promise. Any semblance of authoritarianism, clampdown on civil liberties, sexism, casteism, otherisation on account of religion or region is upsetting a sacred promise that was made to our ancestors who accepted India as their Constitutional Republic.” “Our nation was forged and united, with a promise of certain commitments and entitlements to each and every citizen. A promise of religious freedom, a promise of equality between persons, irrespective of sex, caste or religion, a promise of fundamental freedoms of speech and movement without undue State interference and an enduring right to life and personal liberty,” he stressed. In a word of caution, Justice Chandrachud reminded that the largest Bench of the Supreme Court in its history had held that the power of amendment to the Constitution should not be exercised “to destroy the fundamental character and ethos, that is, the Basic Structure of the Indian Constitution”. Conflict resolution Chief Justice Ramana noted that conflicts were unavoidable in any society for a variety of reasons, including political, economic, social, cultural and religious. But with conflicts, there was also the need to develop mechanisms for conflict resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-with-people-to-protect-civil-liberties-cji-ramana/article35389363.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,||Train services likely to resume today morning||Southern Railway is hopeful of resuming train services on the Mangaluru-Mumbai line by Sunday morning after restoration of the track affected by Friday’s massive landslip near Kulashekara reached a crucial stage by Saturday evening. Officials from the Palakkad Division of SR said the track could be certified fit for operation of goods trains by 4 a.m. and for passenger trains by 8 a.m. on Sunday. Before this, the retaining wall besides the running track that was in a precarious condition was to be broken to a safe size for the running of trains. The running track including the Overhead Equipment (OHE) of Railway electrification was made fit for operation by Saturday evening. The single track just after the Kulashekara tunnel near Kongurmutt was blocked by soil and a portion of the retaining wall owing to heavy rains after Friday’s landslip. Palakkad Division had deployed adequate men and machinery for the restoration work being supervised by Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari and other senior officers. Mangaluru Area Manager Shivraj S. Managiri told The Hindu that about 60% of debris was removed so far and the collapsed retaining wall was cut apart to restore the track. Steep hill walls in the surroundings were being tapered down to prevent further landslips, he said, adding damaged poles of electricity overhead line as well as cables too were restored. Mr. Managiri further said Railways provided ‘road bridging’ services between Mangaluru Central and Surathkal to ferry passengers of Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT and Mangaluru Central-Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central express special services through buses. Meanwhile, Railways continued to divert some of the long-distance trains between Kerala and the North either via Salem and Jolarpettai or via Padil, Hassan and Madgaon. Train Nos. 06585/06586 Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru Panchaganga express specials of Saturday were fully cancelled. Train Nos. 06335 Gandhidham-Nagercoil weekly express special of July 16, 02618 Hazrath Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Mangala Lakshwadweep daily special of July 16, 06338 Ernakulam-Okha bi-weekly express special of Julyu 16, 02476 Coimbatore-Hissar weekly express special of July 17, 04559 Kochuveli-Chandigarh bi-weekly express special of July 17, 02617 Ernakulam-Hazrath Nizamuddin Mangala Lakshadweep express special of July 17 and 06345 Mumbai LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Central Netravathi daily express special of July 17 were diverted on alternative routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/train-services-likely-to-resume-today-morning/article35389983.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Steady decline in TB notifications during pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic has had a severe impact on the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP). In Karnataka, there has been a steady decline in the number of TB notifications, bringing down the total notifications from 91,993 in 2019 to 65,983 in 2021, a decline of 28.3%. This year, the State has seen 32,510 notifications from January to June. As many as 36,803 and 47,277 notifications had been received during the corresponding period in 2020 and 2019 respectively. Officials said this was mainly because human resources and diagnostic capacity under the NTEP were repurposed for COVID-19. Additionally, mobility constraints during the lockdown and the common symptoms of the two diseases led to heightened stigma, they said. These factors also led to a significant drop in notifications at the national level too. Notifications fell by 47.29% and 60% in April 2021 and May 2021 respectively compared to the corresponding months in 2019, according to data from the Central TB Division’s NIKSHAY portal. Experts said the steady decline in notifications is not a good sign as it can lead to morbidity and mortality. This is apart from an increased likelihood of active transmission in the household and close contacts. In August last year, the Centre had issued a guidance note asking States to ensure bi-directional screening when diagnosing COVID-19 and TB. The Centre had also asked States to test all Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and SARI cases for TB and COVID-19. In CT scan centres State Joint Director (TB) Ramesh Chandra Reddy told The Hindu on Saturday that the State has now started intensified TB surveillance in CT scan centres. A circular has been issued on June 24 directing all deputy commissioners in the State to start CT scan-based surveillance of TB cases, he said. “During the second wave, High Resolution Chest Thorax (HRCT) scans have increasingly been used to detect COVID. There are great opportunities to find the missing TB patients in CT scan-based surveillance due to high sensitivity and specificity of CT scan to rule in and rule out TB,” he said. “The Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) has directed all deputy commissioners to collect CT scans suggestive of TB from all CT scan centres in their jurisdiction from April 2021 onwards. All those identified through these centres should be enrolled in the NlKSHAY portal as presumptive TB patients,” he said. “Further, these presumptive TB patients should be mobilised and sputum samples should be collected for offering TB diagnosis through TrueNat/CBNAAT. lf test is positive and TB is detected, the patients should be managed as per the existing NTEP guidelines. lf test is negative, then clinical opinion should be taken to diagnose other causes or TB clinically. All identified cases should be managed as per NTEP guidelines.,” Dr. Reddy said. Active Case Finding Apart from this, the State will also intensify its Active Case Finding (ACF) activity. “In a month-long ACF exercise in December, 2,939 TB cases were diagnosed. However, after January the ACF is going on in a staggered manner in Tumakuru, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Mandya districts. We will further intensify this programme focussing on contact tracing of every positive case,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/steady-fall-in-tb-notifications-during-pandemic/article35389576.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Outpouring of grief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/outpouring-of-grief/article35389910.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sharad Pawar meets PM, submits letter||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday had an over 50-minute meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also wrote to Mr. Modi on the problems with the new Union Ministry of Cooperation, which is headed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “Rajya Sabha MP Shri Sharad Pawar met PM Narendra Modi,” the PMO tweeted with a photo of the meeting. The timing of the meeting has raised questions, two days ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. There are reports of a strain in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sharad-pawar-meets-pm-submits-letter/article35389703.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delta variant found in most COVID cases in the Capital’||Over 88% of 92 samples from Delhi, for which genome sequencing was done in June, had the Delta variant of COVID-19. In May, out of 745 samples, 83.4% were found to have the Delta variant, which was first found in India, according to Delhi government data shared with The Hindu . The Delta variant became dominant in April (55% of 1,967 samples) when the city witnessed a deadly second wave and the daily new cases were reported as high as 28,000. Also, the percentage of Alpha variant of the virus, first found in the U.K. and a dominant strain in the city earlier, fell from 47.4% in March to just 3.3% in June.  “The Delta variant is the dominant strain of the virus in Delhi at this moment. It has seen a steady rise in the past few months. Also, till now, there is no Delta Plus variant of the virus reported here,” a Delhi government official said. Results of more samples from June are awaited, the official said. The data is based on genome sequencing of COVID positive blood samples from Delhi by the National Centre for Disease Control. “The data show that the second wave in Delhi was in a way due to the Delta variant. This variant is highly infectious and that’s why Delhi registered a sudden spike in cases,” said Jugal Kishore, head of Community Medicine Department, Safdarjung Hospital. He said a similar trend was observed in several other States as well. “Now the percentage of Delta variant may fall and another variant could become dominant. That is what happens during pandemics,” Dr. Kishore said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delta-variant-found-in-most-covid-cases-in-the-capital/article35389701.ece
18 July 2021||Vijayawada,||State registers 18 COVID-19 deaths||In the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, the State reported 18 COVID-19 deaths and 2,699 infections, which took the death toll to 13,115 and the cumulative tally to 19,37,122. For the first time in many weeks, the number of active cases increased during the period as the number of infections was higher than the number of recoveries. The number of recoveries was 2,467.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-registers-18-covid-19-deaths/article35389360.ece
18 July 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. ‘defers’ kanwar yatra this year||Uttar Pradesh has “deferred” the Kanwar Yatra this year, it was announced on Saturday evening. This comes three days after the Supreme Court had taken suo motu cognizance of the State’s move to go ahead with the yatra amid fears of a third COVID-19 wave. “On the appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government, the Kanwar Sanghs have deferred the yatra this year,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary information, U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-defers-kanwar-yatra-this-year/article35389911.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||New quad group to focus on connectivity||The U.S., Afghanistan, Pakistan and Uzbekistan have agreed in principle to establish a new quadrilat- eral diplomatic platform focused on enhancing regional connectivity, the Biden administration has said.Page 11 D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-quad-group-to-focus-on-connectivity/article35389361.ece
18 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. cancels Kanwar Yatra||The Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh has been cancelled, the State government said on Saturday. The announcement comes days after the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the State’s move to allow the yatra. “On the appeal of the government, the Kanwar Sanghs cancelled the yatra,” said Navneet Sehgal, Additional Chief Secretary, Information. The government earlier said it was going ahead with a pared-down “symbolic” version. The court had said it could not allow the U.P. government “to hold the physical Kanwar Yatra in view of COVID-19”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-cancels-kanwar-yatra/article35389577.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Mucormycosis: most patients need surgery||A majority of patients affected by mucormycosis in Tamil Nadu required surgical intervention, according to doctors. Till date, 4,072 patients have been affected by mucormycosis, an invasive fungal disease occurring in the post-COVID period, in the State. With COVID-19 cases falling steadily in the State, hospitals have been quietly managing scores of patients with mucormycosis in the past few months. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital has handled a high number of patients with mucormycosis. E. Theranirajan, RGGGH dean, said 863 patients were so far treated for the fungal disease. “While 362 persons recovered and were discharged, we currently have 395 patients undergoing treatment. We have been receiving patients from both government and private hospitals across the State and other States such as Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal,” he said. The special mucormycosis clinic has so far screened 944 patients, he said, adding, “The ENT department has been performing surgeries on at least 18 to 20 patients a day.” R. Muthukumar, director, Institute of Otorhinolaryngology, RGGGH, said that so far, they have performed 600 major surgeries and 900 endoscopic suction clearance. The major surgeries included endoscopic sinus surgeries, endoscopic orbital decompressions, endoscopic maxillectomy and total maxillectomy. “The fungus is all around. When the immunity is lowered in the post-COVID period, it starts invading the issues and blood vessels. The blood supply to the tissue is cut, and it leads to infarction and necrosis of the tissue. The fungus thrives on the decaying organic matter, and our aim is to remove the necrotic tissue,” he said. R. Malarvizhi, professor of Ophthalmology, Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Government Eye Hospital, said they have so far screened 581 patients of whom 353 had eye involvement. “We stage patients, and those in stages 3 and 4 have eye involvement. We administer intraorbital antifungal injection for patients. So far, we have administered these intraorbital amphotericin injections for 262 patients,” she said. So far, 32 eyes were removed, the process called as exenteration done. Stanley hospital At Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, around 256 patients with mucormycosis were treated so far. Of them, 216 patients underwent endoscopic surgical intervention and debridement under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, Gowrishankar, professor and head, Department of ENT, said. “Almost two-thirds of the patients require surgery. We do endoscopic exploration for almost every patient and debridement,” he said. He added that most of them came in early stages. Most of the patients present with nasal stuffiness, nasal crusting, headache, eye pain in the earlier stages. In late stages, they present with headache, vomiting, visual disturbances and orbital swelling, he said. Suresh Kumar, consultant-Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospitals, said that so far, they have seen approximately 100 patients with mucormycosis. “With the fall in COVID-19 cases, there has been a fall in mucormycosis cases in the last two to three weeks. Right now, we are seeing one to two patients with mucormycosis a week. In the majority of the patients, the sino-orbital region is involved. We have also seen a few patients with pulmonary and gastro-intestinal involvement. If we take 10 patients, the sino-orbital area is involved in 8 to 9 of them,” he said. During peak COVID-19, we saw patients developing symptoms on day 8 to 10. But usually, there is a time gap of three to four weeks, he said, adding: “Almost 90 to 95 per cent of patients needed surgery. The remaining were unfit or unwilling for surgery.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mucormycosis-most-patients-need-surgery/article35389634.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Pink protection project launch tomorrow||The Kerala Police are all set to launch a pink protection project that aims at tackling problems faced by women, including domestic violence, dowry-linked atrocities and cyberbullying. During his media briefing on Saturday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the project, which would come into effect on Monday, would encompass various components intended to protecting women in public and private places, and in the cyberworld.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pink-protection-project-launch-tomorrow/article35389852.ece
18 July 2021||Mysuru,||Made Gowda, former MP, passes away||G. Made Gowda, 94, who was twice elected as MP from Mandya and was in the forefront of the Cauvery agitation, died at a hospital at K.M. Doddi on Saturday aftera prolonged illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/made-gowda-former-mp-passes-away/article35389579.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Illegal mining: HC questions govt. silence||The High Court of Karnataka has questioned the conduct of the State government for not challenging orders passed by the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal, which had quashed inquiries entrusted to the Lokayukta against officials allegedly involved incorruption over illegal mining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/illegal-mining-hc-questions-govt-silence/article35389581.ece
18 July 2021||BENGALURU,||Population legislation not warranted: Experts||Voices seeking a stringent population control policy through legislation seem to be growing among other BJP-ruled States, including Karnataka. But it has met with opposition from experts, who say it is unnecessarygiven the trends in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/population-legislation-not-warranted-experts/article35389580.ece
18 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Hold fresh U.P. local polls, demands Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday demanded that fresh elections be conducted in those block pramukh seats which witnessed violence, and alleged that candidates had been intimidated. She met two women who had been assaulted during the nomination process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-fresh-up-local-polls-demands-priyanka/article35389704.ece
18 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha SHGs to get aid of Rs. 453.5 crore||The Odisha government has announced Rs. 453.50 crore assistance for women self-help groups as part of a comprehensive COVID-19 package. Asd much as Rs. 169 crore has been earmarked for construction of block-level buildings for the SHG federations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-shgs-to-get-aid-of-rs-4535-crore/article35389912.ece
18 July 2021||DIPHU,||Chief Minister justifies crackdown in Assam||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday advised his detractors to think of the families drug dealers have destroyed before sympathising with them and criticising the State police for being “trigger-happy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-justifies-crackdown-in-assam/article35389913.ece
18 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Schools to reopen for Classes X, XII in Odisha||The Odisha government on Saturday announced the reopening of schools for Class X and Class XII from July 26 following a fall in the number of COVID cases in the State. The decision appears to have been prompted by the inability to reach a majority of students through online modes of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-x-xii-in-odisha/article35389915.ece
18 July 2021||JAIPUR,||BJP expels former Rajasthan Minister||The BJP on Saturday expelled former Rajasthan Minister Rohitash Sharma from the party for six years. The BJP had recently issued a show-cause notice to Mr. Sharma for speaking out against the State leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-expels-former-rajasthan-minister/article35389705.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||No CET, DU admissions to begin on Aug. 2||Delhi University on Saturday announced that registration for its undergraduate courses will begin from August 2. Admissions to undergraduate courses will be based on merit and not Central Universities Common Entrance Test as speculated earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-cet-du-admissions-to-begin-on-aug-2/article35389707.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Flooding at Pumpwell Circle a creation by media’||Project Director of NHAI in Mangaluru, Shishu Mohan, on Saturday said the waterlogging issue at Pumpwell (Bhagwan Mahaveer) Circle in the city was just a media creation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flooding-at-pumpwell-circle-a-creation-by-media/article35389985.ece
18 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Suspended policeman Sachin Vaze seeks bail||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze has filed for bail at a special NIA court in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiren. He sought bail on the grounds that the NIA had not filed a chargesheet within the mandated 90 days under the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suspended-policeman-sachin-vaze-seeks-bail/article35390016.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||File affidavit on vaccine allocation: HC to Centre||The Bombay High Court has directed the Central government to file an affidavit detailing the manner and methods of allocating vaccines to States. It directed the Centre to explain the manner in which orders are placed with manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/file-affidavit-on-vaccine-allocation-hc-to-centre/article35390017.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||Film producers seek extension in timings||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked film and television producers to adhere to COVID-19 norms and coordinate with the police on the place of shoot, and extension for timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/film-producers-seek-extension-in-timings/article35390018.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Illegal mining: MP meets Governor||Sumalatha, MP from Mandya, on Saturday called on Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot and urged him to take steps to stop illegal stone quarrying in around the Krishna Raja Sagar in Mandya district to ensure the safety of the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/illegal-mining-mp-meets-governor/article35389796.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Stormy legislature party meeting in the offing||As soon as he returned from Delhi, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that a BJP Legislature Party meeting would be convened on July 26. This has now set the stage for dissidents for a show of strength and to air their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stormy-legislature-party-meeting-in-the-offing/article35389797.ece
18 July 2021||MYSURU,||Made Gowda, former MP, passes away||G. Made Gowda, 94, who was twice elected as MP from Mandya and was in the forefront of the Cauvery agitation, died at a private hospital at K.M. Doddi on Saturday after a prolonged illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/made-gowda-former-mp-passes-away/article35389798.ece
18 July 2021||Chennai,||‘In 70 days, over 1 crore doses administered’||In 70 days of the DMK regime, 1,12,90,767 doses of COVID-19 vaccines had been administered as against 63,28,407 in 103 days since the drive was rolled out, when the AIADMK was in power, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-70-days-over-1-crore-doses-administered/article35389635.ece
18 July 2021||Chennai,||No scope for talks on Mekedatu, says Minister||In an interview  on Saturday, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan made it clear that for Tamil Nadu, its stance on the row over the Mekedatu dam project, which has been proposed by Karnataka, was non-negotiable. There was no scope for talks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-scope-for-talks-on-mekedatu-says-minister/article35389636.ece
18 July 2021||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu records 2,205 cases, 43 deaths||The State recorded 2,205 new cases of COVID-19 and 43 deaths on Saturday, taking its tally to 25,33,323 and toll to 33,695. The positivity rate stood at 1.5%. Fresh cases continued to fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-records-2205-cases-43-deaths/article35389638.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Barricades on the revolutionary road||July 11, 2021 marked a critical moment for post-revolutionary Cuba. In what was an unprecedented outpouring, hundreds of Cubans came on to the streets shouting slogans across 40 towns and cities. They were registering their protests against the communist government’s handling of the pandemic and some even asking for a change in regime. The popular slogans included “ Patria y Vida ” (’Fatherland and Life’), a play on the revolutionary slogan popularised by late President Fidel Castro — “Patria o Muerte” (’Fatherland or Death’), in response to the embargo imposed by the U.S. that sought to undermine the socialist regime. With more than 24,000 COVID-19 cases and 200 plus deaths in the last five days and a severe lack of basic medicines because of shortages, Cuba is going through a particularly difficult public health crisis even though the total number of cases and deaths are much lower than most Latin American countries. Ironically, the protests came right after Cuban scientists announced that the two indigenous COVID-19 vaccines — Abdala and Soberana-2 — had registered more than 90% efficacy in phase-3 trials (two doses for Abdala and three for Soberana-2). Abdala had already been deployed for emergency use, but only 18% of the Cuban population has been vaccinated so far. Cuba is mired in a severe crisis after its economy shrunk 11% following the pandemic. The contraction in the economy was largely due to the collapse in the tourism sector due to travel restrictions last year and the inability of the government to secure enough cash to make necessary imports such as fuel, food ingredients and other basic goods. Measures such as restricting subsidies and ending the unpopular dual-currency system have exacerbated problems, resulting in scarcities and inflation. But the Cuban government blames the decades-long economic embargo imposed by the neighbouring U.S. for the situation. The embargo was tightened up further by the Trump administration after some relaxations were brought about by President Barack Obama and the fact that these measures have had the support of the politically powerful emigrant Cuban community in Florida has forced the Biden presidency from reversing them. The consequences of the economic crisis have been scarcities in many basic necessities such as electricity, available of medicine and food. As The Economist reports, Cuba, which imports nearly 70% of its food from abroad, is going through its most severe food shortage crisis since the Special Period of the 1990s following the Soviet Union’s collapse. Cuba has an expansive welfare programme that focuses on basic education and healthcare being available to all, but shortages of essential items have made things worse for the citizenry, which is affected by the pandemic as well. This explains the unprecedented outpouring of protests, which took a coordinated shape because of the spreading of discontent over social media across the country. Regime response Cuba’s President and secretary of the ruling Communist Party, Miguel Diaz-Canel, initially denounced these protests as being externally driven and called for regime sympathisers to come to the streets. Some demonstrators, who were seen as leading the protests, were rounded up and arrested and one protestor died in the actions. But a couple of days after the protests received widespread media coverage throughout the world, the President seemed to have mellowed down. He conceded that some of the concerns expressed by the protestors were legitimate and some customs restrictions were eased on food, medicine and hygiene products. But with travel still being limited, it remains to be seen if these measures will immediately help ease the shortage situation. President Diaz-Canel was designated the first secretary of the ruling party in April. He is the first top leader who doesn’t belong to the revolutionary generation that took part in the overthrow of the Fulgencio Batista regime in Cuba in 1959. That generation helmed by late President Fidel Castro and his comrades Ernesto ‘Che’ Guevara, Raul Castro, Juan Almeida, among others, led an armed struggle that began as a movement against a dictatorship that was seen as being propped up by external interests. But once they succeeded in the overthrow of the regime, the Fidel-led 26th of July Movement, during a period of “national liberation” between 1959 and 1961, subsumed itself into a group featuring others as part of the ‘Integrated Revolutionary Organizations’ (ORI), which included the extant communist party known as the Popular Socialist Party and the student-based Revolutionary Directory. The ORI became the United Party of the Cuban Socialist Revolution (PURSC), which later became the Communist Party of Cuba (Partido Comunista de Cuba, or PCC) in 1965. By now, the Cubans had firmly engaged in nationalisation of assets and properties owned by oligarchic and foreign owners, and agrarian reform, and developed a stronger economic and trade ties with the Soviet Union. ‘Vanguard of the people’ The PCC was conceived as the “vanguard of the people” with the polity dominated by a single party system and decision-making thrust to a PCC-led government answerable to a National Assembly of People’s Power, a legislative Parliament in place since 1976. The National Assembly’s members are elected from electoral districts by a process of nomination from mass organisations (farmer organisations, student unions, trade unions, etc.) and from public meetings held to nominate representatives from municipal assemblies, who are themselves either elected via secret ballot or nominated. This form of representation by nomination and election from the grassroots is defended by the Cuban regime as being democratic without the influence of money power and to perpetuate the country’s socialist orientation. But the party-less politics has also created a system of intolerance of dissent with political dissidents given harsh punishment for promoting ideas that are seen as critical of the regime or socialism itself. In the last decade or so, the PCC has been cognisant of the frailties of the country’s economic system and Mr. Diaz-Canel’s predecessor, Raul Castro, had undertaken a series of cautious but steady reforms that furthered liberalisation of the economy by allowing small businesses, self-entrepreneurs and cooperatives more autonomy and recognition of private property with restrictions, besides greater flexibility in foreign investment. These measures did not come up easily with hardliners, who are keen on retaining the orthodox Marxist-Leninist principles of state ownership of the means of production. But the PCC had learned from the experience of the Communist Party of China and the impact of the economic reforms there, and after intense inner party debate, they decided to embark upon liberalisation, albeit cautiously. Despite these piecemeal economic reforms, Cuba still suffers the impact of the U.S. embargo and has had to struggle to maintain its strengths in the social sector. Besides, unlike the older generation with memories of constant struggle and incremental progress in post-revolutionary Cuba, younger people demand more political freedoms and an end to the shortages of essentials, which many see as not only a consequence of the embargo but also the failures of the highly regulated economy. This has meant that it will be tougher for the current regime led by the post-revolutionary generation to retain the legitimacy of communist rule than its predecessors. Economic reforms Mr. Diaz-Canel and his party colleagues will have to not just extinguish the slowly spreading flames of the pandemic — a quicker deployment of the home grown vaccines will play a vital role — but also implement economic reforms to quickly address the shortages without the use of repressive measures. The vaccines could also be a source of revenue for the beleaguered regime if it can find buyers from other countries. Mobilising public opinion as the regime did in the 1990s and achieving social peace would be the key imperative and it can only happen if the government backtracks from blaming the protests as being entirely the handiwork of external actors. The PCC and Mr. Diaz-Canel have their task cut out.  In Focus The PCC was formed in the 1960s after Fidel Castro and his comrades overthrew the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista in 1959 The party, headed by Fidel for decades, nationalised assets and properties owned by oligarchic and foreign owners, implemented agrarian reforms and built a single-party rule based on socialist ideas The country and the party are now led by Miguel Diaz-Canel, the first leader who doesn't belong to the revolutionary generation    The PCC was conceived as the “vanguard of the people” with the polity dominated by a single party system and decision-making thrust to a party-led government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/barricades-on-the-revolutionary-road/article35389326.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Pawar meets PM, submits letter||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday had an over 50-minute meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also wrote to Mr. Modi on the problems with the new Union Ministry of Cooperation, which is headed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “Rajya Sabha MP Shri Sharad Pawar met PM Narendra Modi,” the PMO tweeted with a photo of the meeting. The timing of the meeting has raised questions, two days ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. There are reports of a strain in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government led by the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, of which the NCP is a key constituent. Earlier this week, Mr. Pawar’s meeting with political strategist Prashant Kishor triggered a rumour that he might be a candidate for the presidential election scheduled for next year. Mr. Pawar had denied the speculation. ‘Baseless yarns’ NCP spokesperson and senior leader Majeed Memon said unnecessary and baseless yarns were being woven about the Pawar-Modi meeting. The meeting should not be viewed from the political perspective alone, he said. “I do not understand why eyebrows are being raised about today’s meeting. A leader of Mr. Pawar’s stature has many issues to discuss and resolve. Should he not meet the Prime Minister of India, just because he happens to be on the other side of the political fence?” he remarked. Mr. Pawar raised various issues from the Ministry of Cooperation, farmers’ agitation, Maratha reservation and so on, he added. In his letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Pawar flagged concerns at the amendment to the Banking Regulation Act that seeks to bring in changes in the functioning of “cooperative banks”. The letter pointed to the constitutional provisions that clearly lay out that the cooperative societies come solely under the purview of the State governments. “The Amended Act does little to promote the well-being and growth of the cooperative sector as envisaged by the government,” the letter stated. The growth of the cooperative sector was crucial for the holistic development of the country. It was also attuned to Mr. Modi’s own call for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” since the cooperative banks have the expertise of lending to first-time borrowers and contributing more than 23 per cent of their total advances to small and micro industries, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-meets-modi-raises-political-heat/article35389364.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Independent defence policy in place now, claims Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the country had an independent defence policy under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Delivering the Rustamji Memorial Lecture at the 18th Investiture Ceremony of the Border Security Force (BSF), he said that before Mr. Modi became the Prime Minister, India did not have an independent defence policy. It was influenced by, or overlapped with, the foreign policy. Mr. Modi provided an independent defence policy and this was a major achievement. India intended to live in harmony with others, but if anyone challenged its sovereignty and threatened its borders, the country would respond in the same language. The government had implemented this policy on the ground. Border safety was at the core of the national security policy, Mr. Shah pointed out and listed infiltration, drugs/weapons trafficking and drones as challenges before the BSF. Agencies such as the Defence Research and Development Organisation were working on developing an anti-drone mechanism. Drones were used to trigger explosions inside the Air Force Station in Jammu last month. New challenges Mr. Shah said there was a need to develop a long-term strategy for countering the possible use of artificial intelligence and robotic technology from across the border. As suggested by the Prime Minister during the last year’s DGP conference, hackathons should be organised by paramilitary forces to find indigenous solutions to such challenges with the help of technical experts. Earlier this month, the BSF held one such event in coordination with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The Ministry of Home Affairs was planning to making it a regular practice, he noted. Border fencing Before 2022, all the gaps in border fencing would be plugged. A pilot project of the Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System had been implemented for effective surveillance along the border. A new model was also being developed with certain modifications. Several measures were being taken to prevent the exodus of people from bordering villages. It was vital for border security. The para-military forces had been made nodal organisations for the implementation of government projects in those villages. Infrastructure development works were being undertaken to provide basic services to the residents. They should be made aware of their rights, he said. Compared to about 3,600-km-long road stretches constructed along the border from 2008 to 2014, the Modi government laid 4,764-km-long roads from 2014 to 2020. Funds to the tune of Rs. 44,000 crore were allocated for road construction, as against Rs. 23,000 crore during the previous regime. The length of bridges constructed had now doubled. In place of just one tunnel, six had been constructed. The pace of border road resurfacing and associated works along the India-China border had also doubled, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/independent-defence-policy-in-place-now-claims-amit-shah/article35389304.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||New academic session in universities by Oct. 1||The new academic session in universities and colleges across the country will begin from October 1, while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Universities and higher education institutions (HEIs) have been asked to ensure that the admission process for undergraduate courses begins only after the declaration of results by the CBSE, ICSE and all State Boards. “It is expected that all school boards will declare their results for class 12 exams by July 31. If there is any delay in declaration of the result of qualifying exams, the new academic session may begin by October 18,” the UGC said in the guidelines. The Commission has said that the teaching-learning process must continue in offline, online or blended modes. “The institutions may plan for classes, breaks, conduct of examinations, semester break, etc. during October 1 [2021] to July 31 [2022], following necessary protocols and advisories issued by Central and State governments from time to time in view of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the guidelines said. Fee refund In view of the financial hardships faced by parents during the pandemic, the UGC has asked universities and HEIs to ensure the fee is fully refunded in cases of cancellation of admission or migration of students. It has also been made mandatory for universities and colleges to conduct final year or end semester exams by August 31. The exams can be conducted in either offline, online or blended modes. “For intermediate semester students assessment shall be based on internal assessment and previous semester results,” it said. “In case of higher education institutions located at places where the government has imposed restrictions or public gatherings, HEIs may plan accordingly,” the UGC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-academic-session-in-universities-by-oct-1/article35389310.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Our goal is to reach a political settlement that will ensure lasting peace’||Afghanistan is facing a “Battle for the Republic’s values”, says President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani , referring to the Taliban’s advances and a desire to establish an Islamic emirate in the country. He conceded the militants have won some battles, but remains confident the Afghan forces will prevail.  The situation at the border with Pakistan seems to be getting more and more violent, and an Indian photojournalist has been killed. Pakistan has denied it threatened missile strikes on the Afghan Air Force if it tries to clear Taliban from the area. Could you give us some clarity on the situation there? I cannot give you any clarity, because I’ve been in non-stop meetings from early morning [in Tashkent], and that clarification will have to come from Kabul. But I would like to give my deepest sympathies to the family of the Indian journalist, to the journalistic community of India, and to all to journalists around the world. There were some strong words at your speech at the connectivity conference here, especially as you named the Pakistan PM for making promises on the Taliban that haven’t been kept, right as he was sitting a few feet away. Why do you feel so disappointed? We need Pakistan for peace. We need an enduring relationship, a predictable relationship with Pakistan. We are a plain-speaking people. And I need to reflect with logic and rigour, about the emotions of our people… because if they are not given expression, they will find other channels, and I don’t want further destructive relationships between us. The Taliban have made gains on different towns, different border check-posts as well. Do you think the Afghan National Defence and Security forces (ANDSF) are going to be able to hold them back, or do they need to change tactics? Firstly, winning battles is not winning the war. They [the Taliban] have won battles. But, they’re going to lose the war, and we are determined. We need to rebalance [the situation], but our goal is not winning the war militarily. Our goal is to arrive at a political settlement that will ensure a just and lasting peace. I don’t want my country to become Algeria or Iraq, or Syria, or Lebanon or Yemen. But does the ANDSF have enough equipment, training they need? If we went on a needs-based assessment, the world would not be able to fulfil our needs. Because what do we not want? This is a “Kennedy moment” for us combined with a “Lincoln moment”. A “Kennedy moment” because we have to give for our country, and a “Lincoln moment” because like Lincoln in 1861, we’re now facing the Battle of the Republic, which is for the values that the Islamic Republic [of Afghanistan] stands for. I don’t want the world to look at Afghanistan through the perspective of that America was here. It’s gone. What is your expectation from India at this time… has Afghanistan asked for military support of any kind? No, it has not. India has been a remarkable partner. I have the best of relations with the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi], who is wise. He has not asked of us something that will result in sacrificing our short, medium or long-term interests. India is a true partner. It’s the country with which we have a positive balance of trade. And what India stands for is the Salma dam, is the parliament building, Shahtoot dam, transmission lines. And India is going to be booming. We want to be a participant in the immense shift that India is witnessing in terms of leadership of the fourth industrial revolution. Do you feel that Afghanistan becomes a casualty to the hostilities between India and Pakistan? We hope that India and Pakistan will be able to reach a resolution because that will change all of Asia. But accusations are often made, that India is in every corner of Afghanistan, or there are 21 Indian consulates…. [interrupts] A former Pakistani Minister just said India had seven bases in Afghanistan… It has none. None. And when [Pakistani leaders] engage in that kind of fabrication, there is no credibility. The U.S. has said it is pulling out its troops, and along with NATO has nearly completed that pullout from Afghanistan. Britain says they will engage whoever comes to power in Afghanistan is acceptable, suggesting that even a Taliban government by force and the Islamic emirate would be acceptable. Do you feel abandoned? No, no, I don’t . We have an engagement. As I mentioned, the assets that are left behind [by U.S.], the capabilities that are left behind, the immense transformation that has taken place in our lives, is a product of these 20 years of [Afghan-U.S.] partnership. But so is the other side of the equation, the violence, the disenchantment, etc. President Biden’s decision [to pull out troops] was not a surprise to me. We’ve respected it and I have the very best of relations with President Biden. The U.S. also had a proposal which saw you step aside for a government of consensus. Would you be willing to do that? My condition is that my successor be elected by the people of Afghanistan. It’s the greatest honour of my life to serve them. I will serve them till it’s necessary. At this moment, they need a Commander-in-Chief and that’s what they’ve got. If the Taliban come in by force, do you think that the international community should come back to help ? No. This is our job. The period of international engagement or use of force in Afghanistan is over. Full interview athttps://bit.ly/GhaniInterview  We’re now facing the Battle of the Republic, which is for the values that the Islamic Republic [of Afghanistan] stands for||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/our-goal-is-to-reach-a-political-settlement-that-will-ensure-lasting-peace/article35389301.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine procurement rates revised||The Centre has placed an order to procure 66 crore more doses of Covishield and Covaxin to be supplied between August and December this year, at a revised price of Rs. 205 and Rs. 215 per dose respectively, excluding taxes, official sources have said. They said 37.5 crore Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India and 28.5 crore Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech will be procured by December. “An order to procure 66 crore more doses of COVID-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — to be supplied between August and December, at a revised price of Rs. 205 and Rs. 215 per dose respectively, excluding taxes, has been placed,” the source said. The price of a dose of Covishield amounts to Rs. 215.25 and Covaxin Rs. 225.75, including taxes, the source said. The Union Health Ministry, which was procuring both the vaccines at Rs. 150 per dose, had indicated that the prices would be revised after the new COVID-19 vaccine procurement policy came into effect from June 21. Under the new policy, the Ministry will procure 75% of the vaccines being produced by the drug manufacturers in the country. While the Centre has asked both the vaccine manufacturing firms to scale up their production, the manufacturers had indicated that getting Rs. 150 for each dose while making investments to ramp up the production was not viable for them. The Union government had earlier allowed States and private hospitals to procure 50% of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation. However, after several States complained of problems, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines on June 8. Domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to provide 25% of their monthly production of vaccines to private hospitals. According to the revised guidelines which came into effect on June 21, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to States and Union Territories based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively. The States and Union Territories would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. “Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remote private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance,” the Ministry had said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance, it had said. More than 41.69 crore vaccine doses have been provided to States and Union Territories so far, through all sources, the Health Ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-procurement-rates-revised/article35389312.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paper recall sparks churn in NCBS||Underlying the recent retraction of a scientific paper by the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, because it relied on manipulated data, are allegations of inordinate pressure on students from superiors, often at the threat of their careers being harmed, The Hindu has learnt. While the controversy in one of India’s most prestigious labs erupted over a research paper, the issues it has thrown up have now prompted a relook at research practices as well an investigation by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) academic ethics committee. The TIFR is the parent body of the NCBS. On Friday, a press note from the Director, TIFR said: “Recently, allegations of academic malpractice have been levelled in the press and social media against TIFR-NCBS faculty member Dr. Arati Ramesh. The retraction of the Nature Chemical Biology paper with Dr .Ramesh as the senior author took place after a full inquiry, as required by the NCBS Research Misconduct policies, into the data trail related to images that showed evidence of manipulation. The NCBS Management Board was informed about this investigation. The committee’s final report is currently under review by the TIFR Academic Ethics Committee, who will determine if further investigation and/or action are warranted.” On October 5, 2020, the paper “Discovery of iron-sensing bacterial riboswitches” was published online in the well-regarded journal Nature Chemical Biology . Media attention Its listed authors were Siladitya Bandyopadhyay, Susmitnarayan Chaudhury, Dolly Mehta and Arati Ramesh, the last of whom was the group leader and is faculty at the NCBS. The paper evoked significant media attention basis its findings, as it was the first instance of an RNA molecule being able to detect iron, opening the possibility of designing specialised iron sensors. Mr. Bandopadhyay was a Ph.D. student. Within days of publication, anonymous reviewers on PubPeer — a site that enables research papers to be discussed after publication — pointed out anomalies in the images submitted along with the research paper by way of proof. Dr. Ramesh initially defended the sanctity of the images but informed the institute, which after an investigation, recommended that the paper be retracted. The Hindu had reported this on July 7. A post-script, warning that there were problems with the paper’s data, appeared with online versions of the paper as far back as December, 2020 but the paper was formally retracted only on June 30, 2021. The committee concluded that the images were manipulated by a single individual, Mr. Bandopadhyay. In the first week of December, Mr. Bandopadhyay left NCBS after getting a No Objection Certificate from the institution. Independent journalist Leonid Schneider, on his website For Better Science , on July 14 first disclosed email correspondence between Mr. Bandopadhyay, the investigating committee as well with the institute director, Satyajit Mayor. In the correspondence, Mr. Bandopadhyay said he and other members of the lab found that while the RNA molecules were sensitive to iron, the numbers to prove it weren’t near the expected theoretical value and Dr. Ramesh repeatedly insisted that the results correspond to what she thought it ought to be. While not contesting manipulating data, he suggested that the overall culture of the lab was oppressive. “I was told that I have to replicate the data that was generated by someone in the lab and if that does not happen, I will never get to stay in the lab,” the emails say. “...Since the first day I stepped into the lab in Dec 2017, I have seen someone manipulating data.” Student concerns  The Hindu has independently verified that these emails were indeed written by Mr. Bandopadhyay to the investigators. A person privy to proceedings in the Ramesh lab around the RNA-sensing experiment said that while it wasn’t unusual for lab leaders or Principal Investigators (PI) to be tough on their associates or students, Dr. Ramesh threatened members with dire consequences, such as stalling their academic progress, if the results didn’t conform. “There have been other students, and members in her lab who’ve complained of harassment. Several students leave the lab because of the hostile work environment,” this person told The Hindu . Dr Ramesh didn’t respond to requests for comment. Institute Director Satyajit Mayor told The Hindu that the committee’s mandate was specifically to determine the stage at which data was manipulated. However, beyond the issue of data fraud the institute was “seriously taking up” these allegations of pressure, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paper-recall-sparks-churn-in-ncbs/article35389322.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The President in his labyrinth||In a direct attack on a neighbouring country in a public platform with its Prime Minister sitting a few feet away, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani came heavily on Pakistan on Friday for its “support for terrorists”. Speaking at the Central and South Asia Connectivity Conference in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, Mr. Ghani said “more than 10,000 jihadi fighters” have crossed into Afghanistan from Pakistan in the last month. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who sat through Mr. Ghani’s speech, later denied the allegations. Mr. Ghani is known for his mercurial ways. But a direct public outburst against a foreign government was rare even by his reputation. It shows the desperation of Kabul, which lost swathes of territories to the Taliban. Since May 1, the day the remaining western troops started withdrawing from Afghanistan, the Taliban have taken dozens of districts, especially in the country’s north. Amid mounting losses and growing uncertainty, Mr. Ghani is visibly under pressure. A trained anthropologist, Mr. Ghani rose to power in 2014, promising to end corruption and fix Afghanistan’s institutions. This had been his favourite theme for decades. His doctoral thesis at Columbia University, ‘Production and Domination: Afghanistan, 1747-1901’, is a study on the country’s difficulties in building institutions amid economic backwardness. In 2008, a consultancy Mr. Ghani co-founded in Washington, published a paper titled, ‘Fixing Failed States: A Framework for Rebuilding a Fractured World’, which outlined the measures to be taken to build institutions. ‘Double failure’ In his first presidential campaign in 2009, Mr. Ghani blamed a “double failure” for Afghanistan’s miseries — a failure by the international community and a failure by the country’s elites in rebuilding the nation. So when he was finally elected President in 2014, it was a chance for “Afghanistan’s theorist in chief”, as George Packer called him in The New Yorker , to put his ideas into practice. But ironically, under Mr. Ghani’s watch, Afghanistan’s institutions have further slipped away from Kabul while the Taliban kept making gains. Born in 1949, Mr. Ghani grew up in Kabul’s old city. His paternal grandfather was a military commander under King Nadir, who assumed the throne in 1929. Mr. Ghani’s father was a senior official in the court of King Zahir, Nadir’s son. In 1973, the year the Afghan monarchy was overthrown by Daoud Khan, who became the first President of the republic, Mr. Ghani received a degree in political science from the American University of Beirut. In 1977, two years prior to the arrival of the Soviet Red Army, Mr. Ghani and his family left Afghanistan, and he would not come back to live in his country until 2001. When the Taliban regime was overthrown by the Americans in 2001, Mr. Ghani travelled to Afghanistan as a UN official. Later he became a special adviser to Hamid Karzai, who headed the transition government, and then went on to become his Finance Minister. But by 2004, Mr. Karzai and Mr. Ghani fell out and the latter left the government. The fall of the Taliban and the formation of a democratic state had opened up Afghanistan’s polity for the country’s elite. Like many others, Mr. Ghani also didn’t hide his political ambitions. He quit the government, but stayed active in Afghan civil society. In 2009, he made his first attempt in the presidential election, but failed. In 2014, Mr. Ghani contested again, and was declared winner after a disputed election. In the 2019 elections that saw a record low turnout amid surging violence, he got re-elected. On both occasions, election disputes with his main rival, Abdullah Abdullah, were settled through talks. But a much bigger challenge Mr. Ghani faces is from the Taliban. He appeared helpless when the Taliban swept through the countryside. The intra-Afghan peace talks haven’t reached anywhere. His administration rejected a proposal from the Biden administration to form a transition government with the Taliban. “Be assured that as long as I am alive, they will not see the formation of an interim government,” Mr. Ghani said in February. But now, his cities are surrounded by the Taliban. The Americans will be out of the country within weeks. Hopes for a political settlement are slim. Mr. Ghani is entering perhaps the most critical phase of his presidency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-president-in-his-labyrinth/article35389324.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The consensus Prime Minister||For Nepal’s newly appointed Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, the post is quite a familiar one. This is his fifth time being the Prime Minister of the country, having served in the post during the constitutional monarchy period in the 1990s and early 2000s, including a stint under the rule of then King Gyanendra, who suspended Parliament in the early 2000s and later in 2017 after Nepal became a republic. Ironically after the thumping victory of the K.P. Oli-led Nepal Communist Party — formed with the merger of Mr. Oli's Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) and the Pushpa Kumar Dahal-led Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre) — in the 2018 elections, Mr. Deuba and his Nepali Congress had been reduced into a smaller opposition force. But following the power struggle between Mr. Oli and his detractors within the NCP and later its demerged constituents, the UML and the Maoists, Mr. Deuba emerged as the consensus candidate of the opposition in a dramatic reversal of fortunes. Mr. Oli’s attempts to dissolve Parliament and call for fresh elections and to browbeat his way to retain power came to naught after the Supreme Court reversed his decisions (endorsed by the President Bidhya Devi Bhandari ) twice in six months. The apex court then went on to rule that Mr. Deuba should be made the PM on account of the support he had across parties — 149 members in the 275-member Parliament. The members included the rebels within the UML led by Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal, besides Mr. Dahal from the Maoists and Baburam Bhattarai of the Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP). All four of them had been Prime Ministers in the past and had been engaged in power struggles. Broad support That they chose to support Mr. Deuba was a consequence of their mutual animus towards the increasingly authoritarian Mr. Oli to some extent, but was also an endorsement of Mr. Deuba's ability to both consolidate support within the Nepali Congress (NC) and to reach out to different players in the fractious polity. Mr. Deuba became PM for the first time in September 1995 and remained in that office till March 1997. An active campaigner during the 1990 Jan Andolan that paved the way for constitutional monarchy after then King Birendra dissolved the Panchayat system and instituted parliamentary democracy, Mr. Deuba’s first tenure as PM also marked the beginning of Maoist insurgency in the country. His second stint began in the backdrop of the massacre of the royal family in the Narayanhiti Palace in the heart of Kathmandu on June 1, 2001. The Maoist insurgency had by then managed to spread and retain control over several parts of interior Nepal. King Gyanendra used this as a ruse to suspend Parliament, remove Mr. Deuba from power, only to appoint him later and then remove him again before declaring the return of absolute monarchy. Soon, the beleaguered monarchy lost support following Jan Andolan-2, paving the way for the conversion of Nepal into a constitutional republic. Mr. Deuba, hailing from Sudoor Paschim, or the Far Western province of Nepal, had the political capital to survive the long exile that followed his third stint, mainly because of his ability to present his centrist politics as a solution for the country’s problems. In 2017, Mr. Deuba resurrected himself within the NC and took advantage of Mr. Dahal’s quest for power. He set up a government based on a rotating leadership that collapsed the very next year, paving the way for Mr. Oli’s second premiership. Now in his fifth stint as the PM, Mr. Deuba will still not have it easy. While Mr. Nepal had hitched his wagons to the opposition against Mr. Oli, he has not committed support for Mr. Deuba in the upcoming trust vote. As things stand, he needs the full support of the NC, the Maoists and the JSP if he has to win the trust vote without Mr. Nepal's support. In administration, Mr. Deuba faces tremendous challenges. Nepal has been ravaged by the COVID-19 pandemic. He will also have to deal with the southern and northern neighbours in a far more efficient manner than he ever did in the past. More than before, China’s influence is larger in Nepal and on the other hand, the Indian establishment is keen on normalising relations that have soured during Mr. Oli's tenure. ILLUSTRATION: sreejith r. Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-consensus-prime-minister/article35389328.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘U.P. polls led to population debate’||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament where the BJP MPs are expected to bring in a private members Bill on population control, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh quoting from government documents pointed out that by 2031, India would already have an ageing population to contend with. Ravi Kishan (BJP) in the Lok Sabha and Rakesh Sinha in the Rajya Sabha are expected to move the Bills. The move comes close on the heels of the Uttar Pradesh Law Commission putting up a draft Bill on population control on its website, inviting suggestions from the public till July 19. It says people having more than two children in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local body polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. Mr. Ramesh said the U.P. Assembly election in 2022 was the trigger for this “ill-informed” debate started by the BJP. In a long tweet thread, he explained the futility of bringing such a law since the majority of the States had crossed the crucial tipping point when the decline in population starts. Kerala was the first to achieve it in 1988, followed by Tamil Nadu five years later. “By now, a large majority of States have achieved replacement levels of fertility. By 2026, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will also do so with Bihar being the last by 2030.” Taunting the ruling party, Mr. Ramesh wondered how many in the BJP were aware of the basic facts that the Modi government’s own 2018-19 Economic Survey had presented in Parliament in July 2019. The 2018-19 Economic Survey, which Mr. Ramesh quoted in his tweets, says States will start transitioning to an ageing society by the 2030s. It also pointed out that the 0-19 age bracket has already peaked in many States due to sharp decline in total fertility rates (TFR). “By Modi Sarkar’s own estimate in the Economic Survey 2018-19, some States in India will have to prepare for an ageing population by 2031, not growing population. This will be driven by existing policies to empower women, family planning programmes and socio-economic changes,” Mr. Ramesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-election-trigger-for-debate-on-population-control-jairam/article35389293.ece
18 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Hold fresh U.P. local polls: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday demanded that fresh elections be conducted in those block pramukh seats which witnessed violence, and alleged that candidates had been intimidated. Ms. Vadra, on the second day of her Uttar Pradesh tour, drove to Lakhimpur Kheri district and met two women — Ritu Singh and Anita Yadav — associated with the Samajwadi Party who had been assaulted and humiliated during the nomination process for the block pramukh polls. Ms. Singh, the candidate, had her nomination papers and garments torn while her supporter, Ms. Yadav’s sari was pulled in broad daylight. BJP workers were accused in the case. After meeting the women, Ms. Vadra demanded that the election to all such seats in U.P. be annulled and fresh polling be conducted. She said the woman candidate had been deprived of her constitutional right to file nomination and contest election. “Can someone get 10 goons, beat up people and win elections? Is this our democracy today,” the Congress leader asked. Ms. Vadra said she wanted the two women, who had recently also met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow over the incident, to know that all the women of U.P. and the country stood by them. “This is a fight for democracy,” she said, adding that a situation had come where a woman going to file nomination gets beaten up. The ruling BJP had claimed victory in 635 out of the 825 seats in the block pramukh elections. The Opposition parties led by the Samajwadi Party accused the BJP of misusing administrative machinery to intimidate candidates and of orchestrating violence to capture these rural body posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hold-fresh-up-local-polls-priyanka/article35389291.ece
18 July 2021||Kolkata,||Concerns remain over anti-trafficking Bill||There are high hopes and some concerns surrounding the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, likely to be tabled in the monsoon session of Parliament. Several anti-human trafficking organisations, lawyers and researchers have welcomed the draft of the Bill which states that the legislation is aimed at preventing and countering trafficking in persons, especially women and children, to provide for care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them, and also to ensure prosecution of offenders. NIA to be nodal agency The draft Bill also states that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) shall act as the national investigating and coordinating agency responsible for prevention and combating of trafficking in persons and other offences under this Act, as well as for investigation and prosecution and coordination in cases of trafficking in personsof such cases. Pompi Banerjee, a psychologist and anti-trafficking activist associated with the Kolkata-based NGO Sanjog, said the Bill (also referred as the TIP Bill) had been built on the feedback and criticism that the Ministry of Women and Child Development received on the 2018 Bill on the same issue. Ms. Banerjee who is associated with Tafteesh, a platform of anti-trafficking stakeholders, pointed out that the Bill also defines human trafficking as an organised crime with international implications and attempts to move away from conflating trafficking with sex work, while upholding the right of survivors to rehabilitation and compensation independent of criminal proceedings. Experts working in the area of human trafficking said the draft Bill, which has been put on website of Ministry of Women and Child Development, is not clear about how the NIA as a nodal agency will gather information and intelligence through anti-human trafficking Units (AHTUs) at the district and State levels. The Ministry of Home Affairs had mandated the AHTUs for conducting inter-State probe in cases of human trafficking and allocated budgets to them. Rescue protocol Kaushik Gupta, a Calcutta High Court lawyer who has taken up several cases of human trafficking, said the draft Bill at present was largely silent on rescue protocols except the “reason to believe” by a police officer not below the rank of a sub-inspector. “This makes the role of AHTUs unclear in the rescue and post-rescue processes,” Mr. Gupta said. There are also concerns about absence of community-based rehabilitation. Representatives of Durbar, the largest sex workers collective based out of Kolkata, have said that the Bill criminalises sex work and the choice of sex work as a profession. “The Bill mixes up the issue of trafficking and sex work,” said a statement from Durbar. Prostitution and pornography have been added to the definition of exploitation and are considered to be trafficking, while the issue of consent has been made irrelevant, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/concerns-remain-over-anti-trafficking-bill/article35389562.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Chaotic House adds to gloom: Venkaiah||A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom, said Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu urging both the Opposition and the treasury bench leaders to ensure a smooth and productive session. Mr. Naidu was speaking at an all-party meeting he chaired at his residence in Delhi, ahead of the upcoming monsoon session. The meeting was attended by floor leaders of all major Opposition parties and 15 Ministers. “A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence, all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by COVID-19,” he said. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Prahlad Joshi said the government had identified 29 Bills for the session. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikharjuna Kharge said the House should discuss the impact of the pandemic on the economy and the possibility of a third wave. The Congress also wants discussions on the farmers’ agitation, issues relating to cooperative federalism, China’s actions along the border and Jammu and Kashmir. Trinamool leader Derek O’Brien called for more scrutiny of Bills by the Parliamentary Committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chaotic-house-adds-to-gloom-venkaiah/article35389308.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Ravi Shankar Prasad ousted for corruption in BharatNet’||Flagging a preliminary report by the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) on the BharatNet project, the Congress on Saturday alleged that large-scale corruption was the primary reason for shunting out Ravi Shankar Prasad from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. In its preliminary finding, the CAG has said the Narendra Modi government’s BharatNet programme, which intends to connect six lakh villages with high-speed Internet, failed to take off due to financial irregularities. At a press conference on Saturday, senior Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera demanded an independent, high-level and time-bound inquiry into the findings. Poor maintenance In a 94-page draft report, the CAG said despite a huge payment to the common service centres (CSCs) set up by the Ministry, the maintenance of cable and other infrastructure was not found efficient in various circles. This resulted in poor quality of service at the gram panchayat and village block levels, the report said. It has also quoted many instances where work was completed only on paper. The report has pointed out that a payment of Rs. 386.42 crore and Rs. 116.5 crore was made between July 2019 and December 2020 to the CSCs under this Ministry. The arrangement is part of a tripartite agreement for operations and maintenance of optical fibre cable network, telecom equipment and Wi-Fi access points between the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF), Bharat Broadband Network Ltd. and the CSCs done in July 2019 and approved by the Digital Communication Commission in September 2020. The USOF is a Rs. 55,000-crore state reserve for bridging the digital divide, and is also funding the ambitious BharatNet project that aims to connect 2.5 lakh gram panchayats or village blocks encompassing more than six lakh villages across India. Quoting the report, Mr. Khera said a devious modus operandi was used for redirecting the government money to private companies without following due process. He asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the country what action would be taken against persons who siphoned off funds to the tune of thousands of crores. “Is this the reason for removing Ravi Shankar Prasad from Cabinet and is the removal of a Minister enough?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ravi-shankar-was-ousted-for-corruption-in-bharatnet/article35389306.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Illegal mining: MP meets Karnataka Governor||Sumalatha, MP from Mandya, on Saturday called on Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot and urged him to take steps to stop illegal stone quarrying in around the Krishna Raja Sagar in Mandya district to ensure the safety of the dam. She appealed to the Governor “to look into issues to protect the very structure of KRS reservoir and towards ceasing those activities hazardous to human and livestock habitation due to illegal mining blasts and relevant transport activities”. She noted the Supreme Court’s historic judgment pertaining to the safety of KRS and said, “It appears there is uninterrupted illegal mining and blast occurrences dawn and dusk, creating unrest in the denizens of the region.” The MP, who a couple of days ago visited the dam site, claimed illegal mining activity had caused pollution, environmental hazards to human habitation, livestock fodder scarcity, lack of potable water, and even damaged houses in nearby villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/illegal-mining-mp-meets-governor/article35389610.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttar Pradesh govt. cancels Kanwar Yatra||The court had said it could not allow the U.P. government “to hold the physical Kanwar Yatra in view of COVID-19”. The court stressed that sentiments, including religious ones, are subservient to the right to life. On July 9, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath even convened a meeting for the preparation and security arrangements for the yatra. The srawan month according to the Hindu calendar starts from July 25 and Mr. Adityanath had instructed officials to make all preparations in time. He had directed officials to ensure that the COVID protocol was fully followed. The yatra was scheduled to start on July 25. The Uttarakhand government has already called off the Kanwar Yatra citing fears expressed by experts of a possible third wave of the pandemic and the risk posed by such gatherings. The yatra goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees called ‘kanwariyas’ travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar. The Centre had told the top court that the State governments must not permit any kind of Kanwar Yatra because of the pandemic and arrangements should be made for water from the Ganges to be available through tankers at designated places.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttar-pradesh-govt-cancels-kanwar-yatra/article35389559.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘SC with people to protect civil liberties’||The judge observed that the “danger to our freedoms may not only originate from those who are tasked to govern but also originate in the intolerance of persons in society as well”. The CJI said the people of India knew that “when things go wrong”, the Supreme Court, as the guardian of the largest democracy, “will stand by them”. The Constitution, together with the immense faith of the people in the judicial system, brought to life the Supreme Court;s motto Yato Dharma Sthato Jaya . “Where there is dharma, there is victory,” CJI Ramana stated in the keynote address to a global audience at the Indo-Singapore Mediation Summit of 2021. Majoritarian tendencies At a separate event to commemorate the 101st birth anniversary of his father and longest-serving CJI Y.V. Chandrachud, Justice Chandrachud, who is line to be the CJI, stated: “Majoritarian tendencies, whenever and however they arise, must be questioned against the background of our constitutive promise. Any semblance of authoritarianism, clampdown on civil liberties, sexism, casteism, otherisation on account of religion or region is upsetting a sacred promise that was made to our ancestors who accepted India as their Constitutional Republic.” “Our nation was forged and united, with a promise of certain commitments and entitlements to each and every citizen. A promise of religious freedom, a promise of equality between persons, irrespective of sex, caste or religion, a promise of fundamental freedoms of speech and movement without undue State interference and an enduring right to life and personal liberty,” he stressed. Chief Justice Ramana noted that conflicts were unavoidable in any society. But with conflicts, there was also the need to develop mechanisms for conflict resolution. The CJI took a leaf from the Mahabharata to illustrate that peace through amiability was better than violence. “Mahabharata, actually provides an example of an early attempt at mediation as a conflict resolution tool. Lord Krishna attempted to mediate the dispute between the Pandavas and Kauravas. ... failure of mediation led to disastrous consequences,” he said. It was both “uncharitable” and an “overstatement” to blame pendency on judicial delay. Even a case filed a day back was added to the oft-quoted pendency statistic of 45 million cases. One of the chief reasons for delays was “luxurious litigation”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-with-people-to-protect-civil-liberties/article35389286.ece
18 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Suspended policeman Sachin Vaze seeks bail||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who is lodged in the Taloja Central Jail, has filed for bail at a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, linked to a car found next to industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. He sought bail on the grounds that the Central agency had not filed a chargesheet in the case within the mandated 90 days under the Code of Criminal Procedure. NIA seeks more time The NIA opposed the plea, saying the case involved serious charges and it needed more time to file a chargesheet. The case was adjourned to July 22. An SUV with 20 gelatin sticks was found on February 25. The police said the car was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. The car’s owner, Hiran, an auto parts dealer, was found dead on March 5 in Kalwa creek. The case was transferred from the Maharashtra police to the NIA on March 8. Mr. Vaze was arrested on March 13 for his “role and involvement in placing the explosives-laden vehicle near Carmichael Road.” On March 12, a court in Thane rejected Mr. Vaze’s pre-arrest bail in Hiran’s murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suspended-policeman-sachin-vaze-seeks-bail/article35389295.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sidhu may captain the Congress in Punjab||Capt. Singh had been reportedly annoyed with the proposal of Mr. Sidhu being appointed party chief. Sources said that at the meeting, he firmly conveyed it to Mr. Rawat that unless Mr. Sidhu apologised for his unpleasant remarks against him recently through tweets, he would not meet the latter. A day after he met party president Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Sidhu on Saturday met State party leaders, MLAs and Ministers in an effort to take everyone along. He met party’s State president Sunil Jakhar, besides Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Balbir Singh Sidhu. He also met MLAs Raja Warring, Kulbir Zira, Darshan Brar and Barindermeet Singh Pahra among other leaders. ‘A foregone conclusion’ A senior party leader told The Hindu that it was a foregone conclusion that Mr. Sidhu would be the next PCC chief. “An official announcement is merely a formality now. Mr. Sidhu has been asked by the high command to start working. Meeting party leaders to seek their support and cooperation is what Mr. Sidhu has started with,” he said. The party leader added that it was only “out of respect” that Mr. Rawat held a meeting with the Chief Minister. Otherwise the decision on Mr. Sidhu had been finalised by the central leadership. Mr. Jakhar said Mr. Sidhu paid him a courtesy visit at his residence. “Strength lies in unity and Mr. Sidhu should strive to work with everybody in whatever position he holds.. While no official announcement has been made, he [Sidhu] should take everybody along,” he told The Hindu . The party leadership is desperate to resolve the stand-off between Capt. Singh and Mr. Sidhu, who had been at loggerheads since the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. How it began It started with Mr. Sidhu’s wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, accusing Capt. Singh of blocking her Lok Sabha ticket from Chandigarh. Later, the Chief Minister alleged that Mr. Sidhu did not handle his Local Bodies portfolio well which, he claimed, resulted in the Congress’s “poor performance” in urban areas in the general election. Capt. Singh later divested Mr. Sidhu of Local Bodies and allocated him the Power and New and Renewable Energy Sources portfolios. Mr. Sidhu then quit the Cabinet and since then, the stand-off between them has only intensified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-may-captain-the-congress-in-punjab/article35389297.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Live-streaming court proceedings is key: CJI||Formalising live-streaming of court proceedings is crucial for dissemination of information. The spread of information is sacrosanct to free speech, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said on Saturday. The Chief Justice was inaugurating the launch of live-streaming of proceedings at the Gujarat High Court in the presence of Supreme Court e-Committee Chairperson Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, Supreme Court judge Justice M.R. Shah, Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath. The CJI said the Supreme Court is “keen” to commence live-streaming of its proceedings. “We are working out the logistics and working on the full consensus of the full court… We can introduce live-streaming in a cost-effective manner without much of a burden on the exchequer,” Chief Justice Ramana explained. The people have a right to be informed about the institutions which serve them, the CJI said. “Currently, the public obtains information about court proceedings through the media. In effect, the information from the courts is being filtered by agents of transmission. In the process, there is sometimes a transmission loss leading to misinterpretation of questions asked and observations made by the Bench due to the absence of context. Vested interests are eager to amplify these misinterpretations in order to embarrass or discredit the institution,” the CJI said. However, the CJI said live-streaming was a “double-edged sword”. Judges, working under public scrutiny, may face a stressful environment. “A judge cannot be swayed by popular opinion. Yes, with increased public gaze, he might become a subject of multiple debates, that should never deter him from his duty to protect the right of one against the might of many. Always remember, as a repository of people’s faith, a judge cannot afford to lose objectivity,” Chief Justice Ramana advised. The CJI said the rules of live-streaming should be calibrated to protect the privacy and security of victims and witnesses.  We can introduce live-streaming in a cost-effective manner without much of a burden on the exchequer CJI N.V. Ramana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/live-streaming-proceedings-is-crucial-cji/article35389318.ece
18 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Classes X and XII to reopen in Odisha||The Odisha government on Saturday announced the reopening of schools for Class X and Class XII from July 26 following a fall in the number of COVID cases in the State. The decision to reopen schools even though the State is still under different stages of lockdown appears to have been prompted by the inability to reach a majority of students through online modes of education. “Online classes, an alternative mode of education, were initiated due to COVID-19 pandemic. However, we have not been able to reach all students in the State. Due to poor mobile connectivity issues, the government has decided to reopen schools for Class X and XII from July 26,” said Satyabrata Sahu, School and Mass Education Secretary. According to the State government, the number of students in Classes X and XII is about 10 lakh. The government has been able to reach out to only 40% of students, while the remaining 60% students are being deprived of lessons. These students had lost an average of 150 days in the previous academic session. “A comprehensive standard operating procedure on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour will be issued,” Mr. Sahu said. Attending school will be optional and students may do so after consulting their parents. School hours have been scheduled from 10 a.m. to 1.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/classes-x-and-xii-to-reopen-in-odisha/article35389315.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Pawar meets Modi, raises political heat||Earlier this week, Mr. Pawar’s meeting with political strategist Prashant Kishor triggered a rumour that he might be a candidate for the presidential election scheduled for next year. Mr. Pawar had denied the speculation. NCP spokesperson and senior leader Majeed Memon said unnecessary and baseless yarns were being woven about the Pawar-Modi meeting. The meeting, he stated, should not be viewed from the political perspective alone. “I do not understand why eyebrows are being raised about today’s meeting. A leader of Mr. Pawar’s stature has many issues to discuss and resolve. Should he not meet the Prime Minister of India, just because he happens to be on the other side of the political fence?” he said. Mr. Pawar raised various issues from the Ministry of Cooperation, farmers’ agitation, Maratha reservation and so on, he said. In his letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Pawar flagged concerns at the amendment to the Banking Regulation Act that seeks to bring in changes in the functioning of the “cooperative banks”. The letter pointed to the constitutional provisions that clearly lay out that the cooperative societies come solely under the purview of the State governments. To reinforce Mr. Pawar’s argument, it quoted Supreme Court judgments on the matter. The amendments, he said, were in conflict with the provisions of the State Cooperative Societies Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-meets-modi-raises-political-heat/article35389296.ece
18 July 2021||Sagar,||Trainer aircraft skids, pilot safe||A trainer aircraft skidded off the runway while taking off from the Dhana airstrip in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district on Saturday afternoon. The trainee pilot who was flying solo did not suffer any injuries, police said. The Cessna 172 belonged to Chimes Aviation, a private institute which had once been banned from using the airstrip, 20 km from here, after one of its aircraft crashed last year and two people onboard were killed. The ban was lifted later. The incident took place around 3 p.m. on Saturday. Rahul Sharma, Chimes Aviation’s local administrator, told PTI that the 22-year-old trainee pilot was safe. The aircraft skidded off the runway and reached a patch of land full of shrubs, said eyewitnesses. Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said a probe team was being sent to the spot. “Just got the news of a crash of a Cessna aircraft [solo flight] that belonged to the Chimes Aviation Academy in Sagar, MP. Fortunately, the trainee is safe. We are rushing an investigation team to the site,” he tweeted. The incident came on the heels of the crash of a trainer aircraft in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district on Friday in which the flight instructor was killed. In March last year, the State government had banned the Chimes Aviation from using the airstrip after one of its trainer aircraft crashed on January 3, 2020, killing two persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trainer-aircraft-skids-in-madhya-pradesh-pilot-safe/article35389285.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||Centre’s hand seen in ED probe: Sawant||The Maharashtra Congress on Saturday asked why the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had not yet arrested the bar owners who claimed they had paid money to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh via the dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze. State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said that the manner in which ED was acting showed that it was working at the behest of Central government. “Our suspicion gets strengthened that all these selective actions are at the behest of Modi government and politically motivated to defame the Maha Vikas Aghadi government,” he said. A day after the agency seized Mr. Deshmukh’s assets, worth Rs. 4.2 crore, the Congress questioned the ED. “Do you still confirm theories floated in media of Rs. 300 crore land at Uran when now you only say that the land was purchased in 2005 and worth Rs. 2.67 crore?” asked Mr. Sawant. He added that the ED had declared several dance bar owners had given money worth Rs. 4.7 crore to Mr. Deshmukh through Mr. Waze. “Why are those bar owners not behind bars yet? What about investigation of Parambir Singh who even after admitting to knowledge of Rs. 100 crore demand, didn’t take any action?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-havent-bar-owners-who-paid-bribes-been-held/article35389287.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Freelance journalist’s bail rejected||A special court on Saturday rejected the bail application of Rajeev Sharma, a freelance journalist who was recently arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on money laundering charge. The accused was arrested by the Delhi Police last September for allegedly supplying confidential information to Chinese intelligence officials. In its order, the court noted that the allegations against Mr. Sharma were serious in nature. “The investigation is at a crucial juncture as the complete money trail is yet to be traced and releasing the applicant/accused on bail at this stage would not be salubrious to the cause of justice, as the applicant/accused would definitely attempt to wipe off the footprints and cover up the traces,” it said. During the proceedings held through video conferencing, Mr. Sharma’s counsel submitted that he had been falsely implicated in the case; that he suffered from sinus problems for which he required constant treatment with a nebuliser; he had also undergone two surgeries for sinus and, therefore, was at a high risk of contracting COVID-19. They said that no prima facie case of money laundering was made out against him; the electronic evidence had been seized by the agency; he had already been interrogated at length on different occasions; nothing incriminating was recovered from him; and that he had been granted bail by the High Court in the police case. The ED’s Special Public Prosecutor opposed the bail plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/freelancer-rajeev-sharmas-bail-rejected/article35389289.ece
18 July 2021||New delhi,||Editors Guild pays tribute to Siddiqui||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Saturday condoled the death of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, saying his demise was “an irreplaceable loss” to journalism. In a joint statement, the Press Association and the Indian Women Press Corps said Siddiqui’s death while on duty has highlighted the poor safety conditions of scribes. They also condemned the “hateful campaign” being run against Siddiqui on social media after his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-pays-tribute-to-siddiqui/article35389560.ece
18 July 2021||Srinagar,||5 behind blog in Kashmir arrested||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday claimed to have arrested five persons who were running a blog, which ran smear campaigns and prepared a hit list of prominent personalities in Kashmir, including Rising Kashmir editor Shujaat Bukhari. “The culprits behind the terror and intimidation machinery, kashmirfight.wordpress.com, have been arrested in a major breakthrough,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The police said they recovered a large number of cell phones, digital storage devices and computing platforms, following raids at houses and properties belonging to the five persons across the Union Territory. In one house, the police said they found 32 mobile phones. With the arrests, it is expected that the plans behind the murder of Shujaat Bukhari, advocate Babar Qadri and businessman Satpal Nischal would come to the fore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-behind-blog-in-kashmir-arrested/article35389302.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Serene moment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serene-moment/article35389314.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||Producers seek extension of shoot time||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday asked the film and television producers to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 norms laid down by the State government and coordinate with police authorities about the place of shoot as well as extension for timings. The guild members said the shooting of Hindi and Marathi films and television series have been going on by following all norms, but timings need to be extended. They told Mr. Thackeray that shooting beyond 4 p.m. was possible by taking all precautions and following rules. Filmmakers Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, Ritesh Sidhwani, Ravi Jadhav, Nagraj Manjule and Subodh Bhave were among those who participated in the virtual meeting. Mr. Thackeray asked the producers to ensure that norms are followed, crew members are vaccinated and routine tests for the virus are conducted. “We are not interested in restricting your work but we are witnessing cases in States like Maharashtra and Kerala. Therefore, COVID tests after regular intervals, hospitalisation of an individual with symptoms and most importantly vaccinating the person with both doses are extremely important.” He has directed the Mumbai police to appoint a nodal officer to whom producers will submit the shooting timetable, location and timings. “Permissions will be given once the officer is satisfied that all precautions are being taken,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is treading cautiously on relaxing the restrictions as the primary concern is the welfare and health of citizens. Maharashtra on Friday reported 7,761 new COVID-19 infections and 167 deaths, which took the State’s total case tally to 61,97,018 and the death toll to 1,26,727, according to health department figures.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/film-producers-seek-extension-in-timings/article35389320.ece
18 July 2021||New Dehi,||90 oxygen plants ready soon: CPWD||Out of 100 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants that were allotted to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to construct, around 90 had been completed or are nearing completion, a senior CPWD official said on Saturday. The plants, being constructed using the PM CARES fund, are a part of over 1,000 such plants sanctioned to augment the availability of medical oxygen at healthcare facilities in all the States and Union Territories. A senior Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry official wrote to the CPWD team responsible for the project on Wednesday that “all the work on the plant sites” was targeted to be completed by August 15. The letter also shared the “branding” to be displayed on the plants, a total of 1,222 of which had been sanctioned under PM CARES, the official said. The plant would carry stickers declaring that it is a “PSA plant under PM CARES”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/90-oxygen-plants-ready-soon-cpwd/article35389316.ece
18 July 2021||DIPHU,||Assam CM justifies heavy crackdown||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday advised his detractors to think of the families drug dealers have destroyed before sympathising with them and criticising the State police for being “trigger-happy”. The police have since May 10 killed or injured more than 25 alleged criminals, some of them drug traffickers, inviting criticism from Opposition parties and rights activists. “Section 46 of CrPC gives power to the police to shoot in the leg if someone tries to snatch a pistol and flee. There are debates, but before sympathising with the drug dealers one should think about the families they have destroyed, the social damage they have done,” Mr. Sarma said, before setting fire to a pile of seized drugs, including 3.47 kg heroin, at Sutianala near Diphu. About 250 km east of Guwahati, Diphu is the headquarters of Karbi Anglong district that has gained notoriety over the decades as the corridor of the drug trade from Myanmar. Intelligence agencies say the drugs find their way via Manipur and Nagaland, which adjoin Karbi Anglong. Mr. Sarma said his government was determined to fight the drug menace with the most extreme measures permitted by law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cm-justifies-heavy-crackdown/article35389317.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Mid-day lull||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mid-day-lull/article35389299.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests Dutch citizen of Indian origin||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday arrested Shivlal Pabbi, a Dutch national who allegedly ran ‘hawala’ operations in the garb of ready-made garments trade in the Netherlands. The accused got the proceeds of the crime laundered via some Pakistan nationals based in Dubai. Mr. Pabbi was allegedly trying to flee the country by a flight to Paris when the agency arrested him at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi on money-laundering charge. He was produced before a special court that sent him to the ED custody till July 23. Originally from Phagwara in Punjab, the accused had migrated to the Netherlands in 1981. He became a Dutch national in 1984. The ED initiated the money-laundering probe against him and others on the request of the Netherlands government. Mr. Pabbi allegedly ran an underground banking operation (hawala). “The proceeds of crime generated by Shivlal Pabbi were transferred to his and his brother’s NRE (Non-Resident External) accounts in Phagwara,” said the agency. The funds so transferred were invested in the development and construction of Mayfair Resorts and Cabbana Resort & Spa in Phagwara on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana highway. “Cabbana Resort & Spa, spread over several acres, is a renowned venue known mainly for hosting luxurious weddings, corporate events, etc.,” the ED said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dutch-national-of-indian-origin-held-for-money-laundering/article35389288.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||‘No question of leadership change’||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said BJP Central leaders have asked him to continue in his post and there was no discussion on leadership change. “There is no question of leadership change,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister was speaking to reporters on his return from Delhi, where he had called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J.P. Nadda during his two-day visit, amid continued bickering among a section of BJP MLAs in the State who have been seeking his ouster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-question-of-leadership-change/article35389351.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Third desalination plant will be ready in 2023’||The ongoing project to construct the third desalination plant, with a capacity to treat 150 million litres of seawater a day, at Nemmeli will be completed by April 2023, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said on Saturday. During an inspection, he instructed officials to expedite ongoing work at Nemmeli, and also initiate measures to start the construction of a 400 mld desalination plant at Perur. Mr. Nehru noted that nearly 9 lakh residents would have better water supply once the Rs. 1,259.38 crore desalination plant is commissioned in 2023. The fourth desalination plant would come up at a cost of Rs. 6,078 crore, and be completed by December 2025, he added. Treated water would be supplied to nearly 22 lakh people from the new facility. Highlighting that the city received nearly 727.67 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh daily, Mr. Nehru said the current daily supply of 851 mld would be maintained till December with the available resources. He said residents could test water samples from open wells and borewells free of cost in 200 depot offices. He asked officials to finish the water quality testing scheme within 10 days. Metrowater’s Managing Director C. Vijayaraj Kumar and Executive Director P. Akash were among those present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-desalination-plant-will-be-ready-in-2023/article35389661.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No scope for talks on Mekedatu, says Water Resources Minister||Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan has been handling inter-State river water disputes concerning Tamil Nadu since 1989 when he became [Public Works Department] Minister for the first time. The row over the Mekedatu dam project, proposed by Karnataka, has been keeping him busy in recent weeks. He made two visits to New Delhi in the last couple of weeks, including one during which he led an all-party delegation to impress upon the Centre the strengths of Tamil Nadu’s case on the issue. In an interview on Saturday, he made it clear that for Tamil Nadu, the issue was non-negotiable. Edited excerpts:  You held two rounds of discussions with the Centre in the last two weeks on Mekedatu. Were they fruitful? As far as I am concerned, the second meeting [with Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat] was more fruitful than the first. This is because of his response. When we, the Tamil Nadu team, complained to him that the Central Water Commission’s (CWC) decision to give permission to Karnataka to prepare a DPR [detailed project report] was wrong, he [the Union Minister] replied that whatever documents Karnataka had submitted were flawed. At the time of giving its permission [in 2018], the Centre had imposed four conditions, including the production of a no-objection certificate from other riparian States such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala, besides Puducherry, and the approval of the [Cauvery Water Management] Authority. So far, Karnataka has neither approached us nor the Authority in this regard. The Union Minister said they [Karnataka] had, on their own, given certain documents to the Centre. He also told us that “there is no necessity for us [the Centre] to give them approval. So there is no need for you [Tamil Nadu] to get worried”. Are you satisfied with assurances of the Central government? They [the Centre] have given us a copy of their communication [to the Karnataka government], laying down the conditions. Only when the conditions are fulfilled, the DPR [of Karnataka] will get approved. As long as the DPR is not cleared, they [the Karnataka government] cannot construct the dam. What he [the Union Minister] told us this time was that even though he could not refuse giving the nod to Karnataka for preparing a DPR, he had stipulated the conditions for the other side to satisfy at the time of submitting the DPR. Besides, he [Mr. Shekhawat] is a very shrewd man. He is extremely thorough with his subject. He does not get exercised. He replies in a composed manner. Do you mean to say that the Union Minister’s assurances give you a sense of hope? Yes. There is a perception in certain quarters that Tamil Nadu is, for the sake of it, opposing even a drinking water project for Bengaluru. Even the Supreme Court, while modifying in February 2018 the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal’s final order of 2007, had allotted 4.75 thousand million cubic ft of drinking water supply to Bengaluru. How do you justify the Tamil Nadu government’s objections? Karnataka has got adequate infrastructure to take water from its reservoirs for catering to the drinking water supply requirements of Bengaluru, which it is doing even now. However, our position is that there is no need for any new dam across the Cauvery for this purpose. In addition, as pointed out in the Supreme Court’s verdict, Tamil Nadu’s share includes water contributed by uncontrolled catchment downstream of Krishnaraja Sagar and Kabini — areas between the two dams and Biligundlu [the CWC’s gauging site on the inter-State border]. So if you build a dam on this stretch, it amounts to encroachment, as the river water there is ours. Mr. Shekhawat, in Bengaluru early last week, indicated that the two States must sort out the issue by talking to each other. Even the Expert Appraisal Committee of the Union Ministry of Environment & Forest [in August 2019] had also suggested a similar course of action. He told us that he did not make any such statement. What is the problem for Tamil Nadu in holding negotiations with Karnataka over Mekedatu? There is a long history of negotiations between us and them. But the talks ended in failure. This was why we had to go to the Supreme Court. Now you have the Tribunal’s final order and the court’s judgment, modifying the order. Karnataka must obey the judicial verdicts. When any problem arises, we can only go back to the Supreme Court. Hereafter, there is no scope for talks. Remember, our petition [filed in 2018 on the Mekedatu issue] is still pending in the court. Would the Tamil Nadu government agree to the idea of a third party or any Central agency taking up the execution of projects on the Cauvery, as it did in 1998, when Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] was the Chief Minister ? Four hydro-power projects — two each in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu — were proposed then, and they included Mekedatu as well. No such situation has arisen now. So the question does not come up. As for the talks we had in the 1990s, they were conducted when the Tribunal had not delivered its final order. At present, the crux of the matter is that Karnataka neither follows the Tribunal’s final order nor the Supreme Court’s judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-scope-for-talks-on-mekedatu-says-water-resources-minister/article35389644.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||N. Ram lauds native digital news media||Native digital news media, irrespective of its reach, has kept the spirit of independent journalism alive, said N. Ram, Director, THG Publishing Pvt. Limited on Saturday. Participating in a webinar on ‘State of the Indian media’ organised by Dravidian Professionals Forum, he commended the native digital news media for keeping the spirit of independent journalism alive. “When you look at the Babri Masjid judgment of the Supreme Court, there was criticism but see how the media fell in line. I think CAA was a little different, but these are impressions. There has been some critical coverage on farmers’ agitation, for example, which is why so many cases are being filed against those who covered it, supported it or tweeted about it. It is a mixed performance, but, by and large, we have failed to play anything like a minimally independent role. In contrast, you have the native digital news media. I really want to commend them for this – whatever their reach and business model – they have kept the spirit of independent journalism alive,” he said. According to him, one cannot avoid calling attention to the rise of authoritarianism – not authoritarianism in the abstract. “Sometimes people talk about the media during the Emergency and now. I think it is a mistake to even attempt that kind of comparison because the environment is totally different…the forces, formations are totally different and dominant players are totally different. We are familiar with what happened before…another kind of authoritarianism but fortunately short-lived. Today, it is what can be called Hindutva authoritarian regime,” he said. Authoritarian regime Mr. Ram said that one must not shy away from characterising the Centre as ‘Hindutva authoritarian regime’. State Finance Minister P. Thiagarajan, said, “We are not in a stable media environment but we are in a moment of flux.” Taking the example of a ‘right wing’ local language newspaper, Mr. Thiagarajan said, “We find that their reach is declining very, very clearly. There used to be a time when what they said used to be taken as gospel truth but as time goes on, the power of the internet has fundamentally decayed their reach and revenue model. It has forced the owners to other businesses. In this transition from a traditional press model to an internet model, the pressure on media houses to stay profitable and afloat is making a big influence on outcomes.” Readers Editor of The Hindu , A.S. Panneerselvan said that social media hate gets amplified because the news media is unable to come up with a push back system. Opinion writers “There is a structured delegitimising of opinion writers. Never their content is questioned. We do not know how to confront this,” he said. There was also a mismatch between reach and revenue. “One issue which is being missed by the State regulatory framework is the relationship between content and carrier. In the last 10 years, the carrier companies have become more powerful than the content companies. Whether it is a newspaper or a television channel, you are at the mercy of who delivers. It can be an ISP or DTH company or cable operator,” he said. Professor Sukumar Muralidaran, O. P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, said during the first phase of the internet, the media saw it as a very benign presence to expand its reach. “Internet content was text based. But, the situation changed very rapidly with Google’s IPO, Gmail and Facebook. Again for a while, this was benign and it was opening up. In 2016, there was a watershed moment. Algorithmic curation of news and the advertising model that rides on profiling of users is creating filter bubbles,” he added. Pamela Philipose, Public Editor, The Wire , said, “The new Information Technology rules which have targeted small and independent news portals like The Wire is all about bringing the media under State control.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/n-ram-lauds-native-digital-news-media/article35389667.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro services extended||Chennai Metro Rail Limited has extended train operations from 7 a.m. till 10 p.m. on Sunday and other public holidays, with a frequency of 10 minutes throughout the day. During the week, between Monday and Saturday, the trains run from 5.30 a.m. to 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-services-extended/article35389659.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women from Madurai arrested for theft||Personnel from the Korukkupet police station on Saturday arrested a mother and daughter, who switched genuine gold jewellery with imitation pieces at a showroom in the city on the pretext of buying them. The police said on July 11, the duo went to a jewellery showroom in Korukkupet under the guise of buying jewellery, and browsed different designs on offer. However, they left the premises without making any purchases. The shop’s owner Punram checked the jewellery after the women left and found that they had stolen some gold jewellery and replaced them with imitations. Based on his complaint, personnel from the Korukkpet police station registered a case, and launched a hunt for the suspects with the help of CCTV camera footage from the store and surrounding areas. The police apprehended them at a village near Usilampatti. The accused were identified as Sumathi, 55, and Priyadarshini, 27. Four sovereigns of gold jewellery were seized from them, and they were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-from-madurai-arrested-for-theft/article35389662.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In 70 days, over 1 crore doses administered: Health Minister||In 70 days of the DMK regime, 1,12,90,767 doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered, as against 63,28,407 in 103 days since the drive was rolled out when the AIADMK was in power, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday. Replying to Opposition Leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s demand for a White Paper on the number of COVID-19 vaccines supplied, administered and wasted, he said so far, the State had received 1,80,32,170 doses of vaccines. These included three lakh doses that arrived on Saturday evening and 29.22 lakh directly purchased by the State for Rs. 99.84 crore. “Of these, 1,76,19,174 doses have been administered. As of now, we have 7,15,570 doses in hand,” he told reporters. The Minister wondered why the Opposition Leader demanded a White Paper, as details on vaccines supplied and administered were being provided at least twice a day, and reported by the media on a daily basis. “We did not want to politicise this issue. Now we have no other way, as the Opposition Leader has demanded a White Paper. Vaccination was rolled out on January 16, 2021. In 103 days, till the DMK took over on May 7, 63,28,407 doses were administered. From May 7 to date — a span of 70 days — we have administered 1,12,90,767 doses,” he said. When Mr. Palaniswami was the Chief Minister, the daily average of people getting jabs was 61,441, he said, adding, “After the DMK came to power, due to an increase in the awareness levels, the daily average has come up to 1,61,297.” He said 1,43,51,536 people had taken the first dose and 32,67,638 the second. “During your regime, there was no vaccine shortage. If you had asked the Union government, they would have been ready to give more vaccines. Vaccines were lying in godowns during those 103 days. You could have got two to three crore doses,” he told Mr. Palaniswami. It was only after May 7 that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote letters and spoke directly to the Prime Minister seeking more vaccines, he added. The Minister said vaccines supplied were immediately distributed to the districts without delay. During the AIADMK government, 6% vaccines supplied were wasted, he said, adding that this amounted to the wastage of 4,34,838 doses. He added that if the Opposition Leader was not happy with his reply, they were ready to hand over a White Paper during the coming Budget session. “We are ready to give a White Paper on the vaccines wasted due to the AIADMK’s incompetent administration,” he stated. He said the former Chief Minister did not take any measures to operationalise two vaccine manufacturing units in the State despite having “cordial relations” with the ruling BJP at the Centre. “We have medical infrastructure to administer two crore vaccines a month,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-70-days-over-1-crore-doses-administered-health-minister/article35389646.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 2,205 fresh cases and 43 deaths||The State recorded 2,205 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 43 deaths on Saturday, taking its tally to 25,33,323 and toll to 33,695. In the last 24 hours, 1,45,814 samples were tested, bringing the positivity rate to 1.5%. The fresh cases, though concentrated in seven districts, continued to fall. In Coimbatore, 241 people tested positive. Salem followed with 163 cases and Thanjavur with 152. Erode recorded 143 cases, while there were 137 in Chennai and 132 in Tiruppur. Chengalpattu reported 124 cases. The remaining 31 districts recorded under 100 fresh infections each. Among the 43 fatalities, Chennai recorded six. While five people died in Cuddalore, there were four deaths in Tiruchi. There were no deaths in 18 districts. Of the deceased, 32 had co-morbidities. They included a 31-year-old man from Cuddalore, who had diabetes and obesity. He was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Cuddalore on July 1 with complaints of fever and cough for four days, and difficulty in breathing for two days. He died on July 16 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 2,802 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 24,71,038. Active cases fell further to 28,590. These included 3,100 patients in Coimbatore, 2,351 in Erode and 1,913 in Thanjavur. Two more private laboratories — Getwell Diagnostics and Sri Lalithambigai Hospital and Medical College in Chennai — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, the State now has 207 private testing facilities. As many as 3,02,344 people were vaccinated on Saturday. These included 1,65,389 people in the 18-44 age group and 99,376 in the 45-59 age group. The total coverage touched 1,79,21,518. Vaccination was held in 2,287 sessions. The State received 3,00,000 doses of Covishield and they were distributed to the health unit districts from the State Vaccine Store. Of these, Chennai was allotted 19,500 doses and Coimbatore 14,500. Among the other districts, Tiruchi was allotted 12,000 doses, while Salem, Tiruppur and Madurai were given 11,000 each. Thanjavur and Erode got 10,000 vaccine doses.  The fresh cases, though concentrated in seven districts, continued to fall. In Coimbatore, 241 people tested positive for COVID-19. Salem followed with 163 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-2205-fresh-cases-and-43-deaths/article35389650.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More research needed on diabetes, says Union Minister||Union Minister of State Jitendra Singh, handling the Ministries of Science and Technology and Earth Sciences as independent charge, on Saturday stressed the need for meaningful and futuristic research on diabetes in the country. Addressing an awards ceremony, organised virtually by Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre (MDSC) to honour long-term survivors of type-1 diabetes in the country, Mr. Singh offered full support to such research by a team of eminent doctors like V. Mohan, the founder chairman of MDSC. Mr. Singh highlighted the pioneering role Chennai played in research and treatment for diabetes, at a time when north India did not have much exposure in the field. Significance of insulin He lauded Dr. Mohan for instituting the awards, coinciding with the centenary of the discovery of insulin, without which he said it would not have been possible for people with type-1 diabetes to survive. Introducing the first edition of the awards on Saturday, Dr. Mohan highlighted how the survival of children with type-1 diabetes beyond a few months was virtually unheard of before the discovery of insulin and its subsequent use in treatment. Pointing out that people with type-1 diabetes had started living healthy for decades because of insulin, he said, “Unfortunately, in India, the long-term survival of individuals with type-1 diabetes has not been documented so far.” “So, as a befitting tribute to 100 years of insulin discovery, we have decided to make a start towards identifying such individuals in our country, who have lived healthily with type-1 diabetes for over 60 years, and rewarding them for discipline and perseverance,” Dr. Mohan explained. Awards presented K. Krishnaswami from Chennai, Mina Fernandes from Mumbai, S.R.V Prasanna from Coimbatore, Usha Dhiman from Delhi, Rajiv Kaicker from Delhi and Rakesh from Gurgaon, who have been leading a healthy life for over 60 years after being diagnosed with type-1 diabetes, were presented the Dr. V. Mohan Victory over Diabetes Medal. Lakshminarayana Varimadugu, who is visually challenged, and developed type-1 diabetes during his adolescence, carries out a lot of activities to support others with the disease. He was awarded the Type-1 Diabetes Hero Award. Thirty-four organisations from across the country, predominantly run by people with type-1 diabetes, and working towards the well-being of people with the disease, were awarded the Type-1 Diabetes Ambassador Award.  Mr. Singh highlighted the pioneering role Chennai played in research and treatment for diabetes, at a time when north India did not have much exposure in the field||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-research-needed-on-diabetes-says-minister/article35389666.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mask compliance still below 50% in Chennai||A study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR-NIE) and the Greater Chennai Corporation has shown that while mask compliance has improved in the city, it was still below 50%. The study showed that compliance in outdoor areas was 41% in slum areas and 47% in non-slum areas. Importantly, in indoor areas, the compliance was significantly poorer at just 24% in slum areas and 33% in non-slum areas. This study was round four of the periodic study being conducted by ICMR-NIE and the GCC at different points since the outbreak of COVID-19. Rounds one, two and three were conducted in October 2020, December 2020, and March 2021 respectively. Round 4 was conducted from July 8 to 10. The compliance observed in the previous three rounds outdoors was respectively 28%, 29% and 21% in slum areas and 36%, 35% and 21% in non-slum areas. Random selection As in the previous rounds, 64 streets, 32 each in slum and non-slum areas, were randomly selected for the study. At each survey point, 50 individuals were observed outdoors and another 20 individuals in indoor spaces like grocery shops, pharmacies, religious places or apparel stores. In total, 3,200 people were observed outdoors and 1,280 were observed indoors in slum and non-slum areas combined. According to the study, 38% of the people observed outdoors in slum areas and 25% of those observed in non-slum areas did not wear masks at all. The remaining 21% in slum areas and 28% in non-slum areas wore masks inappropriately, without covering their noses and mouths. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director, ICMR-NIE, said that while mask compliance had certainly seen a significant improvement from the 21% ahead of the second wave in March 2021, the compliance had to improve further. She said the poor compliance of just 24% in slum areas and 33% in non-slum areas in indoor spaces was a serious concern as the risk of COVID-19 transmission was far higher in these spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-compliance-still-below-50-in-chennai/article35389755.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thunderstorms likely over parts of State till July 21, says IMD||For the second consecutive day, heavy rains and thunderstorms lashed several parts of Chennai on Saturday evening. Traffic was disrupted on arterial roads in many areas in the city due to the downpour. The weather station in Nungambakkam received nearly 7 cm of rainfall till 7.30 p.m. Similarly, various other automatic rain gauges in localities in and around the city recorded moderate to heavy rainfall. While Villivakkam and Puzhal recorded 6 cm and 5 cm of rainfall, those at Taramani, West Tambaram, Chembarambakkam and YMCA Nandanam registered 2 cm of rainfall. Officials of the India Meteorological Department said such intense thunderstorm activity would continue till July 21. On Sunday, 12 districts, including the Nilgiris, Dharmapuri, Vellore and Tiruvallur, may experience heavy rains with thunderstorms in one or two places. Light to moderate rains may occur over few places in Western Ghats, north Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The same weather pattern may continue till July 21 and heavy rain may be restricted to the Nilgiris, Coimbatore and Theni districts. Chennai too may get light to moderate rain in some areas and the day temperature may be around 34 degree Celsius, which is below average for the period. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said an east-west shear zone filled with opposing winds prevails over the southern peninsula and has triggered widespread thunderstorm activity. Strong westerly winds aided rainfall over the State. Since June 1, the State has received an average of 16 cm of rainfall, 78% excess for the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-disrupts-traffic-on-many-arterial-roads-in-city/article35389673.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||M.G.R. University celebrates varsity day||Toppers in various subjects were honoured with medals and certificates during the University Day celebrations of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University on Saturday. A total of 125 medical students received the medals from Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. The student awards were instituted by various trusts, according to a release. They were distributed to 40 male and 85 female students. A total of 76 gold and 21 silver medals, instituted by the trusts, were distributed. As many as 49 silver medals and 39 certificates were instituted by the university. Senior university officials participated, with the Vice-Chancellor delivering the welcome address. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Special Officer B. Senthil Kumar were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-university-celebrates-varsity-day/article35389664.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure transparency in awarding tenders, MNM urges govt.||Makkal Needhi Maiam vice-president A.G. Mourya on Saturday said the State government should not follow in the footsteps of the previous government and should be transparent when it comes to awarding government tenders. His statement comes in the wake of anti-corruption group Arappor Iyakkam alleging that many were prevented from making tender deposits in the Greater Chennai Corporation. Arappor Iyakkam alleged that similar scenes that played out during the AIADMK regime were seen under the DMK government as well in the Corporation. “Not even a week has passed since the Corporation Commissioner said that EMD (deposit) will be allowed to be paid online, those who came to drop it in the box were prevented by goons. Those who managed to do so were deemed as rejected stating that they did not pay it,” a tweet from Arappor Iyakkam said. The State government should look into the issue. “Arappor Iyakkam is doing a good job. I have been supporting them online. Party will not stay away from these issues,” he said. “Tender Transparency Act is already there. The law should be adhered to. The State government should definitely look into the allegation. The new government should not follow in the footsteps of the previous government,” Mr. Mourya added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-transparency-in-awarding-tenders-mnm-urges-govt/article35389668.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM interacts with Olympics-bound athletes||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday said the government will ensure that sportspersons in the State are not constrained by financial difficulties. Interacting with 11 Olympics and one paralympics-bound sportspersons on Friday, Mr. Stalin said, “The government will create an environment conducive for more sportspersons from Tamil Nadu to qualify for future international tournaments and sporting events.” He noted that some of the athletes bound for the Olympics had to undergo training without proper shoes or nutrition. Recalling the challenges faced by some of the Olympians, Mr. Stalin mentioned the travails of Revathi Veeramani, Dhanalaksmi, Subha Venkatesan, and Naganathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-interacts-with-olympics-bound-athletes/article35389778.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air fares for August drop drastically||For passengers who make last minute plans to fly, it has been a costly affair ever since fares shot up significantly last month. But for anyone able to plan ahead, air travel is definitely affordable. For those planning to travel to metro cities in August and beyond, fares have gotten as cheap as Rs. 1,300 for a one-way ticket. Earlier, the cheapest was Rs. 1,500 for a trip from Chennai to Bengaluru, but now travelling to Hyderabad will cost a passenger Rs. 1,300. To Delhi and Mumbai, the fares are about Rs. 2,300 and Rs. 1,700 respectively. Surge in passengers Airport sources said they witnessed a surge in the number of passengers of late, and also the number of flight movements had touched about 150 recently. Tushar Jain, of Roundtrip, a travel portal, said this was quite unexpected, and they did not anticipate this drastic and sudden dip in airfares. “From nearly Rs. 7,000 for a flight to Delhi, a passenger now has to pay only Rs. 2,300. Last month, only the elite could pay and travel to metro cities and others, who could postpone their trip, did so because they could not spend so much,” he said. Now, the load factor has improved, and many flights are running almost full from the city, he added. “Now that there are fewer cases, people are willing to travel, and the affordable fares are an added benefit,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-fares-for-august-drop-drastically/article35389655.ece
18 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Balagurusamy seeks CET for engineering admissions||Former Anna University Vice Chancellor E. Balagurusamy has appealed to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to introduce Common Entrance Test (CET) for admission to engineering programmes in the State. In a letter referring to a recent survey showing the poor employability skills of engineering graduates, Mr. Balagurusamy explained the need for CET. He argued that the objective for which the CET was abolished had not been achieved. The CET had been abolished citing inaccessibility to private ‘coaching’ classes for poor students. Instead, the reverse had happened, he said. In the past 15 years, it had led to undesirable consequences, including emphasis on rote learning, which prevented students from taking competitive exams such as Joint Entrance Examination or National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. As schools ignore Class 11 subjects, students have no grasp of fundamentals in science and mathematics and lacked thinking, problem-solving skills. On their part, schools indulged in unethical methods to boost Class 12 marks of students, he felt. Besides, high private coaching fees prevented students from joining such schools. When such students joined Anna University and its affiliated colleges, as much as 60% of them failed in the first semester, he pointed out. This was borne out by the fact that, in 2018, of the 482 colleges affiliated to Anna University in 75 colleges, the pass percentage was in single digits and in over 50% colleges fewer than 25% had passed. Over 85% of the colleges had less than 50% pass percentage and in less than 12% of colleges, the pass percentage was over 50%. Six colleges presented with zero pass percentage, he said. The aim of CET is to select capable students with an aptitude for engineering, Mr. Balagurusamy explained. “When we admit students who are not capable, they have low probability of completing the course. We will do more harm to poor students who cannot successfully complete the programme than by not admitting them,” he said. An entrance test would not only judge a student’s knowledge and intelligence required for the course but also assess if the student possesses the necessary aptitude to succeed in the course. Issues such as poor quality colleges, unscrupulous college managements and absence of proper quality control and monitoring mechanisms added to the problems. He cited a study by an organisation called Aspiring Minds, which rated employability of graduates from Tamil Nadu as lowest among States in the country in the IT, BPO and IT products sector. “The onus of creating social justice rests squarely on the school system, which must orient itself to address the issue of educational discrimination of certain communities. Removing the CET has not in any way corrected the social, economic and educational bias in favour of the rich and urban students as they continue to get access to quality ‘private’ coaching schools,” he said. What is urgently needed is an efficient affirmative action plan, he said. “A robust admission system with a minimum level of marks in entrance exam, reorienting the school education system, revamping the examination system, and improving the quality of government schools is the way forward,” Mr. Balagurusamy argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-v-c-of-anna-varsity-backs-cet-for-admission-to-engineering-courses/article35389674.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||UGC issues guidelines for academic year 2021-22||The University Grants Commission has urged all higher educational institutions to complete the admission process by September 30. Classes for the first year students in postgraduate and undergraduate programmes must begin by Oct 1. In case of delay in result declaration of qualifying examinations, they can start the academic session by Oct. 18. For intermediate students classes may be held in online/offline/blended mode, the Commission has suggested. The academic session for 2022 would begin on Aug. 1 that year. The UGC has given the higher educational institutions the freedom to plan the preparatory break, the conduct of examinations, the semester break and start of classes for even semester, examination, and the break for the semester. Full fee refund The Commission has also advised institutions to refund full fees if admissions are cancelled or if students migrate, up to Oct. 31 for the academic year 2021-2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ugc-issues-guidelines-for-academic-year-2021-22/article35390151.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Helpline ready for more calls after Class XII results||The Tamil Nadu School Education Department’s 14417 helpline is preparing to receive a flood of calls from students and parents as the results for over 8.5 lakh Class XII students are to be announced on Monday. “Our counselling officers are fully equipped to handle calls and we are expecting queries mainly pertaining to higher education options. Our officers will ask them about their areas of interest, capabilities and then tell them about the options they can explore,” said Paul Robinson, Operations Head, 14417 Education Information Centre. Mr. Robinson said the centre expected to receive a lot of enquiries on medical and paramedical courses, followed by engineering courses and arts and science groups. The officers will also tell the students about the announcements they should look out for pertaining to cut-offs and admission procedures. “Apart from this, we are also expecting calls from private candidates about their next course of action. The government has already announced that exams will be conducted for them when the situation is conducive,” he added. The helpline saw a spike in calls in June. “In June alone, the helpline got over 76,000 calls. We normally get around 7,000 calls a month,” Mr. Robinson said. Of this, around 40,000 calls were pertaining to the conduct of the Class 12 board exams and the rest were queries and grievances related to fee collection and issuance of transfer certificates in schools. Online classes The helpline also received calls about online classes and how some students were unable to cope with the situation. The Class XII results are expected to be announced at 11 a.m. and students will receive their results via SMS or they can check them online in the portals set up by the Directorate of Government Examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-ready-for-more-calls-after-class-xii-results/article35389671.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 Iranians held for robbery in Chennai||Three members of an Iranian gang were arrested for allegedly robbing a Somalian national by posing as government agents in Nungambakkam. The police said when Ali Ahamed Mohammed, 61, a school principal from Somalia, and a local acquaintance were walking on Rutland Gate 4th Street, they were waylaid by three persons in a black car, who claimed to be personnel from a Central agency. They snatched $3,800 from Mr. Mohammed and fled the spot. Personnel from the Thousand Lights police station arrested Sabeer, 35, Rustham Saidi, 28, and Shiawaz, 26. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-iranians-arrested-for-robbery/article35389653.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unfair to expect States to cut fuel taxes: Shashi Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday said it is unfair to expect the State governments to cut Value Added Taxes on fuel, especially when the Centre is keeping most of the taxes by levying cess. Speaking to reporters at the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee headquarters, he said Finance Minister Palanivel Thiagarajan had pointed out to him that the Centre had been levying cess on fuel and not sharing it with the States. “Cess is a very divisive idea as it is not divisible with States. When the Centre keeps 96% of it, then the onus is on itself to reduce the taxes and bring down the prices,” Mr. Tharoor said. He pointed out that since May 4, after the State elections, the fuel prices had been increased 40 times. The higher fuel prices were also leading to higher prices of vegetables, fruits, pulses and other essential household items, resulting in higher inflation. “This is not like ordinary inflation which happens in a healthy economy. The economy is under pressure and very little stimulus has been offered by the Modi government,” he added. Mr. Tharoor alleged that the current situation was due to the mismanagement of the economy by the Modi government. He also pointed out that import duty on some essential items like palm oil and pulses had gone up, and household items attracted higher GST rates. Mr. Tharoor urged the Centre to reduce taxes and cess on fuel significantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfair-to-expect-states-to-cut-fuel-taxes-shashi-tharoor/article35389696.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Accurate national disability statistics essential’||Socio-demographic data and functional status data of persons with disabilities is the need of the hour, a disability rights organisation has said. Sarthak, an NGO working to empower persons with disabilities (PwDs) through various activities, has called for accurate national disability statistics to help identify the needs and the amount of institutional support required by PwDs. Most PwDs do not have access to quality healthcare, transport facilities, education, training and employment, the organisation has said. Accurate national disability statistics are important in ensuring the overall well-being of the disabled population and in monitoring trends in the prevalence of disabilities, the organisation's founder Jitender Aggarwal said. Sarthak has suggested to the Census Department to include all 21 disabilities as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016; a nationwide awareness campaign to stress the importance of identifying PwDs; social campaigns to de-stigmatise PwDs; use of digital mediums and technology to carry out the surveys and to collaborate with various stakeholders during the data collection process. Sarthak has sought adequate training and sensitisation of census enumerators to carry out disability related surveys. The Social Welfare Departments in every State should provide the existing data of PwDs to data collection teams in advance for better correlation data entries. “Accurate national disability statistics are essential for securing the rights of persons with disabilities,” said Mr. Aggarwal, founder, Sarthak Educational Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accurate-national-disability-statistics-essential/article35389777.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||International gang under watch for selling stolen credit details||An international gang has come to the notice of the police for selling stolen credit card details through the dark web to a city-based gang. The gang used virtual currency through a cryptocurrency exchange operating from India for buying the stolen data. Following the recent arrest of a gang — Lala Chandan, 32, and Praveen Kishore 30, natives of Tiruchi, and Sikkander Badusha, 37, of Begampet, Dindigul — for skimming, the cyber crime cell in Adyar seized skimmer devices and cards from them, and came to know of a wider network. The prime accused had adopted a modus operandi to make money from identity theft. Sources said they were downloading stolen credit/debit card details online from a website with cryptocurrency, which is not legal tender. Global scale “Unknown cyber criminals upload details of stolen cards from across the globe onto a website on the dark web. Through this, anyone can download from anywhere by paying cryptocurrency,” a police officer said. “ “It is an international network of shady businesses. The cyber criminals are selling data, such as credit card numbers with CVV details. Criminals on our side buy them for the bitcoin equivalent of $17 or $18. Since they have to pay in cryptocurrency, they receive them from an exchange in India after paying local currency. There is a need for bringing in stricter laws for cryptocurrency exchanges. Since, money transactions happen virtually, they are not under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India, and there is no way a law enforcement agency can get a hold of the data,” an officer said. “If we block the present IP of the shady operator, they will run their services on another IP. The card details are being stolen by skimming ATMs, compromising security credentials and phishing voice calls, and all this data are put up for sale at a single point. If a card belonging to an European national is stolen this way and used here, where will he/she go and complain? Such cases are challenges for law enforcement agencies,” a senior police officer said. Modus operandi The police identified the Indian cryptocurrency exchange and the credit card website used by the trio. After downloading the data, the gang programmed blank cards using a writer machine, and used them to steal money through ATMs and point of sale machines at different outlets. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman said, “We are taking all-out efforts to bring those involved to book. People should be cautious when using credit cards. They should not reveal CVV details, and should not have it written down or stored as cookies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-gang-under-watch-for-selling-stolen-credit-details/article35389652.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman undergoes aneurysm repair||A woman in her 26th week of pregnancy successfully underwent an endovascular aneurysm repair at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital (TNGMSSH), Omandurar Estate. There were many factors for the doctors to consider when the woman was rushed to the hospital for treatment last month. At 26 weeks of pregnancy, a routine scan at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Salem, found an aneurysm of the right side iliac artery, measuring 8 cm. But this was not all — the woman already had a cardiac condition and had undergone open heart surgery four years ago. “The patient was a known case of ventricular septal defect and aortic regurgitation. She had undergone open heart surgery four years ago. Pregnancy is high risk in these circumstances,” M. Bakthavatchalam, head of the department of Vascular and Endovascular Sciences, TNGMSSH, said. The aneurysm was found in the internal iliac artery that supplies blood to the reproductive organs. The normal size of the artery is around 0.6 to 0.8 cm but the size of the aneurysm was around 8 cm, he said. “This was pressing on the uterus. If it enlarges, there is a 100% chance of rupture, putting the mother and the foetus in danger. We formed a panel and also consulted with the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. We decided that an open surgery will put both of them in danger, and decided to do a minimally invasive endovascular procedure,” he said. After consulting with the institute’s Director R. Vimala, the doctors placed an order for a covered stent costing Rs. 1.5 lakh. In the minimally invasive procedure, doctors passed a catheter through the femoral artery in the thigh, and by using the covered stent, they excluded the aneurysm, establishing blood flow for the foetus and to prevent the rupturing of the aneurysm, he explained. “We also took care to prevent radiation exposure to the foetus. Instead of a CT angiogram, we did an MR angiogram, and covered the abdomen using lead sheets. We took all precautions to prevent injury to the foetus,” he said. Post-procedure, doctors evaluated both the woman and the foetus, and found both were doing well. The procedure was covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pregnant-woman-undergoes-aneurysm-repair-in-govt-hospital/article35389663.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urged to improve quality at schools run by Adi Dravidar Dept.||A voluntary organisation called upon Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to improve the standard of education of students of schools being run by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. Pointing out that there were about 1 lakh students in 1,100 schools, the People’s Educational Trust - Dr. Ambedkar Academy, in a representation submitted to the Chief Minister last week, stated that the standard of education of the schools was far from satisfactory, which was evident from the fact that hardly any student who studied in the schools had been able to secure admission to technical and professional courses. Calling upon the government to increase dietary charges for student-inmates of the hostels run by the department from Rs. 1,100 for college students and Rs. 1,000 for school students to Rs. 3,500 and Rs. 3,000 respectively, the trust appealed to Mr. Stalin to see to it that the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme covered students of institutions deemed to be universities. Among the other suggestions mooted were the constitution of a State-level SC/ST Commission and the provision of cultivable land to agricultural labourers and those having uneconomic land holdings by purchasing private land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urged-to-improve-quality-at-schools-run-by-adi-dravidar-dept/article35389657.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five held for murder of history-sheeter in Triplicane||Personnel from the Marina police station on Saturday arrested five accused for allegedly hacking a 34-year-old history-sheeter to death on Dr. Besant Road, Triplicane. The deceased was identified as Rajesh alias ‘Kili’ Rajesh, a history-sheeter, with several cases at the Kannagi Nagar police station. He had more than 10 criminal cases against him. He, his friend Johnson, a resident of Neelam Basha Dargapuram, and other associates signed attendance at the Marina police station as per conditional bail granted to them in connection with a criminal case. When they were returning from the police station, a gang waylaid and attacked them around 11 a.m on Friday. The gang fled afterwards, and Rajesh died on the spot while his associates were injured. Following investigations, the police arrested Elumalai, 25, and Arun Kumar, 22, of Ice House, and three others. They had attacked Johnson and Rajesh due to previous enmity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-murder-of-history-sheeter-in-triplicane/article35389658.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM calls for transparency in awarding tenders||Makkal Needhi Maiam vice-president A.G. Mourya on Saturday said the government should not follow in the footsteps of the previous government and called for transparency when it comes to awarding government tenders. Allegations The appeal follows allegations from the anti-corruption group, Arappor Iyakkam, that many were forcefully prevented from depositing the EMD amount in Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Arappor Iyakkam had alleged that the scenes played out during the AIADMK regime were seen even now. “Not even a week has passed since the Chennai Corporation Commissioner said that EMD will be allowed to be paid online. Those who came to drop it into the box were prevented by goons. Those who managed to do so were deemed as rejected stating that they didn’t pay it,” a tweet from Arappor said. Mr. Mourya said that the State government should look into the issue. “Arappor is doing a good job. I have been supporting them online. Party will not stay away from these issues,” he said. He added, “Tender Transparency Act is already there. The law should be adhered to. The State government should definitely look into the allegation. The new government should not follow in the footsteps of the previous government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-calls-for-transparency-in-awarding-tenders/article35389793.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reverses acquittal of man who sexually abused child||The Madras High Court has reversed the acquittal of a person who subjected a two-year-old girl child to aggravated sexual assault. It impressed upon the need for trial courts and the police to handle with sensitivity such cases involving a victim of tender age and parents who are rustic, illiterate and innocent. Justice P. Velmurugan set aside Tiruvarur mahila court's September 27, 2018, verdict acquitting S. Prakash from the case booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act of 2012. Allowing an appeal preferred by the victim’s mother, the judge convicted him and sentenced him to five years of imprisonment. The judge also directed the State government to pay Rs. 1 lakh in compensation to the victim. He said neither the police had done a meticulous investigation nor the trial court had dealt with the case appropriately. Nevertheless, he found the materials available on record sufficient to convict the accused. The appellant’s counsel, Deepika Murali, said the accused, the victim’s neighbour, had volunteered to take care of the child when her mother was taking her along to a shop on September 17, 2017. After the woman returned, she found the child weeping and complaining of pain in her vagina. Though semen was found in the child’s inner garments, the victim’s mother did not lodge a complaint the same day since her husband was not in town. It was only the next day, when the child complained of pain again, that she was admitted to a hospital and the police were informed, leading to the registration of a case. Since the medical examination was held five days after the incident, nothing significant could be discovered. Therefore, the trial court chose to acquit the accused, the counsel said. Further, Justice Velmurugan found that the convict’s counsel had taken up a “flimsy defence” by using the word semen having been wrongly typed in Tamil as ‘semman’ (meaning red soil) while recording the evidence of the victim’s mother, to claim that no semen had actually been discovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reverses-acquittal-of-man-who-sexually-abused-child/article35389776.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS demands White Paper on vaccination||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday demanded a White Paper on the status of COVID-19 vaccination in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, he asked the State government to spell out the number of doses that had been supplied by the Centre in the last two months; the total inoculation coverage; the number of people in need of the second dose; details on how the doses supplied by the Central government had been distributed and who was given preference at vaccination camps. Mr. Palaniswami said there were reports that the Union government had given 30 lakh vaccine doses to the State, but there was no information on proper administration of the doses to the people. In a separate statement, the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, referred to an agitation by farmers in Krishnagiri district over the reported revival by GAIL India of laying a natural gas pipeline along Hosur-Uthanapalli, and urged the Chief Minister to see to it that the pipelines were laid along highways and not through farmlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-demands-white-paper-on-vaccination/article35389639.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation drops plan to install automatic water meters||Under the on-going 24x7 drinking water supply improvement project, the Coimbatore Corporation will install only manual water meters and no automatic meters, as planned. Sources said the civic body dropped the plan to install automatic water meters because there was no precedent in the country. At the time of mooting the 24x7 drinking water supply project and during the initial phase the Corporation had said it would install automatic water meters that would eliminate the need for meter readers to go physically to each location to record water consumption and bill consumers. It had also said the company that executed the project – Suez India Pvt. Ltd. – would install SIM cards with the automatic meters that would transmit the quantity of water consumed and the software developed would automatically generate the water consumption charges. The Corporation is implementing the 24x7 drinking water supply project in the old city area – 60 of the 100 wards – at over Rs. 2,900 crore. The sources said the Corporation chose to drop the plan to install the automatic water meters because no where in the county automatic meters had been installed. The Corporation scouted for details of cities where at 15,000 water connections had such automatic meters. It wanted at least 15,000 connections because it worked to 10% of the total connections where the Corporation needed to replace meters in the city. And, as no precedent was available, it chose to go in for manual meters but not of the type currently used in the city. The Corporation, through the contract company, would install class two, multi-jet meters that provided accurate consumption details and were hard to tamper with. The Corporation was free to allow the contract company to change the meter type because in the project contract, it had left the choice and technology of meter to the company concerned. Therefore, it was not a violation of contractual obligation. But to ease the way the water consumption is read and billed, the Corporation had asked the company to geo-tag all the meters and develop a mobile application. The persons deployed for noting down meters, would go note down the reading in the ‘app’, which would immediately reflect in the database of the consumer concerned in the server. In short, it was not a let down in technology, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-drops-plan-to-install-automatic-water-meters/article35389679.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Survey under way for implementing Anamalaiaru-Nallaru project’||Survey is under way to implement the Anamalaiaru-Nallaru project, Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan said here on Saturday after inspecting the work to repair the Contour Canal. A release from the district administration said the survey was one of the several steps the State Government had taken up in the recent past to improve water resources. The 50-km canal took water from Sarcarpathy to the Aliyar and Parambikulam reservoirs, based on an inter-State agreement that Tamil Nadu had signed with Kerala in 1958. The then government under M. Karunanidhi had sanctioned Rs. 185 crore to repair the canal that passed through hillocks. The Water Resource Organisation under the Public Works Department had concrete lined the canal. This, Mr. Saminathan said, had prevented seepage and benefited people in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. Of the 50 km, concrete lining on a six-km stretch was pending. Besides, over a period of time, trees fell into the canal, shrubs grew through the cracks on the concrete embankment and a few other factors led to the decrease in quantity of water taken to the reservoirs. Now, work to repair the damaged stretches and concrete line the stretch was in progress, the Minister said. As for the Anamalaiaru-Nallaru scheme, the Minister said after the survey was complete, he would take it to the notice of the Chief Minister for early implementation of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-under-way-for-implementing-anamalaiaru-nallaru-project/article35389681.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camp for tribal people held near Anaikatti||The Health Department on Saturday held a special COVID-19 vaccination camp for the Adivasi people near Anaikatti. A total of 100 people were vaccinated in the camp organised at the Government Middle School at Kondanur, which was held for Kondanur and Kondanur Pudur tribal settlements. R. Shantha Kumari, Block Medical Officer, Periyanaickenpalayam, said the medical team from the Primary Health Centre, Anaikatti, created awareness among the Adivasis during the last 10 days on the need to take COVID-19 vaccine. “We are planning to conduct more camps for the tribal communities in the coming days. Requests for vaccines for further camps have been submitted to higher officials”, she said. According to her, vaccine hesitancy was still prevalent among some Adivasis and more awareness activities will be conducted for them. Despite these factors, some of the antenatal mothers had come forward to take the vaccine. Around 4,500 people are living in the 14 tribal settlements that come under the PHC. The nine-member team headed by the Chief Medical Officer P. Ajay have, so far, administered vaccines to nearly 1,000 people, mainly Adivasis. “There are 2,200 persons aged above 18 in these tribal settlements. We will continue to educate them on the need to take vaccine to fight COVID-19,” said Dr. Ajay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camp-for-tribal-people-held-near-anaikatti/article35389691.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Container shortage hits exporters||For exporters in the region, who ship a variety of goods to different international destinations, shortage in availability of containers and high freight costs are hitting business. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters Association (TEA), said that exporting units faced shortage of containers, longer waiting time to get containers at ports have, hike in freight charges. “We understand that the price hike is attributed to COVID-19 that has left the global shipping lines with backlogs and delays due to labour shortage, reduced capacity of logistics systems, congestion at ports as well as quarantined cargo,” he said in a release. Garment exporters have no option but to turn to air lifting of goods and thus incur huge logistics cost. The knitwear exports from Tirupur, valued at almost Rs. 25,000 crore a year, is expected to pick up as the Union government has announced RoSCTL, the State government has relaxed lockdown restrictions, and demand reviving in the U.S. and European markets. However, the exporters here are unable to ship on time at viable prices because of the shortage of containers, he said. Coimbatore Custom House and Steamer Agents Association president P. Subramaniam said exporters started facing container shortage last October and the situation had not improved. Most of the shipping lines have taken to online business. So, there is no platform for the agents to discuss with representatives of shipping lines. “Yesterday, I booked five containers online and it was cancelled immediately saying bookings are full. Now, I do not know when the containers will be available,” he added. There are customers waiting for even two months for containers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/container-shortage-hits-exporters/article35389683.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Striped hyenas increasingly sighted in Sirumugai, Mettupalayam ranges||Coimbatore Forest Division, which has tiger presence in three of its forest ranges, is now home to more number of striped hyenas ( Hyaena hyaena ). Camera trap monitoring of the wild animals by the Forest Department found that the striped hyena is present in large numbers in Sirumugai and Mettupalayam forest ranges. These are the two forest ranges that lie close to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and the eastern slopes of the Nilgiris which link them to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), both hyena habitats. The two forest ranges also have tiger presence. According to District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges are abundant with prey base for carnivores. Though hyenas are primarily scavengers, they also hunt small animals as a pack. Hyenas also scavenge animals that die of natural causes “Like other animals, population of hyenas have also increased. STR and MTR are the closest landscapes with more number of hyenas. When the population increases, lesser dominant ones move to the buffers and adjoining forests with good prey base and predators. Mettupalayam and Sirumugai ranges have more number of spotted deer, a main prey of predators like tiger and leopard,” said. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle. The camera traps fixed by the WWF India for monitoring of elephants showed the movement of hyenas near Kallar in Mettupalayam forest range. “The two forest ranges are linked to Moyar valley and Sigur plateau which have hyena population. Presence of hyenas have been recorded in Coimbatore Forest Division from 2016 when camera traps were first installed to monitor animal movements. More sighting of hyenas indicate that the forests in Coimbatore Forest Division are healthy to become habitat for them. If the Kallar region did not have obstructions such as the traffic movement and human interferences, the would have moved to other forest ranges of Coimbatore Forest Division,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/striped-hyenas-increasingly-sighted-in-sirumugai-mettupalayam-ranges/article35389689.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Organisation extends support for Kongu Nadu||Kongu Vellalak Goundargal Peravai, in an executive meeting held here on Saturday, has demanded bifurcation of the State to form Kongu Nadu. A resolution passed at the end of the meeting said just as districts or assembly or parliamentary constituencies were divided based on population for administrative convenience, the State should be bifurcated to form Kongu Nadu for the development of people in the western region. It urged the DMK government, which had announced Rs. 2,500 crore to be spent on park development in Chennai, to spend Rs. 1,500 crore for the region’s development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organisation-extends-support-for-kongu-nadu/article35389682.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal families turn invasive plant into homam sticks||Lantana camara, one of the most widely spread invasive plant in Indian forests, has become a source of income for tribal families in Coimbatore district. While the Tamil Nadu Forest Department is taking various efforts to contain its spread, Adivasis from some of the settlements in Coimbatore district are doing their bit by removing them from forests and find an income out of it. They collect the plant, dry it, and make bundles of sticks that are used for homam . “One bundle is sold for Rs. 3. A sack sold for Rs. 300 will have 100 bundles of sticks. Mainly women do the work,” says K. Resammal, 65, from Kandivazhi tribal settlement near Anaikatti. Collecting Lanata camara, locally known as Parali , is one of the sources of income for women like Ms. Resammal as they mainly rear cattle and goats. They collect the invasive plant after leaving the cattle and goats for grazing. “ Parali was not a common plant during my childhood. The plant spread in the forests and private lands over the years and it is a very common plant now. As animals do not eat it, they grow in abundance. Hardly any plant or grass grow well where there is Parali ,” she says. P. Ramar from the settlement says that a family makes 15 to 20 sacks of homam sticks in a month. The collection is not done during rainy season as they cannot dry the sticks. All the seven forest ranges in Coimbatore Forest Division are infested with Lantana camara at varied levels. According to D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, the Forest Department had sent a proposal to the government for the removal of the invasive plant in two forest ranges - Sirumugai and Boluvampatti. The plan was to set up a facility with drying yard and briquetting machine to make briquettes out of the invasive plant and sell them. This will offer employment opportunity to Adivasis. Though an order was issued for the sanction of Rs. 1.24 crore last year, the money was not allotted as the State went through the difficult stage of pandemic. “Spread of Lantana is one of the reasons behind the shrinking of grazing areas of herbivores like elephant. It is appreciable that Adivasis are doing their bit in reducing the menace of Lantana,” said Mr. Venkatesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-families-turn-invasive-plant-into-homam-sticks/article35389685.ece
18 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SSI arrested for assaulting woman, torching two-wheeler||The Singanallur police on Saturday arrested a Special Sub-Inspector (SSI) on charges of assaulting and harassing a woman and torching her two-wheeler. The arrested has been identified as K. Parthipan (57) of Vellalore who had been working at the Race Course police station. According to the police, Parthipan was close to a woman, a relative of his, who lives with her son at Varadharajapuram after getting separated from her husband and waiting for divorce. The police said the woman started to distance herself from Parthipan and recently moved to another house near Varadharajapuram without informing him. The policeman traced the house and went there in uniform on Thursday morning. The SSI allegedly assaulted and harassed her apart from damaging her scooter which he had also used. The woman’s father, who runs a canteen at the Uzhavar Sandhai at Singanallur, had taken the scooter to the place and parked it inside the compound on Thursday night. Recorded in CCTV Parthipan scaled the compound wall of the market and set ablaze the scooter in the early hours of Friday which was recorded in surveillance cameras. Parthipan was arrested based on the complaint lodged by the woman and her father under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor said departmental action will be initiated against the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-arrested-for-assaulting-woman-torching-two-wheeler/article35389694.ece
18 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Recognition for BU professor||Bharathiar University faculty N. Ponpandian has been nominated a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, United Kingdom, said a release. The professor and head, Department of Nanoscience and Technology, won the prestigious membership in recognition of his contribution to materials chemistry. The Society is the United Kingdom's professional body for chemical scientists, the release said. The release added that Mr. Ponpandian had also been listed among the world's top scientists in the area of applied physics from the SCOPUS data by the researchers from Stanford University, USA. He was the first faculty from the university to become a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, which was a reflection of the quality of his work, the release said. Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj congratulated the professor, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recognition-for-bharathiar-university-professor/article35389676.ece
18 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for more suspects in couple murder case||As the police are on the lookout for local AIADMK IT wing union secretary Velavan in connection with the murder of an aged couple in Paapireddipatty recently, the party high-command dismissed him from his primary membership. The victims, Krishnan (80) and Sulakshana,(75), both retired teachers, were found murdered at their residence in Pilparuthi village near Bommidi. The couple’s bank passbooks, ATM cards and mobile phones were found missing. Sulakshana jewellery too was found stolen. Investigation by the special police teams headed by Deputy Superintendents of Police led to the three accused, Prakash Raj (19), Mukesh (19), and Harish (20), two of them engineering students, when they withdrew money from an ATM in Tiruppur. Upon their arrest, the police recovered gold chain, four bank pass books, ATM cards, three mobile phones and Rs. 18,000. According to the police, the couple had parted with the ATM pin numbers to avoid being harmed. As one of the accused, a college student, was identified by Krishnan, the accused murdered the victims. Sources said Velavan was reported to have chalked out the plan for the accused, who pulled off the murder for gain. The police are on the lookout for Velavan and his accomplices Chandru and Ezhilarasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-more-suspects-in-couple-murder-case/article35389781.ece
18 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Digital planetarium to be key attraction in STEM park||To provide practical knowledge to students in science and technology, the Corporation is establishing a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) park at Rs. 10.42 crore at Sree Garden in Ward 46 here. Under the Smart Cities Mission, the park with digital planetarium will have science and maths gadgets, evolution gadgets, science on sphere, indoor gallery exhibits, observatory dome with telescope and space zone. Officials said though students updated their knowledge by accessing the internet, facilities for practical education with good understanding were much limited. Hence, the Corporation proposed the project of integrating park and practical education through the STEM concept, they said. The science and technology park would have exhibits on basic sciences like mechanics, sound and light, chemistry, biology and working models on applied sciences and different technologies. The maths park would have models and exhibits to create interest in mathematical concepts like trigonometry, Pythagoras theorem, conical sections, probability, square wheel curvature and many more. The digital planetarium would have a 360-degree dome with a high-end projection system. The fully air-conditioned dome could accommodate 30 to 35 visitors in a single show with a long list of video titles on various astronomical and expedition topics. This planetarium was expected to be the key attraction in the park. Also, a play zone with gigantic fun station would be another major attraction with a number of play components embedded with various science and technology concepts and puzzles, they said. Work was in progress at a sprawling 48,900 sq. ft. and scheduled to be completed in February, 2022, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-planetarium-to-be-key-attraction-in-stem-park/article35389757.ece
18 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Anti-dengue operations intensified||As a precautionary measure, the corporation has intensified dengue prevention measures by carrying out fogging and also to prevent larvae breeding at households and commercial establishments in the city. Officials said that focus is on mosquito control and to prevent larvae breeding in water stagnation in the households which could end up becoming breeding grounds for dengue. They said that besides fogging, workers also check for larvae breeding in water storage containers and also educate the residents on the need for removing obsolete items from their houses. Residents were also asked to keep the water storage containers closed and also ensure that rainwater does not stagnate on obsolete items on their premises. Residents were asked to keep their overhead tanks clean and properly closed and asked to approach the nearest government hospital if they suffer from fever. They said that anti-dengue operations will be intensified further in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-dengue-operations-intensified/article35389786.ece
18 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume passenger train services’||The minority wing of the Congress has urged the railways to operate passenger trains for the benefit of the workers and the public in the region. In a letter to Railway Minister, vice president of the Erode District Congress Minority Wing and former member of Zonal Railway User’s Consultative Committee K.N. Basha said that due to lockdown, life of the people were affected and normalcy is being restored now. He said that while most of the train services were restored, passenger train services between Coimbatore and Salem, Coimbatore and Nagercoil, Erode and Tiruchi, Palakkad and Tiruchi, were yet to resume operations. All these trains pass through Erode. The letter said that since these passenger trains were not operated, commuters face hardship in reaching the destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-passenger-train-services/article35389787.ece
18 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Free CA online coaching class||The Erode branch of the Southern India Regional Council of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India will conduct free coaching classes for students of government and government-aided schools for the examination to be held in November. A release said online classes were scheduled to commence on July 15 from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Class X students could enrol for CA Foundation and after Plus Two, they could appear for the ICAI Foundation examination. Final year college students could also attend. Students of government and government aided schools need not pay fees while fees waiver would be given to students who lost either of their parent due to COVID-19. For details, contact: 93628-47640.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-ca-online-coaching-class/article35389780.ece
18 July 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Permanent campus for KV remains elusive||More than a decade after the start of a Kendriya Vidyalaya, Karaikal administration is still in the process of identifying land for the school, much to the chagrin of parents. The school that was established under the Civil Sector category on August 24, 2010, now has close to 500 students on its roll from classes I to XII. It has been functioning out of temporary buildings provided by the district administration on the premises of Government Higher Secondary School, Neravy. Earlier this month, Collector Arjun Sharma and the newly-appointed Minister Chandira Priyanga inspected one of the proposed sites at Tirunallar for the permanent campus of Kendriya Vidyalaya. The temporary buildings accommodate 12 classrooms, four laboratories, and a resource room in a single-storey structures with four blocks, and the school has a faculty strength of 17 - six postgraduate teachers, four trained graduate teachers and seven primary teachers. According to official sources, creation of a permanent campus depends upon identification of suitable land, completion of lease formalities in favour of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) by the sponsoring authorities, submission of drawings / estimates by construction agency, availability of funds and requisite approvals. In urban and semi-urban places, the KVS expects the sponsoring entity to transfer at least five acres of land, though the desirable extent of land is specified as 10 acres. The Karaikal district administration, official sources said, was prepared to transfer seven acres of land in Tirunallar to the KVS. However, the hitch is that the land is an agricultural field and the KVS expects the district administration to hand over a levelled land. Since the landfilling entails huge expenditure, the district administration has been in a bind all these years, sources said. There is no other place in the district where this extent of land is available in a single parcel. According to parents, there is huge demand for admission in the school and it would easily qualify for ‘A’ category infrastructure for which the KVS sanctions close to Rs. 25 crore for construction of two classrooms for each section, staff quarters and various other facilities. Not alone The Kendriya Vidyalaya in Karaikal figures among the 23 out of 734 civil sector schools for which land is yet to be identified, according to official statistics.  Lands in trouble Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan expects 5 to 10 acres Land identified in Tirunallar entails huge land-filling expense There is no other place where this extent of land is available in a single parcel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permanent-campus-for-kv-remains-elusive/article35389735.ece
18 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for subsidy linked credit scheme||Applications are invited from aspiring entrepreneurs for subsidy linked credit scheme through the New Entrepreneur Cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS). The scheme is being implemented through the District Industries Center and it envisions subsidy linked credit for first generation entrepreneurs in manufacturing category. The credit support will be between Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 5 crore. The subsidy entails 25 % of the project cost or a maximum of Rs. 50 lakh. The applicant shall be between 21 and 35 years of age, and possess an education qualification of ITI/degree/diploma. Interested applicants may upload the application onwww.msmeonline.tn.gov. in/needs. The applications shall be uploaded with proof of education residence, community certificate, quotation with GST and project report. According to the district administration, the uploaded documents shall be scrutinised and based on the eligibility criteria, the applications shall be forwarded to the bank branches concerned. For details, contact the General Manager, District Industries Center, Sidco Industrial Estate, Krishnagiri, phone 04343-235567.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-subsidy-linked-credit-scheme/article35389782.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on trees being cut for road widening projects||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, hearing a number of public interest litigation petitions seeking a direction to the authorities to forbear the cutting of the roadside trees for road widening projects, has sought reports in the cases. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi hearing the petition seeking a direction to forbear the cutting of trees along the Atchuthan vayal to Pattinamkathan stretch in Ramanathapuram district have asked authorities to inspect the area. The petition was filed by Babu Abdullah of the Syed Ammal Trust. The petitioner complained that the trees that have been along the stretch for many years were going to be cut for road widening purposes. The court sought to know from the authorities if the road widening could be done by ensuring that only a minimum number of trees would be cut. The authorities concerned were directed to inspect the area and report to the court in this regard. Similarly, the court heard two separate public interest litigation petitions that sought direction to the authorities to forebear the cutting of trees along the Tiruchendur-Ambasamudram road for the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor Project. The petitions were filed by A. Stephen Lobo and K. Subbaiah, both from Thoothukudi district. They complained that cutting of the trees along the stretch would create an imbalance in the environment and people would be affected. Stephen Lobo pointed out that Tiruchendur was one of the abodes of Lord Murugan. Every year during the festival season devotees walk along the stretch to reach the temples. They will be put to much hardship as they would have to walk under the scorching hot sun. Subbiah said that in order to bring about a balance the trees must be transplanted. Both the petitioners sought a direction to the authorities to plant ten saplings for every tree that would be cut. The court sought a response from the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-trees-being-cut-for-road-projects/article35389768.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea challenges constitution of Police Complaints Authority||A Madurai-based advocate moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court challenging certain provisions of the Tamil Nadu Police (Reforms) Act, 2013 pertaining to the constitution of the Police Complaints Authority. The petitioner M. Jothi Basu said that the Supreme Court directed all States to constitute a Police Complaints Authority. The State-level Police Complaints Authority was to be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or the High Court. The District level Police Complaints Authority was to be headed by a retired District Judge. The Heads of both the Complaints Authority could also be chosen out of a panel of names proposed by the Chief Justice of the High Court. But, the provisions of the Act states that the government shall establish the State-level Police Complaints Authority with Home Secretary as the Head and Director General of Police and Additional Director General of Police (law and order) as members. As per a government order District Collector was the Head of the District-level Police Complaints Authority and Superintendent of Police and Senior most Additional Superintendent of Police as members, the petitioner said. He said that the Police Complaints Authority in the State was not constituted in accordance with the order of the Supreme Court. He sought direction to the State to constitute the Police Complaints Authority in accordance with the Supreme Court order. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi sought a response from the State government. The court was informed of similar petitions that were pending regarding the same issue before the Madras High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-challenges-constitution-of-police-complaints-authority/article35389975.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take action against unauthorised constructions: PIL||A public interest litigation petition filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court sought direction to the authorities to strictly implement the circular issued by Commissioner of Municipal Administration to take action against unauthorised constructions. The petitioner S. Saravanan of Kovilpatti, Thoothukudi district, said that Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act enables functions like town planning, plan approval, action against the unauthorised constructions, encroachments and implementation of the Master Plan. If the owner of a property needs to construct a building then he has to submit all the relevant documents along with the building plan before the authority concerned. He should obtain the necessary certificates from the authorities, he said. The petitioner said that when the construction reaches the plinth level, the owner of the property should make an application for permission to continue the construction. Following verification that there is no deviation from the plan a Construction Continuance Certificate would be issued. When the construction was completed, the owner should make an application for a Completion Certificate. After site verification and after it was ascertained that there was no deviation in the construction, a Completion Certificate would be issued, he said. Despite the mandatory Construction Continuance Certificate and the Completion Certificate, many buildings in Kovilpatti were being constructed in violation of the plan. In order to take action against unauthorised constructions, a circular was issued in 2019. Many buildings in Kovilpatti have been completed without following the regulations and no action has been taken against the violations. Therefore, appropriate action must be taken to strictly implement the circular and take action against unauthorised constructions, he said. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered notice to Thoothukudi district authorities and sought a response in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-action-against-unauthorised-constructions-in-kovilpatti-pil/article35389762.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP wishes athletes taking part in the Olympics||Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan congratulated the five athletes from Tamil Nadu who will be representing India at the Tokyo Olympics later this month. In his interaction with them via video conferencing, the MP wished the athletes good luck. The athletes Revathi Veeramani, Subha Venkatesan, S. Dhanalakshmi, Arokia Rajiv and Naganathan Pandi are part of the 26-member Indian athletics team. The MP said that the athletes should be proud of their achievement. He told them that they were an inspiration to budding athletes as they had made it to the top against all odds. He asked them to be confident at the Olympics and give their best. He also interacted with Radhakrishnan Nair, the national Chief Coach. The athletes and the national Chief Coach thanked the MP for the wishes and told him that they would give their best at the Tokyo Olympics. The MP said that if not for the COVID-19 protocol, he would have met them in person and wished them luck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-wishes-tokyo-bound-athletes/article35389739.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minister praises two voters||Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan on Saturday commended the dedication shown by two residents - A.C. Rajamaniammal, 86, and P. Palanichamy, 65,- who, despite facing several challenges, had turned up to exercise their franchise during the recent Assembly elections. Ms. Rajamaniammal travelled in an ambulance to a polling station in Arapalayam. Once she reached the polling station, she was carried in a wheelchair with the help of volunteers from Indian Red Cross Society. Her son A. Rajasekar had made the arrangement as his bedridden mother insisted that she wanted to cast her vote. The Minister had praised her dedication on social media and on Saturday, he met her at her residence in S.S. Colony. He also visited Mr. Palanichamy, a conservancy worker from Melavasal, who went to cast his vote despite the death of his wife P. Kaliammal due to age-related ailments on the day of polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-praises-two-voters/article35389979.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Restoration of Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam: stones reach Madurai||A set of three large stones, which will be used for the restoration of Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam of Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, reached Madurai from Namakkal district on Friday. This was the first load of stones to reach the district for the reconstruction work. A portion of the Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam, which was built more than 400 years ago, was destroyed in the fire that occurred in February 2018. The State government has allocated Rs. 18.10 crore to the temple administration to restore the mandapam completely. Temple Joint Commissioner K. Chelladurai said that a committee comprising experts from Indian Institute of Technology- Madras was formed for drafting the plan for reconstruction of the mandapam. The committee had studied around 12 spots and finally decided to bring stone by quarrying from a village in Namakkal district. “On Friday, we received the first set of the stones. Gradually, we will be receiving more loads of stones required for the work,” said Mr. Chelladurai. Out of the Rs. 18 crore allocated for the budget, around Rs. 3 crore will be used for quarrying stones and Rs. 2 crore will be used for transportation. Mr. Chelladurai said that best sculptors will restore the Mandapam without changing its originality and authenticity. “There are old photos of the mandapam and detailed drawings of the mandapam which will be used during the restoration work,” he added. The temple consecration will be scheduled after completion of the restoration work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veera-vasantharayar-mandapam-restoration-work-begins/article35389760.ece
18 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 128.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 5,079 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.62 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,254 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,635 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Periyar dam 46, Thekkadi 34.6, Gudalur 21.5, Shanmuganathi dam 9.3 and Kodaikanal 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35389770.ece
18 July 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari’s paddy fields fall prey to real-estate development||The fertile paddy fields of Kanniyakumari district, once the rice bowl of the erstwhile Travancore state, are being indiscriminately converted into housing plots in violation of rules. Lush green fields and banana and coconut groves are giving way to buildings, defeating the very purpose of the declaration of the wetlands in Suchindram and Theroor and the Manakudi estuary as conservation reserves. Further, the dumping and burning of waste, especially plastic, on the bunds of waterbodies and the release of untreated sewage into them are causing damage to the Suchindram Theroor bird sanctuary. “When I challenged real-estate brokers with rules that prevent construction, they said the sale was not for constructing houses. But those who have bought the lands have started constructing buildings despite my putting up a notice board stating that permission will not be granted for such works,” said C. Kosalai, president of Parakkai panchayat, which is on the banks of the Parakkai Kulam bird sanctuary. Putheri, a fertile village in the northern part, has fallen prey to the construction of houses. Suchindaram, Kakkamoor, Kurichi and other villages on one side of the Suchindram Theroor bird sanctuary are also witnessing a spurt in construction activities. Even in 2010, the then Collector, Rajendra Ratnoo, issued an order to prevent the conversion of wetlands into housing projects. He directed all village administrative officers not to grant permission for construction on wetlands in view of the depletion of groundwater. “I am also under pressure to sell my fields at Thovalai. But I have been resisting the real estate brokers. Houses are being constructed in villages falling under the Hill Area Conservation Authority in Thovalai,” said N. Thalavai Sundaram, AIADMK MLA from Kanniyakumari. He is also a former Minister. “It is illegal to convert paddy fields into housing plots in the district... In the Nagercoil Municipal Corporation area, the problem lies in the manner in which it was conceived as a Corporation,” said former IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam, a native of Kanniyakumari. He said there was confusion on who should act — the district administration or the Corporation. “There was no proper discussion before the Corporation was created. Hence, the fertile lands in Parvathipuram and neighbouring areas are fast becoming housing plots.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumaris-paddy-fields-fall-prey-to-real-estate-development/article35389648.ece
18 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Online token system to get Aadhar cards||Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind has introduced online token system for fixing appointment for applying for new Aadhaar or making corrections in the Aadhar card to avoid crowding in these centres even as the COVID-19 protocol is in place. This system is applicable only for the Aadhar centres in Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable Television Corporation offices functioning in the taluk offices from July 19. Those who do not get the online token may go to the Aadhar centers functioning in the Collectorate, Corporation Office, Head Post Offices and other places with relevant documents to apply for new Aadhar card or make corrections in the existing card. According to Mr. Aravind, the public, who were applying for new cards or corrections in cards were getting the tokens from the computer operators of the designated Aadhaar centres and each centre was handling up to 35 applicants a day. However, the public were gathering in large number right from early morning to get the tokens even as the COVID-19 restrictions were in force. Whenever the crowd waiting to get the tokens beyond the centre’s handling capacity, tokens had to be given for a few days to avert excess crowding. The public may get the token by registering in ‘Aadhar correction – online appointment’ link in the websitewww.kanniyakumari.nic.in. After clicking this link, the applicants should select their taluk and then register their name, date of birth and the phone number to get the online token bearing the date and timing for Aadhar card registration or correction in a particular centre. “Those who are applying for token for correction of address, date of birth or new Aadhar card should carry the original document with the signature of the authenticated official concerned and there should be no correction in the document. If the computer operator accepts the documents with corrections and upload it, it will not be accepted by the UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India). Moreover, the erring computer operator cannot access the system any more and they will not be allowed to work in the centre any more. Applicants should carry duly filled-in original documents given by competent authority when they go to the centres with the online token for applying for Aadhar card,” he said. The token-holders should reach the centre at least 15 minutes in advance before the time fixed for them. When they fail to turn up on time, they would be called only after the last token-holder completes the work in the centre on that day. If any technical glitch hit the centre and any token-holder could not register his or her application, they would be asked to come on Saturday straightaway to the centre to get things done on priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-token-system-to-get-aadhar-cards/article35389980.ece
18 July 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal Collector inspects Mahalir Thittam schemes||District Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected the implementation of Mahalir Thittam schemes at Pallipalayam here on Friday. Ms. Singh visited a sanitary pad manufacturing centre at Kokarayanpettai and reviewed functioning of the unit. The unit operated by a women Self-Help Group with 12 members has received funds of Rs. 4.5 lakh. The unit has been manufacturing 3,600 sanitary napkins a day and the products are UV sterilised at the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-collector-inspects-mahalir-thittam-schemes/article35389789.ece
18 July 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Youth dies in road accident||A youth died in a road accident near Rasipuram here on Saturday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Silambarasan (21). He was travelling on a two-wheeler to Thirupattur for work from Tanjavur when the vehicle collided with a truck loaded with coconut fibre ropes. The truck was moving towards Salem from Tanjavur. The two-wheeler hit the fuel tank of the vehicle and in the impact, the truck burst into flames. The youth was charred to death. The Rasipuram police and fire and rescue services personnel rushed to the spot and doused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-dies-in-road-accident/article35389792.ece
18 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nigerian national held for online job fraud||The cyber wing of the territorial police on Saturday arrested a 31-year-old Nigerian national for cheating a woman, a resident of Reddiayarpalayam, by promising a job on an online platform. The police identified the accused as Taiwo Adewale, who is residing temporarily in Bengaluru. According to Subham Gosh, Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crime, the woman gave a complaint last year regarding an online job fraud. According to her, after she posted a job application online, a person contacted her and offered her a job. He also insisted that she make certain payments in some bank accounts. Loses Rs. 5.25 lakh The woman paid Rs. 5.25 lakh into the accounts mentioned by him and was cheated. Mr. Gosh said the Nigerian national was behind the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nigerian-national-held-for-online-job-fraud/article35390098.ece
18 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 in children in U.T. not unusual’||Health Secretary of Puducherry T. Arun on Saturday said the reporting of paediatric COVID-19 cases was “not unusual”. “It is true we have reported a good number of cases this month. But even in May and June when the cases were on the rise, we used to get around 10 to 15 cases in children. We are doing a micro-analysis of the present cases to see whether there is any deviation from the trend,” Mr. Arun told The Hindu . People need not panic over reports of the virus affecting children in the Union Territory. However, parents need to get vaccinated and follow appropriate behaviour protocols so that the spread of the virus can be contained among the general public, he said. “Once more restrictions are lifted, people need to be more cautious by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms. Vaccination is going ahead as planned. We have covered more than 50% of the population,” he said. As many as 6,31,559 people have been vaccinated in Puducherry so far, he said, adding that 5,535 people were vaccinated on a single day on Friday. Meanwhile, the data released by the Health Department said the region recorded one COVID-19 death and 94 new cases during the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m. The lone death was reported from Mahe, where a 69-year-old person succumbed to the virus. The active cases now stand at 1,170. Of the total 1,19,603 cases, 1,16,657 have been discharged. Total number of deaths is 1,776 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-in-children-in-ut-not-unusual-health-secretary/article35390100.ece
18 July 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Helpline number||In compliance with a Supreme Court order that directed the District Legal Services Authority and the District Child Protection Unit to identify children who were orphaned or lost a parent due to COVID-19 or otherwise, in order to provide them care, the Ramanathapuram District Legal Services Authority has launched a helpline number. People could contact the number 04567-230444 for assistance.     The Sivaganga District Legal Services Authority conducted a COVID-19 vaccination camp at the combined court complex. A total of 89 people, including district court judges, advocates, court staff and their family members were vaccinated at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-number/article35389761.ece
18 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Beginning of Aadi observed with religious fervour||The beginning of Tamil month Aadi was observed with religious fervour here. Special pujas and traditional coconut roasting ( Thengai suduthal ) activities marked the beginning of Aadi on Saturday. Officials from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department said special pujas were conducted at temples.  COVID-19 restrictions However, as part of the COVID-19 protocols, the public were allowed only to offer prayers at the temple and they were not permitted during the pujas. Since Saturday evening, significant crowd was noticed at markets as the public gathered to purchase vegetables and puja items for the festival. Street vendors also set up shops to sell long sticks and coconuts for coconut roasting, a common practice in the region to mark the beginning of Aadi month. The public will fill coconuts with rice flakes and jaggery among other items and the coconut is roasted in fire which is later taken as prasadam. The district administration banned visitors to Mettur dam premises and the park on Saturday and Sunday as a huge crowd is expected to visit the banks of River Cauvery on these days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-pujas-traditional-practices-mark-beginning-of-aadi/article35389758.ece
18 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects vaccination drive||Corporation Commissioner T. Chirsturaj inspected the progress of vaccination drive here on Saturday. He visited the camp set up at a private school along with senior officials and also took his second dose of vaccine. Mr. Christuraj inspected the arrangements at the centre for the public. He also visited camps set up at two other schools. The vaccination drive was arranged at 33 centres in the Corporation limits on Saturday and 9,450 doses of vaccines were allotted to the centres. According to a release, 31,790 doses of vaccines were allotted to 138 centres in the district. Sixty vaccination centres were set up in Salem rural limits and 14,730 vaccine doses were allotted. In Attur health district, 45 centres were set up and 7,460 doses were allotted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-inspects-vaccination-drive/article35389790.ece
18 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DIET launches ‘Flying Books’ programme||The District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) has launched a scheme, ‘Flying Books’, as part of Education Development Day here on Thursday. To commemorate former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj’s birthday, M. Selvam, Principal, DIET, launched the new scheme to enhance the skills of teachers, at the DIET centre here. As part of the programme, books by global educational thinkers and Indian educationists on various topics were procured by faculty at DIET using their personal fund and distributed among faculty members and the DIET staff. About 36 members were part of the programme and the books were distributed among them. On reading, they would exchange the books among themselves and the concepts imbibed by faculty would be passed on to teachers during their training, officials said. DIET librarian K. Satchidanandam would review the impact of the project and based on its success, it would be implemented at schools in all blocks here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diet-launches-flying-books-programme/article35389779.ece
18 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Law College contributes to CMPRF||The Central Law College here contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund on Friday. Vice-chairman of the College D. Saravanan handed over the cheque of Rs. 10 lakh to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in presence of Law Minister S. Reghupathy, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-college-contributes-to-cmprf/article35389791.ece
18 July 2021||Staff Reporter,TAMIL NADU||Uyyakondan Canal Road gets a makeover||The north bank of Uyyakondan canal sports a new look now thanks to the Riverfront Redevelopment Project. A concrete pathway has been laid on the north bank road which was in a sorry state prior to the redevelopment project. It was ridden with potholes, uneven asphalting and had no street lights. “We would avoid taking this road past sundown. If we had to go to that part of the city, we will leave in the morning, finish work and return before noon,” said a resident. The area has witnessed development recently - there are a few residential complexes and a school. Residents of several villages outside of the corporation limits also use the road as a short route to reach Bharathisadan Salai and Collector’s Office Road. However, there were very few street lights on this road. Similarly, during Masi month, a propitiatory offering is given at the Kuzhumayi Amman Temple as part of an annual festival and thousands gather to witness it and offer their prayers to the Goddess. With the road being narrow and uneven, it would become choked with traffic. Now, with the road relaid, the residents and devotees can travel safely and with ease. Under the riverfront redevelopment, undertaken at a cost of Rs. 17.56 crore, three public parks have been planned on a two-km stretch. The parks located on the left bank of the irrigation channel would have a walkway, fountains and an open-air amphitheatre with a capacity to accommodate about 200 people. The work on the parks and amphitheatre is also nearing completion. “We should be ready to inaugurate it in a few weeks,” a corporation official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uyyakondan-canal-road-gets-a-makeover/article35389746.ece
18 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre biased in Mekedatu dam issue’||Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to Communist Party of India (Marxist) and like-minded farmers’ associations staged a demonstration here on Saturday condemning the move by Karnataka to construct a dam across river Cauvery at Mekedatu. Participating in the demonstration, the State secretary of All India Agriculture Labourers’ Association and Gandarvarkottai MLA, M. Chinnadurai, charged the Union government of acting in a biased manner with respect to the Mekedatu dam project. If Karnataka went ahead and constructed the dam, the Cauvery delta would become a desert. Stating that Cauvery-Vaigai-Kundar river inter-linking project would definitely bring prosperity to several districts and help protect the agriculture sector, Mr. Chinnadurai regretted that the project was yet to pick up momentum even after foundation stones were laid twice by former Chief Ministers M. Karunanidhi and Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Further, those who ruled the State in the past had declared that they would link the eight rivers in the State. Under these circumstances, the perseverance of the Karnataka government to pursue Mekedatu dam project had caused anguish to the people of Tamil Nadu, he added. State general secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam P. Shanmugam urged the Union government to cancel the permission given to the Karnataka government to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) on construction of the dam at Mekedatu. ‘Fill CWMA chief post’ As per the Supreme Court order, the power to take decisions on issues relating to inter-State river water disputes rested with the Cauvery Water Management Authority only, he said and demanded that the vacant CWMA chairman post be filled at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-biased-in-mekedatu-dam-issue/article35389749.ece
18 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Adopt babies from approved homes’||Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan has said the couples willing to adopt the babies should do so only from the homes approved by the government after following due norms. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the children’s home, adoption centre, home for the aged and the home for the mentally-ill at Adaikkalapuram, all being run by Thoothukudi RC Diocese, she said the priests and the nuns were maintaining 310 orphan children in the home though they were getting assistance from the government for only 100 children. Since the home was being maintained in excellent fashion, steps had been taken to give Tamil Nadu Government’s assistance to all the children in this home, the Minister said. “The government’s assistance being given to the children is utilised for providing them food, shelter, dress, education and meeting other expenses,” she said. She inspected the adoption centre at Adaikkalapuram, where 11 babies are being kept for adoption as per the norms of the Union and the State Governments. “We’ve got 16 recognised adoption centres across Tamil Nadu from where alone the aspiring couple can adopt babies after following due norms,” she said. She warned that only the registered organisations could run the homes for the children, the aged and the mentally-ill persons. In the meeting held here later to review the performance of the social welfare department in six southern districts, the action taken on the petitions submitted to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin when he visited the districts for electioneering before the Assembly polls and the distribution of welfare measures to the beneficiaries were reviewed by the minister and Secretary, Department of Social Welfare Shambhu Kallolikar. While exhorting the officials to create awareness among the public on availing the social welfare department’s assistances, she urged the officials to take all out efforts to put an end to the child marriages. “The District Child Protection Unit should take steps for protecting the children who have lost their parents in accidents and also to COVID-19,” she noted. Director of Social Welfare D. Rathna, Director of Integrated Child Development Scheme V. Amuthavalli, District Collector K. Senthil Raj and senior officials of the Department of Social Welfare participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adopt-babies-from-approved-homes/article35389763.ece
18 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Hashish seized||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence have arrested a person who was allegedly in possession of 5 kg of hashish, worth about Rs. 5 crore in the international market. Officials, led by Assistant Director Karthikeyan, conducted surprise check in Shanmugapuram on Friday night. When they intercepted a bike at Vannar Street, they seized 5 kg of hashish from the bike rider, who was identified as Michael Raj, 55, of Punnaikaayal. He told the officials that he had smuggled the drug from Thrissur in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hashish-seized/article35389982.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NRCB bags Sardar Patel award for outstanding ICAR institution||The National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) in Tiruchi has been awarded the Sardar Patel Outstanding ICAR Institution Award 2020 under the category of small institutes. The selection was based on its performance over the past five years, its Director S. Uma said. The award, given in recognition of outstanding performance by institutes of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), was presented by Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, on a virtual platform on Friday. Dr. Uma said the ISO 9001:2015 certified institute had brought about a sea change in banana cultivation by introducing various technologies in cultivation and post-harvest management. The institute had been maintaining Asia’s largest field gene bank with 374 indigenous and 124 exotic varieties along with invitro and cryo gene banks. Over the past five years, it had released six climate resilient banana varieties – Udhayam, Kaveri Saba, Kaveri Kalki, Kaveri Sugantham, Kaveri Haritha and Kaveri Kanya. It had also developed a ‘nendran’ variety which can be eaten raw; it was undergoing field trials. NRCB had also identified banana varieties fit for diabetics. Bio-fortified banana Dr. Uma said that the bio-safety trials of bio-fortified banana Grand Naine variety developed by NRCB were expected to be completed in three to four years. The varieties enriched with carotenoid and iron through genetic transformation have been developed under an ambitious project aimed at overcoming vitamin A and iron deficiencies. The advanced tissue culture technology using bioreactors, developed by the institute, shall bring down the cost of tissue culture plants to just Rs. 3 to Rs. 4. The technology is much sought after by even some foreign countries, Dr. Uma said. The centre had also developed sustainable management practices for Fusariam Wilt -Tropical Race 4 disease, the incidence of which was confirmed in Bihar and a few other States. The institute had evolved technology packages for sea shipment protocol of traditional varieties such as ‘nendran’ banana. This had enormous potential for increasing export of ethnic bananas to West Asia and Europe. Export potential Exports of traditional banana varieties would increase substantially in the next few years as more farmers-producers organisations and the required network was created. The NRCB, along with Tamil Nadu Banana Growers Federation, had recommended supply of bananas (either as fresh fruit or dry banana) in the noon meal scheme. This would not only be nutritional supplement for the children but also help prevent distress sale by farmers due to price fluctuations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nrcb-bags-sardar-patel-award-for-outstanding-icar-institution/article35389748.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Now, a ‘smart dustbin’||A group of students from Government Girls Higher Secondary School have devised a smart dustbin that displays the recycling value of biodegradable waste. The dustbins will help the people segregate the waste. The innovation was made by Vaazhvatharam, an association of students across Tamil Nadu who are part of the Atal Tinkering Lab. Atal Tinkering Lab was launched by Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), NITI Aayog, a union government initiative to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in students. Through the Lab, students would get access to modern tools and technologies such as the Internet of Things, robotics, and do-it-yourself kits which are installed in their schools for their utilisation. Aashik Rahman, founder of a tech-solutions company based in Tiruchi offered his support in training 483 students from 180 such schools that are part of the Lab. “We provide the students guidance to explore ideas and provide real solutions to problems faced by the society,” Mr. Rahman said. As part of this project, students of five schools - two from Tiruchi, Thiagesar Alai Higher Secondary School, Manapparai, and Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Manachannallur - developed a smart dustbin. The key feature of the dustbin is that when waste is dropped into it, its weight and value on being sold to a recycling unit would be determined. Work on the project began in 2019, said Mr. Rahman. “It is a time-consuming process. The children must research, understand the design, make a prototype, test it out in real-time and then apply for patents. We conducted the trial run and kept the dustbins at Tiruchi railway junction, bus stands and found them to be useful,” he said. The students plan to approach the Tiruchi Corporation to help install these bins in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-a-smart-dustbin/article35389737.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Goat shandy back in business||The goat shandy at Samayapuram attracted a large number of traders on Saturday ahead of Bakrid, a holy festival of Muslims, falls on Wednesday. The shandy met after the State government relaxed its curbs on weekly shandies. Besides traders from Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur, who converge at the weekly goat shandy on Othakadai ground in Samayapuram to buy goat and sheep for meat sale, traders from far-flung areas also thronged in large numbers to buy goats and sheep to distribute the meat to the poor. According to sources, more than 5,000 goats were brought to the shandy for sale from different parts of Thuraiyur, Mannachanallur, Lalgudi, Pullambadi, Ulundurpettai. Perambalur and Ariyalur. They were quoted from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 15,000 depending upon the weight and their age. Though the sale was not up to the mark when compared to the sale during the same period in previous years, it was estimated that the shandy transacted business worth several lakhs of rupees on Saturday. The poor buying sentiment due to the sluggish demand owing to the direct and indirect impact of the lockdown was said to be the main reason behind the low turnout in the volume of business. It was alleged that most of the traders and the farmers, who brought sheep and goats to the shandy, failed to follow COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goat-shandy-back-in-business/article35389744.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||With prices down, sales of Aavin milk goes up||The sale of Aavin milk being marketed in sachets has gone up by about 10% since the reduction in price announced by the State government. The Tiruchi District Milk Producers Cooperative Union caters to the three districts of Tiruchi, Perambalur and Ariyalur and procures milk from 650 societies affiliated to the union. While a portion of milk is earmarked to meet the requirements of consumers in these three districts, it also supplies milk to Chennai and to powder conversion units in Erode and Salem. As per the price revision announced shortly after Chief Minister M. K. Stalin assumed office, the price of one litre of toned milk was reduced from Rs. 43 to Rs. 40 and that of a litre of standardised milk from Rs. 23.50 to Rs. 22. The price of half a litre of double toned milk was also brought down to Rs. 18.50 from Rs. 20. Before the announcement of price reduction, the Tiruchi Aavin sold about 1 lakh to 1.10 lakh litres of milk in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur daily. The figure has gone up to 1.20 lakh to 1.25 lakh litres now. The number of consumers who buy at the Aavin parlours and its outlets have also gone up marginally. Similarly, though many grocery shops sell the milk produced by the private dairies due to the high profit margin, many consumers preferred Aavin milk, union officials said. “The average sale of milk has gone up by about 10,000 litres after the reduction in prices. We have increased the allotment for direct sales in our outlets marginally,” says N. Rasikala, General Manager, Aavin, Tiruchi. She said that the sale of Aavin milk in Tiruchi alone had been hovering around 1.18 lakh litres, making it a clear market leader here. Aavin milk enjoyed the trust of the consumer, she added. S. Pandian, Manager, Marketing, Aavin, Tiruchi, said that there had been sharp jump in average milk procurement too. Procurement had gone up to 5.30 lakh litres a day – a record for the union. The conducive climatic condition, availability of sufficient dry and green fodder and drinking water had been the main reasons for the sharp increase in procurement. Of the total procurement of 5.30 lakh litres, 1.25 lakh litres is earmarked for sale in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. About 2 to 2.5 lakh litres is being sent to Chennai daily. About 75,000 litres is being used for producing ghee and milk-based by-products. The remaining milk is sent for milk powder conversion to Salem and Erode, Ms. Rasikala said.  Sale in Tiruchi alone hovers around 1.18 lakh litres, making it a market leader N. Rasikala GM, Aavin-Tiruchi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-prices-down-sales-of-aavin-milk-goes-up/article35389742.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps across Tiruchi today||Covishield doses would be administered at the following vaccination camps in the city on Sunday: Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Srirangam; Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam; and Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College in Srirangam zone; Maduram Higher Secondary School, East Boulevard Road; Yadukula Sangam Middle School, Eda Street; and Corporation Elementary School, Bhagavathipuram, Tiruverumbur in Ariyamangalam zone; Orchard Matriculation Higher Secondary School, K. K. Nagar; Corporation High School, Mela Kalkandarkottai and Kalaiarangam Mahal in Golden Rock Zone; Corporation Elementary School, Thennur (opposite to EB Office); Little Flower School, Crawford; and Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Puthur, K.Abishekapuram zone. The camps will start at 9.30 a.m. and tokens will be issued by medical officers from 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-across-tiruchi-today/article35389753.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Navy, Coast Guard get remote control machine gun||The first batch of the indigenously produced 12.7 mm stabilised remote control gun (SRCG) system was handed over to the Navy and the Coast Guard by the Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, on Saturday. The Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi (OFT), is the nodal unit for indigenous production of the SRCG system. The systems are manufactured and supplied to the Navy and the Coast Guard through transfer of technology from Elbit Systems, Israel, in various phases. OFT has created state-of-art assembly and testing facilities for manufacture of the SRCG. The SRCG system is fitted with a 12.7 mm M2 NATO standard heavy machine gun, designed for marine applications, mounted on-board ships and small craft and can remotely engage small boats, skiffs and other small craft with accuracy both during the day and at night. Equipped with in-built day CCD camera, the thermal imager and laser range finder systems can observe and track the target during day and night operations, according to an OFT release. The Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) team nominated by the Integrated Headquarters of Ministry of Defence (IHQ, MoD, Navy) conducted acceptance trials of the first batch of the SRCG. The induction of the gun into the Navy and the Coast Guard will enhance maritime security of the country. The handing over ceremony of the first batch of the SRCG was held at the OFT on Saturday. C.S. Vishwakarma, Director-General of Ordnance Factories and Chairman of the Ordnance Factory Board, handed over the first batch to K.S.C. Iyer, Director-General of Naval Armament, IHQ, MoD (Navy). Sanjay Dwivedi, General Manager, OFT, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/navy-coast-guard-get-remote-control-machine-gun/article35389670.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Margadarshan scheme fosters NBA accreditation||Workshops, faculty development and guest lecture programmes being conducted by the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) for the last two years under the aegis of Margdarshan scheme of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has prompted several engineering colleges to apply for NBA accreditation. As a well-performing institute (NIT-T was placed in 27th position in India in the 2020 QS World University Rankings, and has been ranked first among NITs for five years in a row), the institution has been acting as a mentor to 14 engineering colleges to disseminate best practices. Last month, the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering conducted a week-long national workshop on ‘Perspectives of teaching and learning of engineering sciences for outcome-based education.’ Later this month, the Department of Chemical Engineering has scheduled a week-long workshop on ‘Quality assurance in technical and higher educational institutions and interpretation of requirements of NBA accreditation.’ So far, the institution has conducted close to 20 such programmes to drive home the importance of NBA accreditation for the mentee institutions, said N. Sivakumaran, coordinator of the mentorship programme under Margadarshan Scheme for which the Union Education Ministry had provided Rs. 30 lakh funding. The programmes being conducted online have a good reach. A guest lecture on ‘Outcome-based accreditation’ by T. R. Radhakrishnan, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, on Friday, was patronised well by engineering colleges across the State and even beyond, Prof. Sivakumaran said. The NIT-T, under the Margadarshan Scheme, prevails upon the mentee institutions to secure NBA accreditation by offering its expertise free of cost, for recognition of their programmes as per the Washington Accord Agreement. Only those programmes accredited by NBA in institutions categorised as tier-I are recognised under the agreement. Mentoring exercise under Margadarshan Scheme that encompasses internship in NIT-T for faculty and students has also motivated some to pursue doctorate degree in the institution, Prof. Sivakumaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/margadarshan-scheme-fosters-nba-accreditation/article35389738.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Less than 400 fresh cases in central region||Central districts reported 398 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. This is the lowest number of fresh cases reported since the spike in cases since May. The number of deaths reported too was lower than the previous days. Nine patients succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday. Four patients succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruchi district, while Thanjavur reported three. One patient each succumbed to the illness in Karur and Mayiladuthurai districts. For the first time since the second wave of COVID-19 peaked, five districts reported no deaths - Ariyalur, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 152 patients reporting positive. However, the district has continued to report a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last few weeks. In Tiruchi district, 79 patients tested positive for the infection. The other seven districts in the central region reported less than 35 fresh COVID-19 cases each. Tiruvarur reported 33 fresh cases, Pudukottai, 32 and Nagapattinam, 31. In Mayiladuthurai, 22 patients tested positive, 21 in Ariyalur, and 16 in Karur. Perambalur district reported the lowest COVID-19 cases in the region with 12 fresh cases on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-400-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article35389750.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for murdering mother-in-law||The Moolaikkaraipatti police have arrested a youth for allegedly murdering his mother-in-law with the help of his associates and stealing her valuables worth about Rs. 5 lakh. P. Vadivu, 65, of Jeganathapuram near Nanguneri was found dead in her house on July 13. Since she was suffering from a few ailments, his son P. Thirumalai Nambi, 36, who is living separately in the same village, informed his relatives about it. The body was cremated. When Mr. Thirumalai Nambi checked the gold ornaments his mother was wearing, he found that 13 sovereigns of jewels were missing. After Vadivu’s neighbours told him that his brother-in-law Kallaththian, 37, who is living in Naduvaikurichi near Palayamkottai with his wife and Thirumalai Nambi’s sister Parameswari, and a few unidentified persons had visited the house of Vadivu on July 12, he grilled Kallaththian about his visit to his parents’ house. As Kallaththian gave contradicting reply, Thirumalai Nambi filed a complaint with the Moolaikkaraipatti police station about the mysterious death of his mother and the missing of her valuables. When the police picked up Kallaththian for inquiry, he reportedly confessed to the investigators that he, with the help of a few associates, had murdered Vadivu by strangulating her to death and stole the valuables. Subsequently, the police on Saturday arrested Esakki Raja, 26, of Naduvaikurichi, C. Murthy, 29, and J. Antony, 32, of Keezhanaththam, all associates of Kallaththian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-murdering-mother-in-law/article35389766.ece
18 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Saturday stood at 113.15 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,133.68 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 74.40 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 87 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.    Directorate of Revenue Intelligence have arrested a person who was allegedly in possession of 5 kg of hashish, worth about Rs. 5 crore in the international market. Officials, led by Assistant Director Karthikeyan, conducted surprise check in Shanmugapuram on Friday night. When they intercepted a bike at Vannar Street, they seized 5 kg of hashish from the bike rider, who was identified as Michael Raj, 55, of Punnaikaayal. He told the officials that he had smuggled the drug from Thrissur in Kerala and was on his way to hand over the narcotic substance to his associates. Efforts are on to nab the associates of Michael Raj, who was remanded in judicial custody.    In compliance with a Supreme Court order that directed the District Legal Services Authority and the District Child Protection Unit to identify children who were orphaned or lost a parent due to COVID-19 or otherwise, in order to provide them care, the Ramanathapuram District Legal Services Authority has launched a helpline number. People could contact the number 04567-230444 for assistance.    The Sivaganga District Legal Services Authority conducted a COVID-19 vaccination camp at the combined court complex. A total of 89 people, including district court judges, advocates, court staff and their family members were vaccinated at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35390150.ece
18 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Bangladeshi national arrested for illegal stay||The Thirumuganpoondi police in Tiruppur have arrested a Bangladeshi national for illegally staying in the country. The police said that Mohamed Sohail Rana (28), who had been working as a tailor in a textile unit in Tiruppur for the last two years, was arrested late on Friday. According to the police, Rana had claimed that he hailed from North 24 Parganas district in West Bengal. The police got specific information that the address and other credentials could be wrong. During investigation, it was found that he hailed from Bangladesh. The police arrested Rana who was remanded in judicial custody late on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bangladeshi-national-arrested-for-illegal-stay/article35389692.ece
18 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rivaldo to be released into the wild||After over two months in captivity, elephant Rivaldo will be released back into the wild. He had become habituated to humans in the Vazhaithottam area in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve’s buffer zone, and was captured and put inside a ‘kraal’ (elephant shelter), ostensibly, for treating injuries that the Forest Department said had led to the animal being unable to feed inside the forests. Following the animal’s capture, BJP MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi had written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, calling for the elephant’s release. Other conservationists too had come out in support of releasing the iconic tusker. Committee An expert committee was formed to look into whether the animal could be rehabilitated into the wild. The committee included senior wildlife veterinarians, conservationists and wildlife biologists. On Friday, Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone) L.C.S. Srikanth confirmed that an order had been received from the office of the chief wildlife warden, authorising Rivaldo’s release.  SOP specified Standard Operating Procedures have been specified by the warden to safely effect the animal’s release. “The gist of the SOPs is that we have to shift Rivaldo from the ‘kraal’ using a customised vehicle to a specific location, where he will be kept inside an enclosure. This phase will be a soft release, where the elephant is gradually reintroduced back into the wild,” said Mr. Srikanth. Forest Department officials said a location to set up the enclosure would have to be found.  To be radio-collared A meeting will be held with the chief wildlife warden and the Principal Secretary of Environment and Forests to the government of Tamil Nadu, before the initiative to release the animal is undertaken. Rivaldo will be radio-collared prior to his release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rivaldo-to-be-released-back-into-the-wild/article35389641.ece
18 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Persons organising child marriages warned||The district child protection unit and the district administration have warned of strict action against persons organising child marriages, as well as against businesses and industries employing child labourers. In a release, the Collector reiterated that action would be taken against the parents who organise such weddings. Those taking part in the weddings will also face action, it said. People who wish to inform the district child protection unit of such offences can reach them through phone at 9047458219, 9843347417 and through toll-free helplines, 1098 and 1800-425-0262.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-organising-child-marriages-warned/article35389678.ece
18 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Road traffic to be streamlined in Vellore||The Vellore District Traffic Police are planning to revamp traffic regulation to decongest key routes such as Anna Salai, Fort Round Road, Court Road and Green Circle by next week. The police are holding consultations, including joint coordination meetings with other stakeholders such as Regional Transport Officers (RTOs), Transport Department, Vellore Corporation and residents, on the ways to enforce discipline among motorists in the town, which is getting a steady flow of tourists from neighbouring districts of Chennai and Kancheepuram after the State government relaxed lockdown restrictions. “We are planning to introduce key interventions to reduce total travel time on major routes in the city. Providing authorised parking, especially for two-wheelers and cars on busy routes, is one of them,” Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Vellore, told The Hindu . Among major traffic changes, repeat traffic offenders will be identified based on CCTV footage at traffic signals on key routes in the town. The traffic police have been analysing the CCTV footage in front of shops on major routes to identify such repeat offenders. Once the cameras are linked to the traffic signals on these routes, action will be intensified. Apart from imposing fines, the traffic police plan to hold counselling for traffic offenders. Spots have been identified to allow parking of two-wheelers, autorickshaws and cars on key stretches to prevent traffic snarls. Sarathy Mansion is one of the places earmarked for parking of two-wheelers and light vehicles. As per a recent study, vehicles take at least 15 minutes to cover the 6.5-km stretch between Thorapadi MGR Statue and Green Circle on the Chennai-Benguluru National Highway (NH 48) during the rush hours. The new traffic arrangement is aimed at reducing the travel time on this stretch by five minutes. Another major change proposed was to rationalise bus stops on key routes. Buses will be parked only at bus stops rather than resorting to random pick-up of commuters. The key routes in the town will have only a few stops to prevent traffic congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-traffic-to-be-streamlined-in-vellore/article35390153.ece
18 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||36 cases in Vellore, 88 in Tiruvannamalai||Thirty-six new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Vellore on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 47,618. While 46,082 people have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 451. The district's death toll is 1,085. In Tiruvannamalai district, the tally surged to 51,193 with 88 fresh cases reported on Saturday. Out of this, 49,585 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 980. In Ranipet district, 30 new cases were reported on Saturday and the tally rose to 41,641. In Tirupattur district, 21 new cases were reported on Saturday, taking the tally to 27,933.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36-cases-in-vellore-88-in-tiruvannamalai/article35390155.ece
18 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Government Medical College Hospital gets another RT-PCR machine||Minister for Revenue K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu, on Saturday inaugurated a new RT-PCR machine at Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital. The new machine has been sponsored by UNICEF and ICMR at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy and Medical College Dean J. Sangumani, were present. The Dean said that Virudhunagar district had the capacity to test 3,000 samples in a day. “With the additional RT-PCR machine, the district can test another 1,000 swab samples. Hence, the district need not send samples to other districts or private labs. We can avoid delay in getting swab sample results," Dr Sangumani said. The hospital also formally launched a new service for people who give their swab samples for COVID-19 tests. Whenever people give their samples for testing, a link will be sent in the form of SMS to the mobile number of the particular person. People can know their test result through the link by using their standard reference number, he said. Oxygen production Meanwhile, the Ministers inaugurated an additional oxygen production unit at Ramco Cements factory premises on Saturday. Already the factory has got a generator supplying 48 oxygen cylinders to government hospitals. With the new facility installed at a cost of Rs. 85 lakh, Ramco Cements can supply 195 cylinders to the government hospitals. The Ministers said that the district has augmented oxygen production in the districts by installing new oxygen generators at different places. MLAs A. R. R. Seenivasan, S. Thangapandiyan, G. Ashokan and A. R. Raghuraman were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-govt-hospital-gets-another-rt-pcr-machine/article35389765.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 241 new cases, two deaths||Coimbatore district reported 241 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. A total of 425 persons recovered from the disease on Saturday and active cases in the district stood at 3,100. The district’s death toll increased to 2,128 after two more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 2.7 on Friday, the Health Department said. Tiruppur district had 1,605 active cases of COVID-19, including the 132 fresh cases reported on Saturday. As many as 121 persons recovered from the disease. A 75-year-old patient from the district died on Friday, taking the death toll to 811. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 3 % on Friday. In the Nilgiris, 60 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 29,810. The number of deaths in the district was 172 while 926 persons were undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-241-new-cases-two-deaths/article35389687.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 143 new cases||Erode district reported 143 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. While 224 persons were discharged, 2,351 persons are under treatment. In Salem district, 163 positive cases were reported. According to health officials, 93 cases were indigenous and 22 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 64 indigenous cases were reported. As per the bulletin, Salem and Namakkal reported one death each. Krishnagiri reported 31 fresh cases and two deaths. The active cases stood at 557 cases and a total of 40,953 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri saw 30 new cases. There were 569 active cases. As of date, a total 25,646 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-143-new-cases/article35389784.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIIMS Madurai building to be completed by 2026: MP||The building for AIIMS Madurai is likely to be completed by 2026 and efforts are under way to admit at least 50 students for the medical course from the academic year 2021-22 in a temporary place, said Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore. After attending the 1st meeting of the institute body of AIIMS Madurai, the MP said that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin was keen to start admission of students in AIIMS in the current academic year. “Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, who took part in the virtual meet, said that State Government was weighing the options of admitting students either in Government Medical Colleges in Theni or Sivaganga,” Mr. Tagore said. The meeting was chaired by the president of AIIMS, Dr. V. M. Katoch. “ We were told that 220 acres of land in Madurai has been handed over by the State Goverrnment to the Centre for the AIIMS building,” the MP said. Stating that the Rs. 1,978 crore-project will be funded by JICA, Mr. Tagore said that the Japanese agency will give Rs. 1,679 crore and the rest would be given by the Centre. The design of the building will be finalised in 20 months and the building works will be completed by 2026. The institute will have 180 teaching and 120 non-teaching staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiims-madurai-building-to-be-completed-by-2026-mp/article35389772.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Attracting children||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attracting-children/article35390144.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mucormycosis: most patients need surgery||The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital has handled a high number of patients with mucormycosis. E. Theranirajan, its Dean, said 863 patients had been treated so far for the fungal disease. “While 362 people have recovered and have been discharged, we now have 395 patients undergoing treatment. We have been receiving patients from both government and private hospitals across the State and from other States,” he said. The special mucormycosis clinic has so far screened 944 patients, he said, adding, “The ENT Department has been performing surgeries on at least 18 to 20 patients a day.” R. Muthukumar, director, Institute of Otorhinolaryngology, RGGGH, said so far, they had performed 600 major surgeries and 900 endoscopic suction clearance. The major surgeries included endoscopic sinus surgeries, endoscopic orbital decompressions, endoscopic maxillectomy and total maxillectomy. “The fungus is all around. When immunity is lowered in the post-COVID period, it starts invading the tissues and blood vessels. Blood supply to the tissue is cut, and it leads to infarction and necrosis of the tissue. The fungus thrives on decaying organic matter, and our aim is to remove the necrotic tissue,” he said. Eyes removed R. Malarvizhi, professor of Ophthalmology, Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Government Ophthalmic Hospital, said they had so far screened 581 patients, of whom 353 had eye involvement. “We stage patients, and those in stages 3 and 4 have eye involvement. We administer intraorbital antifungal injection on patients. So far, we have administered these intraorbital amphotericin injections for 262 patients,” she said. So far, 32 eyes had been removed, the process called exenteration done. At the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, 256 patients with mucormycosis had been treated so far. Of them, 216 underwent endoscopic surgical intervention and debridement under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, Gowrishankar, professor and head, Department of ENT, said. “Almost two-thirds of patients require surgery. We do endoscopic exploration for almost every patient and debridement,” he said. He added that most of them came in early stages. Most patients present with nasal stuffiness, nasal crusting, headache, eye pain in the earlier stages. In late stages, they present with headache, vomiting, visual disturbances and orbital swelling, he said. Suresh Kumar, consultant - Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospitals, said they had seen approximately 100 patients. “With the fall in COVID-19 cases, there has been a fall in mucormycosis cases. Right now, we are seeing one or two patients with mucormycosis a week. In the majority of the patients, the sino-orbital region is involved. If we take 10 patients, the sino-orbital area is involved in eight to nine,” he said. “During peak COVID-19, we saw patients developing symptoms on day eight to 10. But usually, there is a time gap of three to four weeks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mucormycosis-most-patients-in-tamil-nadu-need-surgery/article35389642.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More surveillance cameras planned at Tiruchi airport||Installation of more surveillance cameras, creation of police booths and setting up of a police outpost were among the host of issues that were discussed at the Aerodrome Committee meeting held here on Friday. The meeting, presided over by the Commissioner of Police A. Arun, also the committee chairman, was attended by Airport Director S. Dharmaraj. The installation of more cameras would also help in finding out the receivers of the smuggled items, he said. Mr. Arun said that he had also put forth the suggestion to invite the National Security Guard to thwart terrorist activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-surveillance-cameras-planned-at-tiruchi-airport/article35389773.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Voice Trust: Inauguration of eco-farming enterprises by women, K. N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, inaugurates, TASOSS, Marsignpet Road, 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article35389752.ece
18 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Schools get ready for SSLC exam||Schools are making preparations for conducting the SSLC examination on July 19 and 22. Teachers and staff began preparing documents, marking registration numbers, and deputating invigilators for the examination. Special focus was laid on observing COVID-19 guidelines. Social distances boxes were painted outside the examination centres. Since the number of students in each class is reduced, additional class rooms are being used. Staff at Vanita Vidyalaya in Belagavi cleaned the rooms, marked the numbers on desks, and sorted out the documents to be used in the examination among teachers and staff. In Hubballi, teachers and staff of Lamington school made preparations like deputation of staff and marking numbers in classrooms. However, some parents are worried about how their children will fare in the examination. Sudhakar Parande, a trader from Yaragatti, said he was not confident of sending his child to the examination. They have not benefited from classroom teaching for one-and-a-half years now. “I dont know how effective the online teaching was. We live in Yaragatti village and the mobile network here is poor. We are also worried about the safety of our children who have to attend offline examinations. We hope the government has taken all possible safety measures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-get-ready-for-sslc-exam/article35389805.ece
18 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cabinet approves new buildings for KGTTI in Belagavi, Mangaluru||The State government has approved construction of a new building for Karnataka Germany Technical Training Institutes (KGTTI) in Belagavi and Mangaluru. The international agency provides vocational training courses to youth in five places in Karnataka. Around 4,000 youths are trained in various skills at these institutes. The buildings will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 16.43 crore in Belagavi and Rs. 15.23 crore in Mangaluru. The KGTTI is running its training courses in rented buildings in Belagavi and Mangaluru. The Department of Skills Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood has set up five international Karnataka German Multi-purpose Development Centres in various cities to provide technical training in collaboration with the Karnataka - German Multi-purpose Development Center Society, Germany. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has allotted land for a separate building. The State Cabinet has decided to ask the Public Works Department to construct the buildings. Work will start in three months, said Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is the Minister for public works. The short-term and long-term training courses will help young people find jobs or become entrepreneurs, the Minister said in a release.  The buildings will be built at a cost of Rs. 16.43 crore in Belagavi and Rs. 15.23 crore in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-approves-new-buildings-for-kgtti-in-belagavi-mangaluru/article35389807.ece
18 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Minister coming||Kota Srinivas Poojary, Minister for Backward Classes Welfare and Endowment, will inspect the Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna school worksite in Nandagad on Sunday. He will also visit the Sangolli Rayanna memorial in Nandagad. He will hold a meeting with officers at the DC’s office and meet BJP members in the party office in the evening.    ‘World Plastic Surgery Day’ was celebrated at Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara University at Dharwad on Thursday. Vice-Chancellor Niranjan Kumar inaugurated the event. He released a video to create awareness about plastic surgery and congratulated surgeons for their contribution during the pandemic.    Members of Sriram Sena Hindustan and Durga Mata Sanghatan have urged the Karnataka and the Maharashtra governments to allow public celebrations of festivals in the coming months. In a letter to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath in Belagavi, office-bearers of the organisations said that the government could not ban public celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-coming/article35389803.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical, dental colleges prepare for Monday opening||Following the State government’s green signal, medical, dental colleges and allied health institutions are making preparations to welcome students back to campus from Monday. Practicals and clinical postings for students, many of whom, have expressed their dissatisfaction with online classes, will be prioritised. However, heads of institutes that The Hindu spoke to said they will continue with hybrid sessions, where students will be able to attend classes online if they wish to do so. The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), in a circular issued on Saturday, stated that only students, teaching and non-teaching staff, who have taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccination, may be permitted to attend classes physically. The onus of ensuring that SOPs are followed rests on individual institutions. RGUHS also instructed institution heads to submit a compliance report after reopening. Balakrishna P. Shetty, V-C, Sri Siddhartha Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, said that with experts predicting a third wave in a couple of months, online classes will continue to be held. “We will have hybrid sessions, where students who wish to attend classes online may continue to do so, while others can attend physical classes,” he said, and added that there would be no college events or functions. “Wearing masks is mandatory in all areas on college premises; but there will be no change in the seating arrangement in the classrooms,” he said. Some institutions had decided to split classes to ensure that not more than half of the lecture hall or classroom is occupied. Areas most frequented by students, such as canteens and libraries, will be restricted. Students yet to return S. Kumar, executive secretary, Consortium of Deemed Universities in Karnataka, said that hybrid sessions may be conducted, but only for a limited period. “Though institutions are likely to reopen on Monday, not all students will be in a position to report to campus. Many students returned to their hometowns across the country, and may not be able to come back in time for physical classes. Colleges should take a decision on setting a deadline for the end of online classes,” he said, and added that skill-based teaching and training, which is part of the medical curriculum, can only be possible through physical classes. Students’ organisations are, however, critical of the reopening of the academic institutions. Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India, said that institutions should not make attendance to physical classes compulsory. He also said the government must bear the medical expenses of students who contract COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-dental-colleges-prepare-for-monday-opening/article35389582.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stage set for dissidents to speak as BSY calls for BJPLP meet||As soon as he returned from Delhi after meeting central party leaders, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that a BJP Legislature Party meeting would be convened on July 26, the day he completes two years in office. This has now set the stage for dissidents for a show of strength and to air their grievances. Amid intense speculation about a leadership change after two years of the veteran leader’s tenure in the State, the meeting being scheduled on the second anniversary seems to have only raised the stakes further. Announcing the meeting after he landed in Bengaluru following his two-day visit to Delhi, during which there were reports that he had offered to resign, Mr. Yediyurappa sought to paint a picture of being in control. He said the party high command had tasked him with ensuring a BJP victory in both the 2023 Assembly and 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “So, to take everyone along on this endeavour I have convened our legislature party meeting on July 26,” he said. He also said that he would be visiting Delhi again in the first week of August. Earlier resistance However, according to sources, the Chief Minister had been resisting the demand for a legislature party meeting made by dissidents for over two months now, fearing that it could turn into a platform for a show of strength from them. “Given how he announced the legislature party meeting after he met party president J.P. Nadda and Amit Shah, it is evident that the high command has directed him to convene it. We will discuss all our issues threadbare at the meeting, including the demand for leadership change,” said a senior dissident leader of the party, indicating that it would be a stormy affair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stage-set-for-dissidents-to-speak-as-bsy-calls-for-bjplp-meet/article35389604.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jewellery shops run low on stock in Bengaluru||The display shelves at a gold jewellery outlet of a chain on S.M. Road are bare with only a handful of cases for customers. “There is no stock. This is all we have. New stock is expected only after 20 days,” said the sole employee manning the shop. It is not the only one facing this problem. Display cases in many jewellery shops in the city are sitting bare, while owners and store managers attribute it to the recent lockdown. Praveen Kumar, who manages a jewellery shop at Gokula in Yeshwanthpur, told The Hindu that most manufactured jewellery comes to the city from neighbouring Maharashtra. “With the lockdown in that State, we have not been getting stock,” he said. According to T.A. Madhukiran, partner of a gold jewellery shop in Gandhinagar, the past two months have been a struggle for small and medium-sized jewellers. From the supply side, jewellery manufacturers in the city, too, have been hit by labour shortage even though lockdown restrictions in the State had been eased earlier this month. In Benglauru, for instance, many jewellery manufacturers are working with less than 50% of their staff strength. “After the lockdown, many workers had gone back to their hometowns and they are yet to return,” Mr. Madhukiran added. Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year, jewellery shops were closed for more than three months. This year too, the shops have remained closed for many months. “We lost out on a lot of business, as we were closed on big sale occasions such as Ugadi and Akshaya Tritiya, and a large part of the wedding season,” he said. The last two years have been a challenging time for the jewellery industry. S. Venkatesh Babu, immediate past president of Bengaluru Jewellers’ Association, said that the supply chain had been impacted and business reduced greatly. “Some small traders are yet to reopen and few others are in no mood to improve the inventory. Some are waiting for the end of ‘Ashada’ which is considered as an ‘inauspicious’ month,” he said. The lack of clarity in the revised rules for hallmarking jewellery is also affecting the industry. The change in these regulations was also delaying jewellery processing, said T.A. Sharavana, MLC and president of Karnataka Jewellers’ Association. Mr. Babu added that the new rules benefited large corporate jewellers, who commanded the market. “Due to the combined effect of the change in hallmarking regulations, lockdown and months of lack of business, small and medium jewellers are not even able to meet 30% of sales made two years ago,” said Mr. Madhukiran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jewellery-shops-run-low-on-stock-in-bengaluru/article35389598.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam: 14,929 high schools download hall tickets||Preparations for SSLC exams are done and students have collected hall tickets and are excited, said Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar, who inspected exam centres Bengaluru Urban and Doddaballapura on Saturday. The SSLC examinations will be held over two days in July in Karnataka; the examination for core subjects on July 19, and languages on July 22. Mr. Kumar, speaking to the media, said more preparations have been done this time. As many as 14,929 high schools have downloaded hall tickets from the board’s website and most students have already received them, he said. The Minister, who visited exam centres in Malleshwaram Government PU College, MEA High School, Poorna Prajna High School - Sadashivanagar, Dasarahalli Peenya Government High School, inspected the last stage of preparations. As many as 1.19 lakh staff who are vaccinated will be allowed to participate, he said. According to a release, 12 students will be allowed in a room, and only one student will be allowed per desk. “Learning from last year’s exam experience, we have doubled the number of centres and tripled the number of rooms,” he said, adding that two rooms will be reserved for those suffering from cough, fever and other symptoms. Staff and students will go through the health check-up counter first, which will be open from 8.30 a.m. till the exam is over and have a thermal scanner, pulse oximeter and first aid. Masks will be provided to those without one at the counter. An ambulance will be provided for each taluk. COVID-19 Care Centres have been designated for each taluk where those who have tested positive can write the exam, along with those who have family members affected by the virus. Crackdown on schools Following complaints of schools withholding tickets, the Primary and Secondary Education Department has appointed nodal officers to resolve the matter. “Incidents of children being denied hall tickets have been addressed, and nodal officers have been appointed. If there are more instances, we will address them on a priority basis,” said Mr. Kumar’s office. He promised relief to three students - one from Koratagere who could not enrol for the July exams, and two from Bagalkote who did not upload photos while registering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-exam-14929-high-schools-download-hall-tickets/article35389584.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal mining: Govt. silence on tribunal’s order questioned||The High Court of Karnataka has questioned the conduct of the State government for not challenging orders passed by the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal, which had quashed departmental inquiries entrusted to the Lokayukta against hundreds of officials allegedly involved in corruption, causing a loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer by allowing illegal mining. “...though the State government had entrusted the matter to the Lokayukta to conduct an inquiry, the government is disinterested in challenging the order of the tribunal... The reason for not challenging the order passed by the tribunal appears to be pressure from the officers involved in the case,” the court said. “The present case reflects a very sorry state of affairs. A matter which was referred by the State government for investigation under Section 7(2-A) of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act of 1984 in the year 2007 has not yet attained finality on account of litigation,” it observed. A Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy delivered the verdict while allowing the petitions filed by the Lokayukta challenging the tribunal’s orders passed in 2017-18. The Lokayukta had moved the High Courtagainst the tribunal’s orders as the government did not do so. The Bench noted that the 2011 report of the then Lokayuktha on illegal mining activities contained a separate chapter on the “collapse of administrative and governance system”, pointing to mafia-type operations in illegal mining and transportation of mined ore in connivance with officials of various departments. The Lokayukta report had named 617 officials. After analysing the report through a committee of senior IAS officers, the government in 2013 entrusted to the Lokayukta and the Upa Lokayukta the conduct of departmental inquiries against those officials under the provisions of the Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the Bench said. Following this, the Lokayukta nominated two Additional Registrars as Inquiry Officers and they commenced the proceedings by issuing charge-sheet, as per the KCS Rules, to the delinquent officers. However, Prakash T.V., an Assistant Commissioner, and other officers moved the tribunal challenging the Government Order of 2013 entrusting disciplinary inquiry to the Lokayukta and the charge-sheet issued by the inquiry officers in 2015. The tribunal quashed the inquiryproceedings against them while holding that the Lokayukta had not provided an opportunity of hearing to the officials before submitting the preliminary inquiry of 2011. ‘Erred in law and facts’ However, the Bench held that the tribunal had “erred both in law and in fact” as the Lokayukta’s 2011 report was a fact-finding one and the question of granting an opportunity of hearing by issuing notice to the officials did not arise before submitting such report. The right of opportunity of hearing is available to the delinquent officials only during departmental enquiry proceedings, the Bench said. Pointing out that no action was taken against the 617 officials for the past 10 years, the Bench requested the Lokayukta to complete the departmental inquiry within a year without granting adjournment. In case a need arises for adjournment, the inquiry officers must record reason for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-mining-govt-silence-on-tribunals-order-questioned/article35389605.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC finds new way to tackle delay in compassionate appointments||Noticing years of delay in considering applications seeking appointment on compassionate grounds despite the short deadline set in law, the High Court of Karnataka has devised a new way to tackle this by making the authorities, responsible for ‘unreasonable’ delay, pay damages by way of wages that the applicant could get if appointed. “Keeping the application pending for years or months will defeat the object of framing the Rule for grant of appointment on compassionate grounds. It is trite that a family that loses its breadwinner would be driven to impecuniosity or become condemned by penury. Therefore, the need for immediate consideration of such representations/applications for appointment on compassionate grounds is paramount,” it observed. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while directing the government to consider within 8 weeks the 5-year-old application of Hruthik N., who sought compassionate appointment following the death of his father, a headmaster in a government-aided school in Mysuru. The HC pointed out that the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules, 1996, stated that the application for appointment on compassionate grounds should be made within a year from the date of death of the government servant. The Rule, it said, also specifies that such applications shall be considered as far as possible within three months. It declared the authority empowered to consider applications for compassionate appointment should henceforth consider and dispose of applications within three months from the date of receipt. “Any unreasoned or unjustifiable delay on the part of the authority competent to consider would make such authority personally responsible to pay damages to such applicant by way of wages that the applicant would be entitled to, if an appointment had been considered and granted,” it said. In the petitioner’s case, it said he would be entitled to get monthly salary in the lowest post of Group-C till his application is considered as per the law if the government failed to adhere to the deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-finds-new-way-to-tackle-delay-in-compassionate-appointments/article35389585.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah for Delhi tomorrow||Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah is set to go to New Delhi on Monday to meet the party’s central leaders, including former president and MP Rahul Gandhi. The former Chief Minister’s Delhi visit assumed significance in the wake of fissures within the State Congress over the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the next Assembly elections, with one faction favouring Mr. Siddaramaiah and the other backing Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar. Sources said Mr. Siddaramaiah would leave on Monday and meet Mr. Gandhi and other central leaders of the party on Tuesday. He is expected to inform the party high command that he has not projected his name for the Chief Minister’s post and some MLAs have merely expressed their personal views on the matter.  Mr. Shivakumar too is expected to visit Delhi in the next few days to meet the party’s central leaders, sources said. The issue of the party’s next chief ministerial candidate was always unlikely to die down, and on Saturday party workers welcomed Mr. Shivakumar in Kalaburagi by shouting slogans labelling him the party’s “next Chief Minister”. Mr. Shivakumar had met Mr. Gandhi and Randeep Singh Surjewala, All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Karnataka, last month in Delhi and apparently informed the central leaders about factions within the party. Mr. Surjewala then issued a statement warning leaders to avoid making comments projecting the party’s next CM nominee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-for-delhi-tomorrow/article35389609.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Group ‘A’, ‘B’ Gazetted Probationer posts: HC imposes a rider||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a rider on the appointment of candidates selected to the posts of Group ‘A’ and ‘B’ Gazetted Probationers in the 2015 batch of recruitment made through the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC). It said the appointments would be subject to final order to be passed by the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal based on the petitions filed by the unsuccessful candidates, who have questioned the legality of selection process. Also, it directed the KPSC not to destroy any records or data, both in electronic or physical form, relating to selection process and to submit all the data before the Tribunal. A Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Nataraj Sharma passed the order on a petition filed by Sudhanva Bhandolkar B.K. and 51 others. The petitioners had approached the High Court questioning the February 3, 2020, order passed by the Tribunal, which had asked them to file fresh petition after collecting sufficient material to question the KPSC’s selection process as the petitioners had alleged tampering of digital records. It was contended on behalf of the petitioners that the tribunal could have decided the matter as most of the materials was available before the tribunal and by summoning the remaining records from the the KPSC. While remanding the matter back to the tribunal, the Bench said that the tribunal will have to decide the petitions within 90 days. The Bench also directed both the KPSC and the Tata Consultancy Services, which had done the evaluation, to produce the records to enable the tribunal to decide the matter on merits. It is needless to mention that in case the document is not produced or suppressed, the tribunal shall be free to draw an adverse inference in the matter, the Bench said while making it clear that the tribunal would be free to proceed ahead based on the documents to be produced by the parties and the grounds raised on behalf of the parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/group-a-b-gazetted-probationer-posts-hc-imposes-a-rider/article35389594.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Finance firm owner who cheated 100 MBA graduates on the run||The Amruthahalli police are trying to track down the owner of a finance firm who allegedly cheated as many as one hundred MBA graduates who were looking for employment opportunities. So far, 60 graduates have lodged complaints with the police. One of the complainants, Hemanth C., 23, said that the accused, Jayaverma Rahul, offered him a job as an accountant in April. “Rahul ran a firm, Nateja, with offices on the 10th floor of RMZ Latitude on Bellary Road. Hemanth C. met him there, and after formal talks, the accused offered to enrol him in a crash course in accountancy at a centre in Yeshwanthpur for a fee of Rs. 12,000. Rahul assured him that after he successfully completed the course, he would reimburse the fee along with the first month’s salary,” said the police. Hemanth agreed and enrolled in the refresher course. Office vacated After completing it online, he realised that none of the students had been offered jobs. Worried, he returned to Rahul’s office only to find that he had vacated it. The Amruthahalli police said that they have received around 60 complaints so far and suspect that around 100 people have been duped. “We have launched a probe and are tracking down Rahul who is absconding,” said a police officer.  We have launched a probe and are tracking down Rahul who is absconding,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finance-firm-owner-on-the-run/article35389593.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NGOs, volunteers step in with gadgets, help students attend online classes||Shreya B., 12, was struggling to access online classes held by the private school she was enrolled in even though her mother had a mobile phone, since she did not have access to it at all times. Her mother, a single parent who worked in the garment sector, had lost her job during the second wave of COVID-19, and needed her phone when she stepped out of the house to look for other sources of employment. With no other access to the net, Shreya was finding it difficult to attend online classes, until the SMSC Charitable Trust stepped in and gave her a phone. With the help of the Trust, she was able to appear for her examinations online. “Now, not only am I able to attend online classes with ease, I am also able to use the phone whenever I want to watch pre-recorded videos of my lessons,” she said happily. While many students, particularly from low socio-economic backgrounds, are victims of the digital divide, organisations and individuals are coming forward to help bridge the gap. Manisha J., founder and president, SMSC Charitable Trust, decided to collect old phones, tablets and laptops in March this year after she learnt that the daughter of one of the volunteers at her trust was finding it difficult to attend classes. “The volunteer would come late for meetings as she wanted her daughter to attend classes which she could only do through her phone. So I decided to give her my old phone and asked her to leave the smartphone at home for her daughter,” she said. Realising that the volunteer’s struggle was the norm rather than exception, she started collecting old gadgets that were in working condition or that needed repair. So far, she has procured devices for 15 students and is in the process of helping another 50 families. “People from the lower-middle class families are also unable to buy gadgets as they have faced salary cuts or lost their jobs during the pandemic,” she said. 80 tablets Keshav Elchitaya, managing trustee, Sneha Trust, run by the alumni of National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, said they had distributed 80 tablets to students of Classes IX and X studying in government or low-budget private schools. “Initially, we provided mobile phones but there were a some issues with it since they would have to share the gadgets with their parents. We decided that it would be best to provide tablets along with sim cards. We also pay for their data use,” he said. Departmental survey A recent survey by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education found that around 33% of the 93.01 lakh students in the State did not have access to devices to attend online classes. Given the magnitude of the problem, the Karnataka government, too, has decided to tap into NGOs and individuals willing to help. Last week, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education announced that it wouldestablish mobile bankswith the assistance of voluntary organisations. Smartphones and other devices collected by these banks will be distributed to students in need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngos-volunteers-step-in-with-gadgets-help-students-attend-online-classes/article35389599.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police seize hashish oil worth Rs. 2 cr.||The Sadduguntepalya police on Saturday arrested two youths for allegedly peddling hashish oil. The police recovered 4 kg of hashish oil worth Rs. 2 crore. One of the accused, Mohammed Irfan, hails from Kozhikode and lives in Hulimavu. “After he did his B.Tech., he worked as a freelancer till lockdown was announced. Due to unemployment, he decided to start peddling drugs. He teamed up with Thari Azeem, 25, a college dropout from Malappuram,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-seize-hashish-oil-worth-rs-2-cr/article35390013.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Silence from central leaders||Sources close to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, while maintaining that he would continue as Chief Minister and that the high command had not asked him to resign, said he was “unhappy with the lack of demonstration of confidence” in him. “There was no talk of leadership change, but Mr. Yediyurappa expressed displeasure over the high command not putting a stop to everyday speculation of a leadership change. As media speculated about his resignation on Saturday, he was left alone to defend himself and no one from the high command clarified on the matter. This not only weakens his standing, but also that of the government and the party in the State,” a leader close to him said. The silence of the high command was read as a tacit support to their demands by the dissidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/silence-from-central-leaders/article35389607.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Order issued on corporation||The State government on Saturday issued an order to establish a Vokkaliga Development Corporation in Karnataka. The corporation will work for the all-round development of various sub-castes inthe Vokkaliga community by including them in the reservation category of 3A, the order stated. It also stated that a separate order would be issued for the creation of posts in the corporation. A sum of Rs. 500 crore was allocated in the State Budget for 2021-22 for the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/order-issued-on-corporation/article35389608.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 1,869 new cases, 42 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,869 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 28,82,239. Of these, 432 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 42 deaths, the toll rose to 36,121. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 3,144 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking total recoveries to 28,16,013. The State now has 30,082 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.30%, the CFR touched 2.24%. As many as 1,42,856 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,12,145 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,67,27,143.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-1869-new-cases-42-deaths/article35389586.ece
18 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Leaders differ on airport project work||The construction of a greenfield domestic airport at Boovanahalli near Hassan has turned into a controversy with former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna opposing the way the project is being implemented. He wanted it to be executed as it was planned originally about 14 years ago, while Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda of the BJP wants execution of the project with minimum use of land, considering the experts’ opinion. The State Cabinet cleared the project with an estimated cost of Rs. 196 crore. It has been a long-pending project. The foundation stone was laid in 2007 when H.D.Kumaraswamy was the Chief Minister. Then, it was planned as a mega project with a total investment of Rs. 1,200 crore. The project included a golf course, and hospitality facilities, besides the airport. Then, the land required for the project was estimated at 1,194.15 acres. Over the years, the government acquired 536 acres and handed it over to the private promoter, who had taken up the project on a public-private partnership model. The process for acquisition of another 446 acres was on. The firm refused to take up the project unless the total quantum of land required was handed over. During the JD(S)-Congress rule in 2018, the State government cancelled the understanding with the private party. ‘Stick to original plan’ Mr. Revanna, speaking to presspersons in Hassan, recently said the government was making efforts to build the airport within the available 536 acres and denotify the rest. “If the government is committed to implementing the project, it should take it up as per the original plan. Otherwise, it should drop it. We will build the airport, whenever we come to power with the blessings of people”, he said. He also said the party would stage a dharna in front of the Chief Minister’s residence on July 22, if the government did not take a stand on the issue. However, BJP MLA Preetham Gowda has opposed Mr. Revanna’s argument. The airport would be designed as per the advice of experts. “We have an international airport at Bengaluru, about three-hour journey from Hassan, and another airport at Mysuru, about a two-hour journey from Hassan. Mr. Revanna is a legislator, not an expert to suggest how the project should be,” he said. He said the people of Hassan did not need a golf course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leaders-differ-on-airport-project-work/article35390046.ece
18 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Teachers relieved by note on dress code||A circular issued by the Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) of Chikkamagaluru district, clarifying the dress code for women teachers and non-teaching staff in schools, has gone viral on social media. B.V. Malleshappa, the officer, has said there is “no restriction” on the staff members attending work wearing churidar. The DDPI issued this circular on July 13, following a request from the Chikkamagaluru District Primary School Teachers’ Association. Several teachers, particularly those in private schools, had complained to the department that the heads of their schools had objected to teachers attending to duty wearing churidar, insisting they had to wear sari instead. “The association and teachers wanted a clarification on this issue. The circulars issued by the State government in 2013 and subsequently in 2017 stated that the staff members should wear a ‘decent dress’. I have reiterated the same in the circular,” he said. The officer, in his circular, said, “Teaching and non-teaching staff members are free to attend to their duty wearing a decent dress. It is not possible to snatch away their individual freedom by directing them to wear any particular attire.” Many on social media thanked the officer for issuing such a circular. “I have noticed many people sharing the circular... I have just reiterated what the previous orders stated,” said the DDPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-relieved-by-note-on-dress-code/article35389606.ece
18 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||88 fresh cases||Shivamogga reported 88 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one more death due to the infection on Saturday. So far 1,026 people have died due to the infection in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/88-fresh-cases/article35390036.ece
18 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Senior artists’ statues to come up across Ballari city||The statues of senior artists who had enriched the State’s cultural heritage will be installed at various points in Ballari city, said G. Somashekhar Reddy, MLA. He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating an programme organised for naming an open-air theatre after senor artist Nadoja Subhadramma Mansur who died last year. “Ms. Mansur’s contributions to the theatre are remarkable. Her relentless work and outstanding performance got a name and fame for Ballari. The life and work of great artists like Ms. Mansur, Doddanaguda, Ramjan Sab, and Bahadur Sheshagiri need to be introduced to the next generations. We have, therefore, planning to install the statues of artists who have made significant contributions to the cultural field in vital locations of Ballari city,” Mr. Reddy said adding that the Ballari City Municipal Corporation had decided to name 21 gardens in the city after the different artists. Manjamma Jogati, practitioner of Jogati Nritya and the chairperson of Karnataka Janapada Academy, said that naming the open theatre after Ms. Mansur was an honour to all the artists in the district. “All are equally important theatre though each has a different role to play. Success will automatically follow if we work hard with commitment, integrity and consistency. It is a good sign that the younger generation is showing much interest in theatre. However, my sincere advice is that you should not completely depend on theatre for your survival. It is always better to have another job for economic stability,” she said. Artists Nadoja Belagallu Veeranna, Eeramma, Rameshgouda Patil, Sujatamma and Purushottam Handyal, the family members of Ms. Mansur, former Deputy Director of Kannada and Culture Chorunur Kotrappa, Ballari Urban Development Authority chairman Dammur Shekhar, Deputy Director of Kannada and Culture Siddalingesh K. Rangannanavar, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-artists-statues-to-come-up-across-ballari-city/article35389801.ece
18 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi corporation to focus on rainwater harvesting||To help resolve the issue of depleting groundwater, the Kalaburagi City Corporation is taking steps to carry out a rainwater harvesting system at government schools, hospitals, and office buildings. Corporation Commissioner Snehal S. Lokhande, speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, said that the officials have been instructed to check the depletion of groundwater by taking up rainwater harvesting points on the rooftops of government schools, hospitals, and offices buildings. It is the need of the hour to tackle the water problem prevailing in the district, he added. In the proposed Rs. 30.26-crore action plan for 2020-21, nearly Rs. 7.56 crore has been allocated for drinking water and rainwater harvesting and reuse, and Rs. 2.56 crore has been allocated for recharging the existing borewells and to set up rainwater harvesting pits in gardens and open places in the city, and around Rs. 37.8 lakh has been marked for the treatment of greywater and reuse, he added. The corporation would also construct a model house to demonstrate the rainwater harvesting system at Gulshan Public Garden. The model house will give an idea of the whole process of rainwater collection area, storage, and recharge facility, Mr. Lokhande explained. “The corporation will be utilising funds to the tune of Rs. 81.77 lakh to repair and revive borewells in the city. Of the 1550 existing borewells in the city, 350 need repair and 150, which cannot be repaired, will be removed. We will not encourage new borewells from being dug up in the future and the corporation will effectively implement necessary infrastructure for providing a 24x7 supply of drinking water throughout the city” Mr. Lokhande said.  In the proposed Rs. 30.26-crore action plan for 2020-21, nearly Rs. 7.56 crore has been allocated for drinking water and rainwater harvesting and reuse, and Rs. 2.56 crore has been allocated for recharging the existing borewells and to set up rainwater harvesting pits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-corporation-to-focus-on-rainwater-harvesting/article35389802.ece
18 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Many BJP Lingayat leaders keen to join Cong.: DKS||Responding to a query on Congress leader M.B. Patil’s attempts to bring Lingayat leaders from the BJP into the Congress fold, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar claimed that many Lingayat leaders [from the BJP] wanted to join the Congress. In his brief interaction with presspersons at Kalaburagi airport on Saturday, Mr. Shivakumar, before leaving for Sindagi in Vijayapura district, said that he would soon discuss with all those Lingayat leaders who are interested to join the Congress and disclose the details later. “Many Lingayat leaders and cadres are keen on joining the Congress. Mr. M.B. Patil, S.R. Patil, and Eshwar Khandre are already making efforts . They are working out to mobilise the other community leaders in other parties. I cannot disclose all the details now. I will discuss with all those Lingayat leaders who are interested to join Congress and disclose the details later,” Mr. Shivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-bjp-lingayat-leaders-keen-to-join-cong-dks/article35389799.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Flooding at Pumpwell Circle a creation by media: NHAI official||Project Director of National HIghways Authority of India (NHAI) in Mangaluru, Shishu Mohan, on Saturday said the waterlogging issue at Pumpwell (Bhagwan Mahaveer) Circle on NH 66 in the city was just a media creation even as Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra announced a joint team of officials from the NHAI, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). and other urban local bodies to address waterlogging issues at important junctions along NH 66. Responding to issues of waterlogging and flooding at Kottara Circle, Pumpwell and Thokkottu at the DISHA review meeting chaired by Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, here, Mr. Mohan claimed there was no waterlogging at Pumpwell Circle. “Small water puddles were projected in a big way by the media,” he said, adding heavy rain increases the underground water table at Pumpwell hindering traffic movement. He further said some portion of the stormwater drain near Karnataka Bank head office was encroached upon, hindering the free flow of rainwater. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said it was the first time NHAI has brought up this issue. Dr. Rajendra asked NHAI to work with MCC and city police in clearing the encroachment. Dr. Rajendra said it was responsibility of the NHAI to maintain highways passing through the city in a proper shape. It should work with MCC and other urban local bodies to address waterlogging issues on the NH, more so, at Thokkottu, Pumpwell and Kottara Chowki Junctions. Dr. Rajendra pointed that motorists were facing hardship to drive through Pumpwell Flyover in the night in the absence of streetlights. Mr. Mohan said a legal dispute was preventing NHAI concessionaire Navayuga Udupi Tollway Private Limited from switching on the lights. Mr. Mohan asked the State government to bear the cost of power of the streetlights. Mr. Sridhar said process has been initiated to seek approval of the Ministry of Environment and Forest for diversion of a portion of deemed forest land in Shakti Nagar for construction of multi-storey apartment complex. When officials pointed to time taken by all 600 beneficiaries in submitting their contribution of the amount which was delaying construction of multi-storey complex under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Idya near Surathakal, Dr. Rajendra asked officials to take up construction work in phases and start with constructing an apartment for beneficiaries who are in immediate need of houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flooding-at-pumpwell-circle-a-creation-by-media-nhai-official/article35390001.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Udvarchane performed||The Paryaya Sri Adamaru Mutt on Saturday undertook Udvarchane (cleansing operations) of the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Krishna Mutt along with other mutts at Udupi. Udvarchane has been an annual ritual being performed at the mutt by the seers of Ashta Mutts since entry into the sanctum sanctorum was allowed only for seers. Paryaya seer Ishapriya Tirtha Sawmi, Vidyasagara Tirtha Swami of Sri Krishnapura Mutt, Vishwavalabha Tirtha Swami of Sri Sode Vadiraj Mutt, and Vidyarajeshwara Tirtha Swami, junior seer of Sri Palimaru Mutt, conducted the ritual after wrapping the presiding deity, Sri Krishna, with a bamboo mat. This ritual of cleansing was held as a prelude to the Mahabhisheka ritual to be conducted on Ashada Dashami, Monday. This will be followed by the Tapta Mudradharana ritual on Shayani Ekadashi, July 20. For this ritual, devotees of Sri Krishna Mutt, irrespective of their caste and gender, will get the images of conch and wheel stamped on their arms. Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swami of Sri Palimar Mutt, Udupi, will conduct the Tapta Mudradharana ritual for devotees at mutt’s branch in Kavoor, Mangaluru, from 4 p.m. on July 20, a statement from the mutt said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udvarchane-performed/article35390009.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Work between B.C. Road and Periyashanthi to start in Sept.||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will commence the four-lane work of Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 between B.C. Road and Periyashanthi (Dharmasthala Cross) in September. Hyderabad-based KNR Constructions has bagged the Rs. 1,100-crore contract for the work that includes construction of a six-lane flyover at Kalladka town. The agreement was signed on Friday, said NHAI project director Shishu Mohan at the DISHA review meeting chaired by Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, here on Saturday. On the other four-laning package between Periyashanthi and Addahole, Mr. Mohan said the authority was yet to get clearance for acquiring 2.5 acres of land from the Forest Department. While an official from the department said the proposal was sent to higher officers at Bengaluru, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked the PD to keep him informed about the development so that he could pursue the matter. NHAI had initiated the four-laning work on NH 75 in two packages — B.C. Road to Addahole in Dakshina Kannada and Maranahalli to Hassan in Hassan district — in 2017. Larsen & Toubro, which had bagged contract for the work in Dakshina Kannada, foreclosed the contract after NHAI wanted to change the scope of work to include wildlife corridors between Periyashanthi and Addahole. This led NHAI to invite fresh bids under two packages for Dakshina Kannada. Executive Engineer of Public Works Department’s National Highway Division, G.N. Hegde said 283 road works, including the one in Sullia taluk, taken up in 2016-17 and 2017-18, were closed following direction of Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa following reduction in Central grants. Dr. Rajendra asked the engineer to make a presentation on dropped works as some of them were not linked to Central grants so that the district administration would take up the matter with the State government. PWD Executive Engineer S. Yashwanth Kumar said the department has approved utilising services of divers to undertake safety inspection of 30 major bridges in the district including those in Polali and Moodbidri, to facilitate restoration if needed. He said the department would allow light motor vehicles on the Maravoor bridge on Airport Road, a slab of which had sunken on June 15, after restoring the slab, from August. Decision to allow heavy vehicles on the bridge would be taken after elaborate load testing, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-between-bc-road-and-periyashanthi-to-start-in-sept/article35390000.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain predicted till July 22||As the coast continued to receive heavy rainfall for over a week, the weathermen have predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall over coastal Karnataka till July 22. A communique from the Udupi district administration quoting the India Meteorological Department said heavy to very heavy rain, ranging from 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm, was likely at isolated places over coastal Karnataka till July 22. IMD has also asked fishermen not to venture into the sea during this period as heavy wind up to a speed of 50 kmph was likely along the Karnataka coast. Sea waves will be high, ranging from 3.5 m to 4.1 m, the IMD said. While Gokarna in Uttara Kannada received 110 mm rain during 24 hours ending 8 a.m. on Saturday, Karwar and Manki in Uttara Kannada received 90 mm and Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada and Kota in Udupi districts received 60 mm rain during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-predicted-till-july-22/article35390011.ece
18 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six COVID-19 deaths, 312 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada district reported five COVID-19 deaths and 218 new cases on Saturday. Two victims were from Bantwal taluk, while one was from Mangaluru, Puttur, and Sullia taluks each. A containment zone each was in Mangaluru, Puttur and Sullia taluks. With 200 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,980. Test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada came down to 2.89%. There were 27 active cases of mucormycosis. Udupi district reported one death and 94 new cases. Of the new cases, 42 were from Udupi taluk, 27 from Kundapur taluk, 22 from Karkala taluk, and three from outside the district. While 85 were in home isolation, nine patients were in designated health care facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-covid-19-deaths-312-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article35389999.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Have green buffer zone between flats and sewage treatment plant at Kotekar’||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday asked the Kotekar Town Panchayat to have a green buffer zone between residential flats for the houseless and the solid waste treatment plant facility and end the impasse over setting up the new facility. In a DISHA review meeting chaired by Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, Deputy Director, District Urban Development Cell, Gayatri Nayak, said 3.62 acres of the nine acres of the land in Kayarmajalu, which is allocated for a residential layout for the houseless, has been earmarked for the solid waste treatment plant. On a petition by residents, the local court has granted a stay. Process was on to vacate the stay, she said. Dr. Rajendra said asked the town panchayat to make effective use of the land and set up the plant to process dry waste. “You need to make effective use of the land and stop throwing of waste by the roadside in Kotekar and Someshwar,” he said. An official from the Kotekar Panchayat said segregated waste from their area was presently being brought to Pachhanady landfill site in Mangaluru. Earlier, Mr. Kateel handed over keys of seven ‘Swachh Vahini’ vehicles for house-to-house collection of waste to presidents of seven gram panchayats from Bantwal and Belthangady taluks . These seven vehicles were purchased under the Swachh Bharat Mission. While each of the six vehicles was of Rs. 5.35 lakh, the vehicle granted to Puncha Gram Panchayat of Bantwal taluk was worth Rs. 7.64 lakh. The other panchayats which received vehicles were Narikombu, Kepu and Peruvai panchayats of Bantwal taluk and Arasinamakki, Ilantila and Balanja panchayats of Belthangady taluk. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumar said a total of 78 gram panchayats in the district have vehicles for waste collection. The remaining 145 panchayats have been asked to make use of funds available under 15th Finance Commission and purchase the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/have-green-buffer-zone-between-flats-and-sewage-treatment-plant-at-kotekar/article35390003.ece
18 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Resident of Bantwal sentenced to 10 years for possession of cannabis||Principal District and Sessions Judge B. Muralidhara Pai on Saturday sentenced Abdul Rahim, 26, of Kula village of Bantwal taluk to 10 years of imprisonment on finding him guilty in the case related to illegal possession of 42.33 kg of cannabis. According to the chargesheet, the then Kavoor Police Inspector Kamalakara N. Naik found Rahim, Rajeev A.P., 48, and Shafi Kalandar near an autorickshaw parked in the ground, off the road leading to A.J. Engineering College, in Bolur village, on September 8, 2018. He seized 42.33 kg of cannabis worth Rs. 7.56 lakh, which was brought from Andhra Pradesh, found in the autorickshaw. Rahim and Rajeev were arrested, while Shafi ran away leaving behind the motorcycle of Rafeeq Mandyoor that he was using. Mr. Naik’s successor Police Inspector Rafeeq K.M. investigated the case and filed a chargesheet against all the four for offences under Sections 8 (c), 20(b)(ii)(c) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. As Shafi and Mandyoor remained at large, the Court decided to split the case and proceeded with the trial of offences charged against Rahim and Rajeev. The case against Rajeev got abated following his death on December 5, 2019. Prosecutor Raju Poojary Bannadi examined nine witnesses, marked 38 documents and produced 46 material objects before the court. On Saturday, the Judge sentenced Rahim to 10 years and imposed fine of Rs. 1 lakh for the offence punishable under Section 8 (C) read with Section 20(b)(ii)(C) of NDPS Act. The Judge ordered for handing over cannabis to District Drug Disposal Committee for its disposal/destruction. Sample of the seized cannabis will be preserved for the case against Shafi and Mandyoor, he said.  The police had seized cannabis worth Rs. 7.56 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resident-of-bantwal-sentenced-to-10-years-for-possession-of-cannabis/article35390012.ece
18 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA launches online property tax payment facility||After Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), it was the turn of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to offer the public the option of paying property tax online. Minister for Urban Development B..A Basavaraj on Saturday launched MUDA’s online property tax collection facility, which gives property owners in MUDA layouts and MUDA-approved layouts the option of paying vacant site tax and house tax online. The launch of the system through http://www.mudamysuru.co.in marks a milestone in the history of MUDA, which has been collecting property tax for the vacant sites and houses through challan system since 1991-92. Henceforth, owners of sites and houses of more than 75,000 properties in MUDA-approved private layouts and owners of sites and houses of 38,000 properties in 16 MUDA layouts viz R.T. Nagar, Chamalapura, Devanur 3rd Stage, Nanjangud Basavangudi block, Lalithadrinagar North, Lalithadrinagar South, Lal Bahadur Shastri Nagar, Vijayanagar 3rd Stage, Vijaynagar 4th stage 1st phase, Vijayanagar 4th stage 2nd phase, Vijayanagar 4th stage 3rd phase, Vasanthagar, Shanthaveri Gopala Gowda Nagar, Hanchya Sathagalli A Zone, Hanchya Sathagalli B Zone and Handuvinahalli, can pay property tax online. MUDA has been collecting property tax based on the revised rates with effect from 2018-19 and the online payment of property tax will be collected at the same rates. A total of Rs. 10.89 crore property tax had been collected through the challan system by MUDA during the year 2020-21, but a statement said the Authority expects to collect Rs. 25 crore-Rs. 30 crore online during the year 2021-22. Cleanliness cess The cleanliness cess to be collected from property owners in MUDA and MUDA-approved layouts can also be paid online. Similarly, the drinking water fee levied on owners of houses in Vijayangar 4th stage with effect from 2020-21 can also be paid online at the rate of Rs. 175 per month for domestic connection and Rs. 300 per month for commercial connection. Property owners need to provide details with regard to khatha, Aadhaar card, photo identity card along with challan of tax paid in the previous year for vacant sites. For payment of property tax for house, the owners have to provide the relevant details. For houses without Completion Report (CR), the property tax will have to paid at double the rate. A user manual and flow chart to facilitate online payment of property tax is available on the website. A help desk set up to facilitate the property owners will function on MUDA premises from 10.30 a.m. to 5.30 pm. The help desk can be contacted on 74066-55006, 74066-55007, 74066-55008 and 74066-55009. MUDA has cautioned the public against uploading fake and fabricated documents, MUDA will not only confiscate the amount paid, but also initiate action as per law. The software for the online property tax payment facility for MUDA has been devised by Seminal Software Pvt Ltd., Vijayapura. A statement from MUDA said there is proposal to send an sms to the property owner’s mobile phone acknowledging the online payment whenever it is made. Shortly, an android mobile app of MUDA Mysuru will be made available through Playstore. Touchscreen kiosks to facilitate online payment of property tax will be set up at the MUDA office and branches of Bank of Baroda in different parts of the city. Provision for making online payment of MUDA property tax will also be available at MysuruOne centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-launches-online-property-tax-payment-facility/article35390040.ece
18 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Made Gowda, former MP, dead||G. Made Gowda, 94, who was twice elected as MP from Mandya and was in the forefront of the Cauvery agitation, died at a private hospital at K.M. Doddi on Saturday after a prolonged illness. As one of the prominent leaders of Mandya, he was also elected MLA for Kirugavalu six times. His activities in the public sphere spanned more than six decades as he had also participated in the freedom struggle during his student days and underwent imprisonment. Born in 1928 at Gurudevarahalli in Mandya district, Mr. Made Gowda studied at Maharaja’s College in Mysuru and Government Law College in Bengaluru. He was elected MP for Mandya in 1989 and again in 1991 and before that he was the Forest Minister between 1980 and 1983 in the Gundu Rao government. Mr. Made Gowda was recognised as one of the prominent leaders to have spearheaded the Cauvery agitation along with Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and other groups to protect the interest of the State farmers in the dispute with Tamil Nadu. He also headed the Cauvery Raitha Hitarakshana Samiti which emerged as an umbrella organisation in Mandya for all other groups with common interest on the Cauvery issue, recalled Badagalpura Nagendra, president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha. Kurubur Shanthakumar of Karnataka Sugarcane Farmers Association said he was among the last of the leaders known for value-based politics. To promote education in backward areas of Mandya, he founded the Bharathi Education Trust which has nearly 30 institutions under it. Family sources said the body of Mr. Made Gowda will be taken to his house in Mandya to enable the public to pay their last respects before being shifted to Bharatinagar for the last rites on Sunday. Prominent political leaders, farmers organisations and others condoled his death. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and a host of political leaders condoled the death of Mr. Made Gowda. The Chief Minister described Mr. Made Gowda as a man who was in the forefront of Cauvery agitation and whose death was a loss to the community of farmers and their struggle for justice. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah described Mr. Made Gowda as a man who fought without making compromises over Cauvery. “He never failed to raise his voice when injustice was done to farmers till the very end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/made-gowda-former-mp-passes-away/article35389601.ece
18 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||CIIL’s 53rd Foundation Day celebrated||The 53rd Foundation Day of the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) in the city was celebrated on Saturday through virtual mode and will also be marked by a series of lectures over the year. There will also be a consultative meeting on language education to mark the completion of 50 years of the four Regional Language Centres of the CIIL. This includes the Southern Regional Language Centre at Mysuru, Eastern Regional Language Centre at Bhubaneshwar, Northern Regional Language Centre at Patiala and the Western Regional Language Centre at Pune. The consultative meeting will be conducted throughout the year commencing July 18, according to the authorities. In addition, there will be 10-15 panels on various aspects of language education involving eminent national and international experts while efforts will be made to showcase the academic achievement of CIIL for a wider target audience. C.G. Venkatesh Murthy, director, CIIL, Mysuru, in his presidential address recalled the contribution of the institute in the sphere of language and linguistics. He said that the Centres of Excellence for Studies in Classical Languages are being realised through the CIIL and there were four such centres – for Kannada, Telugu, Odia and Malayalam. While Kannada and Telugu centres have full strength, the CIIL was in the process of recruiting staff for Odia and Malayalam centres and they were expected to become fully functional in due course. Prof. Venkatesh Murthy said under the Bharatavani Project, the CIIL was working for digitisation and web hosting of published resources in Indian languages. The portal has representation of 98 Indian languages in about 92 sub-domains including textbooks, dictionaries and teaching-learning materials in textual and multimedia formats. It provides mobile-based apps to its users and the same would be disabled-friendly based on the intent of the Universal Designs of Learning, he added. Debi Prasanna Pattanayak, founder director, CIIL, was the chief guest of the programme held in the virtual mode. Nicholas Evans, Director, ARC Centre for the Dynamics of Language, and Distinguished Professor in Linguistics, Australian National University, spoke on the challenges of fragile linguistic diversity in the 21st century. He said as the world confronts huge environmental crises, there is growing realisation how much knowledge and wisdom is held by tribal populations and transmitted through their languages. He said one could learn from it and this is what may save the world from being destroyed but it requires linguists to approach the study of tribal languages with great humility and an openness to genuine collaboration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ciils-53rd-foundation-day-celebrated/article35390048.ece
18 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||39,000 students to write SSLC exam at 237 centres in Mysuru||This year’s SSLC examination in Mysuru district will happen in almost double the number of centres that existed last year. And it’s even more challenging for the authorities of the Department of Public Instruction to supervise the examination process with100-plus centres added for the safety of students. However, the steep fall in COVID-19 cases has come as a big respite for conducting the examination, in a new format, on July 19 and 22 though all recommended SOPs will be put in place at the centres so that students feel safe. The number of examination centres in the district has gone up to 237 from 142 with only 12 students permitted to write the exam in each room and only one student allowed to sit at each desk. About 165 centres are in rural areas and 72 in urban centres. Majority of the centres are located in government schools and steps have been taken for disinfecting all centres. “Unlike last year, there is a template now on how to conduct the exam amidst the pandemic and students and people are fully aware of the situation. Accordingly, we too made all necessary arrangements and took precautions. Through various platforms, we have interacted with the students and tried to dispel fears. Without any anxiety, students can appear for the exam,” said Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) Panduranga. A total of 38,989 students are appearing for the exam this year. Out of 661 schools, 257 are government, 124 aided, and 280 unaided. Mr. Panduranga said 6,684 personnel deputed for the exam duty are vaccinated. Only vaccinated staff were chosen. All measures have been taken for the safety of students. The roles and responsibilities of other departments for smooth and safe conduct of the exam have been explained in various meetings. The Deputy Commissioner had a meeting with health and police officials over the examination and the Health Department staff will be deployed in each exam centre for screening students. The State Scouts and Guides have donated 40,000 surgical masks and they were distributed among the students. “If students wish to stay in hostels, they can stay in hostels run by the Social Welfare Department and the Backward Classes Department. The routes where the number of buses have to be increased have been communicated to KSRTC. The panchayats have taken responsibility in sanitizing the centres in rural areas and the MCC in Mysuru city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/39000-students-to-write-sslc-exam-at-237-centres-in-mysuru/article35390044.ece
18 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘One-time measure’ civic works in progress||Civic amenities in scores of layouts of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) are being shored up as a “one-time measure’’ with funding by the State government. The State government in 2019 issued a circular as per which the responsibility of the MUDA was to develop layouts and did not entail maintenance which was the job of the local civic body. Hence the MUDA was hamstrung by the GO and was not authorised to release funds for routine maintenance of layouts. But not all MUDA-developed layouts have been transferred to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and infrastructure in some of these layouts began to wither in the absence of maintenance. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev said even among such layouts which have been transferred to the MCC, there were certain pending civic works. The MCC listed out the layouts and the works that need to be completed before it could approve the transfer and take over the responsibility for future maintenance of the localities. As the prevailing orders did not permit MUDA to take up any maintenance works, it approached the government for an approval of various civic works as a “one-time measure’’ in the interest of the public living in such localities some of which were developed almost 20 years ago, said Mr. Rajeev. The proposal was approved and the works initiated by MUDA. Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj, who was in the city since the last two days, inspected a slew of works in progress besides going around the city again on Saturday. These have been taken up as part of the one-time measure at a cost of Rs. 377 crore, according to Mr. Rajeev. The civic works include replacing drinking water pipes, replacing UGD pipes with higher diameter given the increase in population density, and repair of stormwater drains which have suffered wear-and-tear over 25 years. Mr. Rajeev said most of the layouts including JP Nagar, Vasanthanagar, Alanahalli, Lalitadripura and Lalitadripura North, Vijayanagar 4th stage, Hebbal, Ambedkar Nagar, Dattagalli, and R.T.Nagar will benefit from the ongoing works. Mr. Basavaraj and Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar inspected some of the works in progress at Sathgalli, Vasanthnagar, and Hanchya Sathgalli A Layout and interacted with residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-time-measure-civic-works-in-progress/article35390038.ece
18 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Software company manager arrested for serial accident||A software company manager was arrested and the luxury car he was driving has been seized following a serial accident that took place on New Sayyaji Rao Road in Mysuru, injuring six persons including two pedestrians. The luxury car, which was proceeding towards old RMC yard from Visvesvaraya Circle on Thursday, hit an on-coming auto rickshaw and a motorcycle in front of a pathology lab due to “over-speeding” and “reckless driving”, said a statement from the police. Two passengers in the autorickshaw – Shankar and his mother Lakshmamma, and the driver, Antony, suffered injuries. The motorcyclist, Basavaraj, suffered injuries on his hand. After being hit by the car, the autorickshaw fell on two pedestrians – Anita and Hemalata – who were walking by the roadside. Both suffered injuries on their hands and legs. All the injured were rushed to K.R. Hospital and provided medical treatment. The Narasimharaja Traffic police, who rushed to the spot, booked a case and seized the luxury car before arresting its driver Ranjit. In a statement here, the Mysuru City police said the pedestrians, who were injured in the mishap, were walking on the road even though there was a footpath. Advising the pedestrians to compulsorily walk on the footpath, the police said steps will be taken to remove the encroachment of footpath for use by pedestrians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/software-company-manager-arrested-for-serial-accident/article35390037.ece
18 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Green Mysuru initiative||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will plant 20,000 saplings to shore up the greenery of the city. The district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar and Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj planted a few saplings to set the initiative rolling on Saturday. The MUDA envisages tree plantation across the city and along the Outer Ring Road as well. In addition to the MUDA’s drive, NGOs and other individuals and organisations are also part of the drive and there are plans to develop mini-urban forests like the one in J.P.Nagar and Vijayanagar 3rd stage. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev said there are plans to appoint tree wardens to take care of the saplings and full-grown trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-mysuru-initiative/article35390043.ece
18 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu: SSLC exam in peak monsoon||Kodagu is gearing up for the challenge of holding the SSLC examination amidst peak monsoon. It is for the second time the exam is being conducted during the season in the district, which is known for recording heavy to very heavy rains. Incessant rains have been lashing the district since past two days. The examination centres had been carefully chosen for the convenient accessibility of students. Old school buildings have been avoided. As many as 6,900 students are appearing for the exam in 41 centres. Transportation is being arranged for students belonging to remote villages and hilly areas. The exam is usually completed in March-April. However, the pandemic delayed it last year and this year too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-sslc-exam-in-peak-monsoon/article35390045.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Steady decline in tuberculosis notifications||“During the second wave, High Resolution Chest Thorax (HRCT) scans have increasingly been used to detect COVID. There are great opportunities to find the missing TB patients in CT scan-based surveillance due to high sensitivity and specificity of CT scan to rule in and rule out tuberculosis,” he said. “The Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) has directed all deputy commissioners to collect CT scans suggestive of TB from all CT scan centres in their jurisdiction from April 2021 onwards. All those identified through these centres should be enrolled in the NlKSHAY portal as presumptive TB patients,” he said. “Further, these presumptive TB patients should be mobilised and sputum samples should be collected for offering TB diagnosis through TrueNat/CBNAAT. If test is positive and TB is detected, the patients should be managed as per the existing NTEP guidelines. If test is negative, then clinical opinion should be taken to diagnose other causes or TB clinically. All identified cases should be managed as per NTEP guidelines.,” Dr. Reddy said. Active Case Finding Apart from this, the State will also intensify its Active Case Finding (ACF) activity. “In a month-long ACF exercise in December, 2,939 tuberculosis cases were diagnosed. However, after January the ACF is going on in a staggered manner in Tumakuru, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Mandya districts. We will further intensify this programme focussing on contact tracing of every positive case,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steady-decline-in-tuberculosis-notifications/article35389596.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Steady decline in TB notifications in State||This is apart from an increased likelihood of active transmission in the household and close contacts. In August last year, the Centre had issued a guidance note asking States to ensure bi-directional screening when diagnosing COVID-19 and TB. The Centre had also asked States to test all Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and SARI cases for TB and COVID-19. In CT scan centres State Joint Director (TB) Ramesh Chandra Reddy told The Hindu on Saturday that the State has now started intensified TB surveillance in CT scan centres. A circular has been issued on June 24 directing all deputy commissioners in the State to start CT scan-based surveillance of TB cases, he said. “During the second wave, High Resolution Chest Thorax (HRCT) scans have increasingly been used to detect COVID. There are great opportunities to find the missing TB patients in CT scan-based surveillance due to high sensitivity and specificity of CT scan to rule in and rule out TB,” he said. “The Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) has directed all deputy commissioners to collect CT scans suggestive of TB from all CT scan centres in their jurisdiction from April 2021 onwards. All those identified through these centres should be enrolled in the NlKSHAY portal as presumptive TB patients,” he said. “Further, these presumptive TB patients should be mobilised and sputum samples should be collected for offering TB diagnosis through TrueNat/CBNAAT. lf test is positive and TB is detected, the patients should be managed as per the existing NTEP guidelines. lf test is negative, then clinical opinion should be taken to diagnose other causes or TB clinically. All identified cases should be managed as per NTEP guidelines,” Dr. Reddy said. Active Case Finding Apart from this, the State will also intensify its Active Case Finding (ACF) activity. “In a month-long ACF exercise in December, 2,939 TB cases were diagnosed. However, after January the ACF is going on in a staggered manner in Tumakuru, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Mandya districts. We will further intensify this programme focussing on contact tracing of every positive case,” the official added.  In August last year, the Centre had issued a guidance note asking States to ensure bi-directional screening when diagnosing COVID-19 and TB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steady-decline-in-tb-notifications-in-state/article35390015.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Train services likely to resume today morning||Mangaluru Area Manager Shivraj S. Managiri told The Hindu that about 60% of debris was removed so far and the collapsed retaining wall was cut apart to restore the track. Steep hill walls in the surroundings were being tapered down to prevent further landslips, he said, adding damaged poles of electricity overhead line amd cables too were restored. Meanwhile, Railways continued to divert some of the long-distance trains between Kerala and the North either via Salem and Jolarpettai or via Padil, Hassan and Madgaon. Train Nos. 06585/06586 Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru Panchaganga express specials of Saturday were fully cancelled. Train Nos. 06335 Gandhidham-Nagercoil weekly express special of July 16, 02618 Hazrath Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Mangala Lakshwadweep daily special of July 16, 06338 Ernakulam-Okha bi-weekly express special of Julyu 16, 02476 Coimbatore-Hissar weekly express special of July 17, 04559 Kochuveli-Chandigarh bi-weekly express special of July 17, 02617 Ernakulam-Hazrath Nizamuddin Mangala Lakshadweep express special of July 17 and 06345 Mumbai LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Central Netravathi daily express special of July 17 were diverted on alternative routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-services-likely-to-resume-today-morning/article35390006.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A learning experience||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-learning-experience/article35389591.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Talk of change of guard is baseless: BSY||Political circles were abuzz with talk that leadership changewould be affected in the State after July 26, the day Mr. Yediyurappa completes two years in office. Minutes after returning home from Delhi, the Chief Minister announced a legislature party meeting, a long-standing demand by dissidents, on July 26, triggering further speculations. However, answering a question on his continuation as the Chief Minister, he said: “The issue of leadership change was not discussed. As you know, some leaders have been talking against me. Nobody in Delhi asked me about that. Like I have said before there are many leaders in the party, but for now the party has given me the opportunity to serve the people and I willcontinue to do so.” Mr. Yediyurappa said the party high command had assigned him the task of bringing the party back to power in the State in 2023 Assembly polls and win more seats in 2024 parliamentary polls, for which he said he would work tirelessly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/talk-of-change-of-guard-is-baseless-bsy/article35389611.ece
18 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Coliform bacteria found in water samples||The presence of coliform bacteria beyond the permissible limit has been detected in water samples collected from seven reverse osmosis (RO) plants in Alappuzha municipality. Health officials said water samples from 39 RO plants had been sent for analysis. “Of the results of 20 samples received so far, seven were found to have coliform bacteria,” said an official. Besides, 21 water samples collected from taps of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) and houses were analysed at a government laboratory. Of the samples, seven had been found to be “non-potable”. Chlorine was found to be below the recommended level in 30 other samples collected from KWA sources. Diarrhoea cases The samples were tested following a spurt in diarrhoea and vomiting cases in the municipal area. Officials said 820 people, mostly children, had sought treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting at the Women and Children Hospital, Alappuzha, and the General Hospital between June 26 and July 16. After the detection of coliform bacteria in water samples, Alappuzha municipal authorities shut at least five private RO plants in its limit. Following the outbreak, authorities conducted super chlorination in Alappuzha municipality and nearby grama panchayats. Meanwhile, health workers visited 12,395 houses in the municipality as part of an awareness campaign. The health staff distributed 1,821 ORS packets. “Apart from water samples, we tested seven food samples but could not find any disease-causing microbes. All the 24 samples collected for jaundice and six for typhoid tested negative,” said District Medical Officer L. Anithakumari. Although the number of daily cases has come down, authorities have urged the public to take precautions. Only boiled water should be used for drinking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coliform-bacteria-found-in-water-samples/article35389956.ece
18 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Parts of upper Kuttanad face waterlogging||Waterlogging has been reported in several parts of Kuttanad following heavy downpour and an increase in flow of floodwaters from the eastern side. On Saturday, floodwaters inundated low-lying areas of Thalavady, Edathua, and Thakazhi. In Thalavady, water entered a number of houses. Ajith Kumar Pisharath, member, Champakulam block panchayat, said houses in Kuthirachal colony were facing another flood threat. Residents evacuated The residents of the colony were evacuated earlier this year after back-to-back floods hit the region. Local residents said the water level in Pamba and Manimala rivers had risen in recent days. Floodwaters submerged a number of roads in the region affecting vehicular movement. Parts of Kuttanad including the Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road were flooded twice in May following rain fury. With more rains predicted in the coming days, officials said that they were keeping an eye on water levels in rivers in Kuttanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parts-of-upper-kuttanad-face-waterlogging/article35389958.ece
18 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Kattunayakans on path of self-reliance||Members of the Kattunayakan settlement at Cheeyambam in Wayanad have become self-reliant, thanks to the Wadi (orchard) programme implemented by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) with the support of NABARD. The Kattunayakans, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, are traditional forest dwellers. As many as 302 families of the settlement got two acres each under the Forest Rights Act in 2010, but their crops were usually blighted by pests and diseases. Earlier, they earned a living by collecting and selling minor forest produce. The MSSRF had implemented many projects in the village so that the residents take to agriculture. Reduction in distress sale was an important change brought in the village, says N. Anil Kumar, Senior Director, MSSRF. The major crops included coffee, pepper, ginger, and turmeric, but the predicament of the tribal farmers forced them to sell their produce even before harvest to middlemen. “We encouraged them to take up intercropping as an additional income generation activity and provided seed material,” Dr. Anil Kumar said adding that it stood them in good stead in lean periods between major crops. The residents were trained in modern agricultural practices and to make value-added products from their crops. Linkages established with buyers within and outside the district fetched them good prices for their produce. Another major activity was digging of two ponds for increased water availability, said Bolan, president of the village planning committee of the settlement. “We had to wait for water tankers to get drinking water till then,” he said. The interventions such as rain pits, trenches, and earthen bunds in the village changed water availability for the better, he added. “Kyasanur Forest Disease, also known as monkey fever, is a threat to the tribesmen during summer and as many as 13 members have died of the disease in a few years. However, the disease was kept at bay at the settlement after adopting remedial steps with the support of the Health Department,” said Joseph John, scientist, MSSRF. The MSSRF had spent Rs. 1.35 crore for the project so far. The project had helped the community avail themselves of many projects from government, including construction of houses, toilets, and electrification, Mr. John said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattunayakans-on-path-of-self-reliance/article35389860.ece
18 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Cheer as Indian fencer to make Olympic debut||The little known game of fencing entered the top league in India when C.A. Bhavani Devi qualified for the 2021 Tokyo Olympics, becoming the first Indian to achieve the rare feat. Role of coach But behind her achievement, there is the remarkable role played by her former coach at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Thalassery, Sagar S. Lagu, who recognized Bhavani’s talent and helped to hone her skills in the early years of her sporting career. The news of her selection to the Olympics brought cheers to the centre and Mr. Lagu, head coach of fencing at SAI, Thalassery, and also the national coach, was on cloud nine. It was he who had noticed her talent during a competition in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, and invited her to the Thalassery SAI centre. He trained her from 2008 to 2016 in the nuances of the game. She completed her school education from the Government Brennen Higher Secondary School, Thalassery, and did her Bachelor of Business Administration course from Brennen College, before leaving for Tamil Nadu, her native State, to pursue the MBA degree from SRM University. Recalling Bhavani’s training years, Mr. Lagu told The Hindu that all her achievements at the national level had come while she was representing Kerala. “For fencing events like sabre, the speed, movement, and reflexes of the contest are the key skills which decide the winner. And for Bhavani, all these came naturally to her. I spotted her talent when she defeated my students at the U-17 event in Gwalior,” Mr. Lagu said. Workng hard She had been very hard working, focused, and never skipped her practice sessions. However, Bhavani had to leave the SAI camp eventually as she had no partners to practise the game after many left the camp for various reasons. Fortunately, the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu and Tamil Nadu Electricity Board stepped in with funds and she went on to win medals in the international circuit. Bhavani won the Junior Common Wealth Championship in Malaysia in 2009 and later in Jersery, UK; Cadet Asian Championship in the Philippines; Thailand Open Championship, Sabre World Cup again in Thailand; and Asian U23 Championship in the Philippines and Mongolia. She won the gold medal for the country at the FIE Satellite World Cup in Iceland in 2017. Since then, there has been no turning back for her as she won medal after medal for the country, eventually qualifying for the Olympics in 2021.  Bhavani’s feat has inspired many more to take up the game, Mr. Lagu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jubilation-at-sai-centre-as-first-indian-fencer-debuts-in-olympics/article35389862.ece
18 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Alarm over 3 accident deaths on Vyttila-Kumbalam bypass||The death of three young two-wheeler riders in accidents that occurred on Thursday and Friday in the Vyttila-Kumbalam NH bypass corridor where black spots abound, has sent alarm bells ringing among motorists and officials of law enforcement agencies. Thursday’s accident on the southern side of the Vyttila flyover in which two bike-borne youths who entered the NH Bypass from the service road of the Vyttila flyover were fatally knocked down by a speeding gas-tanker that came down the flyover came as a shocker, since an elderly two-wheeler rider had died at the same spot a little before the flyover was commissioned. The only difference was that the elderly person’s life could have been saved had he been wearing a helmet, said a senior traffic police official. “The landing points of the three new flyovers at Palarivattom, Vyttila, and Kundannoor are accident-prone, since blind spots abound at these points where vehicles from service roads merge with traffic moving along the NH bypass. Motorists from service roads and those coming down flyovers ought to slow down at these points, while the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) must install boards at either end of flyovers warning motorists to slow down. “The exit points of service roads beside the Palarivattom flyover are much narrower than at Vyttila, and this remains another cause of worry,” he added. The police have cautioned two-wheeler riders against driving too close to heavy vehicles, especially goods carriers, since they stand the risk of being sucked towards such heavy vehicles at high speeds. Moreover, many lorries do not have a cleaner, contrary to rules. Lane discipline Sources in the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) said adherence to lane discipline will in all probability prevent accidents. “Motorists must also switch on turning indicator well in advance and slowly change track while keeping tab of vehicles from behind through rear-view mirrors. They must also avoid taking sharp turns, especially so since vehicles are travelling at higher speeds after the trio of flyovers were commissioned.” Pedestrians must be even more careful in this situation, especially at night and while crossing the road from near parked buses and other vehicles which create a blind spot, they added. Drains sans slabs A two-wheeler rider succumbed to injuries early on Friday morning at an ill-lit spot near the NHAI’s Kumbalam toll plaza, reportedly after his bike veered off the carriageway and fell into a wide, open drain. NHAI sources said that a proposal to cover drains on the 16-km Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass is pending clearance of the agency’s head office for over a decade. It is up to local bodies to install street lights, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alarm-over-3-accident-deaths-on-vyttila-kumbalam-bypass/article35389869.ece
18 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Technopark forum does its bit to promote govt. schools||With their perceived preference for premium private schools for their children, techies are rarely associated with government schools. But a bunch of techies based in Technopark in the capital are out to change that perception, which they describe as cliched. A forum called My Government School was formed four years ago under Prathidhwani, a collective for the welfare of IT employees, which has a presence in all IT parks in the State. It now has 30-odd techies who send their children to government schools. “The objective goes beyond admitting children in government schools. The aim is to uplift the schools’ general standards by playing an active role in the Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs). We are also doing our bit to channelise the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of IT companies for developing the schools’ physical infrastructure,” said Ajith Anirudhan, a member of the forum. Perceptible change He said there had been a perceptible change in the public’s attitude towards government schools, which had received a facelift in terms of physical infrastructure in the past few years. Once the pandemic subsides, My Government School intends to organise more events in Technopark to reach out to more people. Before the lockdown, children used to be brought on field trips to the Technopark campus. The forum also serves as a bridge with other initiatives of Prathidhwani. For instance, on Saturday a group of techies who are part of Varakoottam, Prathidhwani’s forum for arts, were roped in for beautifying the kindergarten classrooms of the Government UP School, Karyavattom. With remote learning in vogue, the collective mobilised funds and distributed 50-odd televisions and 70-odd smartphones to eligible students from government schools near Technopark. “Many members of My Government School had their schooling in government institutions and are aware of its advantages. But somehow, the initiative has not quite taken off in other IT parks,” said Bineesh Nagoorkhani, now PTA president of Government UP School, Karyavattom. Secular upbringing Mr. Anirudhan said that government schools ensured a secular and grounded upbringing. “People need to break free of the ghettoisation engendered by caste and class to see its benefits. They should shed the perception that their children should move among a certain class to dream big and succeed,” he said.  My Government School intends to organise events in Technopark to reach out to more||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technopark-forum-does-its-bit-to-promote-govt-schools/article35390124.ece
18 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man accused of cheating aged women arrested||The Central police on Saturday arrested a man accused of having cheated aged women and duped them of their money and gold ornaments on the promise of securing them loans. The arrested was identified as Mohammed Mustafa, 43, of Kasaragod. He was arrested on a petition filed by a 55-year-old woman. The accused met the petitioner in the city on June 15 and feigned acquaintance claiming that he lived near the place where her daughter was married off to. He then engaged in small chat and in between asked her whether she had applied for the ‘COVID loan’. He said that it was the last date for applying and took her to what she was told was a bank at the High Court promising her to help secure the loan. Before entering the ‘bank’, the accused asked her to handover her gold chain so that bank officials didn’t get the impression that she was rich. He left on the pretext of depositing it at a nearby relative’s shop but didn’t return. Realising that she was taken for a ride, the woman lodged a police complaint. In another petition at the Central station related to an incident on June 19, the accused cheated a 70-year-old woman and made good with Rs. 17,500. He met the petitioner while she was at the treasury to collect her pension. The accused convinced her that he lived near to her place and collected the money on the pretext of a medical emergency on the promise to return it after withdrawing from the bank immediately. The police had zeroed in on the accused quite early in the investigation and had been after him. He was eventually nabbed from Perumbavoor based on a tip-off. He has 15 odd cases against him at Thaliparambu, Kannur, Payyanur, Pazhayangady, Thrissur, and Mangalapuram police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-accused-of-cheating-aged-women-arrested/article35389875.ece
18 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Deeper probe needed in Muringoor rape case, HC told||The Thrissur police have told the Kerala High Court that a detailed and deeper investigation into the Muringoor rape case is needed, considering the seriousness of the offence that allegedly took place four-and-a-half years ago. The submission was made in a report filed by G. Poonguzhali, District Police Chief, Thrissur Rural, on Friday in response to a court directive to report on the progress in the investigation. The court directive came on a petition by the survivor seeking an order to the police to conduct a proper investigation into the case. The report said that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) had been constituted under the Dy.SP, District Crime Branch for probing the case in June 2021. It said the survivor had lodged a complaint with the police early in 2021 alleging that the accused, who was offering spiritual services at the Emperor Emmanuel Church at Muriyad, had entered her house and raped her on July 9, 2016. He had also allegedly threatened her that he would publish her nude photos and videos and had sent abusive messages on her phone. The report said that police had asked the network work providers to give call data record and tower location of the survivor and the accused in the relevant time. But the providers had replied that they preserved the data only for a year. Therefore, the possibility of obtaining the location to prove the presence of the survivor and the accused was very low. Recorded The statement of the survivor’s mother, husband, and the doctor who conducted the medical examination were recorded. The doctor said that no external injury was noticed. Here too no scientific evidence was available to prove the offence, the report said. Hence, the investigation had to rely on circumstantial evidence. In fact, the police were probing the case in a free and fair manner. The report termed baseless the allegations by the survivor that a meeting with the police and accused was held in the presence of high-level religious heads. All the allegations levelled by the survivor against the police were baseless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deeper-probe-needed-in-muringoor-rape-case-hc-told/article35390092.ece
18 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Major infra development in Chellanam mooted||Developing infrastructure for better healthcare and cultural activities, branding fish produced in the village, deploying bioshields to protect the sea coast, and boosting aquaculture are among the major recommendations made by the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) in its interim report on converting Chellanam into a model fishing village as per a programme of the State government. The report was submitted to Minister for Fisheries Saji Cherian on Thursday. The Minister had visited the Kufos Fisheries Station on Puthuvype island to assess the suitability of the centre for establishing an international centre for research on mangroves. KUFOS Vice Chancellor Riji K. John said the report was based on suggestions from people who had demanded steps to mitigate the woes of Chellanam residents. The coastal village has been at the receiving end of serious sea erosion and high waves flooding homes of hundreds of people. The problems have worsened since the Ockhi cyclone hit the shores in December 2017. He said quality fish from the coastal village was high in demand even as there were complaints about the fish available in the market. Dr. John said the final report on the model fishing village would be submitted in four to six weeks. Chellanam needed immediate steps to contain sea erosion and beach nourishment as well as measures to boost traditional fishing, including aquaculture, he added. While KUFOS has suggested a host of measures, construction of seawalls and breakwaters will be left to agencies with expertise, he said. A 100-bed hospital in the coastal village is among the recommendations of the university. Reviving pokkali rice cultivation and helping boost other agricultural crops have also been proposed in the interim report. C. Charles, a fisherman from Chellanam, said he welcomed the recommendations but sought quick action. V.T. Sebastian of Samyukta Samara Samiti, a group demanding immediate steps to protect the coastal village, slammed the delay in implementing earlier recommendations. He said beach nourishment, using dredged material from the Cochin port shipping channel, and using geo textile tubes could help ease the situation as a short-term measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-infra-development-in-chellanam-mooted/article35389871.ece
18 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Making a turnaround in COVID management||Even as the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) continues to hover around 10% in Ernakulam, Poothrikka panchayat in Kunnathunadu Assembly constituency has brought it down below 3%, arguably the lowest across the district. Reigning in the spread of the pandemic was all the more commendable considering that at one point it had the fourth highest TPR in the district. The panchayat had 25 active cases earlier this week, which was 428 in April, 569 in May, and 173 in June with a TPR of 87%, 66%, and 22% respectively. In July, TPR came down from 5.84% to as low as 1.98% this week, while as per the district-wise consolidated figure from last week, the panchayat posted a low TPR of 2.47%. “We launched a targeted effort from May-end and deployed two teams for exhaustive tracing and testing. While one team was deployed at the fever clinic at our primary health centre, the outreach team visited areas where greater spread of the disease was suspected. Rather than random testing to show an acceptable TPR, we identified and tested the symptomatic and their contacts who were religiously tracked down,” said Adarsh Radhakrishnan, medical officer. The team visited shops, companies, and even offices of traders’ associations, which were considered vulnerable, for testing. While the panchayat is conducting antigen tests compared to the more reliable RT-PCR, that lacuna is being made up by sending those with symptoms, despite testing negative in antigen tests, for RT-PCR tests at three government hospitals in the neighbourhood. “The panchayat also introduced two programmes — doctor@doorstep and You Call and We Care. While under the first, a doctor visited infected patients for direct interactions, a panel of 14 doctors residing in the panchayat were empanelled for tele-medicine service under the other programme. These two services also played a significant role in reigning in the pandemic,” said K.K. Sajeev, junior health inspector, Poothrikka. Far from turning complacent, the panchayat remains determined to continue the prevailing tracing and tracking at least till August-end to keep the pandemic in a tight leash.  We launched a targeted effort from May-end and deployed two teams for exhaustive tracing and testing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-a-turnaround-in-covid-management/article35389867.ece
18 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 1,908 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 1,908 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. Nearly 1,877 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 23 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 10.49%. The regions in which positive cases were higher than 30 included Thripunitura (54), Rayamangalam (51), Udayamperoor (43), Cheranalloor (43), Payipra (40), Karukutty (38), Thrikkakara (38), Thevara (38), Maradu (37), Sreemoolanagaram (37), Chengamanad (36), Kothamangalam (34), Elankunnapuzha (33), Kadungalloor (33), Koovapadi (32), and Fort Kochi (32). The regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayavana, Karumaloor, Ramamangalam, Varapuzha, Elanji, Thirumaradi, Thiruvaniyoor, Panayappilli, Pampakuda, Ponekkara, Karuvelippadi, Pothanikad, Manjaloor, Amballur, Panampilly Nagar, Pindimana and Piravom. Around 14,895 persons in the district are under treatment after testing positive, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-reports-1908-fresh-covid-19-cases/article35389878.ece
18 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PCB for study to spot air pollution sources||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has proposed a year-long study to identify the sources and extent of air pollution in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. The recommendation was placed before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on July 14 in the case related to air pollution and related issues in eight cities in the State. A detailed investigation into the sources and extent of air pollution in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram has been proposed as a pilot initiative before extending it to other regions.  Peak period The tribunal had asked the authorities to ascertain the probable peak period and conduct the ambient air quality study. They were also directed to carry out emission inventory of air pollutants and source apportionment studies to ascertain the nature of pollution. An expert committee constituted by the NGT had pointed out that the study to identify the sources and extent of pollution would take at least 15 months, as it included monitoring and air quality modelling. Rs. 2 crore estimate The official representing the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had said that the study would cost nearly Rs. 2 crore depending on factors like the size of the city and its rate of development. The board had informed the tribunal of the time required for carrying out an elaborate research. It proposed that a pilot study be done in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Funding is also a major hurdle, as the board lacks the wherewithal to meet it. A funding pattern where the CPCB will meet 50% of the expenses is on the anvil. The remaining 50% will be met by the State government and the board, it is learnt. The CPCB has already framed a conceptual methodology for carrying out emission inventory and source apportionment studies based on inputs from several organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-suggests-study-to-spot-air-pollution-sources-in-kochi/article35389879.ece
18 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Industries Minister offers support to INJACK||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said that the government is committed to promoting businesses that give thrust to environmental, social and governance aspects on which a fourth of global businesses is focused. During a visit to the Indo Japan Chamber of Commerce Kerala (INJACK) at Kalamassery near here, Mr. Rajeeve offered government support to INJACK in its ventures such as Japan Mela, the formation of a Japan Business Cluster in Kochi and various business meets. The business cluster will focus on areas like shipping and tourism. He said the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (KINFRA) would be asked to associate with INJACK for the formation of Japan Cluster in Kochi to aid businesses. The Minister held talks with Madhu S. Nair, president of INJACK and chairman and managing director of Cochin Shipyard Limited, along with other representatives of INJACK. They urged the State to consider appointing a nodal officer of Japanese origin in Japan to build business relationshipz between Kerala and Japan. The official will have to represent Kerala to facilitate businesses to thrive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industries-minister-offers-support-to-injack/article35389872.ece
18 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||National award for CMFRI scientist||Kajal Chakraborty, principal scientist at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), has won national recognition for his research efforts to develop a series of nutraceutical products from seaweeds to treat lifestyle diseases including diabetes. He bagged the prestigious Norman Borlaug National Award for Excellence in Agricultural Research instituted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, said a communication from CMFRI here on Saturday. The award, given away once in five years, carries a cash prize of Rs. 10 lakh. Besides, the scientist will be given a research grant of Rs. 1.5 crore for carrying out a challenging research project for five years. Dr. Chakraborty’s research achievements involve developing and commercialising nutraceutical products from select seaweeds to combat rheumatoid arthritic pain, type-2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension and hypothyroidism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/national-award-for-cmfri-scientist/article35389870.ece
18 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Personnel on Lakshadweep ships to get preference||Defence and paramilitary personnel travelling home from Lakshadweep or returning for duty on the islands will get first preference while allocating emergency quota tickets for travel on passenger ships operated by the administration. A press release in this regard said that passenger ships were the most widely used and affordable means of transportation other than the regular flight service, to the island chain. The Lakshadweep Administration appointed Assistant Director and Deputy Director (supply and transport) in the Department of Port, Shipping and civil aviation nodal officers for the effective implementation of the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/personnel-on-lakshadweep-ships-to-get-preference/article35389873.ece
18 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Health worker tests positive for Zika||A 34-year-old health worker residing at Vazhakulam has been tested positive for Zika virus. She works in Thiruvananthapuram and had returned home on July 12. Samples were collected on July 14 after she developed symptoms. Tests done at the National Virology Institute’s regional unit in Alappuzha confirmed the infection. An official release said that her condition was stable. Her family members have not shown any symptoms. The health authorities have stepped up measures against mosquito menace in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-worker-tests-positive-for-zika/article35389880.ece
18 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,304 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,304 new cases of COVID-19 and 895 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,299 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include four NRIs and one person from another State. Kollam has a total of 5,956 active cases and 14,467 persons were tested on Saturday. At present, the district has 31,290 persons under observation. Kottayam TPR 10.25% The strict containment measures notwithstanding, the number of fresh cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 890 people testing positive for the virus infection. Of the fresh cases, 887 people including three health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district stood at on the higher side at 10.25%. With 81 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ettumanur , which recorded 57 cases. As many as 525 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 5,309. Meanwhile, 25,513 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Alappuzha TPR 8.75% Alappuzha reported 866 cases on Saturday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 8.75%. Of the new cases, 817 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 49 others remains unknown. Case break-up The 866 cases include 87 logged from Alappuzha, 47 from Mararikulam South, 40 from Cherthala, 31 from Mannancherry, 27 from Thuravoor, 25 from Devikulangara, 22 each from Kuthiathode and Vayalar, 21 from Cherthala South, and 20 each from Bharanikavu, Pathiyoor, and Puliyoor. Meanwhile, 639 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district climbed to 8,847. In Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 500 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of these cases, 497 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.3%. With 27 cases, Kadambanad reported the highest number of cases, followed by Anikkad with 26 cases . The disease, meanwhile, claimed five more lives in the district. With 422 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,602 active cases. ( With contributions from Kottayam, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1304-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article35389962.ece
18 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Essay writing competition winners||District Information Office has declared winners of the essay writing competition for upper primary, high school, and higher secondary students held as part of Reading Week observance. The winners were selected by U.Adhish and Archana Harikumar, assistant professors from Kollam Sree Narayana College and Pandalam NSS College respectively. The prizes will be handed over by District Development Commissioner Asif K. Yusef on July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/essay-writing-competition-winners/article35389959.ece
18 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Interview for guest instructors||The Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Chandanathope, will conduct the interview for the post of guest instructors in painter and lift and escalator mechanic trades on July 23 from 11 a.m. Interested candidates can walk in with original certificates and copies. For details, contact 04742712781, 9446202760.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-for-guest-instructors/article35389960.ece
18 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||River protection council’s works get a boost||The initiatives of the Meenachil River Protection Council (MRPC) received a major boost on Saturday with eminent conservationist Madhav Gadgil kick-starting a crowd-funding initiative on behalf of the conservation group. “My bank advises me that Rs. 25,000 has been credited to your account. If you like you may announce the launch of the crowd-funding drive at tomorrow’s function for installing 100 rain gauges. My suggestion is that you accept even very small donation,” said Mr.Gadgil, officially launching the website and web app prepared by the MRPC. Mr.Gadgil also highlighted the need for the country having a democratically constituted national biodiversity authority . S.Ramachandran, president of MRPC, presided over the event held online.  The MRPC’s web app and website will update the public on the real-time water level, rainfall data and flood risk predictions in the Meenachil river basin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/river-protection-councils-works-get-a-boost/article35389964.ece
18 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Multi-level car parking projects at a standstill in Kozhikode||Proposals for improving the city’s parking facilities are still hanging fire with no considerable progress in the completion of allotted works. Though private agencies in the parking business are cashing in on the laxity, the Kozhikode Corporation and the district administration remain unmoved by the motorists’ plight. Two multi-level car parking projects, one along Railway Station Link Road and another at Kidson Corner, are yet to show any sign of being successfully completed in the near future. The work on the first project near Link Road has been pending for more than five years. The project has been delayed even after the second round of the foundation stone laying ceremony. “Though the project along Link Road was expected to accommodate 700 cars and 800 motorcycles, it could remain a pipe dream,” said Mohammed Rizwan, a trader in the area. He said the wayside space near Link Road had been converted into the biggest illegal parking space in the city in the absence of other options. On S.M. Street With the ban on vehicles on S.M. Street, shop owners and customers are finding it hard to make use of the available private space inside the street. Though one of the major parking grounds on the street is open, the restricted entry from the main entrance continues to be a hurdle for many. A public parking facility in the area has been projected as a solution to the problem. “The plan was to construct a 7,579-sq.-m parking plaza at an estimated cost of Rs. 45.43 crore. Nobody knows the status of that much-hyped proposal now,” said Rajendran Chenakkal, a merchant. He said there was chaos in the area with the illegal parking of vehicles on the wayside. Shortage of funds Meanwhile, some Corporation officials said the shortage of funds had affected the completion of many of the proposed pay-and-park facilities, including the one planned near the EMS Stadium. The pandemic crisis coupled with the funds crunch was derailing many similar infrastructure development projects in the city, they added. At the same time, the delay in the execution of public sector parking facilities has given a fillip to a number of private entrepreneurs in the field. They are now charging hourly-based fares without following official rules. Many operators do not even assure the safety of vehicles in such parking spaces. The call to introduce some uniformity in parking fare has also remained unattended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/multi-level-car-parking-projects-at-a-standstill-in-kozhikode/article35389864.ece
18 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More intake for UG courses a repeat of last year||The decision of the University of Calicut to increase the number of seats for undergraduate (UG) courses in government, aided and unaided colleges for this academic year could be a repeat of what happened last year. Sources, however, said it might come into effect only after the second allotment. The Syndicate passed a resolution to increase the number of seats at its meeting on Friday. An official told The Hindu on Saturday that last year, the Higher Education Department had allowed a rise in intake in arts and science colleges across the State. It was highlighted as an attempt to help students who normally flock to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka for higher studies, but could not do it because of the pandemic. “This time too, it could be portrayed as an achievement of the government rather than an academic exercise. So, the university may wait till an official declaration comes from the Higher Education Minister,” the official pointed out. Normally, seats are hiked in colleges every academic year by a method called ‘marginal increase’, wherein applications are invited from those who are interested in it. Aided and unaided colleges used to benefit from the exercise, and those in the government sector were left out owing to bureaucratic reasons. Since last year, however, there has been no such practice, as the increased seats are given to all colleges before the allotment. Until last year, most colleges had a sanctioned strength of 60 for UG arts and science courses, while a few institutions were permitted to admit more students on the basis of facilities. The number could have gone up by 15 seats or so, and it will go up again this time. In Calicut University, who will benefit from this is anybody’s guess. Of the total 400 colleges affiliated to it, around 300 are in the unaided sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-intake-for-ug-courses-a-repeat-of-last-year/article35389854.ece
18 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID cases cross 2,000-mark again||Fresh COVID-19 cases surged again in Kozhikode district on Saturday when 2,105 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy has urged people to be cautious in the coming three days when lockdown restrictions will be relaxed in view of Bakrid. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayashree, 2,087 cases of local transmission of the infection and 13 others without a known source of infection have been recorded. The daily test positivity rate is 14.42% when 14,821 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 261 locally acquired infections, Olavanna 78, Payyoli 57, Vadakara 52, Koduvally 50, Feroke, Peruvayal and Kodiyathur 44 each, Atholi 43, and Koyilandy, Thalakkulathur, and Nanminda 41 cases each. As many as 1,406 people recovered from the infection. The active caseload in the district rose to 18,440. Mr. Reddy said that overcrowding and mingling would lead to the infection spreading more in Kozhikode. Physical distancing, and use of face masks and hand sanitisers should be enforced by shop owners and staff. He said action would be initiated against those who did not follow the protocol. The police would keep a watch on unnecessary travel and seize vehicles. S.M. Street would be under surveillance. Mr. Reddy urged people to use shops in their own locality and not to travel to other places. Residents of areas where the test positivity rate was above 15% too should remain in their localities, he added.  Jabs for pregnant women ‘Mathrukavacham’, the vaccination drive for pregnant women, began in the district on Saturday and 1,319 persons were given the first dose. The injection would be free at all government hospitals on Wednesdays between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. Registration can be done with the help of ASHA workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-cases-cross-2000-mark-again/article35389856.ece
18 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Say No to Dowry’ campaign launched||Following the directive of the State Police Chief, all the city and rural police stations in Kozhikode district on Saturday hosted an oath taking ceremony under the ‘Say No to Dowry’ campaign. Personnel from over 30 police stations lined up under the Station House Officers to take the oath expressing their commitment to take stringent legal action against the practice of dowry. The district-level oath taking ceremony under the Kozhikode City police took place on the Kozhikode beach at 9.30 a.m. District Police Chief A.V. George administered the oath. Senior officers from various police sub divisions took part in the district-level event. In support of the campaign, awareness vehicle rallies and competitions will be organised within the limits of various police stations in the days to come. The Student Police Cadets and various other volunteer wings of the police will join the drive by spreading the message at the grassroots-level. To comply with the State-level directive, the Station House Officers will directly handle petitions related to dowry and domestic violence. For speedy action, a district-level cell to look into all complaints related to dowry and other related atrocities against women will be formed. The activities of the domestic conflict resolution centres in the city and rural police districts will be expanded. A senior woman police officer will be designated to carry out the operations of the cell. Police officers said the main aim of the cell would be to ensure time-bound solution to all grievances related to dowry. Each police station would open a separate wing to quickly look into such complaints and report the follow-up action taken to their higher authorities, they said. A State-level monitoring facility has also come into effect for the effective supervision of the complaint redressing mechanism. Monthly review meetings will be held to discuss the actions taken on various complaints and the progress of awareness programmes conducted by the Station House Officers. Officials in charge of community policing schemes said the beat officers would be asked to keep an eye on local incidents related to dowry system in their assigned areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/say-no-to-dowry-campaign-launched/article35389866.ece
18 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Supplyco ready for Onam, says Minister||The State government’s call to surrender priority ration cards held by undeserving persons had good response from Kozhikode district, said Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil. Speaking at a district-level online review meeting of Civil Supplies Department and Supplyco officials on Saturday, the Minister said around 1.5 lakh people had voluntarily surrendered their priority ration cards in the district. The Minister said the department was all set to meet additional requirements during the Onam season. He advised officials to actively intervene in the market to ensure timely availability of essential commodities. They were also directed to make preparation for distribution of free Onam food kits and to facilitate door delivery. Supplyco Onam fairs will be held in all Assembly constituencies from mid-August. Officials have been asked not to compromise on the quality or quantity of any product.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-ready-for-onam-says-minister/article35389853.ece
18 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No entry for senior citizens, kids into shops||Entry of senior citizens and children below the age of 10 will be restricted in all shops during the three-day lockdown relaxation in Kozhikode district from Sunday. In a press release here on Saturday, the Kozhikode City Police made it clear that vehicles transporting children and senior citizens to overcrowded shopping centres would be impounded. Similarly, legal action will be taken against shop owners who do not comply with physical distancing norms prescribed for customers, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-entry-for-senior-citizens-kids-into-shops/article35389857.ece
18 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML accuses LDF of diluting Sachar panel recommendations||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of rejecting the Sachar Committee recommendations by rearranging scholarships for Muslims and Christians on the basis of their population. Rejected them “Instead of implementing the Sachar Committee recommendations, which included scholarships to backward Muslim students, the LDF government has diluted them and rejected them in effect,” said IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, and district president Syed Sadikali Shihab Thangal here on Saturday. Mr. Kunhalikutty said the IUML would stick to its stand on the implementation of the Sachar report. “We have no objection in giving aid to Christians and other communities. But it should not be mixed with Sachar,” he added. League leaders said the State government had diluted the recommendations first by forming the Paloli Committee and then by fixing 80:20 ratio for Muslims and Christians in the scholarships. “Our demand is that the benefits due for one community should not be shared for others. We want separate schemes to be devised for other communities,” he said. Instead of devising a separate scheme for Christians, the LDF government shared the benefits for them at 80:20 ratio, he said. “The government is deliberately holding discussions with the potential to create a divide between communities,” said Mr. Kunhalikutty. No divide He added that there was no divide within the United Democratic Front (UDF) over the matter. He said Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan too was of the opinion that both Sachar recommendations and scholarships should be viewed separately. “The IUML view is very clear. We said it in the UDF meeting. We said it in the all-party meeting. And, we gave it in writing to the Chief Minister as well,” said Mr. Kunhalikutty. He said that the IUML would never welcome the government stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-diluting-sachar-panel-recommendations-iuml/article35389858.ece
18 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fake toddy: 13 excise officers suspended||The government on Friday suspended 13 excise officers, including the district head of the Excise Department, in connection with the unearthing of a racket engaged in making fake toddy on a large scale in the district. An investigation conducted by Excise Vigilance SP K. Mohammed Shafi found that the officers had failed in detecting and busting the racket. A State Excise Enforcement Squad had seized 1,435 litres of spirit, 2,000 litres of fake toddy, and Rs. 11.56 lakh from a godown run by an influential toddy shop licensee at Anakkappara, near Vadakkanchery, two weeks ago. Three excise officers had been transferred soon after the seizure. Those suspended for negligence and dereliction of duty on Friday were Deputy Excise Commissioner Shaji S. Rajan, Excise Range Inspector (Nilambur) K.S. Prasobh, Excise Range Inspector (Kuzhalmannam) G. Santhosh Kumar, Excise Range Inspector (Thripunithura) V. Anoop, Assistant Excise Commissioner (Pathanamthitta) Rajasekharan, Preventive Officer M.R. Sujeeb Roy, Excise Inspector A. Shoukathali, Excise Range Inspector (Chittur) Madhu, Preventive Officer (Kochi) Rajkumar, Excise Inspector (Ernakulam) Krishnan Nair, Preventive Officers (Anti-Narcotic Cell, Palakkad) T.J. Jayakumar and R. Vinod Kumar, and Civil Excise Officer P.B. Ratheesh. Raided The excise vigilance wing had raided several houses in connection with the seizure of fake toddy. Many incriminating documents establishing the complicity of excise officers in the illegal toddy making were seized in the raids. It was found that the officers had helped the fake toddy racket for years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-toddy-13-excise-officers-suspended/article35390095.ece
18 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Germany denies permit over vaccine certificate||A senior citizen from here going to Frankfurt, Germany, was sent back from the Cochin international airport on Tuesday after the German emigration wing objected to the lack of clarity in the vaccination certificates issued by both the Union and State governments. V. Jayarajan, a retired civil engineer, was denied travel permit as his vaccination certificates did not have his date of birth and the dates of both doses. The certificates being issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the State Department of Health and Family Welfare give the name and age of the beneficiary, but not the date of birth. Neither do they have the dates of both vaccine doses. While the State certificate has the date of the certificate approval, the Centre’s certificate has only the date of the final (second) vaccination. The latest German visa norms permit passengers with a COVID-19 vaccination certificate for two doses that should include personal data such as first and last name, date of birth, date of vaccination, number of doses, and the name of vaccine. “The German liaison officer refused to accept my COVID-19 certificates because they did not have the date of birth and the dates of vaccination,” said Mr. Jayarajan. “I was going to join my daughter in Germany, whom I have not met for years,” said Mr. Jayarajan. If he gets to travel again after meeting the German requirements, he will have to pay the airline a penalty of Rs. 12,000 and the fare difference. Air India version However, Air India officials at the airport said that they were yet to get an update from the German authorities about permitting travel for different visa categories. “We get such updates every fortnight. At present, we do not have any information about allowing short-term visitors with COVID-19 certificates,” said an Air India official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/germany-denies-permit-over-vaccine-certificate/article35389887.ece
18 July 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||‘Sediments’ delay Jawan rum production||The production of Jawan rum, a popular brand of liquor produced by the State-owned Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited (TSCL), has once again landed in a crisis after a sample test confirmed the presence of sediments in the liquor blend. Excise officials said the blend was certified not fit for human consumption during a sample test carried out at the Chemical Examiner’s Laboratory, Thiruvananthapuram. Following this, the department directed the factory unit to filter the blend and get the samples tested once again. “The presence of sediments was identified in about 1.75 lakh litres of the blend, kept in three tanks inside the factory. It could be permitted for bottling only on completion of the due process,” said Venugopala Kurup, Deputy Commissioner of Excise, Pathanamathitta. Spirit theft case The issue, meanwhile, has further delayed the full-scale operation of the factory, which faced a temporary closure earlier this month following a spirit theft case. Though the authorities brought in a qualified chemist from outside to resume operations and completed the bottling of its existing stock, the TSCL is yet to commence production of fresh liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sediments-delay-jawan-rum-production/article35389963.ece
18 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two Suffragan Metropolitans for Mar Thoma Church||An episcopal synod of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church has decided to appoint two senior bishops as Suffragan Metropolitans. An official statement from the church on Friday said Euyakim Mar Coorilos (left in photo) and Joseph Mar Barnabas would be installed as Suffragan Metropolitans at a function to be held in the Poolatheen Chapel, headquarters of the Church in Thiruvalla on Sunday. Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan, will lead the installation ceremonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-suffragan-metropolitans-for-mar-thoma-church/article35389886.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||People’s campaign to get students phones||The government is launching a people’s campaign to ensure digital equipment for all students, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He said here on Saturday that the government was trying to ensure that all children could participate in the class independently, for which, each would need digital equipment. The actual numbers The first step was to record how many students in each school had digital equipment and how many required it. School committees led by parent-teacher associations (PTA) had been tasked with it. The number of students in need of equipment would be uploaded on a portal. In accordance with the need, equipment or money could be contributed. Corporate social responsibility funds could be used for this. The portal would also have the facility to submit projects for utilising CSR funds. To receive contributions, a Chief Minister’s Educational Empowerment Fund would be set up as a sub-component of the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). All tribal children without digital equipment would be provided with it. Connectivity issues would be addressed through talks with service providers. Children and their parents would be given training in how to use the equipment through the learning centres in hamlets. Families that did not have money to buy equipment right away could take interest-free loans offered by cooperative banks. The Kerala State Financial Enterprises had announced a scheme earlier, and other banks too were ready to provide help, the Chief Minister said. Collective effort All this would be possible through effective interventions by the PTAs. Local residents, former students, local self-government institutions, people’s representatives, libraries and clubs, and activists could come together to address the problems of students unable to buy equipment at the school level itself, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peoples-campaign-to-get-students-phones/article35389891.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Satheesan draws flak from IUML||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Saturday seemed to draw criticism from the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for suggesting that the government’s restructuring of the merit-cum-means minority scholarship ratio as per the 2011 Census had not disadvantaged Muslim students. Mr. Satheesan said the amended award had not caused ‘any loss’ to the Muslim community. Instead, the government had brought educationally disadvantaged Latin Catholic and converted Christian communities under the endowment’s ambit. Cong. turnaround However, he seemed to flip-flop on the issue hours after IUML leader E.T. Mohammad Basheer, MP, said Mr. Satheesan was wrong. Mr. Satheesan stated later that the current scholarship allocation had cost the Muslim community dearly. The Sachar committee had proposed a scholarship scheme exclusively for Muslim students. Loss for Muslims: IUML Mr. Basheer said Muslims had traditionally received 100% of the scholarship reserved for minority community students. The V.S. Achuthanandan government in 2011 interfered with the award. It brought Latin Catholics and converted Christians under the ambit of the exclusively Muslim student scholarship. Subsequently, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government whittled down the scholarship for Muslim students from 100% to 80%. (The High Court had found the 80:20 allocation heavily loaded in favour of the Muslim community. It ordered the government to rectify the ‘anomaly’ as per the 2011 Census data.) As per the revised ratio, the minority scholarship quota for Christians is 18.38%, Muslim 26.56%, Buddhists 0.01%, Jain 0.01%, and Sikh 0.01%. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan accused the IUML leadership of attempting to cause communal disharmony by raking up a non-issue. The current allocation would not infringe on the education reservation benefits enjoyed by Muslims or other communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-draws-flak-from-iuml/article35389890.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange, yellow alerts in districts||The southwest monsoon rainfall is likely to strengthen over Kerala in the days ahead, weather forecasts indicate. Heavy rainfall is likely in central and northern districts and some southern districts, according to a Saturday evening weather update from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD has put Kasaragod on orange alert on July 18 due to the possibility of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall. Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert on July 19. Orange alert has been issued for Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Malappuram and Kozhikode on July 20 and 21, and Ernakulam and Palakkad on July 21. Several central and northern districts are on yellow alert on these days as well. With the revival of the monsoon, the rainfall deficit in Kerala has reduced to 28% (June 1-July 17 rainfall). Kerala and Mahe have received 20% excess rainfall in the one week from July 8 to July 14. The region is likely to receive widespread rainfall for the rest of July. Fishers have been advised against setting out to sea on Sunday in view of likely strong winds along the Kerala coast. High waves are likely along the Kerala coast till Sunday night, the Indian National Centre for Ocean Studies (INCOIS) has warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-yellow-alerts-in-districts/article35389896.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Air Chief addresses SAC Commanders’ Conference||The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, has underscored the need for the Indian Air Force (IAF) to remain ever-prepared to fulfil its operational mandate. The IAF Chief was in the city for a two-day visit from July 15 for the Commanders’ Conference at the Southern Air Command (SAC). Addressing the SAC commanders, he expressed satisfaction at the swift operationalisation of newly-inducted assets under the SAC, particularly the LCA Tejas and Su-30 MKI squadrons, a defence spokesperson said. The IAF chief also appreciated the efforts of the SAC in fast-tracking infrastructure initiatives and undertaking tasks of operational significance within its area of responsibility. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, SAC, received the IAF Chief on his arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-chief-addresses-sac-commanders-conference/article35390127.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Higher education council calls for State policy on research||The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has recommended to the government the formulation and implementation of a State policy on academic research to create a research culture and an environment conducive for research. The advisory body also called for the modification of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations to address the problem of shortage of research guides and, thereby, enhance seats for PhD programmes. A six-member expert panel chaired by council executive body member J. Rajan, which studied the problems of researchers in the State, observed that the decision — by adopting UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil/PhD degrees) Regulations, 2016 — to disallow retired faculty from being research supervisors had adversely affected research in State universities. While the superannuation age for university and college teachers in Kerala is 60 and 56 respectively, it is 65 in many other States. Besides, the faculty in Central universities have an opportunity to become Emeritus Professor and thereby receive an extension of five years. The panel opined research pursuit, and not retirement age, should be the criteria while permitting research supervisors to guide scholars. They also urged the Central government to enhance financial support to spur research and innovation. Centres of Excellence While welcoming the State government’s intention to establish 30 Centres of Excellence in State universities, the council urged both the Centre and the State to develop provisions for bringing mandatory industry-university interface for research. The curriculum of universities should be suitably designed to enhance such linkages. The KSHEC also advocated strengthening research directorates in universities to coordinate academic research and reduce delay in research-related procedures. The council also flagged the lack of uniform procedure in governing various activities, including admission, commencement and tenure of research, and fellowship. Finding that the inordinate delay in the distribution of research fellowships and scholarships has affected many researchers, the expert panel urged the State government to adopt immediate steps to streamline the procedure for their disbursal, similar to the system implemented for the direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes.  Teaching grants In a bid to ensure financial independence among researchers, the council also recommended providing them teaching or research assistant grants to cover their fees and subsistence requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/higher-education-council-calls-for-state-policy-on-research/article35390121.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||16,148 new cases in State||Kerala reported 16,148 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,50,108 samples were tested over 24 hours. The results also include those of the two-day augmented testing in the State on Thursday and Friday. The test positivity rate, which has continued to remain steady at 10-11% for weeks, was 10.76% on Saturday. The State’s active case pool continues to rise, as it has been for the past two weeks and now has 1,24,779 patients, with 13,197 recoveries reported on the day. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 15,269, with the State adding 114 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. On Saturday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,079, taking the total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals to 24,812. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients dipped on Saturday to 1,878, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 673. Most in Kozhikode Among districts, Kozhikode reported the highest number of new cases at 2,105, followed by Malappuram 2,033, Ernakulam 1,908, Thrissur 1,758, Kollam 1,304, Palakkad 1,140, Kannur 1,084, Thiruvananthapuram 1,025, Kottayam 890, Alappuzha 866, Kasaragod 731, Pathanamthitta 500, Wayanad 494, and Idukki 310.  13,197 people recover, TPR at 10.76%   13,197 people recover on Saturday Active case pool rises to 1,24,779||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16148-new-cases-in-state/article35389889.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Norms set for opening of learning centres||The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, (SSK) has directed that its local resource centres in tribal hamlets called ‘Ooru Vidya Kendrams’ be opened in consultation with respective local bodies if the COVID-19 situation there is conducive to provide learning support to tribal children. The Samagra Shiksha has 48 Ooru Vidya Kendrams across the State at present. These centres were started not only to address the learning backwardness of tribal children but also improve their socialisation outside their habitat. This lack of socialisation makes them reluctant to attend school. Tribal parents also go for work early in the morning, leaving behind children who may skip school. Seasonal migration by children to work during harvest and access to money also contribute to the high rate of absenteeism. House visits When schools are open, the education volunteers posted by the Samagra in the hamlets, often those who have completed SSLC or higher secondary education and belonging to the tribe itself, go around visiting houses in the morning to ensure children have gone for school, and impress the need for schooling on parents. In the evening, the volunteers call children to the Vidya Kendrams and provide learning support, and encourage activities that promote socialisation. During the pandemic, learning support continues to be provided at these centres, though household visits in the morning to prevent absenteeism have been put on hold. Ten children are summoned to the centres in the evening to provide academic support. If there are more than 10, another centre is opened, says C. Radhakrishnan, State Programme Officer (Innovations), SSK. The centres were functioning since October last year till the second wave-induced lockdown. Now, that the restrictions are being eased, the Samagra Shiksha has directed that these be reopened as per the local COVID-19 situation in compliance with health protocols.  Access to TV More time can be spent by the children at these centres as they are relatively free during the day. In Wayanad, all centres have been equipped with television so that the children can attend digital classes there.  Mr. Radhakrishnan says many districts have been demanding opening of more Ooru Vidya Kendrams that focus primarily on checking absenteeism and reducing learning backwardness of tribal children. A few hamlets have tribal learning centres that focus on reducing the number of dropouts among schoolchildren.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-set-for-opening-of-learning-centres/article35390131.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||G. Aravindan’s Kummatty to be restored to its original glory||Filmmaker G. Aravindan’s 1979 film Kummatty , which has lost its rich palette of colours over the years, is set to be restored to its original glory through an international restoration project. The Film Foundation’s (TFF) World Cinema Project, a programme created by filmmaker Martin Scorsese in 2007, the Film Heritage Foundation and Italy-based Cineteca di Bologna are collaborating to restore the film. The film will be restored at the L’Immagine Ritrovata lab in Bologna, Italy, and will have its world restoration premiere at the Il Cinema Ritrovato festival late July. “Aravindan was a visionary director and Kummatty is considered among his greatest works. The Film Foundation’s World Cinema Project will share this film with the wider audience it deserves, making it a true cinematic discovery,” said TFF founder and chair Martin Scorsese. NFAI nod Filmmaker Shivendra Singh Dungarpur, director, Film Heritage Foundation, travelled to Kollam to meet K. Ravindranathan Nair of General Pictures, the producer of five of Aravindan’s films, including Kummatty . He agreed to give permission for the restoration and for the team to access the prints from the National Film Archive of India. The NFAI gave them both prints for the lab to check the elements. “Ever since I first worked with The Film Foundation on the restoration of Uday Shankar’s Kalpana (1948) in 2012, I have seen how beautifully and respectfully they have been restoring films and giving them a new life... Aravindan’s films have been on the top of the list not just because he is a master, but one who I feel has not gotten the recognition he deserves and whose films sadly are not in circulation. It broke my heart when I learned that all the original camera negatives of his films are lost and all we have are prints, that too not in the best condition,” said Mr. Dungarpur.  Kummatty , winner of the Kerala State Film Award for the Best Children’s Film in 1979, tells the story of a Pied Piper-like character who materialises in the village one day mingling with the children and weaving a spell of carefree abandon. He casts a spell and turns the children into animals. One boy, Chindan, is transformed into a dog, but misses the moment when the other children are turned back to human form and has to wait a year for Kummatty to reverse the spell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/g-aravindans-kummatty-to-be-restored-to-its-original-glory/article35389894.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GTech launches digital platform for students||The Group of Technology Companies (GTech) recently launched Mu Learn, an industry-enabled digital platform for peer learning to nurture students with necessary expertise in the IT industry right from the college days. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu formally inaugurated the project being undertaken by the industry body of IT companies in Kerala with a view to bridging the industry-academia gap. The programme also marked the World Youth Skills Day. The Academy and Technology Focus Group (ATFG), under GTech, has formed a platform comprising leading IT companies, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU), Kerala University, Digital University Kerala (DUK), ICT Academy and colleges across the State. New requirements The platform will facilitate the academia to understand the advanced requirements and innovative technologies of the industrial sector. Upskilling programmes will be also planned and implemented accordingly, according to a press note. Diverse opportunity As part of the technology-driven initiative, training and faculty development programmes will also be provided to college teachers and students. Through Mu Learn, students will get the opportunity to network, acquire and demonstrate their skills with the help of mentors and industry leaders. K-DISC chairman K.M. Abraham, Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) managing director Usha Titus, Kerala IT Parks and Startup Mission chief executive officer John M. Thomas, DUK Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath, KTU Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S., ICT Academy chief executive officer Santhosh Kurup, UST chief operating officer Alexander Varghese, GTech chairman Sunil Jose, ATFG convener Deepu S. Nath, Ernst & Young India operations director Richard Antony, Tata Elxsi centre head V. Sreekumar and Genpro Research chief executive officer Anoop Ambika also participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gtech-launches-digital-platform-for-students/article35390132.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: heightened disease transmission in State||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that a situation of heightened disease transmission was continuing in the State and that restrictions were imperative to tide over the ongoing COVID-19 scenario. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Pinarayi said the State was able to control disease transmission to a certain extent only because of the restrictions on civil life in place. He said the State’s test positivity rate (TPR) had remained at 10%-11% after the epidemic curve plateaued as the State was adopting the method of targetted testing. When more tests were done amongst people who were symptomatic or were the primary contacts of known cases, the chances of finding positive cases were more. This would mean that the TPR would remain high, he said. Third wave The State was trying to overcome the second wave by strengthening containment measures, strictly implementing COVID protocols and increasing vaccination pace. If the general public adopted a more careful attitude in maintaining safety precautions, the third wave could be prevented, he said. If vaccination continued at the present pace, in another two to three months, 60%-70 % of the eligible population could be administered the vaccine, bringing the State closer to the goal of herd immunity, Mr. Vijayan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heightened-disease-transmission-in-state-cm/article35389972.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,025 more test positive||The district recorded 1,025 COVID-19 cases and 1,112 recoveries on Saturday as the active caseload fell to 9,677. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 7.1%. While 945 cases were attributed to contact transmission, two health-care workers were among those infected. As many as 31,727 people were currently in quarantine in the district. The COVID-19 death toll rose by 15, to touch 3,076. The General Hospital (GH) here has resumed non-COVID-19 treatment, since it was designated a COVID-19 hospital in August last. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu said separate entrances to the hospital would be demarcated for COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients to minimise the possibility of disease transmission. Wards 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, FS, MS and KHRWS pay wards on the western side of the hospital will be reserved for COVID-19 patients, while the wards 1, 10 and 11, and the surgical blocks on the eastern side will be utilised for the others. Specific days Specific days have also been allotted for the outpatient wings (OP) as follows: medicine and surgery OPs on all days except Sundays; respiratory medicine OP on Monday, Tuesday and Friday; Swas clinic on Monday; ENT, ophthalmology and orthopaedic on Monday, Wednesday and Friday; dermatology and dental on Tuesday and Thursday and mental health OP on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1025-more-test-positive/article35390134.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala to manufacture drugs, medical devices||Kerala will explore the possibility of indigenous manufacture of drugs and medical consumables required for the State. The decision was taken at a joint meeting of the Health and Industries Departments on Saturday. The meeting had been called to ensure that the State had adequate supplies of PPE kits, surgical gloves, masks and other consumables in all its hospitals in anticipation of a third COVID-19 wave. The meeting, led by Health Minister Veena George and Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, decided to form a committee, including the Principal Secretaries of both departments, the managing directors of the Kerala Medical Services Corporation and Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals, for taking the proposal ahead. Ms. George pointed out that it would be a great achievement for the State if the medical safety devices and consumables required for the State’s health sector could be manufactured in-house. Kerala did face a situation of shortage of many consumables used in hospitals during the second wave. The State was trying to prevent a similar situation. The Industries Department was in the process of setting up a medical equipment and devices park to ensure the availability of the same for the State’s health sector. Quality assurance would be maintained and the government would go ahead with the proposal ensuring the cooperation of both departments at all levels, Mr. Rajeeve said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-to-manufacture-drugs-medical-devices/article35389883.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. resolves to set up digital facility for students||A meeting chaired by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has decided to turn the city Corporation into a local body having online study facilities for all students by July 31. School-level committees have been convened to prepare lists of students without access to online facilities and provide them smartphones or tablets. The Minister has instructed the schools that have not yet convened such committees to prepare the list immediately. School managements have been asked to seek the help of private firms, public sector institutions, co-operatives and others to ensure that the facilities are provided to all students. Mr. Sivankutty lauded the councillors from various parties for supporting the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-resolves-to-set-up-digital-facility-for-students/article35390136.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Word of caution from CM||The State should remain alert in the days ahead given the likelihood of a low pressure area taking shape in the Bay of Bengal by July 21, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Saturday. Low pressure formations in the Bay of Bengal during the monsoon season could trigger heavy rainfall over Kerala, he said, adding the intense rainfall in recent years had coincided with the appearance of such weather systems. ‘Being monitored’ The IMD and the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority were closely monitoring the developments in the Bay region. The government machinery had been directed to complete preparations necessary for tackling emergencies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/word-of-caution-from-cm/article35389897.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. starts disbursal of NULM loans||Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran on Friday inaugurated the distribution of loans under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) to women entrepreneurs in the individual and group categories. The Corporation had earlier submitted loan applications to 36 bank branches based on applications received from 70 individuals and 40 groups, drawn from four Kudumbashree Community Devleopment Societies (CDS). On Friday, loans were provided to 27 applicants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-starts-disbursal-of-nulm-loans/article35390122.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Promotion’ of MTech graduates flayed||The Save University Campaign Committee has protested against the purported move of the Higher Education Department to appoint teachers who obtained MTech degrees through weekend courses as principals of polytechnic colleges. The organisation cautioned that government that the decision would affect the quality of technical education in the State. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has mandated MTech as a criterion for promotions to the posts of department heads and principals of government and aided polytechnic colleges as well as joint directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/promotion-of-mtech-graduates-flayed/article35390125.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Encyclopaedia of laws to be released soon||The State Institute of Encyclopaedic Publications (SIEP) is coming out with an encyclopaedia of laws in Malayalam which attempts to throw light on important laws of the past and present and legal science subjects. Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian will release the 640-page ' Niyamavijnanakosham ' soon. The fourth in a series of theme-based encyclopaedias published by the SIEP, the encyclopaedia contains nearly 1,000 articles on the legal system and legal science, and covers national, international and State laws and legal institutions. Priced at Rs. 840, the encyclopaedia starts off with an article on the All India Services Act, 1951, and closes with a biographical sketch of Hugo Grotius, the 17th century Dutch jurist and scholar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encyclopaedia-of-laws-to-be-released-soon/article35390130.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on police: 1 held||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police, which have been involved in a combing operation for those involved in the attack on the Neyyar Dam police, have arrested one person. The Neyyar Dam police arrested Aman (19) of Kulathummal in Kattakada from the forests near Kottoor with the assistance of forest officials. The accused is allegedly a member of the gang that injured a civil police officer during a confrontation with a police patrol party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-police-1-held/article35390135.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEAM admit cards ready||The office of the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations has started distributing admit cards for the KEAM entrance exam scheduled on August 5. The cards can be downloaded fromwww. cee.kerala.gov.in. Call 0471 2525300 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keam-admit-cards-ready/article35389892.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trains cancelled||Two trains have been cancelled and one rescheduled on July 18 due to the disruption caused by the landslip at Padil-Kulsekhara in the Thokur-Mangaluru section. Kochuveli-Lokmanya Tilak terminus biweekly special (06164) and Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak terminus daily special (06346) have been cancelled and Kochuveli-Porbandar weekly special (09261) has been rescheduled to leave Kochuveli at 7.15 p.m. (late by 10 hours) on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-cancelled/article35389898.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police to intensify vigil during 3-day relaxation||With the State set to enter a three-day relaxed phase of restrictions starting Sunday on account of Bakrid, the police are set to intensify vigil to ensure the guidelines are strictly complied so that the festivities do not lead to a spike in COVID-19 caseload. State Police Chief Anil Kant issued instructions to District Police Chiefs to enforce physical distancing and other basic COVID-19 norms amid the relaxations. In view of the government permitting a maximum of 40 people in places of worship, the District Police Chiefs, Deputy Superintendents of Police, and station house officers have been directed to constantly liaison with religious leaders and representatives of various communities to ensure the guidelines are met. According to the police, discussions must also be held with traders’ representatives stressing on the need to implement COVID-19 norms in shops. Special focus Special focus must be given for local bodies that come under the C and D categories. Announcements will also be made to ensure the public cooperate with physical distancing norms without fail. While maximum deployment will be made throughout the period, beat patrol, mobile patrol, and women police motorcycle patrol units, will also be deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-intensify-vigil-during-relaxed-phase-of-curbs/article35389874.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Five more Zika cases in district||Five more lab-confirmed cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection were reported in the capital district on Saturday, taking the total number of ZIKV cases reported in the State to 35. The cases reported on Saturday were from Palkulangara, Perunthanni, Balaramapuram and Nedumcaud. One of the cases reported was that of a health worker, a native of Vazhakkulam in Ernakaulam district, working in the capital. The tests were carried out at the virology lab at Thiruvananthapuram, NIV lab at Alappuzha and another private lab at Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-more-zika-cases/article35389973.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram/Thrissur,KERALA||Chicken prices skyrocket in State||Hotels in the State have threatened to take chicken off the menu if the government does not intervene to check surging prices. Chicken prices had nearly doubled in two weeks, the Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) said, alleging that lobbies in other States were trying to create an artificial scarcity of chicken in Kerala to drive up prices. The price of broiler chicken in the State has reached Rs. 150-160 a kg. The KHRA said that 80% of the chicken sold in the State was to hotels. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, hotels are allowed only parcel delivery. Already struggling to recover costs, the hotels had been hit hard by the soaring chicken prices. If the prices continued to shoot up, hotels would be forced to drop chicken dishes from the menu, it said. G. Jayapal, general secretary, KHRA, said wholesale dealers who monopolised the business in neighbouring States were slashing production to hike prices. “We want the government to increase production within the State to become self-reliant and prevent such price fluctuations," he said. Supply disruption T.P. Sethumadhavan, former director, Entrepreneurship, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, however, attributed the price rise to lockdown disruptions, demand-supply mismatch and increase in cost of production. “Due to continuous lockdown and disruption in the supply chain, more than 50 % of the broiler growers and entrepreneurs, especially those running small farms, temporarily closed their business,” he said. S.K. Naseer, general secretary, All Kerala Poultry Federation, said the boycott of chicken dishes was impractical as chicken was the main ingredient in several dishes. "The production cost for 1 kg of chicken is slightly less than Rs. 100. But if it sells for Rs. 55 or Rs. 60 a kg, how would they survive?" he asked. The increase in cost of feed and transportation had also made an impact on prices. The government, Mr. Naseer said, should declare a base price for chicken so that farmers were not left in the lurch in case of decline in prices. The State’s share in the poultry business was also very low, unlike other governments such as that of Telangana. Poultry factories should be set up in all districts, he pointed out. High fuel prices Vinod John, managing director, Kerala State Poultry Development Corporation (Kepco), said the prices of soya and maize, main ingredients in poultry feed, were high. Combined with high labour and fuel prices, the cost of production of feed had increased, leading to a rise in market price. Feed was also difficult to come by in the market. Dr. Sethumadhavan feels that the current price hike may continue till the next harvest season when the price of raw material for feed declines. The emerging festival seasons, including Bakrid, will favour consumer demand for chicken, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hoteliers-threaten-to-take-chicken-off-menu-as-price-spirals/article35389966.ece
18 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Anayoottu’ at Vadakkunnathan temple||Anayootu, Astadravya Maha Ganapathy Homam, and Gaja Puja were held at the Sree Vadakkunnathan temple, here, on Saturday, the first day of Karkadakom month. Astadravya Maha Ganapathy Homam was held at 5 a.m. Gaja Puja, led by Tantri Pulayannur Sankaranarayanan Namboodiri, started at 8 a.m., and was held for all the elephants that participated in the function. The ceremony is held once in four years. Rice balls, fruits Anayoottu started at 9 a.m. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan inaugurated the ceremony by giving rice balls to elephants. Elephant Variyath Jayarajan was fed first. Fifteen elephants took part in the low-key ceremony, in which, on normal occasions, 50-odd elephants participate. Public were not allowed to the venue in the wake of COVID-19 restrictions. Elephants were given rice balls, fruits, and vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anayoottu-at-vadakkunnathan-temple/article35390090.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cleaning up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleaning-up/article35389882.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest meeting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-meeting/article35389968.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rustic fair||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rustic-fair/article35389970.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In focus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-focus/article35390129.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Counteraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counteraction/article35390138.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Having their fill||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/having-their-fill/article35389900.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Better connectivity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/better-connectivity/article35390097.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||No change in leadership: Yediyurappa||Amidst speculations over his “offer to resign” and possible leadership change by the month-end, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday vehemently dismissed them all as baseless rumours. Speaking at Delhi and later in Bengaluru on reports in a section of the media that he had offered to resign during his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, he said: “Not at all...there is no truth to it.” He insisted that “not a word was discussed on the issue” with central leaders during his two-day Delhi visit. The Chief Minister had laughed off questions from media persons about leadership change as he came out of his meeting with Mr. Modi on Friday night. However, Saturday saw him battling persistent speculations that he had offered to resign. Unable to get an appointment with Home Minister Amit Shah, he had left for the airport, only to be called back by Mr. Shah, adding to speculations in Delhi. He had earlier met party president J.P. Nadda and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Political circles were abuzz with talk that leadership change would be affected in the State after July 26, the day Mr. Yediyurappa completes two years in office. Minutes after returning home from Delhi, the Chief Minister announced a legislature party meeting, a long-standing demand by dissidents, on July 26, triggering further speculations. However, answering a question on his continuation as the Chief Minister, he said: “The issue of leadership change was not discussed. As you know, some leaders have been talking against me. Nobody in Delhi asked me about that. Like I have said before there are many leaders in the party, but for now the party has given me the opportunity to serve the people and I will continue to do so.” Mr. Yediyurappa said the party high command had assigned him the task of bringing the party back to power in the State in 2023 Assembly polls and win more seats in 2024 parliamentary polls, for which he said he would work tirelessly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-change-in-leadership-yediyurappa/article35389565.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka does not need a population law: experts||Voices seeking a stringent population control policy through legislation — on the lines of the proposed laws in Uttar Pradesh and Assam — seem to be growing among other BJP-ruled states, including Karnataka. Senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi have batted for a law on the lines of the one in Uttar Pradesh. However, the proposal has met with opposition from population science experts, activists and political opposition alike, who argue that ‘coercive’ legislation often backfires. Moreover, they say, such a legislation is unnecessary given the trends in population in Karnataka. The Total Fertility Rate (TFR) — average number of children a woman would have in the course of her life — of Karnataka stands at 1.7 as per the recent National Family Health Survey-5, 2019-20, much below the replacement levels of 2.1, the rate at which the population replaces itself. It has steadily declined from 2.8 in NFHS-1, 1990-92 to 1.7 in NFHS- 5. No coercive legislations T.V. Sekher, Professor and Head, Department of Population Policies and Programmes, International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai, argued against any coercive legislation to control population. He said we need to learn from the experience of China and the country during the Emergency in the 1970s, both of which ‘failed’. The Chinese experience has shown that such coercive measures led to abortions, forced sterilisations and an alarming levels of female foeticide pushing the country into a population crisis — dwindling workforce, rapidly growing aged populations, and highly imbalanced sex ratio, he said. Dr. Sekher said TFR was coming down and was near replacement levels in most regions except in States like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where too it was on the decline in the last decade. He pointed out that Karnataka had a long history in successful family planning programmes. “It is relevant to note that it was the progressive princely Mysore state which opened the first government run family planning centre in the world in 1930,” he said. Population Foundation of India, a Delhi-based NGO working on demographic issues, while opposing any coercive law, pointed out that not only was the TFR of the State lower than replacement levels, data from NFHS-5 showed that the desired fertility rate — the average number of children women of reproductive age desire to have — was even lower at 1.38. “The State, therefore, needs to expand the basket of contraceptive choices,” the foundation said in a statement. Kannada activists have also opposed the proposal, arguing when the TFR of the State was below replacement levels, it only hurts the State’s interests if curtailed further. “Ideally, the Centre must not give targets to States to achieve TFR below replacement levels,” said Anand G., of Banavasi Balaga, a Kannada activists forum. Tax devolution Given population is the main criterion for tax devolution and political representation, there are other concerns too. “Given that the reduction in TFR is not spatially uniform across States, there was a consensus to consider 1971 census data for tax devolution and parliamentary seats delimitation. But the incumbent government has broken that consensus during the 15th Finance Commission, taking the 2011 census as the base, and is feared to do the same in the upcoming delimitation exercise in 2026. If that happens, States that have performed well over the past decades in population control to achieve the national objective will be unfairly punished,” said Congress legislator Krishna Byre Gowda, former representative of the State to the GST Council. Mr. Byre Gowda said the proposal championed in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh was nothing but a “dog whistle” to communalise the issue. “When our TFR is below replacement levels, what is the point in bringing a two-child policy? Voluntarily people of our State are having less than two children,” he argued. Meanwhile, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai has tried to strike a balance. He told media persons recently that such a policy must be backed by data and can only be considered after detailed deliberations with experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-does-not-need-a-population-law-experts/article35389341.ece
18 July 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Readers discuss news coverage at The Hindu’s virtual open house||The virtual Open House, an interactive session with the readers hosted by The Hindu on Saturday, served as a platform for readers from different regions to exchange their views on news coverage and the impact of digital media. Moderated by Readers’ Editor A.S. Panneerselvan, the meeting had many participants who gave their suggestions about news coverage and the areas that could be improved. Alan Herbert, one of the readers, felt the newspaper must balance between positive and negative news. He noted that the sports pages had more “positive” news. Responding, Editor of The Hindu Suresh Nambath said the newspaper does not segregate news as “good and bad news”. But it presents news that is in the public interest. “We have news that highlight achievements and point out deficiencies in policies so that corrective measures are taken by those in power,” he said. Many participants, who introduced themselves as ardent readers of The Hindu , appreciated the newspaper for its authentic news coverage. Some of them, including Arun Jee from Patna and Simon from Bengaluru, suggested that more space be allotted for regional and local news. There were also queries and suggestions on content in the Sunday Magazine and supplements and change in the font size and look of the newspaper. While some readers wanted a creative writing section to be started, some participants wanted pocket cartoons to be revived. To a question from George Mathew, a reader from Kerala who wanted to know how the newspaper manages “irrational commands from those in power and minimise sensational news,” the Editor said the newspaper does not yield to pressure from those in power or the advertisers. On Abishek Bisnoi’s query on extensive coverage about cricket in sports pages, it was pointed out that this reflected readers’ interest and that the newspaper also covered other sports as well. The readers were told that all suggestions would be taken up with the editorial team for discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/readers-discuss-news-coverage-at-the-hindus-virtual-open-house/article35389350.ece
18 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja dropped as APIIC chief||In a significant move, the YSR Congress Party government on Saturday nominated Mettu Govinda Reddy as chairperson of the Andhra Pradesh Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APIIC), dropping Nagari MLA R.K. Roja from the post. When the YSRCP formed the government in 2019, it was widely expected that Ms. Roja would be inducted into the State cabinet, but after a long-drawn suspense, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had accommodated her as the APIIC chairperson. In the recent municipal elections, Ms. Roja’s leadership suffered a setback with surfacing of rebel candidates in several wards of Puttur and Nagari municipalities, though her sway prevailed at last. The appointment of Shanti Kumar, former municipal chief of Nagari, as chairperson of the State Eediga corporation last year, had come as a shock to the supporters of Ms. Roja. At this juncture, the latest development of replacing Ms. Roja with a new face for the APIIC has turned into a hot topic among the party circles. However, senior cadres maintained that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had only followed the one-post norm to do justice to multiple sections. Meanwhile, senior party leader M.C. Vijayananda Reddy was appointed the chairman of the APSRTC Nellore zone. Mr. Reddy, who wields influence in GD Nellore, Puthalapattu and Chittoor Assembly constituencies, had served for the victory of the party candidates in the 2019 elections. Another prominent leader of the western mandals, Shameem Aslam, was appointed the chairperson of the APMDC. Beerendra Raju, a senior functionary of the party, who heads trade unions affiliated to the party, was appointed to the post of chairman of the Srikalahasteeswara Temple Devasthanam, and Prameela Reddy, relative of former MP Gnanendra Reddy, was appointed chairman of Kanipakam Temple Devasthanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roja-dropped-as-apiic-chief/article35389566.ece
18 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scribe held, 10 red sanders logs seized||Forest officials on Saturday arrested a scribe, identified as Gopi Reddy, and seized ten red sanders logs and a two-wheeler worth about Rs. 3 lakh from a flower garden belonging to him at A.M. Puram village in Satyavedu mandal. Forest Range Officer J. Prasada Rao said that the seized red sanders logs were felled from a plantation of the forest department. Tip-off The police said the accused, along with an associate Ravindranath Reddy, had allegedly resorted to cutting the trees in the department plantation and dump them in the private land, disposing of the stocks later to the smuggling operatives at an opportune time. Acting on a tip-off, surveillance was mounted in the area, leading to the seizure and arrest of the scribe. Ravindranath Reddy was absconding, the FRO said. Case rgistered A case was registered and the accused was sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scribe-held-10-red-sanders-logs-seized/article35389568.ece
18 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top priority to sanitation, says official||Principal Secretary (Municipal Administration and Urban Development) Y. Srilakshmi on Saturday said the State government has accorded top priority to maintain high levels of sanitation in all municipal corporations and municipalities. Speaking to mediapersons after launching a fleet of waste collection vehicles at Tirupati, Ms. Srilakshmi expressed happiness at the cleanliness drive in the pilgrim city. She said for the convenience of public and the sanitation personnel, two modes of dry and wet waste collection were in place. She said the collected waste was being recycled to produce natural manure and construction material for the pavements. Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy said Commissioner P.S. Gireesha and his team were in the forefront to give a facelift to sanitation in Tirupati. He appealed to the public to cooperate with them and contribute to the clean and green Tirupati project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-priority-to-sanitation-says-official/article35389567.ece
18 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City CFO bags award||Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Sri City, R. Nagarajan, was given the Asian CFO Leadership Award in recognition of his contribution in ‘Infrastructure’ sector, in the Asian Leadership Awards on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-city-cfo-bags-award/article35389569.ece
18 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resume treatment plant at Nagari: CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) national secretary K. Narayana on Saturday demanded that the State government immediately resume operations of the ETP (Effluent Treatment Plant) under Nagari municipality limits and control the indiscriminate exploitation of groundwater and pollution of the drinking water sources. Speaking to mediapersons after visiting ETP at Chintalapatteda locality in Nagari, the CPI leader alleged that some influential businessmen were operating the dyeing (colouring) plants in Nagari and surrounding areas under benami names. For drawing the waters, the unit managements were digging borewells to a depth of more than one thousand feet, endangering the water table levels, besides polluting the water. He warned that if the ETP plant was not allowed to resume its operations, the CPI would intensify its agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resume-treatment-plant-at-nagari-cpi/article35389369.ece
18 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Those in nominated posts should be accountable: Sajjala||YSRCP leaders have welcomed the decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to allot 56% posts of chairperson of various corporations to the BCs, SCs, STs and minorities. Soon after the announcement of the list of nominated posts on Saturday, party general secretary and Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said that those given the posts should play a crucial role in reforming the living standards of the people and be accountable to their positions. “Out of 135 posts, 68 have been given to women and 76 to the BC, SC, ST and minorities. This indicates the intent of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in implementing social justice,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Home Minister M. Sucharitha said the country was looking towards Andhra Pradesh for implementation of social justice in the State. ‘Dream come true’ BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopal Krishna said that the Chief Minister believed that political power should be vested with the weaker sections and that his appointment as a Minister was an example for it. Political power to poor was a distant dream in the past, but the Chief Minister turned it into a reality. Rajya Sabha member M. Venkat Ramana praised the Chief Minister for taking historic decisions in the political history of the State and bringing revolutionary changes in society. “While other parties have confined the Backward Classes to vote bank, the Chief Minister has been strengthening the weaker sections politically, socially and financially,” he added. MP Nandigam Suresh and MLA M. Nagarjuna lauded the Chief Minister for ensuring social justice and giving priority to the weaker sections and women in filling the nominated posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/those-in-nominated-posts-should-be-accountable-sajjala/article35390082.ece
18 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kokapet auction drove away bidders’||Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy has claimed that the auction of Kokapet lands exposed how those close to the government secured lands ‘cheaply’ driving away national bidders. At a press conference here on Saturday, he questioned the huge variation of price for each acre in the same place. “One acre is sold at Rs. 60 crore and majority at Rs. 30 crore per acre. All these plots have same quality of roads abutting them and there can’t be such huge variation,” he said, adding that this itself exposes some secret dealings. “I will lodge a complaint with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to investigate into the auction. I will also provide them with all the evidence. I want to see whether the State BJP leaders take this forward or just keep themselves busy just levelling allegations against the CM,” he said. He demanded the government to call for fresh tenders fixing Rs. 60 crore per acre (Which was the highest bid for an acre) as the base price under the Swiss Challenge method. “This will ensure government earned an additional Rs. 1,000 crore. If the CM doesn’t respond, it means there is some underhand dealing,” he claimed. The Congress chief said only five companies participated in the bidding and national bidders were threatened not to participate or else they would face administrative problems making the bids financially unviable. “A Collector working in a district close to the twin cities personally intervened in avoiding their participation.” Mr. Reddy claimed that the five companies that bought the lands were close to those in power and powerful ruling party leaders and their relation was known to all. He said the Aqua Space Developers Pvt Ltd that bought 17.684 acres at Rs. 663.54 crore belongs to the sons of a top realty group promoter, who is very close to the ruling dispensation. Similarly, the Raj Pushpa Properties Pvt Ltd that bought 9.405 acres spending Rs. 428.14 crore belongs to the family of a Collector, he said, adding that the Collector’s son was also a director in the company. Another 7.721 acres was bought by the brother of a TRS MP. The Congress president further alleged that Varsity Education Management Pvt Ltd promoted by the owners of Sri Chaitanya Colleges also bought 7.575 acres spending Rs. 296.94 crore while the Prestige Estate Projects Ltd also bought 7.564 acres with Rs. 285.92 crore. “Both these companies are close to a senior Minister,” the Congress MP claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kokapet-auction-drove-away-bidders/article35389344.ece
18 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,036 Telangana private schools shut in 5 years||Around 1,036 schools under private management closed down over the past five years in Telangana. The sharpest dip in numbers occurred during the pandemic years between 2019 and 2021 when 742 private schools shut down, according to statistics of the Department of School Education. More than a quarter of students or 27.5% pursuing elementary education study in private schools in Telangana. Rented buildings “The numbers are higher. In Hyderabad alone around 300 schools have closed down or are on the verge of closure. Parents are unwilling to pay fee for online classes. School managements with rented buildings are the worst affected,” says Uma Maheshwara Rao, president of Telangana Recognised Schools Management Association. One of the reasons for under-reporting of school closures is that the recognition is valid for 10 years. Medchal lost 53 private schools, Warangal Urban has lost 50 schools, Khammam lost 44 schools, showing that the closures have affected most towns and villages in the State. The distribution of private schools is very uneven with a large number operating in urban areas like Hyderabad, Medchal, Rangareddy and Warangal Urban districts. Aspirational class  A majority of schools that have closed down are the ones that catered to the aspirational class with monthly fee in the range of Rs. 700 and Rs. 2000 per month per pupil. “The school principal is asking for Rs. 70,000 for pending fee before issuing Transfer Certificate. My children have not attended online classes as we have only one smartphone. Why should I pay the fee,” says Manga, who works as a househelp. “The annual fee is Rs. 18,000, I paid Rs. 1,570 for the books and refused to buy school uniform,” says Krishnaveni whose grand-daughter goes to a private school in Ramakrishnapuram. Govt. schools blamed “If the government schools were better and functioned normally, I would have sent her there. But we don’t have a choice,” says Krishnaveni. The schools that are still surviving have adopted multi-pronged strategies to stay afloat. “We have cut fee. Between LKG and Class V, parents have to pay Rs. 3000 per year. For classes V to IX, it is Rs. 4000. This is nearly one third of the normal fee of Rs. 12,600 per annum,” says the owner of a school which has 652 students on rolls and operates with 24 classrooms. The class timings are staggered so that children sharing a single phone can attend classes. “I have children in Class IV, VII and IX. They share one smartphone we have at home and they have classes at different times,” says Nand Lal, who hails from Bihar and makes a living by cooking at functions. A few months back, when Shyamoli called the neighbourhood school for enrolling her child. The owner of the school informed her that she has shut down the school and shifted to Mumbai. With the closure of the school in Sai Sagar Enclave, Kanajiguda; Shyamoli had to shell out almost double the fee to enrol her child in another school. But for many citizens, the closure of neighbourhood schools is one avenue shut in their upward mobility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1036-telangana-private-schools-shut-in-5-years/article35389339.ece
18 July 2021||KADIRI (ANANTAPUR DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP calls for balance between welfare and development||The BJP will approach Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, seeking his intervention in implementing the recommendations of the committee constituted by the Union Finance Ministry in managing the State credit limit in view of the severe crisis being faced by Andhra Pradesh even to pay the salaries of its employees. “The State facing such a situation is not new. A similar situation had arisen even during the term of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu,” BJP State president Somu Veerraju told The Hindu here on Saturday. Underlining the need for financial prudence, Mr. Veerraju said, “We are not against welfare schemes, but a fine balance between expenditure on welfare and development must be maintained.” ‘Focus on income generation’ “The State government should also focus on income generation, and the mineral wealth, when tapped, should be utilised for public good. It should not make money by mortgaging lands or selling the public properties,” Mr. Veerraju said before participating in the unveiling of B.R. Ambedkar’s statue near here. Referring to his visit to the Polavaram inundated areas and meeting the displaced people, Mr. Veerraju said that implementation of the R&R package should be the first thing to be taken up as it formed a part of the project cost. Mr. Veerraju welcomed the Union government’s gazette notification on the jurisdiction of the Krishna and Godavari river management boards as it would permanently resolve the disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Atrocities against Dalits Addressing the media earlier, BJP Dalit Morcha national president Lal Singh Arya urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take the atrocities against Dalits seriously and ensure that the culprits were punished without delay. “The compensation prescribed in the Statue should be disbursed to the victims at the earliest,” Mr. Lal Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-calls-for-balance-between-welfare-and-development/article35390079.ece
18 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Estampage of inscriptions done||Estampage of 53 copperplate inscriptions discovered at Gantamatham in Srisailam during its renovation was done by Meka Venkataraghavendra Varma, an ASI epigraphist in Mysuru, on Saturday. A release from the Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Devasthanam at Srisailam said the copperplates, dating back to the period between 13th and 17th centuries, would be deciphered by the expert at Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/estampage-of-inscriptions-done/article35390080.ece
18 July 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP interacts with kin of COVID-19 victims||Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal interacted with the family members who lost their breadwinners to COVID-19. Following the directions of Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, Mr. Siddharth met the families on Saturday, and assured them to help them in all aspects. “Police department will extend all possible help to family members and they can meet the officers any time,” the SP said. Earlier, Mr. Siddharth Kaushal went round the town on a two-wheeler covering the main centres, junctions and the thoroughfares. Later, the SP visited Robertsonpet police station, Inaguduru, Machilipatnam, Chilakalapudi and Disha Mahila police stations and interacted with the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-interacts-with-kin-of-covid-19-victims/article35390157.ece
18 July 2021||NALGONDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh probe into minor’s death||Following pressure by Dalit and voluntary organisations, which alleged police bias in the investigation of the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit minor earlier this week, Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath on Friday ordered a fresh inquiry. Superintendent of Police (Training) Satish Chodagiri was named inquiry officer and Kethepally SI B. Ramakrishna was attached to the headquarters, reportedly for being negligent in registration of the crime. On Saturday, as part of the investigation, police and revenue officials exhumed the minor’s body at Koppole and a medical team from Hyderabad re-conducted post-mortem and sent viscera samples for forensic exam. The death of the 17-year-old Inter second year student, a resident of Koppole in Kethepally police limits, came to light on July 13, when her body was found on the open fields on village outskirts. According to family members, they saw their daughter last on Tuesday around 11.30 p.m., when she was using her cell phone. But after half an hour, she was not at the house or not found anywhere they searched in the surroundings. She was found dead on the outskirts, around 7 a.m., with a duppatta wrapped around the neck, injuries on her chest and private parts. In his petition, the father suspected Dorepally Pavan, 20, of the same village and the community, who had been after his daughter on the pretext of love. But, according to the FIR accessed by The Hindu , the Kethepally police on the same day registered the crime under Sec. 174 Cr. PC (police to enquire and report on suicide). The police action caused an uproar among Dalit circles. “Why would she go a kilometre away in the midnight to commit suicide in the fields? Visibly, she had injuries on the chest and private parts. There were liquor bottles and cigarette butts at the scene. But the police register the crime as suicide?” asked P. Nagarjuna of Kula Vivaksha Porata Samithi, who had organised protest and questioned police intentions. He demanded dismissal of sub-inspector Ramakrishna, a transparent investigation and compensation to the victim’s family. Meanwhile, Bhongir MP (Cong.) Komatireddy Venkat Reddy met the victim’s family and handed over monetary compensation. Sources said CPI (M)’s Tammineni Veerabhadram and Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy would visit the family at Koppole on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-probe-into-minors-death/article35390109.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s ‘mosque man’ is a Hindu||A person gazing at the skyline from any major town in south Kerala is bound to come across a minaret or a dome designed by Govindan Gopalakrishnan. From the imposing Beemapally mosque in coastal Thiruvananthapuram to the Taj Mahal-inspired Sheikh masjid in Karunagappally, the 85-year-old self-taught architect, in whose world religious barriers do not exist, has constructed more mosques than any other type of building. Over close to six decades, he has constructed 110 mosques, four churches, a temple and several houses, earning himself the name “mosque man”. On his table sit close together copies of the Bhagvad Gita, the Quran, the Bible and other religious texts. His brush with architecture began quite early as a school-going child in the 1940s, tracing out the blueprints of his father K.Govindan, a contractor. The journey towards becoming the ‘mosque man’ began from Palayam in Thiruvananthapuram, a junction representative of the communal harmony of the State, with a mosque, a temple and a church situated next to each other. When the Palayam mosque committee decided to rebuild the mosque in the early 1960s, his father won the construction contract. He assisted his father in working on the design by T.P. Kuttiamu, Kerala’s first Chief Engineer. Another major mosque reconstruction work he took up was of the Vavar mosque at Erumely, where pilgrims to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple stop by to pay their respects. His wish to construct a church was granted when he was hired to design the St. George Orthodox Church at Chandanapally in Pathanamthitta district. And near his home in Lenin Nagar in the capital is the chariot-shaped Alumkandam Bhadrakali temple, designed by him. In 2002, he had started Manava Maithri, a social organisation that promotes tolerance and fraternal relationships between various communities. “My effort is towards reducing the distance between communities, and eliminating misunderstandings. There is much needless fight over religion,” says Mr. Gopalakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-mosque-man-is-a-hindu/article35389347.ece
18 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala eases curbs for Bakrid as cases touch 16,148||The Kerala government eased COVID-19 restrictions in view of Bakrid, and said there would be no weekend lockdown on Sunday. Textile, footwear, jewellery, fancy, home appliances, and electronic goods shops could open for business on July 18, 19 and 20 in localities where the average test positivity rate (TPR) was below 15%. In localities where the TPR was above 15%, retail would be allowed only on Bakrid (Monday). Beauty parlours and barber shops were permitted on alternate weekdays in localities with average TPR of less than 10%. So were electronics shops and electronics repair shops, from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. A maximum of 40 people would be permitted in places of worship on festival days in all zones. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan clarified that they could permit no more than 20 people in other zones. The management should enforce the mask mandate, physical distancing rules and COVID safety protocol. Mr. Vijayan said those who had taken one vaccine dose could go out for shopping. RT-PCR negative certificate was not necessary for the fully vaccinated. Vaccination certificate was needed for inter-State and inter-district travel. Kerala reported 16,148 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, when 1,50,108 samples were tested. The TPR, which was steady at 10-11% for weeks, registered 10.76% on Saturday. Active cases rose to 1,24,779. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality was 15,269, with the State adding 114 recent deaths to the official list. On Saturday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,079, taking the total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals to 24,812. Telangana added 729 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,36,049. Five patients died. There were 71 cases in Greater Hyderabad, 65 in Karimnagar, 53 each in Mancherial and Pedapalli, and 52 in Khammam. cases continue to be comparatively high in the rural districts which is keeping the State Health department on alert.From March 2-2020 to July 17 of this year, over 2.04 crore samples were examined and 636049 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 9980 were active cases, 622313 have recovered, and 3756 have died. Active cases fell below 10,000. Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,869 new cases, taking the total to 28,82,239. Of these, 432 were from Bengaluru Urban. With 42 deaths, the toll rose to 36,121. The State was managing 30,082 active cases. The TPR for the day touched 1.30%. Tamil Nadu recorded 2,205 new cases and 43 deaths on Saturday, taking its tally to 25,33,323 and toll to 33,695. The fresh cases continued to fall. In Coimbatore, 241 people tested positive for COVID-19. Salem followed with 163 cases and Thanjavur with 152. Erode recorded 143 cases, while there were 137 in Chennai and 132 in Tiruppur. Chengalpattu reported 124 cases. The remaining 31 districts recorded under 100 cases each.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-eases-curbs-for-bakrid-as-cases-touch-16148/article35389354.ece
18 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thiruvananthapuram labour camps under lens||Labour camps in the district are likely to come under the scanner, with the Assam Police nabbing two migrants and rescuing nine others in the State capital during a joint operation held a day ago to bust an inter-State human trafficking racket. Raids were conducted on the basis of a recent investigation in Hojai district in Assam. Several girls were suspected to have been trafficked from the northeastern State to the city at various points of time. After zeroing in on the whereabouts of the two accused with assistance from the cyber cell here, an eight-member investigation team from Assam flew down and apprehended the racketeers from two lodges on Friday. They were assisted by a shadow police team deployed by the Thiruvananthapuram city police. The accused were identified as Muffazul Haque and Rakbul Hussain, natives of Hojai and Nagaon districts respectively. The rescued women hailed from various places, including Hojai, Nagaon, Sonitpur, Morigaon and Kamrup. A few of them had been brought to the city a week ago, sources said. While most of the victims were rescued from a lodge in Thampanoor, three were found in another under the Medical College police station limits. Both lodges have been shut down and their have been absconding. Transit warrant The Kerala Women’s Commission and the Social Justice Department were alerted of the development. The Assam natives were produced before a magistrate here to obtain transit warrant and were taken back to their native place on Saturday. “Besides the racketeers and victims, the clientele are learnt to be migrant workers from the same State. It remains to be known if the gang received any local support,” an official said. Hundreds of migrant labourers are known to reside under the Thampanoor, Fort, Medical College, Sreekaryam and Kazhakuttam police station limits. Law enforcement agencies are bringing labour camps under close watch to rein in illicit activities.  Raids conducted on the basis of probe in Hojai district in Assam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thiruvananthapuram-labour-camps-under-lens/article35389345.ece
18 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two SVBC employees terminated||The TTD on Saturday issued orders terminating two employees working in Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) on the charges of exhibiting gross misconduct. The terminated employees are D. Anilkumar working as a senior assistant and K. Srinivasulu, a DTP operator. The duo reportedly addressed an anonymous letter to the TTD Additional Executive Officer levelling baseless allegations against the management and threatening physical abuse in the porn link case that shook the management last year. Based on a complaint filed by the CEO of the channel, the Alipiri police have already filed a chargesheet. Both employees working on a contract basis were sacked with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-svbc-employees-terminated/article35390159.ece
18 July 2021||V.R.PURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||A losing battle against the mighty Polavaram||Gorre Meena and her mother Achamma, living in Ulumuru, a Koya tribal habitation in East Godavari agency, have been spending sleepless nights staring at an uncertain future. Their habitation is among the 371 areas to be submerged (+45 contour) under the Polavaram irrigation project in the State. They are among several Adivasi families that share a similar fate as their ouster from the habitations appears imminent going by the project execution schedules while the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) exercise seems nowhere near completion. According to R&R Commissioner (Polavaram project) O. Anand, the disbursement of the package was less than 20% by June-end. While the project is likely to be commissioned next year, only 25 of the 115 habitations (+41.5 contour) have been rehabilitated so far. “None of the tribes living in the submergence area has opposed the project, except seeking a fair package. We are sparing our land, forest, houses, and habitations. Whose Polavaram project is it as it displaces lakhs of Adivasis?” asks Ms. Meena. Her family has given away 13 acres, including eight of patta land, for the project. ‘R&R should be priority’ “The tribes (Koya, Konda Reddy and others) living by the Godavari and Sabari are sacrificing everything. But our voice for the entitlements will be unheard as long as the government sees success in completing the project construction rather than fulfilling the R&R component,” laments Ms. Meena, studying to be a teacher. “We have never imagined that the Godavari and the Sabari will become our enemies. We have lived by them for generations and worshipped them. But now they may flood us any time,” bemoan Achamma and other women in the Chintoor-Rekhapalli submergence stretch. Of the 1.05 lakh families to be displaced by the project, 70,929 live in the East Godavari agency sharing the Andhra-Chhattisgarh border and 34,672 families in the West Godavari agency. Painful separation “The sacrifice of immovable assets can be compensated in some way. But did ever any government realise how painful it is to leave one’s land, the river, the forest, and the traditional practices that are part of one’s life? We feel betrayed by the way we are being driven out,” complains Kotla Bhavani, a koya, working on a makeshift shelter to save themselves from the fury of the Sabari flood in V.R.Puram mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-losing-battle-against-the-mighty-polavaram/article35390074.ece
18 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases rise as new infections outnumber recoveries in 24 hours||In the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, the State reported 18 COVID-19 deaths and 2,699 infections, which took the death toll to 13,115 and the cumulative tally to 19,37,122. For the first time in many weeks, the number of active cases increased during the period as the number of infections was higher than the number of recoveries. The number of recoveries during he period was 2,467. The recovery rate and total number of recoveries increased to 98.03% and 18,98,966 respectively. The daily positivity rate of the 91,594 samples tested was 2.95% and that of the 2.34 crore samples tested so far was 8.25%. Kadapa, Kurnool and Vizianagaram reported no fatalities during the 24-hour period, while Guntur, Krishna, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. East Godavari, Anantapur, Prakasam and Srikakulam registered two deaths each, while Chittoor and West Godavari saw three deaths each. East Godavari reported 504 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (372), Prakasam (315), Nellore (315), West Godavari (292), Krishna (257), Guntur (225), Kadapa (149), Visakhapatnam (111), Anantapur (73), Srikakulam (35), Vizianagaram (30) and Kurnool (21). More than half of the total active cases were in East Godavari (4,019), Chittoor (3,610), Prakasam (2,960) and Krishna (2,957). Tally chart The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,72,565), Chittoor (2,26,586), West Godavari (1,67,107), Guntur (1,65,940), Anantapur (1,55,480), Visakhapatnam (1,50,881), Nellore (1,31,118), Prakasam (1,26,306), Kurnool (1,22,794), Srikakulam (1,19,879), Kadapa (1,08,978), Krishna (1,05,525) and Vizianagaram (81,068).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-rise-as-new-infections-outnumber-recoveries-in-24-hours/article35390076.ece
18 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Pradesh targets Rs. 5,000 cr. investment in 5 years||The Industries and Commerce Department of Andhra Pradesh has set a target to attract new investments amounting to Rs. 5,000 crore in the retail sector by the year 2026, and create 50,000 additional direct employment opportunities. The objectives of the AP Retail Parks Policy 2021-26, which has been launched recently, are to give a boost to organised retail trade and thereby increase the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), encourage skill development, create more employment opportunities for all sections in retail trade, and strengthen the existing unorganised retail sector. Time-bound clearances The main steps envisaged in the policy are the appointment of nodal officers in each District Industries Centre for hand-holding retail park developers and enterprises, and the creation of a customised single desk portal for giving all clearances online in a time-bound manner. All inspections related to the Labour, Factories, Boilers, and Legal Metrology departments, and the Pollution Control Board, are proposed to be managed and monitored through a Central Inspection System. Retail enterprises will be allowed to open every day of the year to cater to the needs of customers, provided employees are given a compulsory weekly off on a preferential basis. ‘Mega’ status Projects involving a fixed capital investment of at least Rs. 100 crore, or providing more than 5,000 direct employment opportunities, will be accorded “mega retail park” status. Mega retail park developers will be eligible for reimbursement of 50% of the cost of external infrastructure for the park, with caps based on number of persons employedwith a cap as indicated – up to Rs. 3 crore on direct employment of 5,000 to 10,000, Rs. 4 crore on direct employment of 10,001 to 15,000, and Rs. 5 crore on employment of 15,001 to 20,000 individuals. Mega retail parks will be given a reimbursement of 100% of the stamp duty for lease or sale of retail units on first transactions. Support will be extended for human capital development in collaboration with agencies such as the Retailers’ Association of India and local sourcing encouraged through buyer-seller meets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-targets-rs-5000-cr-investment-in-5-years/article35389340.ece
18 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||PIL seeks shifting of offices of Lokayukta to Vijayawada||Y. Soma Raju, a Tadepalligudem-based advocate, filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Andhra Pradesh High Court praying for shifting of the office of the institutions of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta from Hyderabad to the R&B buildings in Vijayawada without further delay. The petitioner said that a G.O. had been issued on September 4, 2019, for the allocation of office space to the institutions in the R&B buildings as per the guidelines of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014. Thereafter, a notification was issued on September 27, 2019, that since the premises for the institutions of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta was under construction, it would function from Hyderabad till further orders. The issuance of these two G.Os. in a gap of 23 days needed to be explained, he said in his petition. Post-bifurcation, most of the government institutions and offices of Heads of Departments shifted to Andhra Pradesh. Even the high court moved from Hyderabad to Nelapadu in Guntur district, he said. But the institutions of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta was still functioning from Hyderabad, making it difficult to file cases. The high court should, therefore, direct the State government to shift the said offices to the R&B buildings and arrange a mechanism for receiving the complaints. Mr. Soma Raju mentioned that the institutions of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta were created in the States by taking a cue from the Ombudsman in the Scandinavian countries. The institutions were included in the 10th Schedule of the Reorganisation Act, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pil-seeks-shifting-of-offices-of-lokayukta-to-vijayawada/article35390077.ece
18 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC awards 4-week jail term to police officer in contempt case||The High Court on Friday sentenced K. Srinivasa Rao, who had worked as the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) in Vijayawada, to four weeks imprisonment and ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000 in a contempt case. The court took a serious view of the alleged negligence of Mr. Srinivasa Rao in registering a charge-sheet in a case booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Mr. Srinivasa Rao is currently the Additional Superintendent of Police in the Special Enforcement Bureau at Srikakulam. The contempt petition was filed by B. Jhansi Lakshmi, a lecturer, in 2017 questioning the alleged inaction of the police in implementing the court order to complete the investigation into a complaint of harassment lodged by her against two lecturers in 2015. The then ACP claimed to have submitted his report which purportedly stated that the case was closed due to lack of evidence but the court was apparently not satisfied with his explanation. After hearing arguments on Friday, Justice Battu Devanand awarded jail term to the ACP and also imposed a fine, but suspended his order for a week to enable the police officer to file an appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-awards-4-week-jail-term-to-police-officer-in-contempt-case/article35390072.ece
18 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Session on property tax put off||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has indefinitely postponed the ‘special council session’ scheduled to be held on Monday to discuss the hike in property tax and collection of user charges on garbage due to lack of information on the subject. In a release, VMC council secretary G. Chandraiah said that the general body meeting to discuss the Municipal Department’s G.O. No. 198 on Monday had been postponed as complete information on the same was not available. The opposition parties demanded withdrawal of the hike in the property tax and user charges on garbage collection. The corporation agreed to conduct a special meeting to discuss the same. Meanwhile, CPI(M) floor leader B. Satya Babu asked Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi to cancel the session as it was not notified at least one week in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/session-on-property-tax-put-off/article35390158.ece
18 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP rubbishes allegations of graft in fibernet project||TDP national spokesman K. Pattabhiram on Saturday slammed the ruling YSRCP leaders for what he called “ruining the reputation of AP FiberNet,” a model project launched during the Chandrababu Naidu term. At a press conference, Mr. Pattabhiram said that the YSRCP allegation of corruption to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore in the project did not hold water as the total cost of the project was only Rs. 770 crore. He said the Chief Minister and his advisers were trying to divert the people’s attention from the failures of the government. Pointing out that connections had been given to 5,300 villages under 658 mandals in the State, he said that Mr. Naidu had initiated the project in the unified State. Later, it was neglected by the Congress government, but the TDP had brought its sheen back in the residual State, he added. The TDP leader said that in a span on 18 months, over 2,500 points of pressure (PoPs) were set up across the State to provide connections to all villages. Impressed by the project, the then Union Secretary, Department of Telecommunication, headed a Central team to study the project and replicate in the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-rubbishes-allegations-of-graft-in-fibernet-project/article35390084.ece
18 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway commercial dept. develops digital ID cards||Officials of the Commercial Department of South Central Railway (SCR), Vijayawada division, developed digital ID cards for vendors on the platforms in major railway stations. The QR-based ID Cards Management Systems Application will be implemented for the employees of various catering services, said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P. Bhaskar Reddy. While the QR code will prevent duplication and fake ID cards, digital ID cards will prevent unauthorised vendors in the railway stations and improve revenue to the Indian Railways, Mr. Reddy said. A team of Commercial Department personnel developed the QR-based digital ID cards system, the Sr. Divisional Commercial Manager said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-commercial-dept-develops-digital-id-cards/article35390156.ece
18 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII hails new IT policy||The Confederation of Indian Industry (Andhra Pradesh) has welcomed the Information Technology Policy 2021-24 introduced by the State government. Its chairman Datla Tirupathi Raju said in a press release that the establishment of IT Technologies Research University would build up the required ecosystem for 4.0 technologies, and create new opportunities for youth. The policy gave ample scope for the IT industry to forge partnerships with universities for promoting niche and emerging technologies such as cloud, blockchain, IoT , cybersecurity and data analytics in the coming days, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-hails-new-it-policy/article35390078.ece
18 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.Ed students can download hall-tickets from website||Students belonging to the 2019-21 batch of Diploma in Education (D.Ed) course, who will write the third semester examinations from July 22 to 28, can download their hall-tickets from July 17 from the website –www.bse.ap.gov.in, according to a statement issued by the Director of Government Examinations. To login, the students should enter their name, the name of their college and the district, the statement issued on Saturday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ded-students-can-download-hall-tickets-from-website/article35390083.ece
18 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu calls on ailing party MLC||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday visited the ailing party MLC Bachula Arjunudu, who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, and enquired about his health with the doctors. Mr. Naidu was accompanied by former Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, former MP Konakalla Narayana Rao, MLA Gadde Rammohan Rao, former MLAs Bonda Uma, Bode Prasad and Tangirala Soumya, and Telugu Yuvatha State president Sri Ram Chinnababu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-calls-on-ailing-party-mlc/article35390085.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 new beaches to be developed in Vizag region||In a major boost to the tourism sector, the State government has given nod to develop 10 beaches at various points between Rushikonda, Visakhapatnam city and Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district. “We will be taking up development works at five beaches initially in a phased manner through the funds provided by various public sector units as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR),” said Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao. According to the officials, the 10 beaches are — Sagar Nagar, Timmapuram, Mangamaripeta, Chepaluppada, INS Kalinga Beach, Erra Matti Dibbalu Beach, Bheemili Beach, Nagayampalem Beach, Annavaram Beach and Kancherupalem Beach. Officials from the Tourism Department said that food courts, children play arena, walking tracks, fitness arena, changing rooms, toilets and drinking water facility will be provided at the beaches. Apart from them, a control room, CCTV arrangements, a first-aid centre and watch tower will also be constructed to ensure safety and security at beaches. The officials are also planning to provide safe swimming zones to prevent drowning incidents and also proposed various types of beach sports at the premises for the tourists. It is learnt that around Rs. 2.5 crore will be spent on development of each beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-new-beaches-to-be-developed-in-vizag-region/article35390163.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Key Maoist leader expelled from party||The East Division committee of the banned CPI (Maoist) has expelled Chikudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer from the party and termed him as a traitor. In a letter released on Saturday, committee’s second-in-command Aruna said that Sudheer had left the movement to achieve his personal goals and ditched the party at a time when the conflict with the security forces is on the rise. Sudheer, a tribal leader of division committee member (DCM) rank and a native of Kondrum village in Injari panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal, has left the party citing differences of opinion between tribal and non-tribal leaders. Ms. Aruna also pointed out that Mr. Sudheer has left fearing the advances of the security forces and for his selfish agenda. She said that Sudheer left the party with another woman cadre Mahita and has deserted his wife and children, by doing so. She appealed to the tribal community in the AOB region not to support Sudheer and also stated that it would not be surprising to see him aligning with the security forces. SP’s appeal Earlier, knowing that Mr. Sudheer had left the party, Visakhapatnam Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao has appealed to him to surrender and lead a normal life with the benefits from the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/key-maoist-leader-expelled-from-party/article35390088.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Cooperative Bank reports net profit of Rs. 45.11 crore||The Visakhapatnam Cooperative Bank has earned a net profit of Rs. 45.11 crore in the financial year 2020-21. Announcing this at the annual general body meeting held here on Saturday, Chalasani Raghavendra Rao, chairman of the bank, said that the bank had recorded deposits of around Rs. 3,853.39 crore and advances of Rs. 2,719.43 crore, making a total business of Rs. 6,573.01 crore for the financial year ending. The total share of capital of the bank was Rs. 251.40 crore with a total membership of 90,776 and the net NPA stood at 1.65% as on March 31. The bank has set a target of making Rs. 7,558 crore business for the financial year 2021-22. At the meeting, it was also approved to pay a dividend of 10% to all its members, which amounts to around Rs. 23.89 crore. The bank had commenced its operations in 1916 and had 46 branches in Andhra Pradesh and four in Hyderabad. The bank’s chairman emeritus Manam Anjaneyulu said that the bank was working towards the welfare of the middle class and low middle class group of people in the society by giving loans to the needy, especially during the pandemic, at a low interest rate of 6%. He said that the cooperative banks in India are facing troubles from both the government and Reserve Bank of India, as many amendments are being made to weaken the sector. Other members and CEO of the bank P.V. Narasimha Murthy were present at the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakha-cooperative-bank-reports-net-profit-of-rs-4511-crore/article35390166.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death, 111 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 111 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,51,393. The death toll has increased to 1,041 after one more person succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours.As many as 147 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered from the infection. This takes the total number of recoveries/discharges to 1,48,234. The number of active cases has decreased to 2,118.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-111-new-cases/article35390160.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 YSRCP leaders from the district bag nominated posts||YSR Congress Party leader Akramani Vijaya Nirmala has been appointed as the Chairperson of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA). The post was lying vacant since October 2020, after the demise of Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao.  The State government announced chairpersons for 135 nominated posts on Saturday. Ten YSRCP leaders from the district were nominated to various posts, including four State-level corporations. Former MLA Malla Vijaya Prasad has been appointed as the Chairman of AP Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation, while YSRCP (North) leader K.K. Raju has been appointed as the Chairman of New & Renewable Energy Corporation of AP (NEDCAP). Seethamraju Sudhakar has been given the post of Chairman of the AP State Brahmin welfare and Development Corporation, while Bollavarapu John Wesly is the new AP State Christian (Minorities) Finance Corporation Ltd Chairman. Noted auditor Gannamani Venkateswara Rao (GV) has been appointed as Chairman of Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited (GVSCCL). Chokkakula Lakshmi is the new Chairperson of Visakhapatnam - Kakinada Petroleum, Chemical & Petro-Chemical Investment Region (VKPCPIR). Similarly, Ch. Anita, wife of Chintakayala Sanyasipatrudu, was appointed as the new Chairperson of District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB). Konda Ramadevi is the new Chairperson of Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha and Palla Chinna Talli has been appointed as the District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) Chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-ysrcp-leaders-from-the-district-bag-nominated-posts/article35390161.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mother ‘poisons’ three children and ‘kills’ herself||A woman allegedly poisoned her three children and later ended her life at her house at Similiguda village under Araku Valley police station limits on Friday night. The deceased were identified as Ch. Surekha (28), her daughter Ch. Sunasa (9) and sons Ch. Sarveen (6) and Ch. Siril (4). According to the police, Surekha and her husband Ch. Sanjeev were having family problems for a long time. On Friday night, when Sanjeev had gone out, family members noticed Surekha hanging from the ceiling fan, while three children were lying unconscious on the bed. They informed the police. Meanwhile, relatives of Surekha alleged involvement of Sanjeev in the case. A case was registered Those who are in distress can contact the police helpline no.100||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mother-poisons-three-children-and-kills-herself/article35390071.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mining allegations: Minister inspects Erra Matti Dibbalu||Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao on Saturday inspected Erra Matti Dibbalu along with officials from the revenue, police and the GVMC after allegations of mining being reported from the area, in Bheemili constituency. Local Mandal Revenue Officer informed the Minister than the mining did not take place in Erra Matti Dibbalu, but at a nearby place in Nerellevalasa area. The Minister instructed the local authorities to keep a watch over the national geo-heritage monument site. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Erra Matti Dibbalu will be developed as a major tourism destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mining-allegations-minister-inspects-erra-matti-dibbalu/article35390162.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of drowned youth found||The body of 20-year-old Mani Babu who had gone missing at R.K. Beach on Thursday evening was traced near YMCA here on Saturday morning. The III Town police shifted the body for post-mortem. Four friends, two girls and two boys including Mani Babu, from Peda Jalaripeta had come to R.K Beach on June 15 evening. Mani Babu and another girl had entered the waters and were pulled in by strong waves. While the girl was rescued by the community guards, Mani Babu had gone missing. Despite search operations by the city police, local swimmers and the Coast Guard, Mani Babu was untraced on Friday. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/body-of-drowned-youth-found/article35390164.ece
18 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM placement||A total of 225 GITAM Deemed to be University MBA students have received placement offers through online campus recruitment drives conducted for the academic year 2021, said GITAM Institute of Management Career Fulfilment Deputy Director Rohini here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-placement/article35390105.ece
18 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Eight children falling prey to human trafficking every hour’||Vizianagaram Child Welfare Committee Bench member and senior advocate P. Chittibabu on Saturday said that eight children were going missing every hour in the country as human trafficking was going on at a large scale. Similarly, five girl children were facing sexual harassment per hour as per the studies of child welfare organisations. At an awareness programme on ‘Trafficking in persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill-2021, he hailed the Union government’s plan to introduce the Bill in the ensuring Parliament session to take steps to control the trafficking in children and women. Mr. Chittibabu said that many kids in rural areas had become victims of trafficking. People’s Action For Rural Awakening coordinator N. Vara Prasad, Child Line coordinator V. Meena and Chaitanya service organisation coordinator K. Varalakshmi said they would meet public representatives to raise the issue of child trafficking in public forums so that people would know the steps to be taken to protect children from falling prey to traffickers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-children-falling-prey-to-human-trafficking-every-hour/article35390104.ece
18 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MVGR staff stage protest demanding salaries||MVGR College of Engineering staff members requested MANSAS chairperson and former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju to ensure payment of June month salaries and arrears of April and May as they were unable to lead normal life in the absence of financial resources. They met him and explained their grievances at length on Saturday evening at the latter’s residence. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju reportedly told them that he was not being allowed to utilise funds available with MANSAS Trust owing to the ‘non-cooperation’ of the Endowment department officials who had written to banks not to accept change of authorised signatories without the resolutions of the board. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju said that there was no authorised board as he was reinstated as the board chairperson with the High Court’s order. He said that the chairman’s proceedings were sufficient to change the authorised signatories to utilise the funds for the smooth running of the educational institutions, including MVGR College of Engineering. He felt that the actions of the Endowment officials were nothing but violation of the court orders. The college faculty members and staff urged him to sort out legal and administrative problems as early as possible and facilitate payment of their salaries and arrears. Earlier, the employees staged a protest at MANSAS office, demanding that the Executive Officer of the Endowments department take immediate action to accept proposals of MANSAS chairperson. They said their lives turned miserable with the ongoing legal and administrative tangles in the trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mvgr-staff-stage-protest-demanding-salaries/article35390069.ece
18 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Check illegal constructions, encroachments: MLA||Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy and Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma on Saturday asked the corporation staff and planning secretaries to inform higher authorities about illegal constructions and encroachments in their respective divisions. They said that the town planning senior officials would stop the illegal constructions at the initial stage and ensure planned development in all the streets. The corporation had set up committees for city planning, water management, plantation drive and medical and health aspects. Mr. Veerabhadra Swamy said that the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was very keen on development in the corporation in accordance with the master plan prepared by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority. He said that Vizianagaram city was also under the jurisdiction of VMRDA which had prepared a new master plan. Mr. Varma directed the planning secretaries to visit their respective wards and verify whether the owners of the buildings had taken prior permissions from the corporation. Assistant Commissioner of Planning K. Venkateswara Rao said that the corporation was unable to control unauthorised constructions earlier due to a lack of sufficient staff. He said that the appointment of planning secretaries would help monitor construction activity in all the wards more effectively. Mayor Vempadapu Vijayalakshmi said that the appointment of the committees with public representatives, officials and staff of secretariats would ensure the overall development of the fort city. YSR Congress Party leader and corporator Kolagatla Sravani also spoke in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/check-illegal-constructions-encroachments-mla/article35390070.ece
18 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC status sought for Telaga community||District Telaga Samkshema Sangham president Pallantla Venkata Ramarao on Saturday urged the government to take immediate steps to ensure BC status for the Telaga community which had nearly 25 lakh population in the North Andhra region. Addressing the media, he said that the community had reservation facility till five decades ago but was removed during the Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy regime. “We will have to agitate over the issue soon to draw the attention of the government,” said Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-status-sought-for-telaga-community/article35390103.ece
18 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior leader Hymavati quits TDP||Former S.Kota MLA and TDP women’s wing State chairperson Sobha Hymavathi submitted her resignation from the party membership, saying that the party leadership had failed to recognise her 22 years of services. She said that she had been denied the party ticket since 2009 elections and not given any post in the party State committees. “I was not being invited for party meetings although I strived hard for the development of the party. It has hurt me a lot and made me to submit the resignation,” said Ms. Hymavathi in a letter written to the party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-leader-hymavati-quits-tdp/article35390108.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC, SC, STs and women get half of nominated chairperson posts||Apart from Mr. Vara Prasad Reddy, M. Seshagiri Rao (AP Grandhalaya Parishad), Kurra Naga Malleswari (History Academy), Sk. Asha Begum (Sheik Corporation) and Muntaz Pathan (AP State Handicap and Senior Citizen Corporation) were given posts. In Krishna district, Tatineni Padmavathy (APRTC Regional Board) and Mohana Rao (AP State Kamma Welfare and Development Corporation) have been nominated. Jupudi Prabhakara Rao, who had switched loyalties from the TDP, has been nominated as Adviser, Social Justice. Nellore district has bagged several important corporations. Pernati Susmita, wife of Syam Prasad Reddy, was nominated as the chairperson of the AP State Seed Development Corporation, Ponka Devasena, wife of K. Siva Kumar Reddy, was nominated as the chairperson of the Swatchandhra Corporation and Mettukuru Chiranjeevi Reddy as the chairperson of the AP State Police Housing Corporation. Aslam from Chittoor has been nominated as the chairperson of the AP Mineral Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-sc-sts-and-women-get-half-of-nominated-chairperson-posts/article35390107.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. targets Rs. 5,000 cr. investment in retail sector in five years||All inspections related to the Labour, Factories, Boilers, and Legal Metrology departments and the Pollution Control Board are proposed to be managed and monitored through a Central Inspection System. The retail enterprises will be allowed to open every day of the year to cater to the needs of the working class and other classes of customers, provided the employees are given compulsory weekly off on a preferential basis. ‘Mega’ status Projects involving a fixed capital investment of at least Rs. 100 crore, or providing more than 5,000 direct employment, will be accorded mega retail park status. Mega retail park developers will be eligible for reimbursement of 50% of cost of external infrastructure for the park with a cap as indicated – up to Rs. 3 crore on direct employment of 5,000 to 10,000, Rs. 4 crore on direct employment of 10,001 to 15,000, and Rs. 5 crore on employment of 15,001 to 20,000 individuals. Mega retail parks will be given a reimbursement of 100% of the stamp duty for lease or sale of retail units on first transactions. Support will be extended for the human capital development in collaboration with agencies such as the Retailers’ Association of India and local sourcing encouraged through buyer-seller meets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-targets-rs-5000-cr-investment-in-retail-sector-in-five-years/article35389570.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crossing the line||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crossing-the-line/article35389573.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chilling out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chilling-out/article35390087.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||NCB arrests TS man||The Narcotics Control Bureau, probing the illegal manufacture and sale of the short acting tranquiliser, alprazolam, spanning Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, have arrested one more person. The accused, Baddigari Pandu Goud, was arrested in Telangana after the police raided his house and seized 150 gms of alprazolam and Rs. 4.83 lakh after searching his house on Friday. “He was running a spurious liquor racket using alprazolam and selling it to people who are mostly from lower income groups and the labour class,” said the NCB. While questioning him, officials learned that he had sourced the drug from S. Bhaskara, the kingpin of a massive illegal Alprazolam racket that the NCB had busted in June. Bhaskara and his associates had set up a drug manufacturing unit in Bidar, and were transporting consignments of alprazolam illegally to border States. The NCB Bangalore team during the raid in June had seized 91.3 kg of alprazolam from his factory. Five people were arrested at the time. Investigations so far have revealed that Baddigari Pandu Goud was preparing spurious toddy by using alprazolam and other chemicals. “He has been involved in the trade of spurious toddy for the last eight years,” said NCB officials. NCB has taken up this matter with other state agencies. In Telangana and AP, alprazolam is widely used as a cutting agent for illicit toddy. Alprazolam laced with toddy is dangerous, said NCB officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alprazolam-racket-ncb-arrests-one-more-person/article35389589.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FSTPs at 71 locations across State soon: KTR||The State government is set to establish faecal sludge treatment plants (FSTPs) at 71 locations across Telangana apart from Hyderabad. Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao made an announcement to this effect on Saturday, after launching an FSTP at Uppal in Nalla Cheruvu. This plant, with a capacity to treat 40 kilo litres per day (KLD), was built by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) to recycle the faecal waste collected from septic tanks where underground sewerage facility is not available. Vehicles launched Also flagging off a total 87 septic tank cleaning vehicles from Peoples’ Plaza of Necklace Road, Mr.Rama Rao said Hyderabad is ahead of other cities in the country in sewage treatment. After ruling out manual labour in sewerage cleaning works by introducing mechanisation, the Water Board has now crossed another milestone through the establishment of FSTPs, he said. The plants will treat the waste collected from septic tanks of villages within the Outer Ring Road. Earlier, the faecal waste would be deposited in lakes, nalas and other water bodies brining enormous harm to environment and public health, the minister said. Septic tank cleaning vehicles have been pressed into service to prevent such damage. Operators of the vehicles have been trained in collecting the waste from septic tanks and dumping it in the FSTPs. The ‘Dial-a-Septic-Tank-Cleaning’ services may be availed by calling 155313/14420. Two more FSTPs with 20 KLD capacity each are under construction in Nagarm and Injapur villages. The services will be offered to the public at a nominal price, Mr.Rama Rao said, assuring that health cards will be issued soon for the vehicle operators and labourers. The Board has taken up construction of FSTPs to serve seven corporations, 18 municipalities and 18 village panchayats within ORR to which the board is already supplying drinking water. Operators trained In order to transport and dump the waste at the existing STPs and proposed FSTPs, the Board has selected 87 operators and trained them in coordination with the Administrative Staff College of India. Apart from training, they have been provided uniforms and safety gear, a statement from the water board informed. As of now, eight sewage treatment plants set up by HMWS&SB are functioning at Amberpet, Nalla Cheruvu, Pedda Cheruvu, Miralam Tank, Khajaguda, Nanakramguda, Nagole and Khajakunta, with 80 KLD capacity. They have treated 35 million litres of sewage till now, the note said. Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Talasani Srinivas Yadav, MLA Danam Nagender, Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi and Deputy Mayor Srilatha Reddy, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, HMWS&SB managing director M. Dana Kishore, and other officials attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fstps-at-71-locations-across-state-soon-ktr/article35389827.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||729 new COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 729 new COVID cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,36,049. While 1,15,515 samples were tested, results of 1,139 were awaited. Five COVID-19 patients have died. After Khammam reported the highest number of cases for four days (July 12-15), infections in the district were less than Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in the last two days. On Saturday, the count in Khammam was less than three more districts. Of the new 729 cases, the highest number of 71 cases were in GHMC, followed by 65 in Karimnagar, 53 each in Mancherial and Pedapalli, and 52 in Khammam. The cases continue to be comparatively high in rural districts which is keeping the Health department on alert. From March 2, 2020, to July 17 this year, over 2.04 crore samples were examined and 6,36,049 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 9,980 were active cases, 6,22,313 have recovered, and 3,756 have died. The active cases in the State fell below 10,000 after several days. Over 80,000 active cases were reported on a few days of May this year, when the coronavirus second wave was on its peak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/729-fresh-covid-cases/article35389836.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jurala spillway gates lifted||Discharge of flood through the spillway of Priyadarshini Jurala project, the gateway of Krishna river for the Telugu States, in Jogulamba-Gadwal district commenced on Saturday afternoon as the inflows into the reservoir were about 60,000 cusecs. According to project engineers monitoring the flood situation, five crest gates of the project were lifted around 3.30 pm to discharge nearly 21,000 cusecs flood through the spillway. By 9 pm another two gates were lifted to increase the flood discharge to over 29,000 cusecs as the inflows went up to over 67,300 cusecs. In addition, another 37,000 cusecs flood was also being let into the river course by running 5 of the 6×39 megawatt power station at the project site. The discharge of flood at the project has also allowed the authorities of Genco to switch on all the six units of 6×40 MW power house at the Lower Jurala hydel station located about 15 km downstream of the Jurala project. “Discharge of flood through the spillway of Jurala started on July 14 in 2020, July 31 in 2019, July 19 in 2018 and September 15 in 2017. Power generation at Jurala was possible from June 9 itself this year with early inflows into the dam,” a TS-Genco official explained. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) authorities, over 51,000 cusecs of flood was being discharged both at Almatti and Narayanpur dams in Karnataka, located upstream of Jurala as of Saturday evening. Inflows into Tungabhadra dam were also in a similar measure at over 57,000 cusecs as the main catchment area Agumbe continues to receive heavy rain for the sixth day in a row. In Godavari basin, storage in Sriramsagar crossed 70 tmc ft against capacity of 90.3 tmc ft although the inflows have fallen below 10,000 cusecs. Downstream of Sriramsagar, flood was discharged at Yellampally Barrage (10,900 cusecs). and also at all three Barrages – Sundilla (10,900 cusecs), Annaram (4,500 cusecs) and Medigadda (92,700 cusecs) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jurala-spillway-gates-lifted/article35389833.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Photo journalists hold rally to protest Danish’s killing||The working press photographers under the aegis of Telangana State Photo Journalists’ Association (TSPJA) held a placard rally to Babu Jagjivan Ram statue on Saturday to condemn the dastardly killing of Reuters photo journalist and Pulitzer awardee Danish Siddiqui in war torn Afghanistan. After the rally, at a meeting at TSUWJ Bhavan in Hyderabad, speakers condemned his death. Expressing shock and dismay at a fellow lens man on embedded assignment being killed in a sniper attack, the photographers raised slogans against the Taliban. Former photo journalists of The Hindu, H. Satish, and P.V. Sivakumar, spoke at length on the late Danish’s brilliant photography career that saw him create everlasting images from Wuhan in the peak of the pandemic in 2020, the Hong Kong protests, the shocking mass burials, and graves and pyres of the pandemic in India. Danish was no stranger to Telangana and Hyderabad either, said A. Mahesh Kumar, photographer from the Associated Press, as he recounted how Danish took stunning images from the region during the Disha incident. A. Gangadhar of ‘Namaste Telangana’, president TSPJA K.N. Hari of ‘Prajashakti’, and general secretary TSPJA along with other scribes took a two-minute silence to mourn the irreparable loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/photo-journalists-hold-rally-to-protest-danishs-killing/article35389839.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Properties of VII Nizam belong to all his 34 children’||The dispute over the properties of Seventh Nizam, Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan, refuses to die down or settled as some members of the clan are keeping it alive for not getting their share. Najaf Ali Khan, one of the grandsons of Nizam VII, said as per the Treaty of Annexation with the Government of India dated January 25, 1950, the Seventh Nizam and his family were given certain rights and privileges along with recognition as Ruler of Hyderabad. “My grandfather late Mir Osman Ali Khan, Nizam VII, recognised all his 34 children and made provisions for all during his life time. He also set up several Trusts for them and their families with a nominee of the Government of India as a Trustee,” Mr. Najaf Ali Khan said. The successor After the passing away of the Seventh Nizam on February 24, 1967, Mir Barkat Ali Khan alias Prince Mukkarram Jah was recognised as successor to his grandfather by the Government of India. “However, the private properties of the Seventh Nizam are to be divided among all his legal heirs as per the Islamic Shariat Law and as such his 34 children are entitled to inherit the Matruka,” Mr. Najaf Ali Khan said on Friday. As soon as the succession certificate was given to Prince Mukkarram Jah, it was challenged by his aunt Shahzadi Pasha in 1967 itself and the matter went to the court. On January 29, 1968, the certificate was quashed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the Ahmedunnisa (Alias Shahzadi Pasha) versus Union of India case, he mentioned. In 1971, Parliament had passed 26th Amendment Act to the Constitution to abolish the right of the privy purses, titles and rights of princely states. ‘Ruler’ no longer As a result, Prince Mukkarram Jah ceased to be recognised as Ruler of Hyderabad and became ordinary citizen, Mr. Najaf Ali Khan explained. He argued: “The succession certificate issued on February 27, 1967, had become null and void and is no more valid forever with the 26th amendment to the Constitution”. As the Seventh Nizam had immense love and affection for his grandson Prince Mukkarram Jah, he purchased the property called Chiran Fort Palace for him as he had done for other family members with one property or another. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan observed that “Prince Mukkarram Jah claiming himself as the sole owner of all properties of the Seventh Nizam is incorrect and misleading”. Several other legal heirs of the Seventh Nizam, including himself, had already made a representation to the Chief Minister of Telangana as also the Chief Secretary requesting them to order a high-level inquiry into the matter, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/properties-of-vii-nizam-belong-to-all-his-34-children-not-just-prince/article35389823.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Oil palm farming to be scaled up||Taking forward the recent Cabinet decision to promote oil palm cultivation in 20 lakh acres in four years, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked farmers interested in oil crop plantation to enrol their names with the Agriculture Department so that an educational tour to the plantations is arranged at government cost. In a meeting on scaling up oil palm cultivation in the State on Saturday, he said the government was also encouraging farmers to take up cultivation of other oil seeds, including groundnut, sunflower, safflower and sesame. He explained that the Centre was spending Rs. 70,000 crore on the import of edible oils every year as production of oil seed is very low in the country. Against the necessity of oil palm plantations in at least 80 lakh acres, it was being raised only in 8 lakh acres now and that was the reason why Telangana was planning to promote it in 20 lakh acres. He stated that the market rate of a tonne of oil palm bunches was Rs. 19,000 and the yield per acre would be 15 to 20 tonnes per acre. The State government would give Rs. 36,000 per acre as subsidy during the first three years of the plantation, he explained. Research had found that the content of oil (extraction rate) was high in the bunches in Telangana. The government would also tie up the plantation cultivation with employment guarantee scheme for digging of pits, micro irrigation/drip implements on subsidy and arrange loans from banks. He stated that Oilfed would also raise its own plantations in 2 lakh acres to ensure seamless supply of raw material. It is being raised only in about 40,000 acres now. Chairman of Oilfed K. Ramakrishna Reddy, Director of Horticulture L. Venkatrami Reddy, Managing Director M. Surender, Joint Director Sarojini and others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oil-palm-farming-to-be-scaled-up-in-state/article35389834.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC orders status quo over 1.99 acre land in Khanamet||Justice A. Abhishek Reddy of the High Court directed the State government not to finalise the bids of e-auction pertaining to a piece of land in Khanamet following a writ petition filed by four persons. The judge passed an interim direction instructing the authorities to maintain status quo with regard to nature of land. The land measuring 1.99 acres in Khanamet of Serilingampally mandal in Ranga Reddy district was part of the 15 acres of land, along with some other lands in Kokapet village, identified for auction by the State government. Former MP and BJP leader Vijayashanthi filed a PIL petition seeking an order to stay e-auction of lands in Kokapet and Khanamet villages. A division bench of the HC led by Chief Justice Hima Kohli however declined to stay the e-auction of the said lands. With the HC giving green signal, the government conducted auction of the lands. Meanwhile, four residents of Khanamet filed the writ petition stating that a piece of the land in Kokapet was used as local graveyard and has graves of some their late family members and relatives. The plea came up for hearing on Friday. After hearing contentions of the petitioners’ counsel, the judge directed him to implead Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and authorities of Revenue Department concerned in the petition as respondents. The government pleader for Industries and Commerce Department and the standing counsel for Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Limited sought time to file counter affidavits. The matter was posted to August 5 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-orders-status-quo-on-199-acres-in-khanamet/article35389837.ece
18 July 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth who molested minor is ‘old offender’||A 20-year-old youth charged with sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl has three such cases against him, police said on Saturday. It was reported in these columns that a minor girl went missing from her home in Vanasthalipura police station limits on Wednesday. Her family approached the police with a complaint after which a missing persons case was registered. A day after going missing, the girl returned home and told her family what had happened. After this, police registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. On Saturday, police described the accused Sadarpalli Sai Kumar (20), as an ‘old offender’. He works at a tea stall and is a native of Nidjinta in Mahabubnagar district. A case was registered against him in 2018 under Section 354(D) of IPC and Section 12 of POCSO Act at Vanasthalipuram Police Station. Two cases were booked against him at Hayatnagar Police Station under sections 379 and 380 of the IPC. He was sent to judicial remand in all three cases. Sai Kumar confessed that he came in contact with the girl a year ago, said police. On Wednesday, he took her to Phase-I in Vanasthalipuram and sexually assaulted her, on the pretext of marrying her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-who-molested-minor-is-old-offender/article35390113.ece
18 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress to focus on ‘defected’ MLAs||Telangana Congress will renew its legal efforts for disqualification of 12 MLAs who joined the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) and invite the leaders and cadre who left for various reasons to come back to the party. The meeting of the new TPCC committee held on Saturday discussed various issues to take the fight right against the government. These include a comprehensive plan on unemployed youth, land sale by the government and action against officials who are blindly supporting and implementing the decisions of the Chief Minister, TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi and TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Madhu Yaskhi said the actions of Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Intelligence Chief Prabhakar Rao, Finance Secretary Ramakrishna Rao and Siddipet Collector Venkatram Reddy will be raised in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-focus-on-defected-mlas/article35390118.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ENT Hospital doctors feted||A felicitation programme for doctors at Government ENT Hospital, Koti, was held by Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association on Saturday. The hospital took major load of patients during the recent surge in Mucormycosis cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ent-hospital-doctors-feted/article35390112.ece
18 July 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman ‘brought dead’ to hospital, attenders flee||Police are hot on the heels of two persons who fled after admitting a woman to a private hospital on Suraram crossroads late on Friday night. She was declared ‘brought dead’. “We are in the process of identifying the woman and those who admitted her. They brought her to the hospital, left soon after and did not return. The hospital waited for a few hours before informing us,” Dundigal inspector P. Ramana Reddy said. Mr Ramana Reddy also clarified that there was no injury mark on the woman’s body. Probe under way A suspicious death case has been registered and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-brought-dead-to-hospital-attenders-absconding/article35389831.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State plans to market, export fish with pvt. partners||The State government is examining procurement, marketing and export of fish with private participation, Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries T. Srinivas Yadav said. At a meeting with officials held here on Saturday on the emerging scenario of fish production, he stated that distribution of free fish seedlings every year, under which seedlings are being released into all major water bodies, had boosted fish production considerably — from 1.97 lakh tonnes production in 2016-17 to 3.49 lakh tonnes in 2020-21, registering over 77% growth in just four years, he explained. Of the total fish produced in the State, 60% was being consumed within the State, 21% was being supplied to West Bengal and the remaining 19% to Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and other States. However, the fishermen were losing out on income by selling their catch to middlemen at lower prices against the Chief Minster’s objective to empower the community socially and financially, the Minister said. With a view to overcome such exploitation of the fishermen, the government’s Fisheries Federation was planning to purchase the fish from fishermen societies directly and sell them with the brand name of ‘Telangana Fish’, Mr Srinivasa Yadav stated. Opening mobile fish outlets was a move as part of strengthening the marketing system for fish. The fish purchased from fishermen societies would be collected and stored cluster-wise, two-three mandals a cluster, with a plan to have about 200 clusters. Besides, there was a plan to establish processing centres — one for every 40 to 50 clusters. Steps were being taken to establish the processing units with global standards at Hyderabad (Sheriguda), Khammam, Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Warangal initially, on the lands belonging to Fisheries Department, he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-plans-to-market-export-fish-with-pvt-partners/article35389835.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Beds in a corporate hospital full||Beds in a major corporate hospital in Hyderabad were completely occupied on Saturday. Employees, who wanted the hospital’s name not to be quoted by the newspaper, said that patients were suffering from influenza, dengue and other seasonal diseases, apart from COVID. The full occupancy of beds in hospitals was last witnessed during the peak of COVID second wave. Managements of other corporate hospitals in the city said that though there is a surge in hospital admissions, they can continue to admit more patients. Apart from people suffering from seasonal diseases, those seeking admissions include patients who require elective surgeries or other medical procedures related to orthopaedics (musculoskeletal system), nephrology (kidneys), and general medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/beds-in-a-corporate-hospital-full/article35390117.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||History-sheeter murdered||A history-sheeter, allegedly involved in as many as 31 cases, was murdered on Saturday in Chaderghat. The victim, Syed Mushtaquddin, was murdered in Old Malakpet with sharp objects around 1 am on Friday, resulting in instant death, said police. The accused are Mahmood Jabri alias Bhainswala Mahmood (35) and Ayub bin Alvi, both history-sheeters too. Jabri’s history sheet was opened in 2002, and he is involved in 15 cases, while Alvi’s was opened in 2015, and he has six cases against him, said police. Preventive Detention Act was invoked against the victim thrice over a period of two years, 2013 and 2014, said police who have booked a murder case and taken the accused into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/history-sheeter-murdered-two-arrested/article35389830.ece
18 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam grapples with jab crunch||Amid surge in demand for COVID-19 vaccine, mainly driven by fears of the possible third wave of the pandemic, several designated vaccination centres in the district continued to grapple with short supply of COVID-19 vaccine doses. The recent spike in COVID-19 cases particularly in the border mandals of the district, which reported high positivity rate in the entire State in the last fortnight, prompted the higher authorities of the health department to pay special attention on COVID-19 vaccination, the key arsenal in the fight against the pandemic. However, the shortage of COVID-19 vaccine doses is proving to be an impediment in scaling up the vaccination drive to effectively tackle the pandemic. The COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered at 15 designated sites against a total of 28 centres in the district on Saturday, sources in the health department said on Saturday. The vaccination centre at the RTA office premises here on Saturday witnessed a huge rush as people scrambled to get vaccines with many of them throwing the COVID-19 safety protocols to the winds. In a statement, the District Medical and Health Officer B Malathi said the COVID-19 cases declined this month when compared to the previous three months and the positivity rate fell below 2%. All should cooperate to prevent spread of rumours about COVID-19 on social media and unnecessary fears among people, she said, adding that the COVID-19 vaccination drive was underway as per the prescribed guidelines all over the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-grapples-with-jab-crunch/article35390120.ece
18 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||A farmer got electrocuted at his field at Uttarpally in Kandi mandal on Saturday. According to Sangareddy (Rural) Police, Ambaiah Goud (55) went to his farm in the morning and came in touch with a live wire. He died on the spot. The victim was an RTC driver and recently retired from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article35390119.ece
18 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha SHGs to get aid of Rs. 453.50 crore||The Odisha government has announced Rs. 453.50 crore assistance for women self-help groups (SHG) as part of a comprehensive COVID-19 package. While Rs. 169 crore has been earmarked for the construction of block-level buildings for the women’s SHG federations, Rs. 84.50 crore will be made available as a revolving fund. The members of the groups will undergo training and can sell their products at the new buildings, which would be known as ‘Mission Shakti Bhawans’. The State government will provide Rs. 200 crore towards interest subvention, which is likely to help women SHGs pay back loans provided to them. Mission Shakti “Mission Shakti is an organisation comprising 70 lakh women of Odisha. They are a development force,” said Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. A separate department called ‘Mission Shakti’ has recently been carved out of the Women and Child Development Department. Products purchased In the past two years, different products worth Rs. 2,800 crore have been purchased from women SHGs. Mission Shakti Secretary Sujata Karthikeyan said women SHGs would be provided bank loans to the tune of Rs. 6,000 crore in the financial year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-shgs-to-get-aid-of-rs-45350-crore/article35389734.ece
18 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Vehicles of BJP leaders attacked||The leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party continue to face the farmers’ backlash on the Centre’s farm laws. On Saturday, a group of protesters allegedly attacked and damaged vehicles in which Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and senior party leader Sanjay Tandon were travelling. Both the leaders were returning after attending an event in Sector 48 of the city. They, however, escaped unhurt. Mr. Tandon, who is coincharge, BJP Himachal and Chandigarh, said the protesters blocked their vehicles and smashed the windscreens. The protesters were shouting slogans and raising black flags as a mark of protest against the BJP and the controversial farm laws. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha in an official statement said the farmers held a peaceful protest against the BJP leaders, but the police detained over a dozen of them without any reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vehicles-of-bjp-leaders-attacked/article35389729.ece
18 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||From office desk to Olympic badminton court||“My reach in the court is my strength,” says Suhas L.Y., Gautam Buddha Nagar District Magistrate and para-badminton player who is going to represent India in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics.“Reaching the shuttle is crucial in badminton. It is as important as reaching the spot as an administrative officer,” chuckles Suhas, who has been consistently performing in the international circuit. Describing the selection as a “huge honour and a dream come true”, Suhas says he has “no words” to express his joy. “As I am ranked third in the world in the SL4 category, I was sure that I would be selected and was preparing every night,” says Suhas, who emerged as a champion player when he won back to back gold medals in Asian Championship-2016 in Beijing and the Turkish Open in 2017. “I played at the Olympic stadium court in 2017 when I won the silver at the Japan Open. It has high air volume. So the moment I got the call, I shifted my preparation to Greater Noida stadium which also has high air volume,” says Suhas, who takes to the court at 10 p.m. every night. “I have some strong sparring partners,” he adds.   When asked whether his schedule becomes hectic, the 2007-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre replies: “It is just like watching a movie after a tough day. The time spent in court helps me relax. Badminton is a skill sport and that doesn’t require you to be on the court the whole day.” He counts top-ranked Lucas Mazur of France as his biggest threat. “He has a better win-loss record against me. Being 6 feet 3 inches, he has the advantage of height but I have my plans. When you are playing in the Olympics, you need to have an all-round game,” says the 5′ 10′′ tall player. Started as a cricketer Hailing from Hassan in Karnataka, Suhas, who counts his father as his inspiration, says he started as a cricketer but soon fell in love with badminton. “It is a social concern that in our country sports and studies could not be taken together. So much so that when someone excels in both, it becomes news. As a society, we have broken many glass ceilings and I feel this is one waiting to be smashed.” Spotted by SAI coaches at the IAS Academy in Mussoorie, he maintains that badminton complements his work as an IAS officer. “It is like the more you chisel the pencil, the sharper it will write. Mental and physical fitness is crucial for excellence in any field, and sports provides that. As badminton requires skill and thoughtful preparation, my experience as an administrator also helps in planning on the court, but I would say badminton informs my daily job more than the other way round.” When COVID-19 cases were on the rise during the first wave, Suhas was handpicked by the U.P. Chief Minister for Noida as he liked his performance as the district magistrate of Prayagraj during the Kumbh Mela. Suhas says he has tried to be “fair and transparent”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/from-office-desk-to-olympic-badminton-court/article35389723.ece
18 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||AAP leader criticises PM for silence over journalist’s death||Criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Aam Aadmi Party’s Rajya Sabha Member Sanjay Singh said on Saturday that it was surprising that the PM didn’t express condolences over the death of award-winning photojournalist Danish Siddiqui during a Taliban attack in Afghanistan. “I condemn the PM for not saying a word of condolence for the journalist. Isn’t it the responsibility of the PM,” he said. Mr. Singh was in Aligarh for a party meeting as part of the membership drive in the State ahead of the Assembly elections. “Afghanistan’s president expressed remorse, Chief Ministers of the country condoled his death, but the PM remained quiet. Is he scared of the Taliban,” asked Mr. Singh. Aiming to make one crore party members in Uttar Pradesh in one month, Mr. Singh said the recent panchayat elections in the State proved that the CM had established the rule of goons and corruption. “There has been a scam in the purchase of ventilators,” he alleged. He said the State needed transparent governance and the Kejriwal model. “It includes free electricity, education and water, free travel for women in buses, and timely payment to farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-leader-criticises-pm-for-silence-over-journalists-death/article35389730.ece
18 July 2021||Hoshiarpur,||One killed by Army men||A 30-year-old man, Rohit Kumar, was killed at village Langah here on Friday night allegedly by an Army personnal and his unidentified accomplice, Mukerian SHO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-killed-by-army-men/article35389732.ece
18 July 2021||JAIPUR,||BJP expels Rajasthan ex-Minister||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday expelled senior leader and former Rajasthan Minister Rohitash Sharma from the party’s primary membership for six years on the ground of breach of party discipline. Show-cause notice The party had recently issued a show-cause notice to Mr. Sharma for speaking out against the State leadership. Considered close to former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, Mr. Sharma had accused the party’s State leadership of running the organisation “from within [the] office rooms” during the COVID-19 pandemic and not visiting the villages. Fissures and rivalry The remarks indicated to the fissures within the Opposition party and rivalry between the factions supporting and opposed to Ms. Raje. BJP State president Satish Poonia said in a brief statement here that the charges of indiscipline against Mr. Sharma were proved correct after an inquiry. “Mr. Sharma has been expelled with immediate effect for a period of six years,” he said. Mr. Sharma, elected from Bansur constituency in Alwar district, was the Transport Minister in the BJP regime. He had also held the party’s State leadership responsible for the defeat at two of the three seats where the Assembly by-elections were held in April this year.  The charges of indiscipline against Rohitash Sharma were proved correct after an inquiry Satish Poonia BJP State president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-expels-rajasthan-ex-minister/article35389731.ece
18 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Information Commission upset over pension delay||The Rajasthan Information Commission has expressed displeasure over the failure of government departments to provide information about the release of pension to the heirs of deceased employees. The departments acted in two such cases only after the Commission intervened and issued notices. Information Commissioner Narayan Bareth said the pension given to an employee was a mark of respect for the services rendered by him. In the event of death of a retired employee, his dependants should not be harassed in getting their entitlement, he said. The widows of two government employees had moved the Commission following the refusal of the departments to part with the information about the action taken to release pension to them. Mr. Bareth said it was “most unfortunate” that the widows were forced to approach the Information Commission for getting their right. ‘Be prompt, sensitive’ In one of the cases, Revati Devi, 80, of Alwar district’s Sanoli village had sought information about her family pension after her husband’s death in 2018. Her application was sent from one wing to another without any relief and the department acted only after the Information Commission issued a notice. In another case, Shashibala Sharma, widow of an employee of Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati University, Ajmer, had sought information about her family pension and her husband’s payslips. Following the notice, the university acted fast and provided the information running into 147 pages to Ms. Sharma. The Information Commissioner said the university administration should seriously examine its work culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/information-commission-upset-over-pension-delay/article35389733.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC asks Centre about method of vaccine allocation to States||The Bombay High Court on Saturday directed the Central government to file an affidavit detailing the manner and methods of allocating COVID-19 vaccines to States. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni passed this direction while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Yogeeta Vanzara, a city resident, who raised concerns over issues faced by the public in obtaining vaccination appointments through the CoWin portal. Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Jamsheed Master informed the court that only 14 lakh people in Mumbai have been fully vaccinated, while 50 lakh have received the first dose. “Merely 6% of the city’s population is fully vaccinated,” Mr. Master said, adding at this rate, it would take three to four years for each citizen to be fully vaccinated. The Bench noted that it cannot direct the Union government on the issue of allocation of vaccines, as it was a pan-India policy. However, it directed the Centre to explain the manner in which orders are placed with the manufacturers and the timeline of vaccine delivery. The Centre also has to explain the manner in which it makes the doses available to various States. The State, through an affidavit, informed the court that it collects vaccines three times a week after being intimated by the manufacturer, following which the doses are then distributed to vaccination centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-asks-centre-about-method-of-vaccine-allocation-to-states/article35389934.ece
18 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Land acquisition begins for tunnel||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde has said that land acquisition work has started for the Thane-Borivali tunnel project, which will reduce the travel time between the two suburbs from one hour to 15 minutes. Mr. Shinde said the detailed project report is ready and the tunnel is expected to open in 2028. “We have taken extra care as this tunnel will pass through Sanjay Gandhi National Park. We will be using tunnel boring technology to avoid disrupting the park’s biodiversity,” he said. The minister said the project did not require environmental clearances. “Our aim is to give world-class infrastructure facilities to Maharashtra. This twin tunnel would connect Thane and Borivali in approximately 15 minutes, providing commuters with significant relief,” he said. The project to be implemented by MMRDA is estimated to cost Rs. 11,235.43 crore and will ease the pressure on Ghodbunder Road. The 11.8-kilometre-long dedicated tunnel, including a 10.25-km stretch beneath Sanjay Gandhi National Park, will run from Tikuji-Ni-Wadi in Thane to the Western Express Highway in Borivali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/land-acquisition-begins-for-tunnel/article35389932.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maha Metro to operate, maintain Line 1 of Navi Mumbai Metro project||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha Metro), has been appointed for operating and maintaining services on Line 1 of the Navi Mumbai Metro project by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) for a contract period of 10 years. CIDCO has issued the letter of acceptance to Maha Metro and an agreement between the two agencies will be signed soon. In February, CIDCO entered into an agreement with Maha Metro for completing the remaining work of Line 1. The stretch from Belapur to Pendhar comprises 11 stations, a 11-km track, a depot for maintenance at Taloja, and two traction sub-stations at Panchanand and Kharghar. Installation of overhead equipment on the 11-km track has been completed. A one-km test track has been set up at the depot and all Metro trains have been tested on the main line up to Central Park Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maha-metro-to-operate-maintain-line-1-of-navi-mumbai-metro-project/article35389936.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||T-Series owner claims man sought money to not file rape complaint||The Mumbai Police have registered an FIR against a man for allegedly demanding money from T-Series owner Krishan Kumar earlier this month for not filing a rape case against his nephew and the company’s managing director Bhushan Kumar, an official said on Saturday. The FIR was registered at Amboli police station on Friday night against Mallikarjun Pujari for extortion and other charges under the Indian Penal Code a day after an offence was filed against Mr. Bhushan Kumar for allegedly raping a 30-year-old woman under the pretext of providing her with a job in his company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/t-series-owner-claims-man-sought-money-to-not-file-rape-complaint/article35389935.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 8,172 fresh cases||Maharashtra reported 8,172 new COVID-19 cases, 124 deaths, and 8,950 recoveries on Saturday. Mumbai saw 469 new cases and 12 deaths, the State Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-8172-fresh-cases/article35389938.ece
18 July 2021||Nagpur,||3 held under anti-conversion law in Nagpur||The Uttar Pradesh police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has arrested three people from Nagpur in connection with a case registered in Lucknow under the State’s anti-conversion law, an official said on Saturday. Prasad Rameshwar Kavale (from Nagpur), Kausar Alam Shaukat Ali Khan (from Jharkhand) and Bhupriya Bando Devidas Mankar (from Gadchiroli) were arrested on Friday night, the official said. They were staying at Hansapuri under the jurisdiction of Ganeshpeth police station. The Uttar Pradesh police’s ATS had arrested a few people last month and claimed to have busted a nationwide racket of religious conversions. The law provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3-held-under-anti-conversion-law-in-nagpur/article35389933.ece
18 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Heart moved in 83 minutes, saves 29-year-old man’s life||The life of a 29-year-old Mumbai resident was saved after a heart was transported through a green corridor in 83 minutes from Jehangir Hospital in Pune to Apollo Hospitals in Belapur. Ravi Sharman Ahirwar, who underwent the transplant on Thursday, received the heart of a 48-year-old woman who died of brain haemorrhage on July 2. The woman’s liver was transplanted into a 61-year-old from Pune. Dr. Sanjeev Jadhav, the lead doctor who performed the surgery, said, “Mr. Ahirwar was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy in 2007, leading to heart failure. The symptoms worsened in 2019, causing breathlessness from minimal walking, swelling in the lower limbs, and fluid accumulation in the lungs and abdomen. He registered for a transplant with the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre in February 2020.” With only a 15% functioning heart, he was on the waiting list for around a year. Dr. Jadhav said, “We informed the patient about the availability of the heart and made preparations for the transplant. The heart was retrieved at 8.30 a.m. at Jehangir Hospital in Pune and transported in 83 minutes to Apollo Hospitals.” ‘Responding to cues’ Dr. Jadhav said that the heart was transplanted in one-and-a-half hours. “The patient is now doing well, awake and responding to verbal commands. Till date, five heart transplants have been performed at Apollo Hospitals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heart-moved-in-83-minutes-saves-29-year-old-mans-life/article35389937.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||No common entrance test, DU admissions to begin on Aug. 2||Delhi University on Saturday announced that registration process for its undergraduate courses will begin from August 2 while that of postgraduate courses will commence from July 26. Senior university officials said admissions to the UG courses will be based on merit and not Central Universities Common Entrance Test as speculated earlier. Cut-offs in September The cut-offs are expected to be out by early September, officials said. P.C. Joshi, the acting Vice-Chancellor of DU, said: “We had an intensive meeting with our admissions committee and came up with the dates for admissions. The process, like last year, will be completely online.” Mr. Joshi announced that the registration process for M.Phil and Ph.D courses will begin on July 26 and end on August 21, the same as the postgraduate schedule. The last date of registration to UG courses will be August 31, Mr. Joshi added. 65,000 seats Around 20,000 PG seats and 65,000 UG seats are on offer at the university this year, said officials. Applicants interested in applying under the ECA and Sports quota can upload certificates from the last four years, instead of three years, as a special measure during the pandemic, they said. Rajeev Gupta, Chairperson of DU Admissions, said: “All trial-based admissions for sports and ECA [Extra-Curricular Activities] will be based on certificates. The only modification this year is that students will be able to upload certificates from the last four years instead of three years. Due to the pandemic, it might be possible that students were not able to participate in events. So, this year, they will be given the option to select the three best certificates from the last four years.” “The admission process will be online, and no student has to visit any centre or college for any purpose. There will be a dedicated portal for admissions that will have details about all colleges, courses and fee structures. The idea is to integrate everything to assist students. The admission committee has taken a conscious call to not change any eligibility criteria or the fee structure,” he added. Senior officials said webinars and tutorial videos will be released by DU to facilitate students in the registration process. Mr. Joshi said, “We will ensure that the admission process is smooth and hassle-free. My advice to students is to not be anxious as we are here to facilitate their easy admissions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-common-entrance-test-du-admissions-to-begin-on-aug-2/article35389725.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia asks Baijal not to take decisions in matters falling under govt. ambit||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday wrote to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, saying it has come to his notice that for the past many months, the latter has been giving directions to government officials on matters, which are under the ambit of the Delhi government, without consulting with the Ministers. He also urged the L-G to not take any decisions on subjects falling under the Delhi government’s ambit. “It has also come to my notice that you have been issuing directions to officials in meetings about matters that fall under the ambit of the elected government of Delhi. Also, officials from L-G office pressure governement officials for implementing those decisions,” Mr. Sisodia wrote. Mr. Sisodia said it is a chance for Mr. Baijal to take a stand. He said in the future, people will remember him as someone who took a stand “against the BJP” and protected democracy. ‘Murder of democracy’ “I want to request you with respect to please stop taking decisions on matters, which are under the ambit of the elected government of Delhi. Please stop calling meetings with officials on these matters and giving them orders. These meetings and the decisions being taken in these meeting are not just unconstitutional, but against the orders of the Supreme Court,” the letter read. Mr. Sisodia also termed it as a “murder of democracy”. “Whatever political pressure you may have, being on the post of L-G, you should do only what strengthens democracy,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sisodia-asks-baijal-not-to-take-decisions-in-matters-falling-under-govt-ambit/article35389726.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Retired justice Shabihul Husnain appointed as new DERC Chairman||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday approved the appointment of retired justice Shabihul Husnain as the new Chairman of Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC). Mr. Kejriwal stressed the fact that the Delhi government is committed to providing an uninterrupted power supply and there has been great improvement in the power sector in the last decade. Jain on power supply “We are very confident that DERC will set new and significant milestones under the exemplary leadership of the newly appointed Chairman. Delhi government is committed to provide sufficient and reliable power supply in the Capital region,” said Power Minister Satyendar Jain. Also, tickets booked through Delhi government’s e-ticketing app will get a 10% discount on DTC and cluster buses, the government said. “Delhi Cabinet approves the grant of 10% discount on the purchase of bus ticket through government’s e-ticketing app. The app supports e-ticketing, estimated time of arrival (ETA) of buses and information about the nearest available EV charging station,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/retired-justice-shabihul-husnain-appointed-as-new-derc-chairman/article35389724.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine stock to last less than a day, says Delhi govt.||The number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered daily in the city is still less than before due to another shortage, as per Delhi government data. The vaccine stock will last for only less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The city has faced a similar situation on Monday and a day later. The Health Minister had said 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage in the city. Only 87,249 doses of vaccine were administered in the city on Friday compared to 1,29,054 doses on Tuesday. On Saturday morning, the city had only 47,000 doses of Covishield and 2,20,000 of Covaxin, as per the data. The Capital reported 59 new COVID cases and four deaths in past 24 hours. The total number of cases stands at 14,35,478 while fatalities at 25,027. A total of 69,212 tests were done in a day and that RPR was 0.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccine-stock-to-last-less-than-a-day-says-delhi-govt/article35389728.ece
18 July 2021||new delhi,||‘Legal action taken against Gambhir, his foundation’||The Delhi Drugs Control Department (DDCD) has told the High Court that it has launched prosecution against Gautam Gambhir, his foundation, and AAP MLAs Imran Hussain and Praveen Kumar, before a court for allegedly illegally stocking and distributing COVID-19 drugs during the second wave. Based on inquires made by the investigating team, a prosecution in the court of law was launched against the foundation, its trustees and CEO on July 8 for “contravening the provisions of Section 18(c) read with Section 27(b)(ii) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940”, the DDCD said in a status report. Cricketer-turned-politician and BJP leader Mr. Gambhir is one of the trustees. Section 18(c) prohibits manufacture, sale, distribution of drugs without a licence; and Section 27(b)(ii) makes sale, distribution without valid licence punishable with imprisonment for a term, not less than three years but may extend to five years and with fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/legal-action-taken-against-gambhir-his-foundation/article35389719.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Over 7,000 families got ownership rights: Puri||A total of 7,329 families have been conferred ownership rights while over 4.1 lakh people have registered till date for the PM-Unauthorised Colony in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojna (PM-UDAY), Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Puri said on Saturday. PM-UDAY was launched on October 29, 2019, to confer ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. A total of 4,19,485 people have registered under PM-UDAY, Mr. Puri tweeted. He also shared a DDAvideo that offered a step-by-step explanation for people to register online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-7000-families-got-ownership-rights-puri/article35389720.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Release funds for 12 colleges, DUTA writes to Kejriwal||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urging the government to release required funds for the 12 DU colleges that are fully funded by the government. In the letter to Mr. Kejriwal, DUTA said the grants released last year for the 12 colleges were insufficient. “Owing to that, the first quarterly Grants-in-Aid released in April 2021 was just about enough to cover salaries up to May. Some colleges, owing to a greater gap, could not release full salaries for May. Most colleges do not have funds for the salaries of June. Any delay in the release of the second installment of Grants-in-Aid to the 12 colleges will create a crisis for the employees of these colleges,” DUTA president Rajib Ray said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/release-funds-for-12-colleges-duta-writes-to-kejriwal/article35389721.ece
18 July 2021||Washington,||U.S., Afghanistan, Pakistan and Uzbekistan to form quad group||The U.S., Afghanistan, Pakistan and Uzbekistan have agreed in principle to establish a new quadrilateral diplomatic platform focused on enhancing regional connectivity, the Biden administration has said. “The parties consider long-term peace and stability in Afghanistan critical to regional connectivity and agree that peace and regional connectivity are mutually reinforcing,” the State Department said on Friday. Recognising the historic opportunity to open flourishing interregional trade routes, the parties intend to cooperate to expand trade, build transit links, and strengthen business-to-business ties, it said. “The parties agreed to meet in the coming months to determine the modalities of this cooperation with mutual consensus,” said the State Department. Strategic location Afghanistan’s strategic location has for a long time been touted as a competitive advantage for the country. Afghanistan is bordered by Pakistan to the east and south, Iran to the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan to the north, and China to the northeast. Located at the heart of the historic Silk Road, Afghanistan was long the crossroads of commerce between Asian countries connecting them to Europe, and enhancing religious, cultural, and commercial contacts. The formation of the new quad group is important amid China’s desire to extend its Belt Road Initiative (BRI) to Afghanistan. The BRI, a multi-billion-dollar initiative launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came to power in 2013, aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes. By virtue of its location, Afghanistan can provide China with a base to spread its influence across the world. Since the announcement of the withdrawal of U.S. forces by August 31, violence has been rising and efforts to broker a peace settlement between the Afghan government and insurgent Taliban have slowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-afghanistan-pakistan-and-uzbekistan-to-form-quad-group/article35389284.ece
18 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Correct the course, Nasheed tells Solih||Maldivian  Parliamentary Speaker and former President Mohamed Nasheed, who survived a bid on his life in May, has asked President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih to “course-correct before it is too late”. In a statement issued on Saturday, Mr. Nasheed accused President Solih of reneging on his pledge to address religious extremism, referring to the government’s “withdrawal” of support for a recent Bill — criminalising hate crimes — tabled after the May 6 explosion targeting him. “When the conservative religious parties who are part of a political alliance with the government objected, the government withdrew support for its own Bill,” the statement said, naming the Adhaalath party. His comments come amid growing tensions within the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) over the government’s policies, mainly on corruption and religious extremism. While some MPs back President Solih’s “restrained” approach that they find politically prudent, other, disgruntled members support Mr. Nasheed’s “bold” ways. The friction seen within the top echelons of the Maldivian government that is facing the pandemic’s blow and incumbency has set off speculation over political stability in Indian Ocean island nation. Mr. Nasheed was critically injured in the May 6 incident that police called a “terror attack”, and has since undergone multiple surgeries in Male, before being flown to Germany for further treatment. In his first media remarks since the blast, Mr. Nasheed, currently in the U.K., told The Hindu over telephone that “pandering to extremists” is often deemed necessary for political expedience in the Maldives, especially during polls. Extremist votes “We have had three elections under the new Constitution. The MDP won twice — in 2008 and 2018, and President Yameen’s PPM won in 2013. All three victories were possible only with the extremist vote.” But, the tendency could take the country to a “dangerous place” in the next few years, he warned, adding: “Look at Afghanistan today.” Emphasising that he has nothing against President Solih, his “very good friend”, Mr. Nasheed said he did not want the MDP to split, although some fear Mr. Nasheed’s actions could divide the party. “As long as I am there, I will make sure that doesn’t happen.” All the same, he said those committed to moderate values must come together in a common platform. “And that could include the PPM too,” he said, despite his differences with the political rival and jailed former President, Mr. Yameen. On his own ambitions to run for the country’s top office in 2023, Mr. Nasheed said: “Well, I have merely indicated that I have not resigned yet, and that I am available.” According to MDP spokesman and legislator Imthiyaz Fahmy, there is no imminent threat to the party’s unity, but the differences within pose a challenge. Mr. Nasheed, he said, is “really concerned about the government’s lukewarm reaction” to the terror attack, and its response to growing Islamist extremism in the country. “The very ideology and principles that the MDP stands for have been sidelined by the government, according to President Nasheed, and he believes that is detrimental to the party,” he said. Meanwhile, some legislators in the party are increasingly disillusioned, according to MP Mickail Naseem, in whose view President Solih’s pledge to address religious extremism and ensure justice for past victims of their violent attacks has been “overshadowed” by this intention to keep the ruling coalition intact. Landslide win Following President Solih’s victory in 2018, the MDP secured a landslide win in the 2019 general elections. The MDP has 65 MPs in the 87-member People’s Majlis, and is in alliance with the Jumhooree Party, with three MPs [after recent realignment of 2 others], and the Adhaalath party that has no representation in the legislature. The Opposition is led by a combine of the Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM) and the People’s National Congress (PNC), or broadly, former President Abdulla Yameen’s political camp. Following pressure from religious conservatives within government, President Solih backed down on the Bill, Mr. Naseem said. “This also impacts the murder cases of Ahmed Rilwan [journalist] and Yameen Rasheed [blogger] as well. The lack of urgency on the part of the government in tackling the root cause of the May 6 attack is worrying some of us,” he told The Hindu . But others such as Jeehan Mahmood do not think President Solih has gone back from any of his commitments. While acknowledging Mr. Nasheed’s concerns as “very real”, the MDP legislator, who is also on the parliamentary committee on human rights, pointed to “bold steps” taken by President Solih’s government to combat religious extremism, including undertaking operations in islands to identify such groups, and pressing charges against suspects. “It is not correct to say the President is under pressure from coalition partners. It is really a commitment he made when he assumed office to work with this coalition. He will not be the one to break it,” she said. “If he had succumbed to what some call pressure, then the Bill would not have come to Parliament in the first place. It has only gone to the committee stage now and will be taken up after wide consultation. President Solih is not stepping back from any of his promises.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/correct-the-course-nasheed-tells-solih/article35389279.ece
18 July 2021||Washington,||Biden grapples with a ‘pandemic of unvaccinated’||Two weeks after celebrating America’s near “independence” from the coronavirus, President Joe Biden is confronting the worrying reality of rising cases and deaths — and the limitations of his ability to combat persistent vaccine hesitancy. Cases of COVID-19 have tripled over the past three weeks, and hospitalisations and deaths are rising among unvaccinated people. While the rates are still sharply down from their January highs, officials are concerned by the reversing trend and what they consider needless illness and death. And cases are expected to continue to rise in coming weeks. “Look, the only pandemic we have is among the unvaccinated,” Mr. Biden said on Friday. The rising numbers are being driven by large pockets of infection among the over 90 million Americans who have yet to get shots. Just four states with low vaccination rates made up 40% of new cases last week, and nearly half of them came from Florida alone. However, there is little appetite in the White House for a return to broad mandates for masks. Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said on Friday that in low-vaccination areas with rising cases, “local policymakers might consider whether masking would be be helpful for their community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-grapples-with-a-pandemic-of-unvaccinated/article35389275.ece
18 July 2021||Islamabad,||Afghan Ambassador’s daughter abducted, assaulted in Pakistan||The daughter of Afghanistan’s Ambassador to Pakistan was abducted in the middle of the Pakistani capital of Islamabad, held for several hours and brutally attacked, officials in both countries said on Saturday. No one has been arrested in connection with Friday’s assault on Silsila Alikhil, 26. The Afghan Foreign Ministry issued a statement demanding a quick investigation, saying she was “severely tortured”. A hospital medical report, seen by the Associated Press , said she suffered blows to her head, had rope marks on her wrists and legs and was badly beaten. There was a suspicion that she had several broken bones and X-rays were ordered, the report said. The report also said her abductors held her for over five hours and that she was brought to the hospital in Islamabad by the police. There were no details about the abduction or the circumstances of her release. Pakistan called the attack “disturbing” and said that security at the residence of the Afghan Ambassador in Islamabad had been reinforced. The Afghan Foreign Ministry said it strongly condemns this “heinous act”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-ambassadors-daughter-abducted-assaulted-in-pakistan/article35389273.ece
18 July 2021||Washington,||‘Dreamers’ programme is illegal, U.S. court rules||A U.S. federal judge on Friday dealt a fresh blow to an immigration programme protecting undocumented migrants brought to the country as children, ruling it unlawful and blocking the enrollment of new applicants. Instituted by former president Barack Obama in 2012, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) covers around 7,00,000 people known as Dreamers. For many, America is the only country they have ever known. President Joe Biden denounced the ruling as “deeply disappointing”. In a statement from the White House, Mr. Biden said the Justice Department would appeal the ruling by Texas-based Judge Andrew Hanen, while adding that “only Congress can ensure a permanent solution by granting a path to citizenship for Dreamers,” the young people brought to the US as children. DACA supporters received a temporary reprieve in June 2020 when the Supreme Court ruled in a 5-to-4 vote that the Trump administration had not provided sufficient justification for its attempts to end the programme. It made clear it was ruling largely on procedural issues, and left open the possibility of further challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dreamers-programme-is-illegal-us-court-rules/article35389276.ece
18 July 2021||Durban,||South Africans clean up after deadly unrest||South Africans on Saturday cleaned up shopping centres and stores looted during a week of shocking violence that rocked the country and left more than 200 dead. Aid organisations also handed out food in communities that had been cut off from main roads or where food shops were ransacked in the unrest. The violence — the worst in post-apartheid South Africa — erupted after former President Jacob Zuma was sentenced to 15 months in jail for snubbing a corruption inquiry. His successor President Cyril Ramaphosa, who came to office promising to curb graft, said the riots were a “coordinated and well-planned attack” on the country’s young democracy. “Using the pretext of a political grievance, those behind these acts have sought to provoke a popular insurrection,” Mr. Ramaphosa said in a televised address on Friday night. The rioting caused widespread destruction, leaving thousands of businesses trashed, including many retail shops that were specifically targeted. ‘Free Zuma’ As an uneasy calm set in on Saturday, residents in the hard-hit KwaZulu-Natal province swept up debris at the Dube Village Mall in the township of Inanda, north of Durban, shovelling it into refuse bags. Behind them walls topped with spikes and razor wire had been spray painted with the words “Free Zuma”. Mr. Zuma, whose home province is KwaZulu-Natal, commands support among loyalists in the ruling African National Congress (ANC). Traffic was back to normal along a main highway linking the north to the port city of Durban after it had been closed for much of the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-africans-clean-up-after-deadly-unrest/article35389280.ece
18 July 2021||Doha,||Doha talks resume amid Taliban gains||Representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban met in Doha for talks on Saturday as violence rages in the country with foreign forces almost entirely withdrawn. The two sides have been meeting on and off for months in Doha, but the talks have lost momentum as the insurgents have made battlefield gains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/doha-talks-resume-amid-taliban-gains/article35389272.ece
18 July 2021||PARIS,||EU--Virus Outbreak-France||France will allow travellers who have had Covishield, AstraZeneca’s vaccine manufactured in India, into the country starting on Sunday. France still doesn’t recognise vaccinations by Chinese or Russian vaccines. The move came after a global outcry over the fact that the EU’s COVID-19 certificate only recognises AstraZeneca vaccines manufactured in Europe.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-virus-outbreak-france/article35389277.ece
18 July 2021||Damascus,||Syria’s Assad takes oath after criticised re-election||President Bashar al-Assad took the oath of office for a fourth term in war-ravaged Syria on Saturday, after taking 95% of the vote in a controversial election dismissed abroad. The vote extending Mr. Assad’s grip on power was the second since the start of a decade-long civil war that has killed almost half a million people and battered the country’s infrastructure.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/syrias-assad-takes-oath-after-criticised-re-election/article35389282.ece
18 July 2021||Mumbai,||HDFC Bank Q1 net rises 14%, second wave hits performance||HDFC Bank’s consolidated net profit for the June quarter rose 14% from a year earlier to Rs. 7,922 crore, but slid sequentially from the Rs. 8,434 crore recorded in the three months ended March 31. Core net interest income grew 8.57% to Rs. 17,009 crore, on advances growth of 14.4%, and the net interest margin was 4.1%, while other income grew 54.3% to Rs. 4,075 crore. The year-earlier quarter had been impacted by the national lockdown and the ensuing hit to economic activity, while the just-concluded quarter had been affected by localised lockdowns. “These disruptions led to a decrease in retail loan originations, sale of third party products, card spends and efficiency in collection efforts,” the country’s largest private sector lender said in a statement. “The lower business volumes, coupled with higher slippages, resulted in lower revenues, as well as an enhanced level of provisioning,” it added. Loan loss provisions jumped 54% to Rs. 4,219 crore, while overall provisions, including Rs. 600 crore set aside as contingency provisions, stood at Rs. 4,830.8 crore as against Rs. 3,891.5 crore. GNPA ratio rises HDFC Bank also said that the disruptions may lead to a continued rise in the “number of customer defaults and consequently an increase in provisions”. The bank said the gross non-performing assets ratio rose to 1.47% as of June 30, from the 1.32% seen in March and 1.36% a year earlier. Its deposit growth was 13.2% during the quarter and the share of the low-cost current and savings accounts balances in the overall base stood at 45.5%. Its total capital adequacy ratio was at 19.1% as on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-q1-net-rises-14-second-wave-hits-performance/article35389620.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Infrastructure outlay, a boost for cement sector’||Cement demand is expected to grow by about 20% in FY22 following increased budgetary allocation for infrastructure in the Union Budget 2021-22 and the expected revival of urban housing, said A.V. Dharmakrishnan , Chief Executive Officer, The Ramco Cements Ltd. Excerpts:  Commodity prices are rising. Why is cement alone as input material facing an issue? Commodity prices have increased all over due to the sharp increase in prices of diesel, coal, pet coke and polymer. Thus, the cost of production for cement has sharply increased. In the construction sector, a few industries like steel and cement are in the organised sector whereas land, sand, bricks, aggregates and construction labour are still under the unorganised sector. While steel prices have risen sharply, it is not talked about much because a major portion of the steel is coming from outside the State; whereas, when it comes to an increase in cement prices, this industry alone is easily targeted, being native players. This could be due to bullying by various groups with vested interests on political grounds. There are claims about a cartel being behind the recent cement price hike... There are more than 50 companies in the country with sizes as high as 1 million tonne per annum (MTPA) to 120 MTPA. Since priorities and bandwidth of the companies will be different, it may not be possible for them to come together to achieve a common agenda and hence, cartelisation, which requires certain understanding among the companies, is not possible. Therefore, there is no question of cartelisation and such accusations are baseless. How do you visualise FY22? Cement demand is expected to grow by about 20% in FY22 due to increased budgetary allocation for infrastructure in the Union Budget 2021-22, besides expected revival of urban housing. In addition, rural demand is also expected to sustain on the back of higher rural incomes witnessed in FY21 and with good farm income. PMAY-G and PMAY-U schemes are expected to sustain momentum as they engage the rural workforce which, in turn, drive rural employment. Rise in fuel prices like diesel, pet coke and coal may push up costs, which could affect the overall cost of production. However, the return of growth in cement demand will be well supported by rural demand, push for affordable housing and recovery in the infrastructure segment. With the completion of all capacity expansion now, Ramco Cements will be well placed to take advantage of the expected market buoyancy in the days to come. Clinker is available only in South. Will it change cement units’ location strategy? For Ramco, clinkering units will be in the South; satellite cement-grinding units will be set up in strategic locations based on market potential. Setting up of clinkering units is dependent on limestone availability. How about competition from the unorganised sector? There is no significant player in the unorganised sector. First of all, manufacturing units compulsorily require BIS certification and that calls for heavy investment to maintain quality. Besides, being a capital-intensive sector, brand awareness among the users is also very high. Hence, the entry of unorganised players is very much restricted. What is your capacity? Clinker capacity as at June is 11.4 MTPA. It will rise to 13.65 MTPA once the clinkering unit in Kurnool is completed in September. Cement grinding capacity is 19.4 MTPA. It will rise to 20.4 MTPA once the cement-grinding facility in Kurnool is completed by 2022-23. Are you looking at acquisitions or going North? As of now, good assets are available in the North. If any opportunity is there, definitely we will examine to expand or diversify markets.   Rise in fuel prices like diesel, pet coke and coal may spur costs which could affect the overall cost of production||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infrastructure-outlay-a-boost-for-cement-sector/article35389615.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Market recovering, digital seeing quicker adoption: LTI||L&T Infotech’s growth reflected the ‘evolving dynamics of a steadily recovering market and accelerated adoption of digital’, said Larsen & Toubro Infotech (LTI) CEO & MD Sanjay Jalona. Mr. Jalona also pointed out that the Indian information technology industry had provided ‘exemplary’ support in enabling the world to navigate ‘these unprecedented times’. “The pandemic has brought domestic tech players under the global limelight,” Mr. Jalona said. “I would like to acknowledge the commendable contribution of millions of youth of our nation,” he added. LTI registered a revenue growth of 17.4% to Rs. 3,462.5 crore for the quarter ended June 30. Net income grew 19.3% to Rs. 496.8 crore. “We are excited about the cloud and data opportunities which will be the main drivers of technology and business transformation in the years to come,” Mr. Jalona said. LTI also announced a special dividend of Rs. 10 per equity share to commemorate the completion of five years since its listing on the Indian stock exchanges. In the period, the company grew at a compounded annual growth rate of 13.5%.  L&T Infotech’s revenue grew 17.4% in the June quarter. Net income climbed 19.3% in the period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/market-recovering-digital-seeing-quicker-adoption-lti/article35389613.ece
18 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Hiring activity saw uptick in most sectors in June: report||With the gradual easing of lockdowns, overall hiring activity witnessed positive growth for most sectors in June, according to a report. Hiring activity improved, suggesting a recovery for the non-tech sectors as well, based on newly added job listings during the month, job site SCIKEY Market Network said in a report. While the IT sector had so far been hiring at a fast pace, June’s data revealed that a lot of other sectors had started showing improvement in hiring activity, SCIKEY Market Network said based on job postings. The data revealed that there had been a 21% improvement in hiring in the banking sector in June, compared with May. Key industries like IT and BPO showed 18% growth each, the pharmaceuticals sector logged 16.9% growth, while hiring demand in healthcare improved by 20%, it stated. Other sectors like insurance, retail, education and FMCG also showed a progress of 12%, 5%, 12.1% and 16%, respectively. “It’s been a rough patch for most sectors since the lockdown took place,” said SCIKEY co-founder Karunjit Kumar Dhir. “We are hopeful that the recovery will become more robust in the coming months,” Mr. Dhir added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hiring-activity-saw-uptick-in-most-sectors-in-june-report/article35389617.ece
18 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Ball in RBI court on lifting ban: Jagdishan||HDFC Bank has complied with 85% of RBI’s asks on technology, and the ball is now in the regulator’s court as to when to lift the ban on issuing new credit cards, MD and CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan said on Saturday. Addressing shareholders at his first annual general meeting as the head of the lender, Mr. Jagdishan said a technology audit was also over and the RBI would now be “independently” taking a view on when to lift penal actions taken against the bank. Frustrated at repeated tech outages at HDFC Bank, the RBI put a freeze on it issuing any new credit card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ball-in-rbi-court-on-lifting-ban-jagdishan/article35389618.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Country first for Baig & Ramesh||They have untold stories even as they script the success stories of their trainees. And not all coaches, who untiringly work behind the scenes to mould athletes into lead performers on some of the biggest stages like the Olympics, get their due. Consider two shining examples — chief national rowing coach Ismail Baig and athletics coach N. Ramesh. Not many might be aware that the Guntur-born Baig, who trained the two Olympics-bound rowers Arvind Singh and Arjun Lal Jat (men’s double sculls) at the Army Rowing Node (ARN) in Pune — had to summon all the courage to stay back with the rowers even as his wife tested COVID-19 positive a few weeks ago. Baig couldn’t even think of leaving the bio-bubble at ARN even for a day as that would mean breaking pandemic protocols. He didn’t want the efforts and planning of months go down the drain. “I preferred to stay back and fortunately my family understood. “I was monitoring their treatment from Pune and by God’s grace, they could come out of the crisis,” Baig said.  The rowing coach added he was with his family only for a brief period during the last six months as ARN was his “second home”. The 55-year-old Ramesh’s case is no different. His wife was bed-ridden a few weeks ago and Dutee Chand’s coach faced a similar crisis. Ramesh, too, stayed back in Patiala with the Tokyo-bound athletes because of the bio-bubble. Family support “I didn’t dare to think of even moving out of the National camp. Fortunately, my family members insisted that I focus on coaching,” he said. There were many instances when the coaches stayed away from personal issues to be with the trainees. “There is no better joy for us than to see our trainees scale the pedestal of stardom. Everything else is secondary for us,” the spirited coaches said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/country-first-for-baig-ramesh/article35389633.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Tough but familiar challenge awaits Sindhu||World champion P.V. Sindhu returns to the Olympic arena determined to do one better than her runner-up performance in 2016. Though the men’s 13th seed B. Sai Praneeth and the unseeded duo of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty will also be around, the quality of opposition they are drawn to face could prove too much for them to handle. In the absence of defending champion Carolina Marin, Sindhu and other medal contenders can breathe a bit easy. Nevertheless, the journey to the podium is going to be tough. After the two-match preliminary league, Sindhu’s first serious challenger could be Mia Blichfeldt (Denmark) in the elimination round. Sindhu has a 4-1 record against Mia. This year, it is 1-1. Thereafter, Sindhu’s prospective rivals are World No. 1 Tai Tzu Ying (Chinese Taipie) in the quarterfinals, former World No. 1 Akane Yamaguchi (Japan) in the semifinals and top seed Chen Yufie (China) for the gold. Though these challengers appear intimidating, Sindhu knows she is treading a familiar path. Make-or-break match Tai holds a 13-5 advantage in their clashes but three of Sindhu’s victories have come in big-ticket events like the 2016 Rio Olympics, 2018 BWF World Tour Finals and the 2019 World Championship. Since then, Sindhu has lost thrice. Therefore, this could well be a make-or-break match. Against Yamaguchi, Sindhu will be confident of improving on her 11-7 record, following a comeback-win in this year’s All England Championship. However, in familiar home conditions, Yamaguchi could prove tougher. Since the Chinese have not played competitively since the pandemic set in, their form is unknown. After losing the 2020 All England final to Tai, Chen returns as the seeding favourite. Sindhu holds a 6-4 record but Chen emerged triumphant in their last meeting in the 2019 BWF World Tour Finals. Unless Sindhu reproduces the sublime form that brought her the world title, she could end up justifying her sixth seeding, in the quarterfinals. Praneeth, like Sindhu and Satwik-Chirag combination, is drawn to play the top seed Kenta Momota. Before the prospective quarterfinal against the Japanese, Praneeth will have to deal with eighth seed Ng Ka Long (Hong Kong). Satwik and Chirag are unlikely to go beyond the league stage. Clubbed with the top seeded Indonesians Marcus Fernaldi Gedeon and Ken Sanjaya Sukamuljo, besides World No. 3 Lee Yang and Wang Chi-lin (Chinese Taipei) for company, the debutants can only hope to cause a flutter.  The participants: Men: Singles: B. Sai Praneeth; Doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty; Women: Singles: P.V. Sindhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tough-but-familiar-challenge-awaits-sindhu/article35389258.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Indians will find the going hard||Anirban Lahiri, Udayan Mane and Aditi Ashok will be the Indian representatives in golf. Considering the quality of the field and their form, they could well end up as part of the results, and away from the frontrunners to the podium. After all, Lahiri and Mane are the last two names in the Olympic Golf Ranking list of 60 qualifiers. Rahm heads the list World No. 2 Jon Rahm (Spain) heads the list that includes five others from the world top-10 list. Four of those are Americans — Justin Thomas, Collin Morikawa, Xander Schauffele and Bryson DeChambeau — and the star from Ireland, Rory Mcllory. Such being the creamy layer of the select field, including golfers from 35 countries, it is difficult to visualise Lahiri and Mane staying in the medal-hunt. No great form Going for his second straight Olympics, Lahiri has not shown any great form this season on the PGA Tour. He has two top-10 finishes after making the ‘cut’ in nine events from 19 outings. A bout of COVID kept Lahiri away from action till the first week of May. For Lahiri, the news of qualification came as a pleasant surprise while a waitlisted Mane made it following the withdrawal of Argentina’s Emiliano Grillo. Mane has only played in India and made it to Tokyo based on the world ranking points gained from the domestic tour. Key role Three wins in the 2020-21 PGTI season played a key role in Mane getting the necessary points to be considered on the waiting list.  Aditi, also set for her second Olympic appearance, was focusing on getting her act right on the LPGA Tour when the news of her qualification trickled in. A worry Aditi’s form remains a worry since her best finish this season is a distant 23rd in the LPGA Drive On Championship. Placed 45th on the list of 60 qualifiers, Aditi will find it tough to be in contention in a field that has world’s top-15 players, headed by American Nelly Korda. Realistically, the Indians are set to be among the also-rans.  The participants: Men: Anirban Lahiri, Udayan Mane; Women: Aditi Ashok.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-will-find-the-going-hard/article35389264.ece
18 July 2021||(Gros-Islet,||Lewis shines as Windies triumph||Opener Evin Lewis was at his rampaging best with an innings of 79 in setting up the West Indies’ 16-run victory over Australia in the final T20 International of their five-match series at the Daren Sammy Stadium here on Friday. Lewis' punishing innings off just 34 balls, highlighted by nine sixes and four fours, lifted the home team to 199 for eight and earned him the Man-of-the-Match award as the West Indies also took the series 4-1. Three wickets each Pacers Sheldon Cottrell and Andre Russell then claimed three wickets each as Australia was restricted to 183 for nine. Mitchell Marsh, who posted three half-centuries in his previous four innings, looked set for another substantial contribution but fell for 30 off 15 balls. Despite being hampered by what appeared to be an ankle injury, Australia captain Aaron Finch sought to keep his team in the hunt. Walsh, the Antiguan leg-spinner, was named Man-of-the-Series for his haul of 12 wickets, one short of the T20I series record of New Zealand spinner Ish Sodhi, also against Australia, earlier this year. The West Indies and Australia meet in three One-Day Internationals in Barbados starting next Tuesday.  The scores: West Indies 199/8 in 20 overs (Evin Lewis 79, Nicholas Pooran 31; Andrew Tye 3/37) bt Australia 183/9 in 20 overs (Aaron Finch 34, Mitchell Marsh 30, Matthew Wade 26; Simon Cottrell 3/29, Andre Russell 3/43).   Toss: West Indies.   MoM: Lewis.   MoS: Hayden Walsh; West Indies won match by 16 runs and series 4-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/evin-lewis-shines-as-windies-triumph/article35389623.ece
18 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||‘A great opportunity for Gokulam’||Barely a month after the women of Gokulam Kerala were given a warm reception in front of a big crowd at the Corporation Stadium here last year, India went into a lockdown. A year on, they have a strong reason to be cheerful again: they would be playing at the AFC Women’s Club Championship. It will be held in Jordan in November. Gokulam is the first club from an India to take part in the tournament. It may be four months away, but Gokulam’s coach, P.V. Priya is already looking forward to it. “This is a huge opportunity for the girls,” she said on Saturday. “Yes, the COVID-19 lockdown has hampered our training, but I hope we would be able to get back on the field in September. I think the players will be ready for the tournament with a two-month camp.” She said Gokulam was drawn in a tough group. “All our rivals, Amman Club (Jordan), Shahrdari Sirjan (Iran) and FC Bunyodkar (Uzbekistan) are strong. But we will give our best,” said Priya. She hopes Gokulam would be able to field most of the players that made the team the Indian Women’s League champion last year. “We could also look at some foreign recruits as five of them are allowed in a team,” she said.  Gokulam’s matches: Nov. 7: vs. Amman Club; Nov. 9: vs. Shahrdari Sirjan,; Nov. 12: vs. FC Bunyodkur .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-great-opportunity-for-gokulam/article35389700.ece
18 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Shuttler Suhas has made it to Tokyo||“My reach is my strength,” says L.Y. Suhas, Gautam Buddha Nagar District Magistrate and para-badminton player, who is going to represent India in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. “Reaching the shuttle and sending it back to the opposition’s court is crucial in badminton. It is as important as reaching the spot as an administrative officer,” chuckles Suhas, who has been consistently performing in the international circuit. Describing the selection as a “huge honour and a dream come true”, Suhas says he has “no words” to express his joy. “As I’m ranked 3rd in the world in the SL4 category, I was sure I would be selected and was preparing every night,” says Suhas, who emerged as a champion when he won back to back gold medals in Asian Championship 2016 in Beijing and Turkish Open in 2017. “I have played at the Olympic Stadium court in 2017 when I won the silver medal at the Japan Open. It has a high air volume. So the moment I got the call, I shifted my preparation to Great Noida stadium which also has high air volume,” says Suhas. “I have some strong sparring partners,” he adds. Isn’t it hectic? “It is just like watching a movie after a tough day. The time spent in court helps me relax.  He counts top-ranked Lucas Mazur of France as the biggest threat. “He has a better win-loss record against me. Being 6’ 3’’, he has the advantage of height but I have my plans. When you are playing Olympics, you need to have an all-around game,” says the 5’10’’ tall Suhas. Social concern Hailing from Hassan in Karnataka, Suhas who counts his father as his inspiration says, he started as a cricketer but soon fell in love with badminton. “It is a social concern that in our country sports and studies could not be taken together. So much so that when someone excels in both, it becomes news. As a society, we have broken many glass ceilings and I feel this one is waiting to be smashed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shuttler-suhas-has-made-it-to-tokyo/article35389629.ece
18 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA urged to address TCA’s concerns||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has directed the Hyderabad Cricket Association to meet the representatives of Telangana Cricket Association and address their concerns inter alia in relation to the development of cricket outside the city of Hyderabad. In a communication signed by BCCI vice-president Rajeev Shukla and treasurer Arun Dhumal, it is said that the TCA has in great detail explained its concerns and the issues which it is facing. “The BCCI appreciates the effort of TCA and their concern regarding the development of cricket in the State of Telangana (outside Hyderabad),” it said. “Although the BCCI cannot accept the representation of the Associate Membership of the TCA, the BCCI feels TCA in collaboration with the HCA can help the growth and development of cricket in Telangana,” the communication added. Time bound “The HCA is directed to address the concerns of TCA in a time-bound manner. HCA is also directed to prepare a report of the steps taken by it in relation to development of cricket outside Hyderabad within six months from the date of this order passed by the BCCI,” it said. Meanwhile, the HCA’s Special General Body meeting, convened by the Apex Council members led by secretary R. Vijayanand on July 18 has been deferred due to unavoidable reasons. “Fresh schedule will be intimated to the affiliated club secretaries,” Vijayanand said. Burying differences K. John Manoj, HCA interim president, told The Hindu that at a meeting convened by Mrs. K. Kavitha, formerMP and daughter of Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao to sort outthe differences between the two groups and also attended by the HCA presidentMohd. Azharuddin, it was agreed by both parties to withdraw the court cases and work unitedly. “But again, this has to be reciprocal before July 22 for any smooth functioning in future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-urged-to-address-tcas-concerns/article35389814.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sindhu improved on Saina’s London bronze||Since the introduction of badminton in 1992 in Barcelona, Indian men and women have participated in each edition. In the last two editions, India collected medals — bronze for Saina Nehwal in 2012 and silver for P.V. Sindhu in 2016. No Indian has ever entered the semifinals of the men’s event. In all three doubles events, India has never made it past the preliminary league phase. Saina’s medal came after her Chinese rival Wang Xin was injured during the bronze-medal match and pulled out when leading 21-18, 1-0. In Rio, Sindhu bounced back from 16-19 down in the first game of the final against Carolina Marin but, thereafter, could not keep pace with the fitter Spaniard. Among the men, the best came from P. Kashyap and K. Srikanth, who reached the quarterfinals in 2012 and 2016.   Roll of honour   Silver: P.V. Sindhu, 2016 Rio  Bronze: Saina Nehwal, 2012 London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-improved-on-sainas-london-bronze/article35389254.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Dipa’s exploits at Rio gave India prominence||Gymnastics caught the imagination of the Indians only in 2010 when Ashish Kumar, hailing from Allahabad, won a bronze in floor and a silver in vault in that year’s New Delhi Commonwealth Games. The Uttar Pradesh gymnast, prior to his exploits in the New Delhi CWG, had tied for a bronze medal along with his Syrian rival Fadi Bahlawan, at the 2006 Asian championships in Surat. However, it was the twin-medal strike that helped Ashish grab nattention. Missing out Ashish had a chance to represent the country in London 2012, but was unlucky to miss out on qualification by a mere 0.7 points. The de-recognition of the Gymnastics Federation of India by the government too came as a big blow to the gymnast in gaining a quota place. Continuing the tradition set by Ashish, Dipa Karmakar came good in the 2014 CWG in Glasgow, landing India’s first-ever women’s medal in the sport — the bronze in her pet event (vault). And what helped her gain prominence was the ease with which Dipa landed the Produnova, a rather difficult routine in vault. Though she fell short in Rio 2016, where she finished fourth, two years later Dipa did the country proud by become the first Indian — male or female — to win the top place in the FIG artistic World challenge cup, taking the gold in vault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dipas-exploits-at-rio-gave-india-prominence/article35389266.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Can Pranati pull it off?||This could be hotly contested, but the fact that gymnastics in India is yet to get to the big league remains a truth with only a few thousands pursuing the sport — which calls for innovation, sublime skills and absolute balance — in right earnest. Yet, the fact that there will be one in action at the Tokyo Olympicsis a big boost to Indian gymnastics. Pranati Nayak will attempt to go the distance and bring home the medal that India so keenly awaited from her idol Dipa Karmakar. The sport’s pin-up girl Dipa finished fourth in vault at Rio 2016. A faulty dismount on her second attempt dashed the Tripura girl’s chances of a podium finish. Pranati, hailing from a village in Midnapore, the third and youngest daughter of a bus driver, had to run from pillar to post to even get a chance to train at the SAI centre in Kolkata. Without even being given a chance to perform, the Bengal girl was dismissed from the trials as too weak and frail to take up the sport seriously. It was only the timely intervention of SAI coach Minara Begum that ended Pranati’s misery. Begum then took Pranati under her wing, paid for the costs involved and helped the young gymnast continue training. Hogging the limelight Pranati shot into the limelight when she won a bronze in vault at the 2019 Asian championships. It came as a surprise, though, when she was selected as one of the two last quota places from Asia to get to Tokyo. Pranati would first look to reach the vault final. If she gets there, she surely has the talent to surprise one and all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-pranati-pull-it-off/article35389268.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhawan backs his spinners||Spinners Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav, both of whom have failed to establish permanent spots in the Indian team over the last couple of years, are back together for the ODI series against Sri Lanka commencing on Sunday. Skipper Shikhar Dhawan is confident that the duo can hit top form. “Kuldeep and Chahal share a great chemistry. They have won so many matches and series for us. They are bowling very well,” Dhawan said at a media interaction on Saturday. It remains to be seen if the team management fields them in the eleven, given that the squad has four more spinners — Rahul Chahar, Varun Chakravarthy, K. Gowtham and Krunal Pandya. Asked if regular skipper Virat Kohli and coach Ravi Shastri — both are in England with the Test team — have spoken to him about possible team combinations, Dhawan said, “No conversation has happened yet. “Whichever series we play, we have an eye on the upcoming T20 World Cup. If the selectors, Ravi bhai or Virat have an eye on any player, this is a great platform to see them play.” On the differences in coaching styles of Rahul Dravid and Shastri, Dhawan said, “They are both very positive. Their way of motivating is different. “Ravi bhai ’s energy is very strong, while Rahul bhai is very calm and composed. I enjoy playing under both of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-backs-his-spinners/article35389270.ece
18 July 2021||Colombo,||Indian ‘rookies’ raring to go||A bunch of fresh faces will be desperate for a fair T20 World Cup audition when India's different-looking yet formidable white-ball squad faces an under-fire Sri Lanka in the six-match limited-overs contest, beginning with the first One-Day International here on Sunday. The series, delayed by five days due to a COVID-19 scare in the Sri Lankan camp, comprises three ODIs and as many T20Is. Dasun Shanaka is Sri Lanka’s 10th captain in four years and leads a team short on quality barring a classy batsman in Dhananjaya de Silva and a steady pacer in Dishmantha Chameera. The suspension of Kusal Mendis and Niroshan Dickwella following a bio-bubble breach in the UK along with injury to former skipper Kusal Perera puts Sri Lanka in a tight spot.   The squads: India (from): Shikhar Dhawan (Capt.), Prithvi Shaw, Devdutt Padikkal, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Suryakumar Yadav, Manish Pandey, Nitish Rana, Ishan Kishan (wk), Sanju Samson (wk), Hardik Pandya, Krunal Pandya, K. Gowtham, Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Varun Chakaravarthy, Rahul Chahar, Deepak Chahar, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Chetan Sakariya and Navdeep Saini.   Sri Lanka: Dasun Shanaka (Capt.), Dhananjaya de Silva (Vice-Capt.), Avishka Fernando, Bhanuka Rajapaksa, Pathum Nissanka, Charith Asalanka, Wanindu Hasaranga, Ashen Bandara, Minod Bhanuka, Lahiru Udara, Ramesh Mendis, Chamika Karunaratne, Dushmantha Chameera, Lakshan Sandakan, Akila Dhananjaya, Shiran Fernando, Dhananjaya Lakshan, Ishan Jayaratne, Praveen Jayawickrema, Asitha Fernando, Kasun Rajitha, Lahiru Kumara and Isuru Udana.   Match starts at 3 p.m. IST.    H2H in ODIs  Overall: Matches 159 India 91 Sri Lanka 56 Tied 1 NR 11 In Sri Lanka: Matches 61 India 28 Sri Lanka 27 NR 6 At R. Premadasa Stadium: Matches 33 India 15 Sri Lanka 15 NR 3  The schedule  July 18, 20 and 23. All matches at R. Premadasa Stadium, Colombo, 3 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-rookies-raring-to-go/article35389251.ece
18 July 2021||KOLKATA,||State junior chess from today||The State junior open and girls chess championship will be held online on July 18 and 19, according to a press release issued by Sara Bangla Daba Sangstha, the new apex body in West Bengal affiliated to the All India Chess Federation, on Saturday. Performances in the event, which is being held online due to the pandemic, will be considered for selection of players for the National junior open and girls tournament. Two top-ranked players from each group will represent the State in the National event. More than 100 players, including IMs Kaustav Chatterjee, Neelash Saha, Mitrabha Guha, Aronyok Ghosh and WIM Arpita Mukherjee, have confirmed participation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-junior-chess-from-today/article35389698.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit to meet Adhiban||Vidit Gujrathi scored a 1.5-0.5 win over Brazil’s Alexandr Fier in the rapid tiebreak games to set up a third round clash against B. Adhiban in World Cup chess on Saturday. D. Gukesh, who kept Daniil Dubov 1-1 after two classical games, cracked in the rapid tiebreak games, losing the first and drawing the second. In the women’s section, Padmini Rout lost both rapid games to Sarasadat Khademalsharieh and was eliminated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-to-meet-adhiban/article35389250.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A comeback after 112 years||After being part of the Olympics in 1900 and 1904, golf made a comeback in the 2016 Rio Games, with a select 60-player field. Great Britain’s Justin Rose took the gold ahead of Sweden’s Henrik Stensen and American Matt Kuchar. Among the women, Korea’s Inbee Park, New Zealand’s Lydia Ko and China’s Shanshan Feng finished in that order. India’s Anirban Lahiri and S.S.P. Chawrasia along with Aditi Ashok could not make much of an impression. After three sub-par rounds of 71, 71 and 69, Chawrasia tumbled to the tied 50th spot following a 78! Lahiri, failing to break par on all four days after a sequence of 74, 73, 75, 72, took the 57th spot out of 59 finishers. In comparison, Aditi fared better, at least, on the first two days. Successive rounds of 68 kept her in the top-10 bracket. Thereafter she took a freefall down the leaderboard. Aditi shot a 75 and a 73 for a tally of 7-over 291 for the 41st spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-comeback-after-112-years/article35389260.ece
18 July 2021||Nottingham,||Babar Azam leads Pakistan to victory||Captain Babar Azam (85) led from the front as Pakistan beat England by 31 runs in the first Twenty20 International at Trent Bridge on Friday despite a blistering hundred from Liam Livingstone.q Azam made 85 and shared an opening stand of 150 with Mohammad Rizwan in a national record T20 total of 232 for six.  The scores: Pakistan 232/6 in 20 overs (Mohammad Rizwan 63, Babar Azam 85, Fakhar Zaman 26) bt England 201 in 19.2 overs (Jason Roy 32, Liam Livingstone 103; Shaheen Shah Afridi 3/30, Shadab Khan 3/52).   Toss: England; MoM: Afridi; Pakistan won by 31 runs to lead three-match series 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babar-azam-leads-pakistan-to-victory/article35389621.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||HFC retains Joao Victor||Indian Super League side Hyderabad FC retained Brazilian midfielder Joao Victor, who signed a two-year extension till the end of the 2022-23 campaign. The 32-year-old was an integral part of the HFC squad that finished just outside the top-4 in 2019-20. “I am really happy to extend my stay with the club and continue being a part of this amazing family,” said Victor.   P. Akshath Reddy cracked a century (115 n.o., 54b, 3x4, 11x6) for Evergreen against India Cements in the A1-Division three-day league match reduced to a 20-overs contest after rain played spoilsport.  The scores: A1-Division three-day league: 1st day: Evergreen 226/2 in 20 overs (P. Akshath Reddy 115 n.o., Rahul Buddhi 37, Chandan Sahani 58 n.o.) bt India Cements 103/6 in 20 overs (Shreyas Vala 40) .    Former internationals N. Mukesh Kumar, Neeta Dhadwe were among those who joined the Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud in the ‘Cheers for India’ campaign organised by Telangana Olympic Association at the Lal Bahadur Stadium, aimed at encouraging the Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister hoped for the best-ever performance from the Indian contingent given the kind of training and support it has received from all quarters.   Three members of Shastri Soccer Club (SSC) of Trimulgherry village (Secunderabad) — Victor Amalraj, patron SSC, A. Jesuraj, secretary SSC, and M. Mohan, vice-president of SSC, met the CEO of Secunderabad Cantonment Board Mr. Ajith Reddy and A. Parshuram, general secretary of Secunderabad Cantonment Board Employees Union and requested the Board’s cooperation in conducting the Late Tony memorial football tournament soon. Amalraj briefed the CEO that the cantonment area had produced many Olympians and international players and that Trimulgherry village has three teams affiliated to the Telangana Football Association. There are approximately 60 boys, who are struggling to find a place to practice at the ground.     The Telangana State online senior championship will be held on August 19 and 20. The top four players from this event will represent the State in the forthcoming senior National online championships. The State juniors online event will be held on July 22 and 23 and the top two from this will represent the State in the forthcoming junior Nationals. For details call 73375 78899 \ 73373 99299.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-retains-joao-victor/article35389813.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 08:11 IST,||Sudoku — July 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-18-2021/article35390392.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedalling past the Taj||Despite lockdown, Athik Mohamed M., Deepesh M. and Anung Yangfo K. from Salem managed to cycle around the Taj Mahal in Agra. It only took 15 minutes. This team of three final year students of Civil Engineering, from Thiagarajar Polytechnic College in Salem, has launched Heritage Race, a Virtual Reality mobile-only game that lets players explore monuments and historic cities. The game has been created as part of All India Council for Technical Education’s (AICTE) Toycathon 2021, an initiative under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to propel innovative minds ‘to conceptualise novel toys and games that are based on Bharatiya civilisation, history and culture’. The idea came to Athik in December 2020, before he even heard of Toycathon. Lockdown made it impossible to go anywhere. “With the lack of outdoor activities, my physical fitness was waning. I started indoor cycling but soon got bored of the four walls of my house. That’s when the idea struck me,” says Sathik, adding that VR cycling seemed an ideal way to beat boredom. When his college announced the Toycathon competition a month later, Athik roped in two batchmates, and began to tweak the concept. The games needed an Indian connect and highlight sanskaar, he explains. “India ranks low in creation of physical and digital toys. Most of the games played, don’t personify Indian culture and are mostly made abroad.” The first monument adapted by the Salem trio, was the Taj Mahal. It gives a 360-degree experience of the environment, featuring gardens, bridges and Vedic music as background score. The speed of the cycle in the game is fixed at a relaxed pace of 13 kilometres per hour. As one gets close to the monuments, there are pop-ups, making the experience informative as well as entertaining. The team is now modelling the Qutab Minar and India Gate for the upcoming games. As for ancient cities, they are focussing on Ayodhya and Varanasi. “We are searching for historical images to build 3D models and import them to the game engine,” says Athik. Chennai is on the cards too. The setup will include city monuments, but the surrounding areas will be a result of their creative imagination.  Plans are on to release Heritage Race on App Store and Play Store.   The team is now modelling the Qutab Minar and India Gate for the upcoming games||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pedalling-past-the-taj/article35389904.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||When the Himalayas craft whisky||It was only in April 2016 that one of India’s oldest and largest distilleries, Uttar Pradesh-based Radico Khaitan, made its entry into single malt whiskies — launching Rampur Indian Single Malt in Las Vegas. Now, it is the latest among a fine crop of distillers to put Indian single malts in the global spotlight. The brand’s latest, Rampur Asava, won gold medals at the International Spirits Challenge 2021 and New York International Spirits Competition 2021 after a virtual launch at the Whiskey Show, London in October 2020. What sets this whisky apart? Rampur Asava is the first single malt matured in American bourbon barrels and finished in Indian Cabernet Sauvignon casks. Sanjeev Banga, president of international business at Radico Khaitan, home to Rampur single malts, also credits Rampur’s use of six-row North Indian barley. “Since we are located at the foothills of the Himalayas, the groundwater, soil and air shape the soul of all six Rampur expressions [products]. Our single malt is different yet pleasing, spicy but balanced. It is unabashedly Indian,” he declares. Rampur is not alone. Goa-based John Distilleries’ Mithuna scored 97 points on Jim Murray’s Whiskey Bible , giving it the distinction of the world’s third finest whiskey this year. To most connoisseurs, single malts are synonymous with the Scottish Highlands. But a maverick mix of Indian distilleries is quietly changing that perception, with a range of sophisticated, locally brewed single malts. The journey to a distinctly Indian single malt began in the Deccan Plateau, at the turn of the 21st Century. Rakshit Jagdale, managing director of Amrut Distilleries in Bengaluru, reminisces, “We have been in the liquor business since 1948, but our voyage started in 2004. I teamed up with my father, late Neelakanta Rao Jagdale to create Amrut Indian Single Malt: India’s first single malt to be certified and exported, at a time when there was no reference point for us.” A sip of India So what makes a single malt decidedly Indian? “The grain is a very important aspect of whisky making. Our barley is grown in the Punjab and Rajasthan belt, and we experiment with different varieties to access a bouquet of characteristics that can contribute to flavour through fermentability,” says Rakshit. “From ideation to shelf, it takes around five to six years, while the rare whiskies take seven to nine years to market,” he adds. While these drinks are prized as they grow older, the ageing of Indian single malts is complex. “Maturation depends on climatic conditions. In tropical distilleries, we cannot age our malts for too long as the losses due to evaporation are too high. So by a general rule of thumb in these conditions, whisky is aged between four to six years,” explains Rakshit. Sanjeev concurs: “Our [Rampur] malts are aged in harsh North Indian weather conditions where temperatures fluctuate between 40+ degrees Celsius in summer and around 2 degrees Celsius in winter. This makes the malt interact with the casks very aggressively. Even experts in Scotland agree that due to these variations, aging in India is at least four times faster. A malt aged for 10 years in North India would be equivalent to a 30-40 year old Scotch.”  Yet another chapter in the Indian single malt script, has been written with flourish, by John Distilleries. Its operations have straddled eight manufacturing units spread over seven states since 1996, when Paul P John set up a distillery in Goa to primarily focus on single malts. The formula is simple: six-row barley, harvested in summer at the foothills of the Himalayas, blended with Goan water assisted by locally sourced yeast. With Indian copper pot-stills, specially designed with long necks to create fruitier spirits, the malts are matured in American white oak barrels. The warm Goan weather helps the malts mature faster. “It takes a minimum of three years to make our youngest single malts, and the oldest are seven years or above. As the liquid evolves, we work to give it the identity it deserves,” says master distiller Michael DSouza. Nirvana, a bestseller, has a whiff of caramel pudding, with a salt-edged barley and honey on the palate and a lingering finish of vanilla. The Zodiac Series, with two launches so far, Kanya and Mithuna, looks to the skies for inspiration. Mithuna is named after Gemini, proffering a palate of mocha, tinged with orange peel and delicate spices, that ride on active tannins, gentle oils and dark cocoa tones. Vikram Achanta, CEO, Tulleho, which dabbles in beverage education and consultancy, sums it up: “Indian single malts offer a unique experience; the interplay of Indian temperatures and six-row barley offers more protein and less starch than two-row barley used in Scotland, and finally the inventiveness of our master distillers that makes up the magic.”  Angel’s share Whisky is stored and aged in oak barrels.The wood contributes a lot of flavour to whiskies, but these barrels are also the reason for a loss of around 2% of the whisky stored in them per year. This is called the Angel’s Share, since it is made up of the whisky that evaporates through the pores in the wood. The figure increases with higher temperatures, sometimes up to 12%.    The last word In 2003 Jim Murray,the world’s first full-time whisky writer, designed and wrote Jim Murray’s Whisky Bible , the first ever annual guide to every new whisky produced in the world. Since then it has appeared every year and is homing in on 20,000 different whiskies tasted and 1 million copies sold worldwide. Each edition contains over 4,600 detailed, professionally analysed and easy to understand tasting notes on the world’s leading and lesser-known whiskies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-the-himalayas-craft-whisky/article35389908.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Say it out loud||More than a century ago, writing about literary works from other languages being translated into German, Goethe said, “Our translations, even the best ones, proceed from a wrong premise. They want to turn Hindi, Greek, English into German instead of turning German into Hindi, Greek, English…” He went on to say that the translator, “should expand and deepen his language by means of the foreign language.” This was about translators working to shift foreign literary furniture into their native households. The Indian translator works in the reverse direction. She retrieves literary products from her own language, and retains their authenticity for households elsewhere. Perfectly aware of the walls she has to drill through to relocate, she conjures up word worlds in a language highly resistant to her own. While this poses some special problems, it offers even more special possibilities. Joyous state Two years ago, in his note to a collection of S.K. Pottekkat’s stories, Venugopal Menon remarked that translation is therapeutic. He added, “It puts the mind at rest while stimulating the creative side of the brain.” If the translator is bilingually competent without being creative, he might end up taking a mechanical approach to his project. The solution lies in slow, quiet analysis, which is a powerful source of creativity and awareness.“Here, in this circle of white light that isolates me, we are truly alone, the sentences and I,” said Susanna Basso. Many translators have described this joyous state. Some translators even experience a certain degree of depression once a script is handed in and the creative highs cease. Widely understood as the transpositioning of meaning and sense (which, of course, at the core it is) translation also poses a different kind of insurmountability: gestures, symbolic acts and coded phrases which form the tapestry of a cultural tradition. For instance, looking someone in the eye while being spoken to is a mark of openness and integrity in some cultures; in other societies, similar eye-contact while facing a superior could be misunderstood as being offensive. What is instantly comprehended by native readership appears like a riddle or seems unnecessarily mysterious to a non-native readership; sounds that are a part of the shorthand of any culture are utterly opaque to someone who stands outside it. Sound of words Signposts become crucial here. Prabha Sridevan translating Chudamani Raghavan came to grips with the phrase “ madiley poone ”, which is literally “the cat in your lap” but unfurls subtly to mean the  trouble someone close to you can cause… someone so close that you wouldn’t dream of suspecting her. Translating from one’s native language to a learnt language is difficult enough. But the reverse process, when a native speaker of English translates from a learnt language into her own, presents another kind of nerve-shredding exercise. Daisy Rockwell, ferrying Krishna Sobti over the sea of Hindi, says, “I had to turn every word inside out and shake it upside down.” Therefore, the constant concern about the sound of words from the source language as they arrive in the target language. “Does it sound right?” is a question translators ask their authors and themselves all the time. Listen to Vasantha Surya throwing her voice so that the true notes of Ki Rajanarayanan’s text are ‘heard’ in English. “Taking out the betel leaves one by one as if he were taking things out of a pooja box, he would lay them out with the devotion due to objects of worship… Next he would sniff the broken areca nut. Then he would blow on it. This sniffing and blowing procedure was repeated several times, his hand transporting the areca nut from nose to mouth, nose to mouth, more and more rapidly until ooommoosh, ooomm-oosh, ooomm-oosh, dabak! Into his mouth the areca nut would go, having been noisily purified.” Rhythm and tone No reader in the world would need help with this bit of non-text because sounds combine with words to carry the day. However, there are situations when it isn’t always clear to one who is not a native speaker or reader of the language. Translators should be encouraged to read their translations out loud to check whether the rhythm and tone sound right. Or at least seem to sound right. Very often the translator will say, “This is not how people talk.” A remark like this shows that the struggle is going in the right direction because voices have to come off the page. Let’s look at two other examples: “She took care not to touch the puja items because she was in her period. ” The words in italics are what a writer in English would be obliged to add. In a regional language text, the second half of the sentence would not be required at all because not a single Indian, no matter what his or her religion, would need the explanation. In another instance, a character enters the puja room in a hurry without removing his shirt. The priest is so shocked he puts out his hand as if to shield himself from the offending sight. This might well be completely opaque to someone who does not know the rules of Hindu behaviour. Creative convictions A memorable translatorial and editorial failure I recall with regret happened in 1996 when Bikram Das and I were working on Gopinath Mohanty’s Danapani (1956). The story builds to a climax when the acquiescent wife of an ambitious clerk heads the reception party to welcome the company’s chairman. Sarojini garlands the new corporate king in full view of all the employees and a number of townspeople. Garlanding being an important symbolic part of wedding rituals, this moral downfall was clear to Mohanty’s Oriya readers as he intended it to be, but in the translation, this public garlanding, this shocker, hit the floor with a thud. So what if a woman garlands a man, wondered many readers unfamiliar with Indian/ Hindu customs. We should have fortified this sequence with explanations but we did not. Vanamala Viswanatha said that our translators are like Hanuman who, in order to deliver the right life-giving herb to Rama, flew back, carrying the whole sanjivani mountain of medicinal plants. The success (even at its best, only partial) depends on how the voice of the writer and the voice of the translator mix to become a powerful hybrid language: neither the Indian language nor English but charged with the double force of both. Eight years ago, Priya Adarkar was translating a 19th century Marathi classic — the first Indian eye-witness account of the 1857 Uprising, Maza Pravas , by Vishnubhat Godse. Published in 1907, it offered the word sojir . “I puzzled over the word then said it out aloud more than once, and it became ‘soldier’!” The last decade or so has seen Indian translators confidently melding two lexicons to carry the original texts through, based both on a  series of increasingly successful challenges to first-world control of  ‘universal’ or linguistic pathways, and their own creative convictions. No wonder a thousand years ago the caliphs of Baghdad paid top translators the weight of their manuscripts in gold! The writer is Coordinating Editor, Translations, Tamil Nadu Textbook & Educational Services Corporation.  Very often the translator will say, “This is not how people talk.” A remark like this shows that the struggle is going in the right direction because voices have to come off the page   The Indian translator works in the reverse direction. She retrieves literary products from her own language, and retains their authenticity for households elsewhere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/say-it-out-loud/article35389523.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A chequered century||On July 1, China’s ruling Communist Party marked its centenary with a grand event at Tiananmen Square. Standing on the Tiananmen gate from where Mao Zedong used to address mass rallies, the party’s leader and General Secretary, Xi Jinping, in an hour-long speech gave the Party version of its 100 year-history. Xi told a story of a rejuvenation and revival, with no bumps on the way. Xi’s speech underlined how important the question of history is for the Party and its legitimacy. This is why, since Xi came to power in 2012, the Party has increasingly made clear that only its version of history may be taught in schools and colleges. Those that question it, in Xi’s words, are guilty of “historical nihilism”. Continuity and change This is, needless to say, an airbrushed history, drawing a straight line from the Party’s founding to the grand event on July 1 — a history that is linear and inevitable. The history of the CPC was anything but, as this new book by Tony Saich reminds us. In From Rebel to Ruler: One Hundred Years of the Chinese Communist Party , Saich, a historian at Harvard, who has been studying and visiting China since 1976, has provided the definitive account of the rise, fall, and rise again of the Communist Party of China. For the centrality of the CPC in modern China’s history, there are curiously not as many books as one might imagine that have delved deep into the Party’s workings, organisation, culture, and history. If Richard McGregor’s brilliant 2010 book The Party: The Secret World of China’s Communist Rulers , provided a racy and insightful look that is perhaps the definitive reporter’s account of the CPC, Saich has written the definitive scholarly account of the Party’s origins and the twists-and-turns in its history over 100 years. The strength of the book lies in its detail, telling the story in 560 pages, and in its even-handedness, viewing the Party’s successes and mistakes — especially the monumental disasters of the Mao era — with the disinterested eyes of a scholar. Three broad themes emerge from the book, each highlighting key tensions that have defined the Party’s existence and explained its survival — tensions that each generation of rulers has grappled with and struggled to resolve. The first is about continuity and change. The CPC, as Saich writes, came to power “claiming that it represented a radical break with the past and a new tradition of proletarian internationalism.” Yet as the “strength of revolutionary legitimacy declined”, the Party has “begun to promote itself as the successor to and inheritor of Chinese tradition”. Not just that, as the only legitimate inheritor of Chinese tradition. This is used to both justify autocracy and conflate any critics of the Party as being not anti-party but anti-national. Factional struggles The second tension is in its organisation. What the Party calls “democratic centralism” has been the one continuing ideology from Mao to Deng and Xi, yet every generation has seen a changing dynamic between a “core” and the collective. Saich argues that there is currently no great “pressure from below” to push the Party to reform — it has a powerful hold on the grassroots, has decimated civil society, absorbed all possible sites of opposition including the private sector, and broadly retains public support thanks to decades of growth. Yet it is elite unity that is the big unanswered question, even in the Xi era where Party loyalty is the watchword, given the persistence of the factional structures. For all the talk of Party unity, the reality, even in the Xi era, is that the Party runs on factions and personal networks. Saich shows how the factional structure has existed right from the beginnings, and this dynamic causes repeated political struggles. There is no certainty that even Xi’s accumulation of power has ended that dynamic.     The third is the dynamic between adaptability or pragmatism, and ideology. What does the CPC actually stand for? Many of its more than 90 million members today would be hard pressed to offer a coherent reply. As Saich writes, many join the Party today to advance their careers and not for any sense of mission. The Party still avows by Marxism-Leninism, but has recognised that ideology is no longer a sufficient tether for its legitimacy. It has thus “resorted to nationalism and claims that it is the rightful inheritor of Chinese tradition”. Saich also views how the Party manages the economy and environment as two key areas in determining its future legitimacy in the eyes of the people. Key to survival Indeed, pragmatism, not ideology, helped the CPC survive. The fact that it indigenised its Communist revolution, he argues, allowed for a degree of pragmatism and helped it avoid the fate of the Soviet Union. The indigenous nature of the revolution “permitted the CCP greater flexibility with domestic policy but also has informed its global stance.” If there is one quibble with the book, it is in its somewhat fleeting treatment of foreign affairs and the Party’s view of its place in the world (the description of India as a U.S. “ally” will appear jarring to Indian readers). That is, however, a minor quibble as the focus is plainly on matters domestic, and there Saich undoubtedly succeeds in providing a rich and detailed account that may well end up as the definitive guide in explaining how China’s ruling party got to where it is today.  From Rebel to Ruler: One Hundred Years of the Chinese Communist Party Tony Saich Harvard University Press/Harper  Rs. 3,050||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-chequered-century/article35389541.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Sweden||After a long wait, summer officially arrived in Sweden a few weeks ago. And when it did arrive, it came with a vengeance. Temperatures soured to the early thirties, and in a country not prepared to cope with even this mild heat, it meant more sale of table fans. However, no one is complaining, for the winter was horribly long. Summer in Sweden means being outside. These are few weeks of the year when the city parks brim with people. On one such summer day, I decided to walk across to Slottsparken, the central park of the city of Malmö, where I live. The park gets its name from Malmö Castle (called ‘Slott’ in Swedish) that sits on the edge of the park.  Favourite food At the entrance of the park, a long queue formed outside a kiosk selling falafels and ice-cream. Sweden has witnessed an influx of refugees from war-torn Syria, Lebanon and other West Asian countries in the last two decades. Many of these refugees have made Malmö their home. Their presence has translated into the many falafel kiosks that mark the streets and nooks of the city. The locals love falafel so much so that it won’t be an exaggeration to say that it is the city’s favourite food now. As I walked inside the park, I noticed several groups playing kubb, which is a lawn game where the objective is to knock over wooden blocks called kubbars . The game is won by the team that manages to knock over most wooden blocks of the other team and also a centrally placed king-pin. The attractiveness of the game comes from its simplicity and that any age group can play it. Moreover, it’s a game that’s only played in the lawns. Burning coal As I walked further, I saw several groups gather for picnic. The smell of burning coal and charred meat wafted across. These groups had gathered over portable barbecue units on which hot coal simmered. Midsummer Eve had just passed by (on June 25), and unequivocally the tradition of midsummer is to go outside, grill and wash it down with snaps. Though the midsummer was gone, the idea of barbecuing out in the open with friends has stayed. Laughter, punctuated with the mild hiss of charring food and pops of soda bottles being opened, filled the air. While I walked, paddle boats dotted the canal that meanders through the park. A small group of runners sped past me. Most Swedes prefer an active holiday; the sunny afternoon presented a perfect opportunity to catch up on some exercise. As I turned a corner, I stumbled across a tiny cart on wheels selling coffee. These portable units move around the city selling coffee and given the rush in the park at this hour, it had found an ideal place to anchor. I bought a coffee and settled on one of the many benches in the park. I was carrying a book to read. After a long walk across the park, this bench, the freshly brewed coffee and the book made for a perfect company with which I was happy to while away the summer afternoon. Could I have asked for more? The adrenaline rush-seeking travel writer lives in Malmö, Sweden.  Most Swedes prefer an active holiday; the sunny afternoon presented a perfect opportunity to catch up on some exercise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-sweden/article35389558.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Faces in the water||This book is quite unlike any I have read in recent times. Though, of course, the river as a metaphor for ceaselessly flowing time as also a cradle of civilisation is not a new literary device. There have been books written on a grand, epic scale about peoples and cultures linked to rivers — such as Mikhail Sholokhov’s And Quiet Flows the Don or Qurratulain Hyder’s Aag Ka Darya (The River of Fire) — and about journeys from one river to another signifying journeys across civilisations, such as Conrad’s Heart of Darkness . But none can match the scale and magnitude, the erudition and fine detail, the sheer sweep of terrain and ideas of Rahul Sankrityayan’s Hindi classic Volga se Ganga.  Born Kedarnath Pandey in a modest home in Azamgarh, Sankrityayan took the name by which he is known when he embraced Buddhism in Sri Lanka after a brief dalliance with the Arya Samaj. Forever the traveller (he liked to use the Hindi word ghumakkar ), he journeyed across vast expanses of lands and civilisations, imbibing new ideas and philosophies, translating, writing memoirs, philosophical treatises, biographies, fiction, even science fiction. Written during 1940-42 — by when he had been sufficiently impressed by Marxist ideals to join the Communist Party of India and was taking a brief, albeit forced, respite from his travels, interned as he was first at Hazaribagh Jail and then at Deoli by the British government — Volga se Ganga became an instant bestseller and was soon translated into several languages. All of Sankrityayan’s vast and varied reading over the years, his prodigious recall of names and places and his phenomenal imagination come together in this book. River of time Spanning 8,000 years of human history, it takes the longue durée approach to ‘narrativising’ history. The waves of transcontinental migration from the Eurasian landmass, from the Volga and the Oxus to the Indus, and subsequently the Ganga, as it travels across the breadth of the Indian subcontinent to meet the sea, are recorded in the form of 20 stories. Each story is named after a central character signifying an era. The first story is located on the banks of the Upper Volga in 6,000 BCE, some 360 generations ago, when the survival of the fittest meant a mother drowning her daughter in a bid to retain power within her tribe. The last, dated 1942, is about Sumer, the son of a domestic worker, who sacrifices his life as a fighter pilot in the war of empires. And so we travel down the river of time, holding the author’s hand, as he paints a panoramic view of history which is also rich in small details and wondrous sights, sounds, smells. Some characters are known to us through history books, others find mention in the Vedas , Upanishads and Buddhist treatises; but many are imaginary characters though they are perfectly rooted in their time and place. Not stories in the conventional sense, what emerges in these pages is a chronological series of vignettes of a recreated past. High and low Always a rationalist, Sankrityayan subjects all received knowledge to rigorous scrutiny, though it is distinctly coloured by his Marxist worldview. He talks of the breaking up of simple Aryan societies into families, the division between ‘high’ and ‘low’, ruler and the ruled, creation of organised religions, emergence of the varna system, delegation of women to an inferior position and, worst of all, the practice of slavery. The first milestone among the Vedic Aryans marking the emergence of a new order is when chiefs, kings or priests start living on the “labour of others without working themselves”. In ‘Pravahan’, located in 700 BCE, “ordinary people have been reduced to indigence” because of men who “play upon the pauperised masses — craftsmen, peasants and slaves” by telling them stories about karma and rebirth. The English translation by V.G. Kiernan (first published in 1946) is built upon by Kanwal Dhaliwal. Maya Joshi’s excellent introduction and notes provide a valuable context for the modern reader possibly unaware of the author’s formidable reputation as a polymath and polyglot. So do the two fine essays by the Buddhist monk Bhadant Anand Kausalyayan and Comrade S.A. Dange, each in his own way providing a unique lens to view Mahapandit Rahul Sankrityayan. “I am large, I contain multitudes,” said Walt Whitman. It could well have been said of Sankrityayan. And of India. The reviewer is a writer, translator and literary historian.  From Volga to Ganga Rahul Sankrityayan, trs Victor Gordon Kiernan, Kanwal Dhaliwal  LeftWord Books  Rs. 595    Always a rationalist, Sankrityayan subjects all received knowledge to rigorous scrutiny||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/faces-in-the-water/article35389526.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Distress in Marathwada and its wider repercussions||One of the most unfortunate things to emerge from the 1990s, as better-off Indians rushed to tear themselves off from their less fortunate countrymen and women, was the way food was discussed. When an expensive pizza chain coined a slogan of ‘ Hungry kya? ’ as its tagline, the answer from millions should have been a tragic yes. But that the question succeeded as an ad pitch signalled the distance the elite had travelled from India’s hungry.     Last winter, when thousands of farmers dug in their heels to protest outside the capital against the three farm laws hurriedly voted in, they made it a point to cook and serve pizzas to everyone who lined up. Farmers protested resolutely, in the face of barriers, walls on the roads, nails on the streets and a sustained campaign to project them as ‘anti-nationals’, and defended their pizza langars — making pizza from the grain they grew and cheese sourced from their dairies was just fine. A new phenomenon India has been in the throes of a deep agrarian crisis for years. Distress suicides have been news events drawing sympathy and tears. But assertive and articulate farmers like on the Delhi borders, demanding that their interests be protected, was a new phenomenon to a generation that grew up after the years when Mahendra Singh Tikait ensured farmers entered New Delhi to protest against shifts in policy. Abandoning farmers Kavitha Iyer’s Landscapes of Loss, The Story of an Indian Drought , has to be read in that context of how the farm debate has shaped the nation and also got shaped by it. It is an important reporting intervention, with people bringing their stories to life. She catalogues sporadic policy interventions like the “only two loan waiver schemes” in 1990 and 2008, and their failure to energise the rural economy, “in the absence of wider policy corrections.” Drought-hit farmers were unable to access institutional credit due to a whole lot of factors, ultimately “rendering them credit-unworthy”. Iyer introduces readers to a variety of characters, each one reflecting a different facet of the complex story of farming and life that she builds with women, farmers, Dalits, migrants, landlords and politicians. Hanumant Nagargoje, one of Beed’s biggest contractors, has “seen both sides of this life.” For 15 years he worked as a labourer cutting sugarcane with his wife, but now in a ‘rare rags-to-riches’ story, he lives “like a king”. Then there are the Jadhavs of Manu Tanda in Mukhed, who decided on the seasonal move to Mumbai for seven to eight months a year, to eke out a subsistence wage in the city as Marathwada migrants. There is Shailaja Narwade in Osmanabad district’s Mhasla village mentored by Godavari Kshirsagar who has organised women into small savings groups. Shailaja works with 4,000 women in four villages around Mhasla. “Every woman should till two acres of land; that’s my recommendation now,” she says. Not just a natural calamity The book raises questions of sustainability and the environment, talking about drought not only as a ‘natural calamity’ but one where human beings leave an imprint with their policies. Iyer cites the worst drought to afflict Australia in 2007 which led to the “biggest ever water reform” that became the centrepiece of Prime Minister John Howard’s re-election campaign, and allowed regions to sustainably manage a national problem. An arc connects food grown on the field, with the lives of consumers and goes on to link it to sustainability issues and the future of the planet. Somewhere down the years, links between these vital points got snapped and public debate assumed that talking about agriculture was arcane and not a direct concern. This book is an important history of farming in an important region, but equally, a manual urging its readers to look anew at questions, whose answers will define the quality of our future.  The reviewer is a Delhi-based journalist.  Landscapes of Loss: The Story of an Indian Drought Kavitha Iyer HarperCollins  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/distress-in-marathwada-and-its-wider-repercussions/article35389538.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On July 18, 64 BCE, a huge fire started in shops where flammable goods were stored inside the enormous Circus Maximus stadium in Rome. Six days later, the fire was extinguished but it had destroyed 10 of Rome’s 14 districts. Ancient historians blamed Rome’s then emperor for the fire, saying that he had ordered it to clear out a space for a new palace. This infamous incident led to the emperor's name being associated with anything burning. Which emperor was this? 2Born on July 18, 1848, this gentleman was a qualified doctor who once treated a would-be burglar who injured himself while breaking into his house, free of charge, and then refused to hand him over to the police, as that would have been a breach of medical ethics. He scored nearly 55,000 runs in first-class matches and took more than 2,800 wickets. The name of his biography by Richard Tomlinson aptly shares its name with a popular church hymn and is also a fitting description of the man himself. Who was this gentleman and what is the name of the book? 3On July 18, 1892, Ukrainian bacteriologist Waldemar Haffkine risked his life by becoming the first human to test a vaccine on himself. Though it was successful, he had to prove it by moving to India and establishing an institute. They were able to successfully inoculate half a million people against which deadly disease caused by bacteria transmitted through drinking water? 4Born on July 18, 1918, as Rolihlahla Dalibhunga, this gentleman was the first president to be elected in a fully representative election in his country. His birthday is celebrated the world over by people spending 67 minutes doing something good for others, which represents the 67 years he spent working toward change. Who was this icon who was also known as Madiba by his people? 5Born on July 18, 1927, this singer, renowned for his riveting baritone voice, is often considered one of the greatest and most influential figures in the history of ghazal singing. Referred to as the ‘Shahenshah-e-Ghazal’ (Emperor of Ghazal) he is credited with popularising ghazal singing worldwide. Who was this singer whose melodic patterns and innovative ragas influenced many generations of vocalists? 6Born on July 18, 1950, this English businessman started his empire with a chain of record stores. He is also an adventurer who built his own submarine to travel to the islands he owns, and as of 2021, the only person to have crossed the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in a balloon. Who is this person who, as part of a test flight, became a commercial astronaut and reached space in his own spacecraft? 7On July 18, 1966, at the age of 31 years and 251 days, this gentleman turned one billion seconds old. He was professor of astronomy at the Cornell University, and all our basic understanding of the atmospheres of the planets is thanks to him. He made a host of TV shows, wrote books and gave lectures that inspired many generations of scientific researchers. Who was this scientific visionary who let us know that we are all made of star stuff and loved anything to do with billions? 8On July 18, 1968, this computer technology company was founded in Santa Clara, California. It is the world’s largest manufacturer of semiconductor chips and is pretty much ubiquitous in personal computers worldwide. Started by Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce the portmanteau name of the company is a tribute to the two key factors in their products. Which company is this and what are the two factors? 9On July 18, 1976, this girl completed her routine on the uneven bars at the Olympics and landed to thunderous applause. When the crowd looked at the scoreboard, it showed a score of ‘1.0’ as Omega SA, the official Olympics Manufacturer had been told it was impossible to get a perfect score. She became the first person in Olympic Games history to get a certain score in gymnastics. Who was this girl and what was her score? 10On July 18, 1992, Les Horribles Cernettes (French for The Horrible CERN Girls), an all-female parody pop-group, had their group picture taken. Founded by Michele de Gennaro, a graphic designer who was dating a physicist, the band did songs lampooning high-energy physics. After the show on that day their colleague Tim Berners-Lee asked for their picture to test out something he had recently invented. Why is the picture of the LHC an important milestone in world history? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article35389551.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A plucky rescue amid the pandemic||“Oh! It is the Ashy Prinia,” exclaimed one of the residents in my apartment complex on our WhatsApp group. “I am very sorry to see it in that state.” I scrolled up to find the photo of a poor small bird badly hurt. I could recollect its name as Sambal kathirkuruvi in Tamil. What I gathered from the message was that a severely injured bird had landed on a balcony. The resident, who could not bear to see its suffering, called out for help on WhatsApp. As there were many other morning chores lined up for me, I kept the phone away. Little did I know the importance of these messages to my neighbours, and here I am narrating the sequence of events that led to the rescue of the bird. I can vividly recollect one of my neighbours stating that he could nurse the bird back to health if it was put in his care. But there were other plans being chalked out. One person had called a bird rescue centre. Till they arrived, the bird was given food and drink but it refused both. In a day or two, the rescuers arrived despite the lockdown. They took the bird away, and I thought that its story had concluded. But there was more to come. A few days later, the bird’s photo popped up again in the WhatsApp group. “The rescue centre sent us this pic. The bird’s food pipe had been damaged, and that was the reason it had refused to eat anything. But the rescuers are leaving no stone unturned for it to recover,” the message said. The bird was bandaged, and I was amazed to see how this small creature was catching everybody’s attention even during this pandemic. A few residents were still tracking the bird’s health. One morning, I saw the picture of a hale and healthy bird. The message read, “Ready to fly”. All these made me sit back and think. In this fast-paced world, when everybody is immersed in their own lives, there does exist a world of humanity, generosity and service towards other creatures however small they may turn out to be. Even amid this pandemic, the rescue of a helpless little creature had taken place so efficiently and perfectly. The pandemic may pose a great threat to our lives but acts of service can soothe our souls. priyasri_m_1976@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-plucky-rescue-amid-the-pandemic/article35389519.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Pushing the boundary||Suresh Raina was once India’s buzzing cog in limited-overs cricket. The southpaw could strike cleanly and his fielding was athletic. The eager-beaver player is a stirring template that the Men in Blue have had as evident through Ajay Jadeja, Robin Singh, Yuvraj Singh, Mohammad Kaif and Raina. And like those players, Raina did not get a longer run in Tests despite his debut hundred against Sri Lanka at Colombo in 2010. However, when he wore India’s blue shade or the yellow hue for Chennai Super Kings (CSK), Raina was the master of the turf under lights. Carving a niche Hailing from Muradnagar in Uttar Pradesh, Raina was the quintessential small-town cricketer, who surpassed obstacles and carved a niche on the big stage. Currently he is all over the place, be it his social media presence or an impromptu stint in a friendly game at the Afghanistan Embassy premises in Delhi. Though he retired from international cricket last year, he still remains an active cricketer for CSK. Raina’s story had to be told and the result is Believe , a tiny book at 167 pages but one that packs a punch. The tome has gained immensely through co-author Bharat Sundaresan’s efforts. The voice is Raina’s, the finesse is Bharat’s and we get a portrait of a player, who strove hard and prospered. The title word ‘believe’ is a slogan that is burnt into Raina’s consciousness both through his own efforts and also from the constant reiteration he got from Sachin Tendulkar. The book isn’t a chronological retelling of Raina’s 34 summers but its chapters oscillate between his sporting and personal life and offer glimpses of Indian cricket, its highs like the 2011 World Cup triumph and also the warts. Losing one of his elder brothers in an accident is a trauma that makes Raina shudder and his description of life at the Sports Hostel in Lucknow is filled with anguish. The seniors, who ragged him, would contaminate his share of evening milk but a pragmatic Raina writes: “I always filtered the milk using a muslin cloth before drinking the few millilitres left.” Known for his soft-spoken nature, Raina does have an independent perspective. While he pays his respects to the Indian cricketing greats, he also offers a contrarian view: “I never say Dada (Sourav Ganguly) made this team. He, and (M.S.) Dhoni, did lead and make an impact on it, that’s true. But the man responsible for making the teams for all three formats of the game is Rahul Dravid.” Bond with Dhoni Similarly, Raina has his own take on former India coach Greg Chappell: “Despite all the controversies around his coaching career, he taught India how to win and the importance of winning.” The book also throws light on the bond that Raina shares with Dhoni, so much so that he retired on the same day as his more famous buddy. Married to Priyanka and with two tiny-tots at home, Raina believes that he still has a lot to offer to the game. Like a Twenty20 match, the book quickly cuts to the chase despite the odd typo or those paragraphs being repeated on pages 30 and 31. Bharat also does a hat-tip to himself in naming a chapter ‘The Dhoni Touch’, reminiscent of his previous book!  Believe Suresh Raina with Bharat Sundaresan Penguin Random House India  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pushing-the-boundary/article35389536.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Inverted bat pose||Dear Agony Akka,  Every day I am watching videos of people becoming bhindi-size from watermelon-size on YouTube and Instagram. I, on the other hand, have gone from simple pumpkin-size to bumper pumpkin-size in spite of continuously doing difficult exercises like pistol squat, standing headless dumbbell press, both-leg deadlift, as well as arduous yogasanas like licking-cat pose, scratching-dog pose, uprooted tree pose, etc. Since it is a known fact that you are the splitting image of no-make-up-look, no-shapewear-look Kim Kardashian, can you please share your fitness secret with me? —Seeking that Light Illusive Middle   Dear SLIM,  Join the queue! Everybody in my housing colony is asking the same question! First and foremost vital secret for you to understand is that you should not have any favourite vegetable shape in your mind. This ties the imagination down. From avocado to yam, everything is a shape. Some shapes are also good to eat. Last week, Vatsala from 14B sent me some very tasty, deep-fried yam. And she says one can also make good cutlets with yam for which she is sending me her aunt’s recipe. Of course, yam is high on calories but sometimes calories are good for shifting furniture or talking to men, which uses up a lot of energy. I find I need a lot of energy. Avocado, on the other hand, is like a polite person at a fashionable party — it has absolutely nothing to say for itself. You try to prod it, maybe with sugar, maybe by mashing it on toast, result is the same bland and tasteless pale green mess. But it is fashionable. So it’s important to use it correctly. Take a photo and post it on Insta with a few lines like ‘Good morning peeps! Say hello to my gorgeous avocado smoothie!’ Then empty it into the kitchen sink. Actually, if you can follow this process with all food items, you will automatically become slender. But getting back to your vegetable fixation, bhindi is fantastic and one should eat it whether it is offered as the stylish Insta okra or the more cannibalistic ladies’ finger, but I am not sure one should aspire to look like it. Because if you eliminate your feet for that elegant bhindi tail, you will find it hard to walk. Unlike pumpkin shape, where you can be reasonably sure that you can at least roll from Point A to Point B. But if you overdo it, then body will be too big to fit the front door, which is a rather serious mobility issue and might involve cranes and so on at a later point that is too painful to contemplate. Overall, as you can see, vegetables are not great inspiration, but what I am more worried about are those animal poses you mention. It sounds terribly un-sattvic and a bit inelegant, my dear. I for one would find it very hard to sleep well at night knowing that for 10 minutes each morning I was contorting myself to look like a cat licking itself. One should approach life with the 100% certainty that one was not born a cat for an important reason that the universe is aware of. To defy this logic, and that too early in the morning, is a disturbing idea and you should not indulge in it. And look at all that violence! Pistol squat! Dead lift! We all have dead lifts in our buildings but that does not mean you can take it out on your body. Try to be more calm. I know the uprooted tree you are referring to because I have also seen Baba Harmdev on TV and naturally if you only focus on breathing in and out it is hard to eat anything and one will automatically become thin and then dead. But there is also a question of aesthetics and I must confess that watching this uprooted and almost entirely denuded tree contorting itself on stage is a deeply unattractive image and one that is very hard to unsee afterwards. If you truly want the Kim Kardashian look, simply tie two pillows to your hips and slip some sort of sheath over yourself. It’s equal to headless dumbbell press. —AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inverted-bat-pose/article35389549.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Great defence not enough||A two-club opener who subsequently jumps in his suit is showing a suit that doesn’t need any support. North thought his hand held enough in the side suits to offer an invitation and South was happy to accept. South won the opening trump lead with his ace and saw that he had plenty of tricks, but he had to find a way to get to dummy. He led the queen of spades from his hand at trick two, hoping the opponent with the king would take it, giving him the dummy entry that he needed. West was a wily veteran and recognized what declarer was trying to do. He ducked his king of spades! South now tried leading the queen of clubs from his hand and it was East’s turn to duck his king. South still had a chance to endplay West with the nine of hearts. Did West start with ten-nine doubleton or ten-nine-low? East had followed with the seven at trick one and South judged that he was unlikely to play the seven from seven-three doubleton. South cashed the king of hearts as West continued his brilliant defense by following suit with the nine! This great effort by the defense was to no avail as declarer held the precious two of hearts. South led the two of hearts, shedding a diamond from dummy, which West was forced to win with his three. Any lead from West at this point gave South a dummy entry and the rest of the tricks. Well done all around!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/great-defence-not-enough/article35389554.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Yashpal Sharma no more||Indian cricket legend Yashpal Sharma, known for his heroics during the 1983 World Cup, died of a heart attack aged 66. A talented middle-order batsman who played for Punjab, Haryana and the Railways, he was on the national side from 1978 to 1985. He was India’s second leading run scorer in the World Cup, and his 61 against England in the semi-final was crucial. Tributes poured in from former teammates and many others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/yashpal-sharma-no-more/article35389499.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-child policy||The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission presented a controversial draft Bill seeking to enforce a two-child norm. It has incentives for sterilisation and bars those with more than two children from welfare schemes, government jobs and election candidature. The State then announced a policy aiming to reduce fertility and “ensure there is a population balance among various communities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/two-child-policy/article35389501.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Colonial relic||A Supreme Court bench led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana will examine the validity of the sedition law (Section 124A of the IPC) while considering a petition . CJI Ramana asked, “The sedition law is a colonial law. Do we still need the law in our country after 75 years of Independence?” Attorney General K.K. Venugopal argued that the law should be retained with “guidelines”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/colonial-relic/article35389503.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Deadly riots||Protests descended into days of rioting in South Africa after former President Jacob Zuma, 79, was imprisoned for contempt of court; he had refused to appear before a judicial commission investigating corruption during his rule. At least 72 people had been killed — some from gunshots — and more than 1,750 arrested as this went to press. There were reports of armed citizens forming vigilante groups and taking the law into their own hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/deadly-riots/article35389505.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Cubans on the streets||Cuba saw its biggest anti-government protests in decades as thousands took to the streets demanding that President Miguel Díaz-Canel step down. There is massive anger over food and medicine shortages amid an conomic crisis. The government blamed the U.S. and cracked down. One person died during clashes with police, while scores were arrested or reported missing before the protests died down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cubans-on-the-streets/article35389507.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepal’s new PM||Amid ongoing political instability in Nepal, Sher Bahadur Deuba, the 75-year-old president of the Nepali Congress, took oath as the Prime Minister for the fifth time; he will have to win a trust vote within 30 days to stay in office. This came a day after the Supreme Court said Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli had violated consti- tutional principles, and ordered the appointment of Deuba and reinstate- ment of the House of Representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nepals-new-pm/article35389509.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Bill for cows||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tabled a Bill that regulates cattle slaughter and transportation. It also bans the sale of beef or beef products within a 5-km radius of temples,satrasand in areas “predominantly inhabited by Hindu, Jain, Sikh and other non beef-eating communities.” Opposition parties condemned the Bill as communal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bill-for-cows/article35389511.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Gira no more||Gira Sarabhai, the renowned architect and designer, passed away aged 98. With her brother Gautam — both were influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright — she played a major role in establishing several institutes in Ahmedabad, such as the National Institute of Design, and founded the Calico Museum of Textiles. Vikram Sarabhai was another brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gira-no-more/article35389513.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Branson goes to space||British billionaire Richard Branson shot into space with five crewmates from his private space tourism firm Virgin Galactic. This made him the first person to blast off in his own spaceship, beating Jeff Bezos by a few days. The Unity 22 mission lifted off from the New Mexico desert and reached an altitude of about 88 km, experiencing three-four minutes of weightless- ness; some disputed whether this was ‘space’ as it fell short of the 100-km Kármán line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/branson-goes-to-space/article35389515.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Mapping Love||Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari  Rupa Publications India Rs. 295 After her mother dies, Oorja Chaturvedi comes back home to India, only to find her estranged father missing. Her search leads her to her ailing grandfather and to love. But before she can decide her future with Anang, Oorja must untangle the secrets of their shared past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mapping-love/article35389521.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bombay Prince||Sujata Massey  Penguin Rs. 499 1921. Edward VIII, the future ruler of India, is arriving in Bombay. Freny Cuttingmaster, an 18-year-old Parsi student, falls from a second-floor gallery just as the prince’s procession is passing by her college. Perveen Mistry must find out the truth even as anti-British riots shake Bombay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-bombay-prince/article35389528.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Kunti||Koral Dasgupta  Pan Rs. 350 The second book of theSatiseries is about Kunti, the matriarch of theMahabharata. Koral Dasgupta unravels the lesser-known strands of Kunti’s story: her childhood of scholarly pursuits, unwanted motherhood at adolescence and a detached marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kunti/article35389530.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Lesbian Cow and Other Stories||Indu Menon, trs Nandakumar K.  Eka Rs. 499 The goons of a mining company force a tribal activist to shoot a porn film with a prostitute who turns out to be his childhood sweetheart; a lesbian nurse with bovine features becomes enamoured of a patient. At the heart of these stories lies the spirit of women who will not go down without a fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-lesbian-cow-and-other-stories/article35389532.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||This is your Mind on Plants||Michael Pollan  Penguin Random House Rs. 745 (Kindle edition) Diving deep into three plant drugs, opium, caffeine, and mescaline, Pollan reckons with the powerful human attraction to psychoactive plants. In a blend of history, science, and memoir, he examines these plants from several angles, shining a light on drugs and the connection to the natural world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/this-is-your-mind-on-plants/article35389534.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A Shadow of the Past: A Short Biography of Lucknow||Mehru Jaffer  Aleph Rs. 399 Over the centuries, Indo-Islamic and European ideas merged with Hindu traditions to make Lucknow a powerhouse of creativity. Jaffer traces Lucknow’s heritage, which ensures that it remains a city of substance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-shadow-of-the-past-a-short-biography-of-lucknow/article35389543.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Decisive Decade: India 2030||Kiran Karnik  Rupa Rs. 595 What will India look like in 2030? Will there be harmony or will the country descend into chaos? Karnik seeks answers through a projection of areas that will shape India, including democracy and politics, security, health, education, economy, demography, jobs and technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/decisive-decade-india-2030/article35389545.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Struggle Within: A Memoir of the Emergency||Ashok Chakravarti  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Told through the experiences of ‘Arjun’, which was Chakravarti’s alias during his time as part of an underground movement against the Emergency, the memoir delves into activism, the struggle about identity, and how life can be given meaning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-struggle-within-a-memoir-of-the-emergency/article35389547.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3159||Across  1 Salad of two eggs, thistle? Lose it (3,3,7) 8 Burden hanging over setter and solver (4) 9 Once more assess, leave a true slamming (10) 10 Scrapes together half of single answer (6) 11 Gold ... bunch of wind ... American statesman (8) 12 Essential to Health: roly-poly pudding’s #4, after t’ai chi regularly (5,4) 14 Withdrawn, partly open Indian prince (4) 15 US duffer plays green shot loudly (4) 16 Announces cramps; oil massaged (9) 20 Member of Steps, Beatle wife, 60s diva assembled somewhere in C Pacific (8) 21 Some ‘hero’ haltingly retiring somewhere in Asia (6) 23 Everyman touring Ontario with Italian musician — and another (10) 24 Perhaps Murdoch’s one seen in the Eye? (4) 25 Makes progress with clue for ‘the rags’? (7,6)  Down  1 The French defending one supporting mob — there’s some nerve! (7) 2 Primarily, Thomas Edison’s scienceadvancing, long-standing arch-rival! (5) 3 Sourced in Kandahar is salty, spicy paste (7) 4 Infantrymen guided arrangers in orchestration (9,6) 5 Good to roam freely, reaching farmhouse (6) 6 LA: it’s in America, on the Gulf of Mexico (9) 7 Mandarin tests Ms. Thurman (7) 13 Retaliation: what makes ‘hit a toff’ click!? (3,3,3) 15 Prince topless, tea to get more drawn out (7) 17 A little manic, Ollie Reed portrays man seen with canary (7) 18 Arrived on a little isthmus in Med, took the plunge (7) 19 Actor, regularly loud, very very immodest and egotistical at the outset (6) 22 Hearts of the vain yakuza captured in poetry (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3159/article35389557.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article35389496.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Waiving testing for the fully vaccinated is ill-considered’||On July 14, Maharashtra announced that people who have received both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine can travel to the State by air without a negative RT-PCR report. However, they should carry certificates stating they are fully vaccinated. Earlier rules mandated that a test had to be taken 48 hours prior to the travel and only those with a negative RT-PCR test could enter Maharashtra. In an email to The Hindu,  Dr. Giridhara Babu,  Epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, explains why doing away with RT-PCR testing is not correct and how it could endanger others.  Since fully vaccinated people can still get infected, is it a correct decision by the Maharashtra government to do away with the requirement of RT-PCR testing for fully vaccinated people? We need to understand that testing is done to identify people with infections so that they can be isolated. This applies to everyone irrespective of the vaccination status. Increasingly, it is seen that the vaccinated persons can get infected. Not testing vaccinated persons is an ill-considered and unjust decision, mostly to reduce the inconveniences to the vaccinated persons. From the perspective of rights of the unvaccinated, it is important to protect them from getting the infection from everyone, including vaccinated persons. There is also evidence that there is high incidence of breakthrough infections in vaccinated persons, even among those who have taken two doses of mRNA vaccines. The efficacy of the vaccines is tested against hospitalisation and in preventing deaths. While reductions in infection is the ultimate goal of higher vaccination coverage, this is not the primary outcome in vaccine trials or possible in settings with low vaccination coverage. I would recommend testing everyone, especially the vaccinated persons. WHO says vaccine breakthrough infections will be mild or asymptotic. So how likely are fully vaccinated people to spread the virus when infected? There is strong evidence that vaccination offers the greatest protection against death and hospitalisation. However, there is little evidence that the ability to transmit COVID-19 will greatly diminish. The transmission, even when is at a lower rate, can [happen] from the vaccinated to unvaccinated individuals. Vaccinated people could potentially still become infected and spread the virus to others. Does mild/asymptotic infection in fully vaccinated people imply that the viral load is less and hence they are less likely to infect others? Although COVID-19 vaccines might reduce viral load in persons with breakthrough infection, there is limited evidence [to ascertain] whether it will result in lower viral shedding, thereby further suppress the onward transmission. Evidence available for mRNA vaccine suggests that the infections occurring after 12 days of vaccination have significantly reduced viral loads at the time of testing. We need to establish the relation of viral load and viral shedding for different vaccines and against different variants of concern. In the absence of such evidence, it is premature to conclude that vaccinated persons will have lower viral shedding and, therefore, [it is] less contagious. Since only 8% in India are fully vaccinated, is exemption from RT-PCR testing for fully vaccinated people a correct decision? In India, it is early to consider exempting from testing. I do see a great opportunity for novel rapid tests, especially if there are alternative non-invasive options. Exemption from RT-PCR testing may be replaced once such tests are available, reliable and feasible to implement in India. Also, in symptomatic persons, our earlier study has shown high sensitivity while using the RAT test. In persons with no symptoms, RT-PCR is the best available option as of now. At a time when vaccine shortage has been reported from several States and vaccination coverage is not uniform in urban and rural areas and even within urban areas, will treating fully vaccinated people differently aggravate inequities? Absolutely, given the global dynamics of vaccine injustice, unfortunately, getting vaccinated is a rare privilege due to many reasons. These include non-eligibility, non-availability and lack of affordability. Treating vaccinated people differently will induce and worsen the inequities in the community, including those exacerbated by inequitable health system access. It is also unethical because if exempted, the vaccinated can get infected and infect those who have had no access or opportunity to get vaccinated yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/waiving-testing-for-the-fully-vaccinated-is-ill-considered/article35389330.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||AI tool developed to study cancer-causing mutations||Researchers at IIT Madras have developed an AI tool called NBDriver (neighbourhood driver) for use in analysing cancer-causing mutations in cells. By looking at the neighbourhood, or context, of a mutation in the genome, it can look at harmful “driver” mutations and distinguish them from neutral “passenger” mutations. This technique of looking at the genomic neighbourhood to make out the nature of the mutation is a novel and largely unexplored one. In a paper published in the journal Cancers, the researchers explain that the nature of the mutation depends on the neighbourhood, and how this tool may be used to draw the line between driver and passenger mutations.  B. Ravindran, head of the Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and AI at IIT Madras and one of the corresponding authors, said in a press release that one of the major challenges faced by cancer researchers involves the differentiation between the relatively small number of “driver” mutations that enable the cancer cells to grow and the large number of “passenger” mutations that do not have any effect on the progression of the disease. In previously published techniques, researchers typically analysed DNA sequences from large groups of cancer patients, comparing sequences from cancer as well as normal cells and determined whether a particular mutation occurred more often in cancer cells than random, said Prof. Karthik Raman, from the biotechnology department of IIT Madras and another corresponding author. “However, this ‘frequentist’ approach often missed out on relatively rare driver mutations,” he noted, adding that some studies have also looked at the changes caused by the driver mutations in the production of essential biological products such as proteins. Statistical modelling The method of distinguishing between driver and passenger mutations solely by looking at the neighbourhood is novel. “Through robust statistical modelling, we show that there is a significant difference in the pattern of sequences (or context) surrounding the driver and passenger mutations,” said Shayantan Banerjee, who is a master’s student in the Department of Biotechnology, IIT Madras, and the lead author of the paper. Accuracy of tool The researchers studied a dataset containing 5,265 mutations to derive the model. According to Prof. Raman, NBDriver, had an overall accuracy of 89% and ranked second out of 11 prediction algorithms. In comparison, he said that the top performing tool, or FATHMM, achieved an accuracy of 91% on the same dataset. For the future, the group aims to develop an easy-to-use drag-and-drop web interface that will enable cancer researchers with limited computational or programming skills to get predictions and extract genomic information on their preferred set of mutations. “We will also be pursuing further studies on the context [or neighbourhood] of these mutations, and how they impact the evolution of cancer. Why do we see differences in the context between the driver and passenger mutations in the first place?” said Prof Raman. The group also plans that NBDriver will be a part of a broader cancer genomic sequence analysis "pipeline" being developed at the centres.  The ‘frequentist’ approach [which is more common] often missed out on relatively rare driver mutations. Karthik Raman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ai-tool-developed-to-study-cancer-causing-mutations/article35389332.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Mercury’s iron heart||Why does Mercury have such a big iron core? A study by researchers from the University of Maryland disputes the prevailing hypothesis on why Mercury has a big-sized core relative to its mantle (the layer between its core and crust). Scientists had argued that hit-and-run collisions with other bodies during the formation of our solar system resulted in much of Mercury’s rocky mantle being removed, leaving behind the big, dense, metal core inside. But new research reveals that Sun’s magnetism is the reason for this and not the collisions. The researchers developed a model showing that the density, mass and iron content of a rocky planet’s core are influenced by its distance from the Sun’s magnetic field (Progress in Earth and Planetary Science).  There is a gradient in which the metal content in the core drops off as the four inner planets of our solar system get further from the Sun. The current work explains this by showing that the distribution of raw materials in the early forming solar system was controlled by the Sun’s magnetic field. The new model shows that during the early formation of our solar system, when the young Sun was surrounded by a swirling cloud of dust and gas, grains of iron were drawn toward the centre by the Sun's magnetic field. When the planets began to form from clumps of that dust and gas, planets closer to the sun incorporated more iron into their cores than those further away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/mercurys-iron-heart/article35389331.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccination safe for pregnant women||During pregnancy, the body undergoes many changes, particularly, those driven by hormonal levels and in immune system function that are intended to stop the mother’s body from rejecting the baby, but increase her vulnerability to viral infections. As with most SARS-CoV-2 infections in the general population, most infections in pregnant women are likely to be asymptomatic or mild, but, particularly during the third trimester, there may be severe complications, with some reports stating that there is a several-fold increase in pregnant women needing intensive care as compared to infected non-pregnant women. Infections in pregnant women have been linked to an increase in preterm births, low birth weight and foetal distress, with a higher mortality rate in mothers-to-be and their babies. Many of the complications are in pregnant women who also have other co-morbidities, such as overweight, diabetes, hypertension or cardiac and chronic respiratory diseases Further, detection of viral RNA in the placenta or in foetal membranes shows that while likely to be rare, it is possible that infection with SARS-CoV2 can be passed from mother to baby. Based on a series of studies, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) listed pregnancy as one of the risk factors for severe disease in May 2021, and recently, the World Health Organization revised its recommendation for vaccination to include pregnant women in Category II to be prioritised for vaccination, along with other co-morbidities. Almost 100 countries now have policies that allow some levels of permission for the vaccination of pregnant women. The Government of India made a recommendation for the vaccination of pregnant women in early July 2021, and many states have started or are set to start, but many questions remain. Matter of safety A key area of concern for pregnant women is safety. Pregnant women are generally excluded from vaccine trials as a precaution, but this creates a complication because without testing it is not feasible for regulators to make a recommendation for the use of a vaccine in this group. So trials for pregnant women, if they are done at all, tend to be done well after the accumulation of data from Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology (DART) studies on animals and from clinical efficacy and effectiveness studies. So far, the Pfizer, Moderna and Janssen vaccines in animals have not found any toxic effects or malformations, and studies for the Astra Zeneca vaccines. A few women (12 for Pfizer and 6 for Moderna) enrolled in the efficacy trials of the mRNA vaccines were found to be pregnant or became pregnant after enrolment, and no safety issues were identified, but the numbers are small. A recent analysis of the real world use of vaccines in pregnant women was published by the US CDC in the New England Journal of Medicine, reporting on almost 36,000 women given mRNA vaccines showed a small increase in pain at the injection site, but no other difference in side-effects. Over 1,10,000 pregnant women are enrolled in the CDC v-safe registry and data on safety will continue to accumulate. Some data shows that mothers can pass their antibodies to the baby through the placenta, but to verify whether the antibodies will protect the baby needs more data. Vectored vaccines The data available so far is largely from mRNA vaccines, but for vaccines that have or could be used in pregnant women, the recommendations are clearly in favour of use of inactivated vaccines or non-live vaccines or their equivalent. An issue that has been raised with regard to mRNA and vectored vaccines is lack of data on whether the vaccine or vector persists in the body or is widely distributed beyond the vaccination site. Such studies are usually done for drugs which are expected to enter the systemic circulation and not always required for vaccines, except with new adjuvants or other new components are used. It appears unlikely given the rapid breakdown of mRNA and what is known about vectored vaccines, but this has not stopped anti-vaxxers from claiming that the lipid nanoparticles of mRNA vaccines bind to ovaries, even in the complete absence of such findings from DART studies. Since pregnancy increases the risk of venous thromboembolism four to five times for women, a frequently asked question is whether the adenovirus vectored vaccines like Covishield or the Janssen should be used, because they are associated with a small risk of thrombosis with thrombocytopaenia syndrome (TTS) in young people. It is important to understand that TTS occurs when the body has or makes antibodies to a platelet protein leading to clot formation, which is a different process for thromboembolism in pregnancy. So far, there is no evidence that vectored vaccines increase the risk of the thromboembolism in pregnancy, but this will continue to be monitored in countries that have widely used these vaccines in women of reproductive age. For India, based on all that we know, all vaccines currently available are safe and should be used in pregnant women to safeguard them and their babies. A pregnancy registry is an important part of the overall safety monitoring of vaccines for the first few years after they are used and must be encouraged, especially in India, where we have a large birth cohort, and thus an opportunity to contribute to the global literature on vaccine safety. Finally, the timing of vaccination during pregnancy is frequently discussed. This is because of the general principle that most malformations and most pregnancy losses occur in the first trimester, so to avoid any future attribution of congenital anomalies or abortions to the vaccine, vaccination might be considered later in pregnancy. However, the recommendation that vaccination can be started at any time during pregnancy or in case the first dose has already been given, the second dose can be given when due without consideration of the trimester is logical to achieve early protection of pregnant women. Urgent need Vaccination of pregnant women is urgent and essential to protect them and their babies, and is a responsibility of the healthcare system. The Government of India should be commended for the recommendation, even as we ensure that monitoring of safety is enhanced through both passive and active surveillance in vulnerable subgroups. In future studies, the regulators and policymakers may wish to consider whether we could enrol pregnant women at an earlier stage, so that recommendation for them could be made along with the general population.  (Dr. Gagandeep Kang is Professor, Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.)   Pregnant women are generally excluded from vaccine trials as a precaution, but without testing it is not feasible for regulators to make a recommendation for the use of a vaccine in this group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covid-19-vaccination-safe-for-pregnant-women/article35389338.ece
18 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Fate of hospital project hangs in the balance||It has been more than two years since the local health department abandoned the dilapidated district civil hospital building in Old City in April 2019, but the wait for the proposed 500-bedded hospital could be longer. “It will take at least three years to complete the building after the construction starts. At present, the designs for the proposed building are being prepared by the architecture department. The designs would then be sent to our client, the Health Department, for final approval before the rough budget estimates are prepared and cleared by the government,” said Sandeep Singh, executive engineer, Gurugram, Public Works Department (Buildings & Roads). Land dispute Manoj Bhardwaj, junior engineer, Civil Hospital, blamed the delay on the dispute over the four-acre land of a government school adjoining the hospital building. “Initially, the Health Department had proposed to encompass the adjoining school land for the hospital project. The Public Works Department prepared a design for the new hospital premises spread across nine acres, including 5.73-acre land of the existing old hospital, but the Education Department refused to part with the entire land parcel,” said Mr. Bhardwaj. The matter was finally resolved and the government recently gave in-principle approval to use the two-acre school land for the project and the PWD was directed to prepare the designs. In another twist to the tale, the Civil Surgeon again wrote to Director General, Health Services on July 2 this year to try and encompass the entire four-acre land belonging to the government school for the hospital project. If this is cleared, the PWD will have to work on the project ab initio, further delaying it. But the dispute with the Education Department over the land is not the only hurdle. The Health Department may also need to seek relaxations from the Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS) guidelines which say that a minimum of 16-acre of land is required for a 500-bedded hospital. “It is almost impossible to get 16-acre land at the present location. So we have decided to go vertical. With regard to relaxations from IPHS guidelines, it is the responsibility of the Health Department,” said Mr. Singh. Even as the fate of the project hangs in balance, the residents suffer because of lack of adequate health facilities, especially during the ongoing pandemic. Maneesh Rathee, Deputy Civil Surgeon at Civil Hospital, Sector-10, said the 200-bedded hospital running from the old building was shifted to the present building, which earlier housed the mother and child care unit, as a stop-gap arrangement. “Our doctors attend to 1,700-1,800 OPD patients daily across a dozen departments, besides the routine surgeries, Ayush OPD, and round-the-clock maternity services,” said Dr. Rathee. Hospital burdened The hospital infrastructure, which was not enough for the pre-COVID daily load of patients, has been further burdened due to the pandemic outbreak. “We now run a round-the-clock flu OPD, COVID laboratory and also carry out COVID sampling as an added job. Though the number of paramedical staff, lab technicians and nurses has gone up, the number of doctors remains the same,” said Dr. Rathee. Though the hospital has been shifted to a new building, CT scan and MRI facility through public-private mode continues to run from the old building forcing patients to run between the two buildings located at a distance of around 30 minutes. Waiting in the OPD service queue at Sector-10 hospital, Ramesh Kaushik, a resident of Patel Nagar, grumbled that Gurugram was a medical hub with world-class health facilities and fancy hospitals, but a large section of its population, including migrants, could not afford the expensive treatment and suffered due to lack of good quality health facilities in government set-ups. “Not just that the Sector-10 hospital is not centrally located unlike the old civil hospital, the physical infrastructure and manpower, too, are far from adequate at this hospital to cater to the growing population,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fate-of-hospital-project-hangs-in-the-balance/article35389717.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Terminal 2 to reopen on July 22||Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Saturday said flight operations at Indira Gandhi International Airport’s Terminal 2 will recommence from July 22. Flight operations from T2 were suspended on May 18 following a significant drop in domestic air traffic. Gradual rise The decision to resume operations was taken after the airport started witnessing gradual rise in passenger footfall post relaxation in lockdown and travel norms by various States since June. Services will initially start with around 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) per day and increase to around 280 by the end of August. Operations will resume with IndiGo’s 2000-2999 series flights and GoAir. Around 25,000 passenger footfall per day are expected in the initial phase. About 27 counters, 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo, will be open. The first plane to take off will be a Kolkata-bound Indigo flight, which will depart at 3 a.m. Safety measures DIAL said it has has taken several safety measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 and ensure the safety of passengers without “compromising their comfort and experience”. “Teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the terminal. DIAL will encourage passengers to wear face masks and maintain social distance while at the airport,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL. Arrangements have been made for thermal scanning. To avoid close contact and crowding at the check-in counters, passengers are encouraged to use e-boarding facility, and the security hold area has been expanded for adequate seating arrangements and enhanced retail options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/terminal-2-to-reopen-on-july-22/article35389713.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the family holiday||It is now a familiar, if admittedly ironic pattern: when cases go down, travel goes up. Reeling under the brutal impact of the pandemic, the hospitality sector is slowly seeing a recovery in pockets of the country. States like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have relaxed the mandatory RT-PCR test for tourists, encouraging more people to visit. Institutional quarantine is not required any more for those crossing State borders, making short holidays possible. Crippled by the uncertainties due to the pandemic, the hospitality sector is still far from a complete recovery. However, the current influx of tourists is bringing some hope for the sector, battered by a financial crisis like never before. According to a recent survey carried out in Tier-1, 2 and 3 cities by Thomas Cook India and SOTC Travel, 69% respondents indicated a keen interest to travel in 2021 as restrictions ease, with 18% ready to travel immediately post-unlock and 51% within three-six months. After almost one and half years of staggered lockdowns, families are grabbing the chance to reunite. “We went to see our grandchildren for the first time since the pandemic began, and had a family get-together at The Park in Visakhapatnam. This was our first holiday in the last two years with the family,” says Ramesh Sanagapally, who flew from Delhi with his wife. “Last-minute bookings are driving the demand for our hotels; we anticipate an even further uplift in occupancy in the last week of July and first week of August,” says Kerrie Hannaford, vice president — Commercial, Accor India and South Asia. The hospitality group is seeing the highest signs of revival in demand in cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad, driven by weekend getaways and staycations. From discounted packages on long stays, renting out entire villas with customised adventure activities to offering free date change for air travel for flyers who test COVID-19 positive, airlines, tour operators, hoteliers and adventure activity groups are attracting tourists with a slew of offers. According to Gandharv Singh Dod who runs the Lagom Stay resort at Jagatsukh near Manali in Himachal Pradesh, profits have doubled post the second wave. “We are getting a lot of bookings for people who want to stay for even a month, to be away from the city crowd at a relatively secluded location and work from here. We sweeten the deal with a package that includes traditional home-cooked food, visit to century-old homes in nearby villages, weekend adventure activities like trekking and rafting, and facilities like WiFi and power backups to facilitate work-from-home,” he says. Tour operators say that the demand for outdoor and adventure travel is seeing a huge surge. “Himachal continues to head our favoured destination list with an over 100% week-on-week increase in queries. Top experiences include biking tours of Spiti and Kinnaur valley, camping sites at Barot, Gispa and Manali, paragliding at Bir and Billing. Biking trips have witnessed a significant uptick with over 50 bikers booked with us,” says Rajeev Kale, president and country head of Holidays, MICE, Visa, Thomas Cook India. In Araku Valley, near Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, tourists have started trickling back in. Borra Caves recorded 700 footfalls during the past two weekends with 400 footfalls on weekdays. “From past two weeks, weekend occupancy levels have been around 50%,” said Giri Prasad Reddy, Divisional Manager of AP Tourism Department. He adds, “The post second wave recovery has been quicker than what we saw after the first wave.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/return-of-the-family-holiday/article35389905.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Python rescued near Saket metro station||A six-foot-long python was rescued by Wildlife SOS after it was spotted crossing the busy road near Saket metro station and brought the busy area to a halt. Wildlife SOS 24x7 said after receiving a call on its emergency helpline number, a team of two rescuers from the NGO was dispatched to the location. Equipped with necessary equipment, the team carefully transferred the python into a snake bag, much to the relief of the onlookers. The NGO also rescued a monitor lizard from the tracks at Shastri Park metro depot. It took nearly 20 minutes for the Wildlife SOS rescuers to safely transfer the monitor lizard into a transport carrier. Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO and co-founder of Wildlife SOS, said, “We are thankful to the DMRC authorities for considering the well-being of the reptile and contacting our team. Monitor lizards are non-venomous but can bite or even use their strong claws in retaliation if threatened or provoked.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/python-rescued-near-saket-metro-station/article35389709.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||New NMRC timings from tomorrow||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Saturday announced a revised schedule of operations and said services will be available between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m from July 19. Metro services will continue to remain suspended on weekends due to imposition of a partial curfew in Gautam Buddha Nagar. NMRC officials said trains will be available at an interval of 10 minutes during peak hours – 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m., and at intervals of 15 minutes during non-peak hours. Curfew timings “The NMRC has decided to reschedule its metro train services as night curfew timing in Uttar Pradesh has been revised to 10 p.m.-6 a.m. against the earlier 8 p.m.-7 a.m. As weekend curfew is in effect in Gautam Buddha Nagar, train services will not be available on Saturday and Sunday,” said Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC. Officials stated that the Noida-Greater Noida Aqua Line was seeing an increase in ridership since resumption of services on June 9. The highest ridership recorded was on July 12 when 9,489 passengers travelled on the corridor. According to NMRC data, 8,895 commuters travelled on the corridor on July 16, and 7,675 on July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-nmrc-timings-from-tomorrow/article35389714.ece
18 July 2021||July 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Curbs on Mastercard||The story so far: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday banned Mastercard from issuing new debit and credit cards to customers in India with effect from July 22. According to the RBI, the U.S. card-issuer has failed to comply with the local data storage rules announced by the central bank in 2018. The ban has unsettled banks operating in India that use Mastercard’s services to issue a variety of cards to their customers. What is the RBI’s data localisation policy? In 2018, the Indian central bank had issued a circular ordering card companies such as Visa, Mastercard, and American Express to store all Indian customer data locally so that the regulator could have “unfettered supervisory access”. This meant that foreign card companies had to store complete information about transactions made by Indian customers in servers located within India. Companies were initially required to comply with these rules within six months. The reason offered by the RBI to back up its data localisation rule was that local storage of consumer data is necessary to protect the privacy of Indian users and also to address national security concerns. Since the order, Mastercard, Visa and other foreign card companies have lobbied to dilute the rules. But the RBI has remained strict that companies must comply with its data localisation rules. Consequently, Mastercard deleted Indian customer data from its foreign servers and promised to invest in building local servers in India to store local customer data. The RBI, however, has not been impressed. It has banned Mastercard from issuing new cards to customers from July 22. Reuters reported Mastercard as having said it was “disappointed” with the RBI’s decision and it had provided regular updates on its compliance with the rules since 2018. The company was quoted as saying it would continue to work with the Indian central bank to provide any additional details required to resolve its concerns. Existing Mastercard customers, however, can continue to use their cards. Earlier this year, American Express and Diners Club International were also banned by the RBI from issuing new cards after they failed to comply with the 2018 circular. What is the need for local data storage? Experts believe that customer privacy and national security are genuine concerns that need to be taken seriously. However, many also believe that data localisation rules are too stringent and they could simply be used by governments as tools of economic protectionism. For instance, they argue, it may not be strictly necessary for data to be stored locally to remain protected. Broadly speaking, formal international laws to govern the storage of digital information across borders may be sufficient to deal with these concerns. Governments, however, may still mandate data localisation in order to favour local companies to foreign ones. China, for example, has used its cyber-security laws to discriminate against foreign companies. A similar trend may be playing out in India with the Centre’s emphasis on economic self-sufficiency. In 2018, Mastercard had launched a complaint with the U.S. government that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was actively promoting Indian cards like RuPay and that it was affecting the business of foreign card companies. Governments may also believe that mandating foreign companies to set up local infrastructure can boost their local economies. What lies ahead? Indian banks that are currently enrolled in the Mastercard network are expected to make alternative arrangements with other card companies. The process is expected to take a few months, and their card business is expected to take a significant hit meanwhile. The RBI’s data localisation policy, as it burdens foreign card companies, may end up favouring domestic card issuers like RuPay. Mastercard owns about one-third of the market share in India, and the RBI’s ban is likely to significantly benefit its competitors. RBL Bank, for instance, has decided to enter into an agreement with Visa after the RBI’s ban on Mastercard. Similarly, the ban on American Express and Diners Club earlier this year benefited the Indian card network RuPay. Some believe that even Visa, a foreign company which dominates card payments in India, may come under regulatory pressure in the near future. Thus, the card payments sector may end up being restricted to a few domestic companies, which in turn can lead to reduced competition. This could mean higher costs and lower quality services for customers. It is also worth noting that in today’s digital economy data have turned out to be a valuable commodity, which companies as well as governments have tried to gain control over. Information about spending patterns and other customer data can be monetised by companies in a variety of ways. With no clear rules on who owns customer data and to what extent, conflicts over data ownership are likely to continue for some time.  Existing Mastercard customers will be allowed to use their cards. In May, the RBI banned American Express and Diners Club from issuing new cards after they failed to comply with the 2018 circular on data localisation   Existing Mastercard customers will be allowed to use their cards. Earlier, the RBI banned American Express and Diners Club from issuing new cards after they failed to comply with the 2018 circular on data localisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curbs-on-mastercard/article35389271.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Foreign national who attacked police arrested||The K.R. Puram police on Friday arrested a 36-year-old foreign national who was on the run after attacking patrolling police over a trivial row at Maragondanahalli in June last week. The accused, Asiedu Morgan, was arrested from his friend’s place in Noida Sector 3, where he had fled to and taken shelter. Creating ruckus According to the police, Morgan along with his four friends, were caught creating a ruckus in K.R. Puram on the night of June 23, after neighbours called in to report them. A team of patrolling police reached the spot and asked them to leave after a warning. Reckless driving “Agitated by this, Morgan started arguing with the policeman. He then drove his car recklessly and hit their bike. The patrolling police jumped to escape and Morgan escaped,” said a police officer. The police have recovered his travel documents and are verifying his background.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/foreign-national-who-attacked-police-arrested/article35389602.ece
18 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital likely to receive rain today||Monsoon activity over the Capital is likely to resume on July 18. After receiving showers for two consecutive days, the temperature started rising. On Saturday, the maximum temperature was 38.8° Celsius. The forecast for July 18 reads “generally cloudy sky with moderate rain/thundershowers. Heavy rain is likely at isolated places in afternoon/evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-likely-to-receive-rain-today/article35389710.ece
18 July 2021||Bengaluru,||10 convicts yet to be traced||The police have stepped up investigations to trace 10 convicts on parole from the Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, who are currently reported missing. “Serving life terms, they are entitled to get 90 days of parole every year. The Prison Department, considering their behaviour and track record, had granted them parole,” said an officer. Across Karnataka, 22 inmates who jumped parole are currently missing, of whom 10 are from Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/10-convicts-yet-to-be-traced/article35389600.ece
18 July 2021||New Delhi,||Man arrested for running factory producing fake salt||A 33-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly running a salt factory and packaging it in counterfeit packets of a noted brand, in Outer North Delhi’s Barwala. DCP (Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the accused has been identified as Mahesh alias Tony, a resident of Barwala. “The packing was so intelligently printed that if the customer scanned the QR code printed on the duplicate packing, it would lead to the brand’s genuine website,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-running-factory-producing-fake-salt/article35389711.ece
