19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. ready to discuss all issues in a constructive manner: Modi||A day before the monsoon session of Parliament gets under way, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday told an all-party meeting that his government is ready to discuss and debate all issues in a “constructive” manner. However, differences surfaced at the meeting, convened by the government, when Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi proposed that the Prime Minister would chair a meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the country at Parliament Annexe on Tuesday. Strongly opposing it, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien said the discussion should take place on the floor of the House. “MPs do not want fancy PowerPoint presentations on #COVID19 from the PM or this Government in some conference room. #Parliament is in session. Come to the FLOOR OF THE HOUSE,” Mr. O’ Brien later tweeted. The Opposition parties also differed among themselves on the issues to be taken up first. At a meeting of Opposition leaders, convened by the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, the Congress was keen to first take up the issue of the hike in the prices of petroleum products and other commodities, but the other Opposition parties expressed their intention to move an adjournment motion to discuss the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Sources said disruptions were expected on the issue of price rise as well as the farmers’ agitation. At a separate meeting with all the floor leaders, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urged them to “respect the sanctity and dignity of the House”, and sought their cooperation for the smooth conduct of the proceedings. The government plans to take up 31 Bills, including two financial Bills, during the session. “Took part in the All-Party meeting before the start of Parliament’s Monsoon Session. We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner,” Mr. Modi tweeted. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Minister and Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal were present at the meeting. “At the all-party meeting, Prime Minister Modi said healthy and fruitful debates should take place in Parliament. He said the government is ready to hold discussions on any subject if raised as per parliamentary rules and procedures,” Mr. Joshi told presspersons PM’s brief presence The meeting, attended by 33 parties, lasted for more than two hours. Taking a dig at the Prime Minister’s brief presence in the meeting, Mr. O’Brien tweeted: “Prime Minister, Sir. True. You did TAKE PART. The #Parliament meeting lasted for 2 hours and 40 minutes. We had the pleasure of your company for 9 minutes. You listened for 3 minutes. Allowed the photographers/video cams in for 2 minutes. And spoke to us for 4 minutes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-ready-to-discuss-all-issues-in-a-constructive-manner-modi/article35400564.ece
19 July 2021||Mumbai,||31 killed as rain triggers mayhem in Mumbai||At least 31 persons, including eight minors, lost their lives in Mumbai as incessant rain from Saturday night and throughout Sunday triggered a landslip, house collapse and electrocution. The Regional Meteorological Centre of Mumbai has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at few places, with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said more than 200 mm of rainfall was recorded between 11 p.m. on Saturday and 4 a.m. on Sunday. A BMC centre at Dahisar recorded the highest 226.82 mm of rainfall, followed by Chembur with 218.45 mm. Wall collapse Nineteen people were killed and five injured at Vashi Naka in Chembur after a retaining wall collapsed on four or five huts due to the force of water and mud around 1 a.m. A landslip at Panchasheel chawl in Vikroli on six houses around 3 a.m. resulted in the death of 10 people while one person was injured. Soham Thorat, 16, died after a wall of his house at Kombagalli in Bhandup area collapsed, while one person was electrocuted at a shop in Andheri. Five battalions of the National Disaster Response Force were deployed in Chembur and Vikroli to speed up rescue efforts. The search was on for two more missing individuals at the time of writing this report. “I visited the 3 locations of landslips ... Relief work is going on and all necessary financial and medical assistance is being provided by the Govt of Maharashtra and BMC,” Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed condolences at the loss of lives in the Chembur, Vikhroli incidents. “The next of kin of those who lost their lives in the mishap will receive Rs. 5 lakh each from the State and those injured will be provided with free medical treatment,” said Mr Thackeray. In view of the IMD forecast of heavy rains on Sunday, CM directed all agencies to stay on high alert and launch immediate rescue and relief operations in case of any mishaps. “If the water levels in the Mithi or other major nullahs rise above the danger level, those staying in nearby areas must be relocated to safer locations immediately,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/31-killed-as-rain-triggers-mayhem-in-mumbai/article35400560.ece
19 July 2021||Mumbai,||Uddhav takes stock of rain-battered city||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday took stock of the preparedness by government agencies to tackle any emergency, with a severe wet spell being forecast for the next couple of days. Mr. Thackeray directed the agencies to remain alert and asked authorities to keep a watch on landslide-prone areas and dilapidated buildings, the Chief Minister's Office said in a statement. Mr. Thackeray said power companies should remain careful as high-tension towers are located in the vicinity of residential areas. “Underground areas should also be cleared given that the water purification centre located in Bhandup in suburban Mumbai was flooded due to rains,” the release quoted the CM. He directed authorities to ensure that facilities in COVID-19 centres are not marred by rain and health workers in hospitals are kept on standby. He sought steps to ensure that there is no spread of water-borne diseases.  The Chief Minister said, “Steps should be taken to drain out rain water from low-lying areas. Roads should be cleared for vehicular traffic movement. Steps should be taken to restore the suburban railway services at the earliest.” Mumbai civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, who attended the meeting, said that municipal workers and officers are on duty round the clock. Jayanta Sarkar of the India Meteorological Department told the meeting that an orange alert was issued for Mumbai and the Konkan coast for the next five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uddhav-takes-stock-of-rain-battered-city/article35400961.ece
19 July 2021||Pune,||9,000 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra witnessed a renewed surge of 9,000 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, while fresh recoveries dropped to 5,756 as the active case tally rose again to touch 1,03,486. With 167 deaths, the cumulative toll surged to 1,27,031 and the case fatality rate stands at 2.04%. The total cases have reached 62,14,190, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 59,80,350, with the recovery rate falling to 96.24%. “Of 4,54,81,252 laboratory samples tested thus far, 62,14,190 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 13.66%) have returned positive, with over 2.21 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 1,150 new cases taking its total cases to 10,75,783. As many as six deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 17,650. As per district authorities, the active case tally has crossed 10,000 while the total death toll has crossed 18,165. 455 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 455 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,31,158, while the active case tally declined to 10,695. As many as 12 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 15,702. Record spike in Kolhapur Kolhapur reported more than 2,200 new cases — its highest in more than a month — taking its total case tally to 1,84,263. The active cases have reached 11,144, while 13 deaths saw the death toll rise to 5,214. Satara reported 783 cases and 32 deaths as its total cases rose to 2,08,003, of whom 7,312 are active, while the death toll climbed to 5,019. Neighbouring Sangli reported nearly 1,000 new cases and 21 deaths. The total case tally stands at 1,72,430, with the active cases rising to 10,156, while its total death toll reached 4,652.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9000-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra/article35400959.ece
19 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Over 6,000 children lost parents in Odisha||The COVID-19 pandemic may have its disastrous impact on people’s lives, but hundreds of children in Odisha are losing their parents for other reasons. As per Bal Swaraj, an online tracking portal of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), 6,115 children have lost their parents in Odisha since April 1, 2020. Of them, 753 children have lost both parents. The pandemic took lives of both parents of 163 children since April 1 last year, while 1,610 children lost one of their parents during this period. In view of a large number of children losing their parents in the pandemic, the Naveen Patnaik government had launched a special scheme, ‘Ashirvad’. Under this scheme, a monthly sum of Rs. 2,500 will be given to children who have lost both parents. If a child loses one of the earning parents, then he or she is entitled to get Rs. 1,500 a month. The scheme will be implemented retrospectively from April 1, 2020. According to State government sources, payment of monthly stipend as announced earlier was yet to begin as modalities of the scheme are being fine-tuned in consultation with different departments. These children are being accommodated in childcare institutions with the consent of their relatives. Identifying beneficiaries The district child protection unit, Childline, a voluntary organisation, panchayat-level and block-level committees in coordination with frontline civil society organisations have been assigned to help identify these children requiring special attention. Parent-less children would be included in the ‘Green Passage’ scheme in which the State government takes care of their higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-6000-children-lost-parents-in-odisha/article35400882.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Midday meals leave a long-lasting impact: study||Girls who had access to free lunches provided at government schools had children with a higher height-to-age ratio than those who did not, said a new study on the inter-generational benefits of the midday meal scheme, published in Nature Communications this week. Using nationally representative data on cohorts of mothers and their children spanning 23 years, the paper showed that by 2016, the prevalence of stunting was significantly lower in areas where the scheme was implemented in 2005. More than one in three Indian children are stunted, or too short for their age, which reflects chronic undernutrition. The fight against stunting has often focussed on boosting nutrition for young children, but nutritionists have long argued that maternal health and well-being is the key to reducing stunting in their offspring. Noting that “interventions to improve maternal height and education must be implemented years before those girls and young women become mothers”, the study has attempted a first-of-its-kind inter-generational analysis of the impacts of a mass feeding programme. The paper was authored by a researcher from the University of Washington and economists and nutrition experts at the International Food Policy Research Institute. It found that the midday meal scheme was associated with 13%-32% of the improvement in the height-for-age z-scores (HAZ) in India between 2006 and 2016. The linkages between midday meals and lower stunting in the next generation were stronger in the lower socio-economic strata and likely work through women’s education, fertility, and the use of health services, the paper said. The midday meal scheme was launched in 1995 to provide children in government schools with a free cooked meal with a minimum energy content of 450 kcal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/midday-meals-leave-a-long-lasting-impact-study/article35400562.ece
19 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Transgender persons’ bid to break new ground||Not so long ago, Pratima Behera, a 22-year transgender, faced abuses and scurried for cover as baton-wielding policemen chased her at a railway station in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, where she begged for survival. Kalpana Patra (name changed), who used to be a trans-sex worker, also experienced harassment and violence, often at the hands of police. Both Pratima and Kalpana are set to turn their life around. They have filled out applications to become police officers in Odisha. From undertaking hour-long running to practising yoga and from brushing up general knowledge and English language skills to meditating, these two transgender aspirants and their likes are fully occupied all through the day at Sundarpada locality of Bhubaneswar. They seem to be on a mission to prove themselves. When the Odisha government came up with an advertisement last month to appoint transgender persons as sub-inspectors of police, the community considered it an opportunity to change the societal perception about them. For a total of 477 SI posts, 1,32,496 candidates have applied. Of them, 97,506 are males and 34,964 females while 26 belong to the transgender community. “Not many in our community can plan their future on the basis of their qualifications. There are very few employers for us in the job market,” said Kalpana. Pratima said the prospect of joining the police force was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for her, especially after she was forced to flee home and beg for survival just to evade the mocking eyes of her own family members. “This is a rare occasion when so many transgender candidates have applied for a government job. This is the first permanent, dignified job offered to transgender persons,” said Meera Parida, a transgender activist who heads an NGO, Sakhaa, that works on mainstreaming the transgender community. She is mentoring the transgender candidates for cracking the police job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transgender-persons-bid-to-break-new-ground/article35400702.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Theatres in Karnataka to open from today||The State government on Sunday further brought down COVID-19 curbs by restricting curfew hours to 10 p.m-5 a.m., besides allowing cinemas to operate at 50% capacity. Colleges will commence from July 26, and only students who have been vaccinated with a minimum of one dose will be allowed to attend classes physically. However, attendance of students is optional. The decision to further relax curbs was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday. The order also allowed skill development institutions to resume following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Special surveillance measures to screen those coming from Kerala and Maharashtra will continue to be in place till further orders. Health Minister K. Sudhakar was conspicuous by his absence. Sources in the government said Mr. Sudhakar was opposed to the idea of opening cinemas at 50% capacity. They said that the argument was that it could emerge as a breeding ground for the virus. The new guidelines will be in force till August 3. Cinemas are allowed to be functional from Monday. An aide of Dr. Sudhakar said that he did not make it to the meeting with the Chief Minister owing to a pressing personal work. Though pubs and bars had been asking for relaxing the norms, the new norms that will come into effect have not given them any relief. Similarly, swimming pools have also not been allowed to be functional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/theatres-in-karnataka-to-open-today/article35400602.ece
19 July 2021||CHANDIGARH/ NEW DELHI,||Navjot Sidhu appointed Punjab Congress chief||Amid the ongoing infighting in the Punjab Congress, former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was on Sunday appointed president of the Punjab Congress Committee along with four working presidents. An official statement from the All India Congress Committee said Mr. Sidhu and the four working presidents had been appointed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with immediate effect. The four working presidents are S.S. Gilzian, S.S. Danny, Pawan Goel and K.S. Nagra. Ms. Gandhi is learnt to have individually spoken to MPs from Punjab on the issue of elevating Mr. Sidhu. A senior leader from Punjab confirmed it to The Hindu, and said the Congress chief seemed “determined” on Mr. Sidhu’s elevation. “Ms. Gandhi spoke to the MPs individually and each one of them was opposed to the idea of making Sidhu the PCC chief,” said the leader quoted above. The decision came at the end of a day of hectic political activity in Punjab and Delhi. While MPs met at Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa’s house over lunch in Delhi, a group of MLAs from Punjab issued a statement, urging the high command not to let down the Punjab Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/navjot-sidhu-appointed-punjab-congress-chief/article35400566.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,||State to offer professional courses in Kannada||From the 2022-23 academic year, the State government will offer all professional courses, including engineering, in Kannada. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said work on translating the syllabus for engineering courses into Kannada has started. At a webinar on Saturday, he pointed out that the National Education Policy gives emphasis to vocational education in the mother tongue. “The State government will provide incentives to students who take up courses in Kannada. It will also be incorporated into the technical education system,” he said. Many States have started imparting engineering in their regional language after the Union Ministry decided to give it a push.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-offer-professional-courses-in-kannada/article35400604.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Final farewell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/final-farewell/article35400707.ece
19 July 2021||Nagpur,||ED searches 2 homes of Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted searches at two residences of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur district on Sunday as part of a probe into a money laundering case, a police official said. Two separate teams of the ED searched Mr. Deshmukh’s house in Katol town, located about 60 km from Nagpur, and his ancestral home at Wadvihira village near Katol, he said. The searches started at around 6 a.m., he said. The official said the search is still on at the Katol premises, while the search at Wadvihira concluded around 12 noon. The ED is probing a case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Mr. Deshmukh’s resignation in April this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-searches-2-homes-of-deshmukh/article35400962.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||End of a journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/end-of-a-journey/article35400981.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||After U.P., Delhi calls off Kanwar Yatra||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Sunday issued an order that no celebrations, processions and gatherings shall be allowed during the upcoming Kanwar Yatra in the Capital. The order said the yatra is scheduled to commence from July 25 despite being banned/suspended by the Uttarakhand government. “In view of the persisting COVID-19 situation, it is decided that the Kanwar Yatra should not be permitted to prevent the spread of the virus in the territory of NCT of Delhi,” the order read. The DDMA order came a day after the yatra was cancelled in Uttar Pradesh. The order said in case of violation of instructions, the violator shall be procee-ded against as per the provisions of the DDMA Act, 2005, Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-up-delhi-calls-off-kanwar-yatra/article35400703.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||NGT slaps fine on SCCL for excess mining||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) to pay environmental compensation for the excess coal mined from the JVR OC-I mine and extract coal only to the extent of environmental clearance. It has also made it clear that the company could go for additional quantity of coal extraction only after getting separate clearance for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-slaps-fine-on-sccl-for-excess-mining/article35400799.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Dalita Bandhu to start from Huzurabad||The State government has decided to kick-start Dalita Bandhu, the ambitious Dalit empowerment scheme aimed at providing financial assistance to Dalit (SC) families for making them financially self-sufficient. Huzurabad constituency, represented by former Minister Eatala Rajender, had been selected for implementation of the pilot project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dalita-bandhu-to-start-from-huzurabad/article35400800.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Fuelled by horse power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fuelled-by-horse-power/article35400879.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,||SSLC exam begins today||Students, school teachers and officials of the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) are all set for the Class X SSLC examination, which begins on Monday amidst a slew of precautionary measures against COVID-19. As many as 8.76 lakh students have registered for the examination. This year, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has increased the number of examination centres and teachers on duty. As many as 1.19 lakh staff have been deployed on duty, up from 80,000 roped in last year. The number of centres, which were 3,310 in 2020, has been increased to 4,885. Examination rooms, too, have been increased from 48,000 last year to 73,064. 23 students test positive As of Sunday, 23 students across the State informed their schools that they had tested positive for COVID-19. They will write the examination at a COVID Care Centre (CCC) in their respective districts. V. Sumangala, KSEEB director, said arrangements have been made by the respective block education officers for CCCs following all standard operating procedures. Only 12 students, one per bench, will be seated in a classroom. Officials of KSEEB pointed out that candidates with symptoms of cough, cold, and fever will be allowed to take the test in a separate room. A health check-up counter equipped with thermal scanners and pulse oximeters have been set up at each centre. According to the department officials, all the staff involved in examination duty have received at least one dose of vaccination. Drills were conducted in various centres on Saturday. Students will have to appear for two examinations - one on Monday and another on July 22. The first paper includes all core subjects - science, mathematics and social science. On July 22, students will have to appear for three language papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exam-begins-today/article35400605.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Stormy session expected||The monsoon session is expected to witness heated arguments, with the Cong- ress and its allies set to target the government over price rise. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi held a meet with party MPs. “There will be disruptions tomo rrow as there has been consensus among Opposition parties about price rise,” said an MP after the meeting.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stormy-session-expected/article35400548.ece
19 July 2021||Vijayawada/Kakinada,||Jagan to visit Polavaram project today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit the Polavaram project on Monday. He will reach the project site at 11.10 a.m. and will see the sluice gates, cofferdam and other structures from the view point along with Ministers, MPs, MLAs and MLCs. Later, he will participate in a review meeting with the officials of the district and the Water Resources Department on the progress of the multi-purpose national project. Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra, Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma, Polavaram project Superintending Engineer Narasimha Murthy and other officials reviewed the arrangements for the Chief Minister’s tour on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-to-visit-polavaram-project-today/article35400553.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pre-Bakrid easing draws flak in Kerala||The decision by the Kerala government to ease COVID-19 curbs on retail sales for three days from Sunday ahead of Bakrid on July 20, has evoked mixed response. A large section of the public welcomed the brief respite after 71 days of tough curbs. However, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi tweeted: “Deplorable act by Kerala Govt. to provide 3 days relaxations for Bakra Id celebrations especially because it’s one of the hotbeds for COVID-19 at present. If Kanwar Yatra is wrong, so is Bakra Id public celebrations.” The Indian Medical Association also objected to the easing of curbs and threatened to move the Supreme Court against the decision. Pointing out that the average test positivity rate remained unyieldingly high at 10.76% and was worryingly above 15% in at least 205 LSGI limits, the IMA urged the government to withdraw the relaxations immediately as the spectre of a third wave loomed. However, traders have warned that they will protest against any roll back. They have also demanded an incremental easing of curbs on retail activity in the run-up to the Onam-Muharram shopping season. Onam sales account for nearly half of the annual retail business in Kerala. Meanwhile, the police fanned out in strength across the State to enforce the mask and physical distance mandate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pre-bakrid-easing-draws-flak-in-kerala/article35400558.ece
19 July 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata airport receives hoax bomb threat||A message was received by the Air Traffic Control at NSCBI Airport in Kolkata on Sunday claiming that a bomb may have been planted in an aircraft from Dubai, a senior official said. The threat turned out to be false, he said. Members of the Bomb Threat Assessment Committee (BTAC) assembled at the airport terminal managers office for assessment of the message that called for monitoring of flights originating from Dubai, Pulla Hezekiah, acting director, NSCBI airport, said. “After a thorough assessment, BTAC declared the call as non-specific and action was taken as per SOP,” he said. Emirates flight UK570/571 arrived at 8.05 a.m. with 144 passengers from Dubai and after a search, the plane departed for Dubai at 10.06 a.m. with four passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-airport-receives-hoax-bomb-threat/article35400883.ece
19 July 2021||Mangaluru,||Alleged audio clip of Kateel goes viral||An audio clip, in which BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel allegedly hints at a possible change in leadership, went viral on Sunday. However, Mr. Kateel clarified that he had nothing to do with the audio clip and that it was not his voice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alleged-audio-clip-of-kateel-goes-viral/article35400603.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Kateel’s ‘audio clip’ on leadership goes viral||An audio clip, in which BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel allegedly hints at a possible change in leadership, went viral on Sunday. However, Mr. Kateel clarified that he had nothing to do with the audio clip and that it was not his voice. “It is a case of impersonation. Such a fake audio clip is being circulated to defame the party and the government,” he said in a release later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kateels-audio-clip-on-leadership-goes-viral/article35400947.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi police’s meet with farmers inconclusive||Ahead of the march planned by farmers near Parliament during the monsoon session, the Delhi police’s meeting with the farmer unions remained inconclusive on Sunday. A senior police officer said they had requested the farmers to reconsider their protest call citing the DDMA guidelines and the threat of COVID-19 third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-polices-meet-with-farmers-inconclusive/article35400705.ece
19 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Protest at ex-Minister’s home in Haryana ends||The Capital on Sunday reported no COVID-related deaths, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The last time Delhi saw zero deaths due to COVID-19 was on March 2 this year. A total of 51 new cases were reported over 24 hours. According to the bulletin, the city had less than a day’s stock of COVID-19 vaccines left as of Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-covid-19-death-reported-in-the-capital/article35400708.ece
19 July 2021||BELAGAVI,||Inter-State bus services stopped in Belagavi||Strict enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines by the Belagavi district administration has led to a near-complete stoppage of all bus services between Maharashtra and Karnataka. The police stopped buses on the border. They sent back vehicles in which passengers did not follow COVID-19 protocol, including social distancing, wearing face masks or carrying certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-state-bus-services-stopped-in-belagavi/article35400780.ece
19 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Tungabhadra water released into canals||In compliance with the decision taken at the Tungabhadra Irrigation Consultative Committee meeting chaired by Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf and Ballari district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh, recently, the authorities of the Water Resources Department, on Sunday, released water into different canals for the first crop of the year. After puja was performed at the Tungabhadra Reservoir at Munirabad, Koppal district, water was released into the canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tungabhadra-water-released-into-canals/article35400782.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 2,079 fresh COVID-19 infections||Tamil Nadu recorded 2,079 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the number of persons under treatment to 27,897. So far, 25,35,402 persons have tested positive, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. The State also recorded 29 deaths. So far, 33,724 persons have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-2079-fresh-covid-19-infections/article35400742.ece
19 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Three Maoist cadres lay down arms||Three Left wing extremists, including one commander of the Local Operational Squad and another Area Committee Member belonging to the banned CPI (Maoist), laid down arms before the Odisha police on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-maoist-cadres-lay-down-arms/article35400880.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC mulls limit to role as policy watchdog||The resolve voiced by a Division Bench of the Supreme Court in July to “examine” the extent to which the judiciary can question the government’s COVID-19 policies drifts from the court’s three-judge Bench judgment in May, which held that courts cannot be “silent spectators when constitutional rights of citizens are infringed by executive policies”. The May 31 judgment by a Supreme Court Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat is associated with the Centre’s reversal of its dual vaccine pricing policy. On July 14, a Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari said courts should not undermine the executive at a time when a “collective effort” was required to overcome the public health crisis. “Can the court tell the Executive to get the formula (for vaccines) from companies abroad or decide the number of ventilators... These are times of crisis when everybody has to be cautious... Is this when the court should get into all this? Executive has the benefit of experts with their expert knowledge... We will hear submissions on how far constitutional courts should go into these matters... How much we should restrain ourselves,” Justice Saran had observed orally. “There are certain norms based on which every institution should function,” Justice Maheshwari had noted. The oral remarks from the Division Bench hardly gel with the observations made under a sub-heading ‘Separation of Powers’ in the May judgment authored by Justice Chandrachud that a public health crisis like COVID-19 does not mean the Constitution should be “kept away and forgotten” by the government. The Justice Saran Bench was hearing an appeal by the Uttar Pradesh government against an Allahabad High Court order of May 17, which had described the medical system in smaller cities and villages of the State during the pandemic as “Ram Bharose” (at the mercy of the gods). The High Court had issued a slew of directions for the government, which included ensuring that nursing homes in the State have oxygen facility for every bed and provide ventilators, among other facilities. The top court had stayed the High Court order just days before the Justice Chandrachud Bench pronounced judgment in a suo motu case titled ‘In Re: Distribution of Essential Supplies and Services During the Pandemic’. Constitutional mandate “Our Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators when constitutional rights of citizens are infringed by executive policies. Judicial review and soliciting constitutional justification for policies formulated by the executive is an essential function, which the courts are entrusted to perform,” Justice Chandrachud had said. Responding to the government’s argument that it should have “room for free play in the joints” while dealing with the pandemic, Justice Chandrachud said the court had no intention to “second-guess the wisdom of the executive”. “However, it (judiciary) continues to exercise jurisdiction to determine if the chosen policy measure conforms to the standards of reasonableness, militates against manifest arbitrariness and protects the right to life of all persons. This Court is presently assuming a dialogic jurisdiction where various stakeholders are provided a forum to raise constitutional grievances with respect to the management of the pandemic,” Justice Chandrachud had clarified. The judgment highlighted that courts across the globe have responded to constitutional challenges to executive policies which violate rights and liberties of citizens. Justice Chandrachud took the example of the United States’ Supreme Court, which said “a public health emergency does not give Governors and other public officials carte blanche to disregard the Constitution for as long as the medical problem persists”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-mulls-limit-to-role-as-policy-watchdog/article35400371.ece
19 July 2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi,||Sonia’s move comes despite unease among Punjab MLAs||Ahead of the announcement late on Sunday of former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu being appointed president of the State Congress unit, prominent MPs including Lok Sabha members Manish Tewari, Ravneet Bittu, Jasbir Gill and Perneet Kaur, wife of the Punjab Chief Minister, met for lunch in a pushback to the move. Officially the meeting was to formulate their position on the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to raise the farmers’ issue and not allow any other business in the House during the Monsoon Session unless the farm laws are repealed. In Punjab, earlier in the day, at least 10 MLAs came out openly in support of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, urging the high command “not to let him down”. Senior MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, sharing a statement on behalf of MLAs, urged the high command not to let down the Chief Minister because of whose unrelenting efforts the party stands well entrenched in Punjab. Note of caution “There was no doubt that the appointment of PCC chief was the prerogative of the party high command but at the same time washing dirty linen in public has only decreased the party graph during the last couple of months,” said the MLAs in the joint statement. The MLAs are Harminder Singh Gill, Fateh Bajwa, Gurpreet Singh, Kuldip Singh Vaid, Balwinder Singh Laddi, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Joginderpal, Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Primal Singh and Sukhpal Khaira. They said that Capt. Singh commanded “immense respect” across different sections of society, particularly the farmers for whom he even endangered his chair as Chief Minister while passing the 2004 Termination of Waters Agreement Act. They said that the Chief Minister stood as a “tall leader amongst the Sikhs” because of his principled stand during testing times. “Since merely six months were left for the elections, pulling the party into the different directions will only harm its prospects in the 2022 polls,” they said. The MLAs also supported Capt. Singh’s demand that Mr. Sidhu who had made numerous tweets against him and the government should tender a public apology so that the party and government could function in tandem. The MLAs offered a word of caution to Mr. Sidhu, who they said was a celebrity and was no doubt an asset to the party but condemning and criticising his own party and government in the public has only created a rift in the cadres and weakened it. “We hope the party high command would take cognisance of the suggestions and will definitely keep in mind the status, contribution and background of Captain Amarinder Singh in mind while making vital decisions for the party,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-move-despite-unease-among-mlas/article35400347.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. set to disrupt Lok Sabha proceedings over price rise||The Congress and its allies are all set to disrupt proceedings in the Lok Sabha on Monday over price rise and the continuous hike in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The floor strategy of the principal Opposition party emerged after Congress chief Sonia Gandhi virtually met the party’s MPs on Sunday evening. Ms. Gandhi is said to have flagged the issue of effective coordination with other Opposition parties to formulate a common strategy on the floor of the House. “We have been told there would be disruptions tomorrow [Monday] as there has been consensus among other Opposition parties about price rise,” said one MP. Issues identified On June 14, the parliamentary strategy group had identified a number of issues to corner the Narendra Modi government. They include the devastating second wave, pace of vaccination and preparation for a possible third wave, the economic situation and growing unemployment, restoration of Statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and border hostilities with China in Eastern Ladakh. Ahead of the monsoon session, Ms. Gandhi has also recast the parliamentary team for both the Houses. While Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury continues to be the leader with Gaurav Gogoi as his deputy, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari have been part of the team. The inclusion of Mr. Tharoor and Mr. Tewari is significant as both belong to the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) who had demanded a complete revamp of the party’s functioning in a letter to Ms. Gandhi. In the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge is the leader of the group while Anand Sharma is his deputy. Jairam Ramesh (chief whip), Ambika Soni, P. Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh and K.C. Venugopal are the other members. “These groups will meet daily during the session and can meet during the inter-session period as well where Parliament issues are concerned,” read a July 15 internal memo of Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-set-to-disrupt-lok-sabha-proceedings-over-price-rise/article35400358.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||HAL plans medium lift chopper||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL), which is planning to indigenously design and develop a medium lift helicopter, the Indian multirole helicopter (IMRH), is hopeful of finalising the detailed project report in the next few months and approach the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) by year-end for project sanction. “All the three services are on board the project. The Navy has already given their requirements, and we are discussing them right now. It will be a second platform with two different versions. The Army and the Air Force have promised to give the Preliminary Services Qualitative Requirements (PSQR) within two months. After that, it will take another two months to make a detailed project report (DPR),” HAL Chairman and Managing Director R. Madhavan said. Once the DPR is ready, the HAL will approach the CCS for project sanction after which funds will be released. The project is estimated at around Rs. 10,000 crore, including for the two different versions for the Navy, and will take seven years for design and development. At a meeting two weeks ago with the Secretary, Defence Production, these  issues were discussed with the three services and the Navy put across its requirements. The Army and the Air Force were earlier expected to share the PSQRs by June which got delayed due to the second wave of the pandemic and have now sought two more months. Time for funds A HAL official said that hoping to secure the CCS sanction for the project in 2022, HAL in the meantime has put in its money for preliminary works. But major funding has to now come in because prototypes have to be made, detailed designs are to be done, which takes lot of money, and needs CCS sanction, the official stated. The HAL currently has a range of indigenous products in the light helicopter category — Advanced Light Helicopter, Light Combat Helicopter and Light Utility Helicopter. The IMRH is envisaged as a medium lift helicopter with a maximum all-up weight of 13 tonnes to replace the Russian Mi-17 class of helicopters in service. Preliminary design of the IMRH has already been carried out and it will be powered by twin engines, suit the high altitude requirements of the Army and Air Force as well feature blade folding option for ship deck operations, HAL officials said. Speaking at Aero India in February, a Chief Designer of the HAL said that the IMRH was intended to address India’s requirement to replace the Mi-17 helicopters due for replacement progressively from 2028. Once the design phase is complete, the development process will see the manufacture of at least three prototypes, one structural test specimen and one ground test vehicle which will be put through ground and flight testing, followed by certification before it is cleared for series production. The HAL also intends to target the global helicopter market by benchmarking the proposed IMRH against helicopters such as Russian Mi-17, Sikorsky S-92, AgustaWestland AW-101, NHIndustries NH-90 and Eurocopter EC-725. The intended roles of the IMRH are to support air assault, air transport, combat logistics, combat search and rescue and casualty evacuation as well as VVIP duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hal-plans-medium-lift-chopper/article35400341.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Danish Siddiqui laid to rest in Delhi||The mortal remains of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed in Afghanistan while covering the conflict between the Afghan armed forces and the Taliban, arrived in the Capital on Sunday evening. Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar accepted the request of the family of Siddiqui to bury his body in the JMI graveyard that is meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor children. Mr. Siddiqui was a student at the AJK Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC) between 2005 and 2007 and graduated with a Master’s in Mass Communication and was in 2018 awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award. His father, Akhtar Siddiqui, retired from the JMI as Dean, Faculty of Education. The death certificate issued by the Embassy of India in Kabul says Siddiqui died on July 16 at Spin Boldak, Kandahar, Afghanistan while on assignment with Reuters as chief reporter and photographer. The cause of the death has been stated as “multiple gunshot wounds”. Ms. Akhtar said the JMI will organise a condolence meeting on the university campus on July 20 and an exhibition of his work will also be organised in due course of time so that students can take inspiration from it. The university said his interaction with the students of the MCRC was on April 26, 2021 when he was invited to speak on Convergent Journalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/danishs-body-brought-to-delhi/article35400343.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress allegations misleading: Ravi Shankar Prasad||A day after the Congress linked the ouster of Ravi Shankar Prasad with large-scale corruption in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), the former Union Minister termed the allegations false and misleading. Mr. Prasad said the allegations were made in the context of some preliminary observations in the audit report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). In its preliminary finding, the CAG said the Narendra Modi government’s BharatNet programme failed to take off due to financial irregularities, and despite a huge payment to the common service centres (CSCs), the maintenance of cable and other infrastructure was not found efficient in various circles. “CSC has done the BharatNet operation and maintenance work at a much lesser cost than any other organisation. Due to the efforts made by CSC in improving the BharatNet network, the utilisation of the network in terms of number of FTTH connections and data consumption has increased immensely,” Mr. Prasad said. “It is to be noted that under the present government, the Ministry of Communications has grown from the dark days of 2G during the UPA to the 4G regime and it is on the way to 5G. It is difficult for the Congress to understand that under the NDA government the role of middlemen and lobbyists has been eliminated and decisions are being taken on merit and fairness,” Mr. Prasad said. Government sources said the CAG report was a preliminary one and that a suitable response to the queries raised was being prepared. “The work of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of BharatNet was awarded to CSC at a very competitive cost of Rs. 800 per km per month for O&M of Optical Fiber and installation of WiFi Access points at Rs. 80,000 per WiFi access point. Therefore, giving the work of O&M of BharatNet to Common Services Centre (CSC) led to significant savings to the government,” said a government source. Sources said even according to the preliminary report of the CAG, works have been awarded on nomination basis by BBNL to BSNL, Railtel and Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCIL) for NOFN Phase-1 in May 2013; to C-DOT for Network Management Solutions on 22.04.2013; and to TCIL for Primavera on 25.03.2013. Later work for WiFi Access Points was awarded to CSC on 31.03.2017, 02.02.2018 and to RajCOMP Info Services Private Limited (RISL) on 29.09.2018 on nomination basis. “So not just CSC, but other government organisations have also been awarded BharatNet works,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-allegations-misleading-ravi-shankar-prasad/article35400356.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi police’s meet with farmers inconclusive||Ahead of the march planned by farmers near Parliament during the monsoon session, the Delhi police’s meeting with the farmer unions’ remained inconclusive on Sunday. A senior police officer said they had requested the farmers to reconsider their protest call citing the DDMA guidelines and the outbreak of COVID-19 third wave. Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders have given assurances of “peaceful” protest. No plans to gherao “We laid out the plan. We don’t plan to do any gherao [or laying siege], and the idea of trying to enter Parliament is ruled out. We have no intent whatsoever to disrupt the functioning of Parliament in any way,” said SKM leader Yogendra Yadav, who was part of the farmers’ delegation. The monsoon session begins on Monday, and the farmers intend to begin their daily protest from July 22. “We told them [the police] we would not take unlimited crowds. We are only taking 200 select persons. To be doubly sure, we have said these 200 will leave only from the Singhu border. They would leave in pre-decided buses. Each of them will carry an identity card, and the list will be supplied to the police in advance. So we have taken all precautions possible,” said Mr. Yadav. “We wanted to be extremely careful and ensure that no disruptionist uses this opportunity to do something that will bring a bad name to the movement,” he added, noting that the Sikhs for Justice group, which was not part of the SKM, had already given a call for a siege of Parliament. The monsoon session of Parliament will start on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. Every detail about each protester will be given to the police, including a demonstrator’s Aadhaar card and the mobile phone number, said the farmers at the meeting. Farmers have been protesting against the Central laws since November last year at the Delhi border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. The Delhi police said they would consult and get back to the SKM, said Mr. Yadav, who added that the farm unions did not apply for permission to protest, and intend to continue their preparations. ‘Equal share’ “All the 40 farm unions involved in the SKM will have an equal share in the protest, with five members from each union participating each day,” said Dharmendra Malik, spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait. “Out of these five members, there will be a team leader who will be fully accountable for his team. The selection of the satyagrahis is being done after thorough scrutiny, with ID cards being issued on the basis of Aadhaar cards,” he added. Barricades set up The police said multilayer barricades had been installed in the New Delhi area to avoid tresspassing during the monsoon session. “A team also visited the Red Fort, Parliament and other locations to check preparedness. A bomb disposal squad and quick reaction teams have been deployed at key locations. The area around Parliament will remain under round-the-clock security till the monsoon session ends,” said the senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-polices-meet-with-farmers-inconclusive/article35400350.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Move to hold CUCET for all Central varsities postponed||The Centre has postponed its proposal to introduce a common entrance test for admissions to all 45 Central universities to 2022-23. Given the situation caused by the pandemic, all admissions to Central universities for 2021-22 will be done as in previous years, the University Grants Commission announced on Sunday night. This comes as a relief for a section of students, especially Delhi University aspirants, who had pleaded for the continued use of Class 12 marks as the basis of admission even in a year when Class 12 board examinations were not held. As in previous years, the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) will still be conducted by the consortium of 14 newer Central universities who already use it for their admissions, Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare told The Hindu . However, the proposal for CUCET to be conducted by the National Testing Agency for all 45 central universities has been shelved until next year, he said. “All admissions will be done as in previous years. Those [Central universities] who used CUCET will use CUCET. Those who used their own entrance exams will continue to do so. Those who did admissions directly on marks basis will still use that,” said Mr. Khare. He added that the NTA also has a full plate at this time as it is yet to complete the premier engineering and medical entrance tests JEE and NEET, which were postponed due to the second wave of the pandemic. In March, 45 Central universities were told that the NTA would conduct the CUCET for admissions to their undergraduate and postgraduate programmes this year. Some universities had welcomed the development, saying that independently conducting entrance tests would be a challenge during the pandemic. However, some of the older, more prestigious institutions including Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi University and Visva Bharati University preferred to use their own unique admission processes, according to attendees at the March consultation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/move-to-hold-cucet-for-all-central-varsities-postponed/article35400373.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘We’re not for self-financing courses in aided colleges’||The Kerala government has informed the Supreme Court of its policy to not sanction self-financing courses in aided colleges. The statement was made by the State government before a Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi in a petition filed by the Kerala Arts and Science Unaided College Management Association, represented by advocate Haris Beeran. Plea against HC decision The association had appealed against a Kerala High Court decision in 2014 to dismiss their plea challenging the action on the part of the State to permit aided colleges to run self-financing undergraduate and post-graduate degree courses in the same building or utilising the infrastructure meant for aided courses. “Bachelor of Vocational Courses have been sanctioned as self-financing courses in aided colleges as per UGC guidelines but the government policy is that no self-financing courses will be sanctioned in aided colleges,” the court recorded the statement made by Kerala State counsel, advocate G. Prakash, in its order recently. Case to be withdrawn Mr. Beeran agreed to withdraw the case on the basis of the government’s statement in court. The association, in its petition, argued that sharing of premises would do away with the “level playing field” between aided and unaided colleges. “Aided colleges are provided massive amounts of aid from authorities like the University Grants Commission as well as State governments while unaided institutions have to collect the capital themselves. Allowing aided institutions to then offer self-financing courses using the same premises and infrastructure paid for by the aid received thereby is on the face of it patently unfair,” it contended. Violation of intent The appeal argued that the High Court had ignored the statutory rules against running self-financing courses using the infrastructural facilities meant for aided courses. “The result of the process of granting affiliation to aided colleges to run self-financing courses out of the same premises would be that facilities granted to aided colleges like libraries, labs, etc, would be made use of by the institution for self-financing courses as well. This does violence to the intention behind distinguishing aided and unaided colleges and runs counter to the legislative scheme,” the petition had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/were-not-for-self-financing-courses-in-aided-colleges/article35400885.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Civil services aspirants to be heard today||A young man from a farming family, the son of a frontline worker and the father of a six-month-old are among several aspirants who will urge the Supreme Court on Monday to intervene on their behalf with the government for a second chance after their final attempt at cracking the rigorous civil services exam was marred by the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown in 2020. “The measures related to curbing the COVID-19 pandemic and the uncertainty attached to it had immense negative ramifications on the mental health of the candidates. It was in these circumstances, coupled with lack of proper infrastructure, poor preparation, lack of study materials, that the applicants appeared for their final attempt at fulfilling their dreams of becoming a civil servant,” Shambhu Sharan Kumar, one of the aspirants, told the court in his plea. The candidates are age-barred from appearing in the exam in 2021. However, they have asked the court to take a “lenient view” and grant them a second chance as a one-time measure. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjeev Khanna is scheduled to hear their case on Monday. In fact, two categories of UPSC aspirants have moved the top court separately. The first are candidates who were unable to take their final attempt on October 4, 2020. The second group are aspirants who managed to take the exam on October 4. These applicants, who are last attempters, have requested a one-time age relaxation to appear this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civil-services-aspirants-to-be-heard-today/article35400360.ece
19 July 2021||Srinagar,||J&K colleges to reopen in phases||The J&K administration on Sunday decided to allow on-site re-opening of higher educational institutions and skill development centres for the vaccinated population from July 31, in the wake of a significant dip in the number of cases in the past two months. “Higher educational institutes and skill development centres may be considered from phased re-opening for on-site learning after July 31, subject to the vaccination status of the students and staff. The public and private educational institutions are permitted to seek personal attendance of limited vaccinated staff for administrative purposes,” a government order said. Testing and tracking All Deputy Commissioners have been directed to keep active track of the positivity rates and consider implementing stricter control measures in case the weekly positivity rate goes beyond 4%.  In the wake of the upcoming Id festival, shops will be allowed to open at 6 a.m. instead of 7 a.m. “to avoid rush on July 19 and 20”. The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 179 new cases and one death, a significant dip compared to the figures of April-May. “99% targeted population of 45 and above age group have been inoculated with the first dose of vaccine,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-colleges-to-reopen-in-phases/article35400372.ece
19 July 2021||Srinagar,||J&K speeds up work for return of Pandits||The Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor’s administration is speeding up work on 6,000 transit accommodations in Kashmir and registering Kashmiri Pandits in a bid to spur the migrant community’s return to the Valley from different parts of the country. Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha, who chaired a meeting of the Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (DMRR&R) Department on Saturday, directed the officials “to take proactive steps to facilitate the return of Kashmiri Pandits community”. “There are many families living in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, and other parts of the country and abroad who are willing to return home or register themselves. An extensive exercise must be rolled out to reach out to them through proper means of communication,” he said. The J&K administration is setting up 6,000 transit flats for migrant Pandit employees in Kashmir, which included 208 in south Kashmir’s Kulgam and 96 in central Kashmir’s Budgam. Mr. Sinha said many people yearned for their old lives and would like to return to their homeland. “It’s the government’s responsibility to make sure this dream of thousands of people turns into reality with the proactive approach of the administration,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-speeds-up-work-for-return-of-pandits/article35400354.ece
19 July 2021||Bihar,||16 held in Bihar hooch tragedy as toll rises to 12||As the death toll mounted to 12 in the West Champaran hooch tragedy, the district administration swung into action on Saturday and arrested 16 people while suspending and shifting personnel at the Lauriya police station. Family members of the victims have now given a statement to the police that the deceased had consumed local country-made liquor which led to their deaths eventually. “Sixteen people have been arrested while a search operation to nab the others is under way. Station House Officer (SHO) Rajeev Kumar and other personnel attached with the Lauriya police station have been shifted. The officer in-charge K.P. Yadav and one watchman have been suspended,” said a press release issued by the district administration. A number of spurious liquor outlets in several villages of Lauriya and Ram Nagar police stations too were demolished by the police and excise officials after the hooch tragedy on July 13-14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-held-in-bihar-hooch-tragedy-as-toll-rises-to-12/article35400709.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pegasus spyware used to ‘snoop’ on journalists||Telephone numbers of some 40 Indian journalists figure in a “leaked list of potential targets for surveillance”, and forensic tests were said to have “confirmed that some of them were successfully snooped upon by an unidentified agency using Pegasus software”, The Wire , an independent news website, reported on Sunday night. Indian Ministers, government officials and Opposition leaders also figure in the list of people whose phones may have been compromised by the spyware, The Wire , which conducted the investigation along with international partners, claimed. The leaked telephone numbers included correspondents and writers from the Hindustan Times, The Hindu, India Today, Indian Express and Network18. Vijaita Singh, who works for The Hindu ’s national bureau, also figures in the list, which includes journalists like Shishir Gupta, Siddharth Vardarajan, M.K. Venu, Sushant Singh, Rohini Singh, Muzamil Jaleel, Ritika Chopra and Swati Chaturvedi. The spyware Pegasus is apparently sold to governments around the world by NSO group, an Israeli company. It can be used to snoop on phones that run on Android and iOS systems. Seventeen international media groups, including The Guardian and The Washington Post , led the investigation into how Pegasus was used to allegedly extract messages and information from the phones of journalists, politicians and activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-spyware-used-to-snoop-on-journalists/article35400543.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||31 killed as rain triggers mayhem in Mumbai||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed condolences at the loss of lives in the Chembur, Vikhroli incidents. “The next of kin of those who lost their lives in the mishap will receive Rs. 5 lakh each from the State and those injured will be provided with free medical treatment,” said Mr Thackeray. In view of the IMD forecast of heavy rains on Sunday, CM directed all agencies to stay on high alert and launch immediate rescue and relief operations in case of any mishaps. “If the water levels in the Mithi or other major nullahs rise above the danger level, those staying in nearby areas must be relocated to safer locations immediately,” he said. Rains have also posed water shortage problems in front of the city as due to the inundation of rain water in the Bhandup Water Purification Complex.The Filtration and Pumping plants at the complex had to be shut down as a precautionary measure. “Due to this, water supply in most of the parts of Mumbai has been disrupted today (Sunday). Efforts to restore Mumbai's water supply are being made on war footing. We urge the citizens of Mumbai to boil potable water before consuming it, once the water supply is restored,” said the civic body press statement. Heavy rains also resulted in water logging at 31 locations across Mumbai and 20 traffic diversions had to be announced. The IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rains in the next 48 hours. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday evening held a meeting with senior officials in the state to take stock of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/31-killed-as-rain-triggers-mayhem-in-mumbai/article35400337.ece
19 July 2021||Bihar,||16 held in Bihar hooch tragedy as toll rises to 12||As the death toll mounted to 12 in the West Champaran hooch tragedy, the district administration swung into action on Saturday and arrested 16 people while suspending and shifting personnel at the Lauriya police station. Family members of the victims have now given a statement to the police that the deceased had consumed local country-made liquor which led to their deaths eventually. “Sixteen people have been arrested while a search operation to nab the others is under way. Station House Officer (SHO) Rajeev Kumar and other personnel attached with the Lauriya police station have been shifted. The officer in-charge K.P. Yadav and one watchman have been suspended,” said a press release issued by the district administration. A number of spurious liquor outlets in several villages of Lauriya and Ram Nagar police stations too were demolished by the police and excise officials after the hooch tragedy on July 13-14. “The police have identified the big sharks involved in illegal liquor trade in the area, and we are working on leads to nab them,” Champaran range senior police official Lallan Mohan Prasad said. On Saturday, Inspector-General of Police (Prohibition) Amritraj and State Excise Commissioner B. Kartikeya Dhanji visited Bettiah, district headquarters of West Champaran, and held a meeting with senior officials. District Magistrate Kundan Kumar directed the civil surgeon to issue an advisory to all government and private hospitals and clinics to immediately report cases showing symptoms of liquor consumption or poisoning to the local police station and excise officials. In a letter to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Birendra Gupta, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) MLA from Sikta, accused the district administration of hushing up the cases of the hooch tragedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-held-in-bihar-hooch-tragedy-as-toll-rises-to-12/article35400338.ece
19 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Three Maoist cadres lay down arms in Odisha||Three Left wing extremists, including one commander of the Local Operational Squad (LOS) and another Area Committee Member (ACM) belonging to the banned CPI (Maoist), laid down arms before the Odisha police on Sunday. After serving two decades in the banned outfit, Sabita Podiami returned to the mainstream when she surrendered before Director General of Police Abhay at Malkangiri on Sunday. She was commander of the Palachalam LOS of the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) of the Maoist. Influenced by Ramanna, then secretary of the Kalimela Dalam of DKSZC, she joined the Maoists in 2000. One month training According to the Odisha police, she had received one month training under the guidance of Maoist trainer Loknath (Divisional Committee member). Subsequently, she was transferred to the Kistaram LOS of the South Bastar Division in Chhattisgarh in 2001. In 2005, she was promoted to the rank of ACM and started carrying a .303 rifle. In 2010, she was entrusted as Palachalam LOS commander and was given an INSAS rifle. During long years in the CPI (Maoist), Sabita had participated in several exchanges of fire, ambushes and arsons, mostly in Chhattisgarh. She reportedly disclosed before the police that the COVID-19 pandemic had hit Maoists hard and many cadres were suffering and dying from COVID-19 without getting proper medical treatment. According to the police, though she was suffering from poor health for a long time, the senior Maoist commanders were opposed to her plea of surrender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-maoist-cadres-lay-down-arms/article35400339.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Midday meals have a long-lasting impact: study||The paper was authored by a researcher from the University of Washington and economists and nutrition experts at the International Food Policy Research Institute. It found that the midday meal scheme was associated with 13%-32% of the improvement in the height-for-age z-scores (HAZ) in India between 2006 and 2016. The linkages between midday meals and lower stunting in the next generation were stronger in the lower socio-economic strata and likely work through women’s education, fertility, and the use of health services, the paper said. The midday meal scheme was launched in 1995 to provide children in government schools with a free cooked meal with a minimum energy content of 450 kcal.   However, only 6% of girls aged 6-10 years had benefited from the scheme in 1999. By 2011, with an expansion in budget, and state implementation following a Supreme Court order, coverage had grown to 46%. The study tracked nationally representative cohorts of mothers by birth year and socio-economic status to show how exposure to the scheme reduced stunting in their children. IFPRI researcher Purnima Menon, one of the authors of the study, said the key takeaway is to “expand and improve school meals now for inter-generational pay-offs not too far down in time.” Tweeting about the study, she said, “Girls in India finish school, get married and have children all in just a few years — so school-based interventions can really help.” These findings come at a time when the mid-day meal scheme has effectively been put on hold for the last one and a half years, as schools have been closed since March 2020. rAlthough dry foodgrains or cash transfers have been provided to families instead, food and education advocates have warned that this would not have the same impact as hot cooked meals on the school premises, especially for girl children who face more discrimination at home and are more likely to drop out of school due to the closures. The findings of the study exacerbate concerns that the interruptions to schooling and to the mid-day meal scheme could have even longer term impacts, hurting the nutritional health of the next generation as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/midday-meals-have-a-long-lasting-impact-study/article35400344.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. ready to discuss all issues, says Modi||“At the all-party meeting, Prime Minister Modi said healthy and fruitful debates should take place in Parliament. He said the government is ready to hold discussions on any subject if raised as per parliamentary rules and procedures,” Mr. Joshi told presspersons The meeting, attended by 33 parties, lasted for more than two hours. Taking a dig at the Prime Minister’s brief presence in the meeting, Mr. O’Brien tweeted: “Prime Minister, Sir. True. You did TAKE PART. The #Parliament meeting lasted for 2 hours and 40 minutes. We had the pleasure of your company for 9 minutes. You listened for 3 minutes. Allowed the photographers/video cams in for 2 minutes. And spoke to us for 4 minutes.” Apart from Mr. Kharge, Mr. Chowdhury and Mr. O’Brien, other prominent Opposition leaders who attended the meeting included Anand Sharma (Congress), DMK’s T.R.Baalu and Tiruchi Siva, Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Ram Gopal Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Satish Mishra, among others. Several Opposition parties separately met in Mr. Kharge’s room for floor coordination and the issues to be raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-ready-to-discuss-all-issues-says-modi/article35400345.ece
19 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Assembly polls: Mayawati tries to win over Brahmins||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati is again trying to win the support of the dominant Brahmin community ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in 2022 despite suffering repeated failures since 2012. On Sunday, Ms. Mayawati appealed to the community to take ‘inspiration’ from the Dalits and remain ‘firm’ in not falling for any lure or gimmicks deployed by other parties especially the ruling BJP. She said she was ‘proud’ that the Dalit community, to which she belongs, did not fall for any amount of lure they were tempted with by other parties especially the BJP in the last few elections. She claimed that the Dalits voted one-way for her despite attempts to mislead them with money, visits to their homes by BJP leaders and khichdi (meal). To attract the community to her party and build consensus among them that their interests were secure only under a BSP government, Ms. Mayawati has deputed Satish Chandra Mishra, Rajya Sabha MP and Brahmin face of the BSP, to start a campaign with special meetings for the community. The campaign will start from Ayodhya. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the BSP was reduced to 19 seats. It was a huge fall for the party since it came to power with a full majority in the 403-member Assembly in 2007. Ms. Mayawati admitted that the BSP did not win many seats in 2017 but stressed that her vote percentage did not fall that drastically. “Our vote percentage was even more than the Samajwadi Party’s,” she said. While the BSP secured over 22% votes, the SP, which contested less number of seats due to an alliance with the Congress, got around 21.8% though it won more than double the seats won by the BSP. Ms. Mayawati said the “upper caste” communities especially Brahmins were in distress in U.P. under the BJP rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assembly-polls-mayawati-tries-to-win-over-brahmins/article35400352.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||2.57 crore jabs available with States, says Centre||Over 41.99 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to States and Union territories, and more than 2.56 crore jabs are available with them and private hospitals, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. In a statement, the Ministry said 15,75,140 more doses are in the process of being supplied. It said 41.99 crore (41,99,68,590) vaccine doses have been provided to States and Union Territories (UTs) so far through all sources. 39.42 cr. doses used Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 39,42,97,344 doses, according to data available at 8 a.m. on Sunday. The Ministry said 2,56,71,246 Covid vaccine doses are still available with the governments of States and Union Territories and private hospitals. The new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination programme commenced from June 21. In the new phase of the drive, the Union government will procure and supply free of cost 75% of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to States and Union Territories. The remaining 25% can be procured by private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/257-crore-jabs-available-with-states-says-centre/article35400362.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||326 sedition cases were filed during 2014-19||A total of 326 cases were registered in the country under the controversial colonial-era penal law on sedition between 2014 and 2019 in which just six persons were convicted. The Supreme Court last week observed that Section 124A of the IPC — offence of sedition — has been enormously misused and asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to “silence” people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. According to the Union Home Ministry data, a total of 326 cases were registered under the sedition law between 2014 and 2019, with the highest 54 cases in Assam. Out of these cases, chargesheets were filed in 141 cases while just six people were convicted for the offence during the six-year period. The data of 2020 had not been compiled by the Ministry yet, officials said. In Assam, out of the 54 sedition cases registered, chargesheets were filed in 26 cases and trials were completed in 25 cases. However, there has not been a single conviction in the State in any of the cases between 2014 and 2019, the data say. Jharkhand has registered 40 cases under Section 124A of the IPC during the six years. Chargesheets were filed in 29 cases and trial was completed in 16 cases in which just one person has been convicted. In Haryana, 31 cases were registered under the sedition law in which chargesheets were filed in 19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/326-sedition-cases-were-filed-during-2014-19/article35400335.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Pre-Bakrid easing draws flak in Kerala||“If Kanwar Yatra is wrong, so is Bakra Id public celebrations,” Mr. Singhvi tweeted. The Indian Medical Association also objected to the easing of curbs and threatened to move the Supreme Court against the decision. Pointing out that the average test positivity rate remained unyieldingly high at 10.76% and was worryingly above 15% in at least 205 LSGI limits, the IMA urged the government to withdraw the relaxations immediately as the spectre of a third wave loomed. However, traders have warned that they will protest against any roll back. They have also demanded an incremental easing of curbs on retail activity in the run-up to the Onam-Muharram shopping season. Meanwhile, the police fanned out in strength across the State to enforce the mask and physical distance mandate. On Sunday, festival shoppers trickled into textile, footwear, jewellery, electronics, home appliance and other stores from as early as 7 a.m. Traders foresee business picking up fast. The current easing of restrictions is applicable only in localities where the average test positivity rate is less than 15%. In areas where the spread is higher than the safety threshold of 15%, the relaxations will kick in only for one day on Bakrid eve on Monday. Mosques, temples and churches admitted worshippers in limited numbers. Managements limited the number of worshippers at a time to less than 40. Beauty parlours and barbershops also opened on Sunday in localities where the average TPR is less than 10%. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that ideally, only fully vaccinated persons should undertake shopping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pre-bakrid-easing-draws-flak-in-kerala/article35400336.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Instantly obedient||Krishna avatara is special in many ways. Krishna was born with four hands, with His weapons and many adornments. Apart from this, Krishna proved his obedience to His mother even at the time of birth, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. As Rama, He was an obedient son to His father, and He prepared to depart for the forest. But when He went to take leave of Kausalya, she protested and told Him not to leave. Should He not have paid heed to her? Obviously, He could not obey both his father and mother. So, He chose the most necessary option, namely obeying His father. But He was concerned about His mother’s plight. When Rama tried to persuade Lakshmana to return to Ayodhya, He said He was worried about His mother Kausalya. Who was there to look after her? He was her son and duty-bound to look after her. But He was far away from her, unable to help her in any way. He (Rama) could conquer the entire world with just one arrow, but of what use was this, when He could not stop His mother’s tears, Rama asked. Kausalya had reared a parrot, which was so loyal to the queen, that if someone entered her quarters in the palace, it would sound an alarm, and would want to bite the foot of the person, if it perceived him as an enemy. Rama lamented that even this parrot was more caring towards Kausalya than He (Rama) had been. The Lord wanted to make amends for disobeying His mother. So, when He took the Krishna avatara, He obeyed His mother Devaki, the very night He was born. She asked Him to hide His extra hands, so that Kamsa would not harm Him, and He at once did so. Ramanujacharya, in his Gita Bhashya, says that He remained so with just two hands visible, until He had killed Kamsa. From then on, for the rest of the avatara, He was seen with four hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/instantly-obedient/article35400369.ece
19 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal told to set up child friendly court||The Gauhati High Court has asked the Arunachal Pradesh government to set up at least one child-friendly court and make it functional soon. The advice was in connection with a June 3 order by a district court asking the Child Care Institute (CCI) in Roing to hand over a minor rape victim to the sister-in-law of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-told-to-set-up-child-friendly-court/article35400351.ece
19 July 2021||Lucknow,||Open-minded on alliance in U.P.: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said her party is “open-minded” about forging an alliance with other political parties for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Asked whether the Congress will go it alone on all the 403 Assembly seats in the State or align with some political party, Ms. Vadra told reporters in an informal meeting here, “It is too early to say.” On whether she is ruling out an alliance, she said, “I do not rule it out. We are absolutely not closed-minded. We are keeping an open mind.” “Our aim is to defeat the BJP,” Ms. Vadra said, adding that other political parties should also be “open-minded”. She said the organisation is also her area of focus and a lot of work has been done on it in a silent manner. “I have an open mind, but my priority is my party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/open-minded-on-alliance-in-up-priyanka/article35400348.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi meets NDA floor leaders||A day ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over a meeting of NDA floor leaders, emphasising coordination among the various constituents of the alliance during the session. Leaders of the NDA constituent parties present at the meeting included Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Pashupati Kumar Paras, Janata Dal (U) leader R.C.P. Singh, AIADMK leader A. Navaneethakrishnan and Republican Party of India (RPI) leader Ramdas Athawale. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda were also present at the meeting. Apart from asking for coordinating on floor strategy through the session, Mr. Modi told the NDA leaders to ensure the presence of their MPs in both Houses on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-meets-nda-floor-leaders/article35400545.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Students unable to travel to Italy||Indian students who had rushed back home from Italy to be with their family members or take part in last rites of the loved ones at the peak of the second wave of COVID-19 are now stranded here as air travel remains banned to the European country. Those who returned to India before April 28, when air travel to and from Italy was suspended, are now stuck in India even though their peers back in Italy have gone back to their normal lives in universities. Zeeshan Ahmed, a cyber security student at Sapienza University of Rome, arrived in India when he got news of his sister being ill due to COVID-19. He is now unable to go back. Aligarh resident Owais R. Khan, who is pursuing an M.Sc. in Computer Science at the same university in Rome, says he came back to India in February. “We have been reaching out to the Embassy, sending emails to the Ministry to raise the issue with their counterparts in Italy but nothing has worked,” Mr. Khan said. While there is no official update on the expected timeline of the travel ban being eased, Indian Ambassador to Italy Neena Malhotra on July 9 had a virtual meeting with community representatives where she briefed them about the efforts on seeking relaxations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-unable-to-travel-to-italy/article35400363.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair and square||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fair-and-square/article35400365.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||FATF review of India put off again||An evaluation by the global organisation Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to analyse the effectiveness of India’s anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing regime has been postponed for the second time in view of the pandemic and is now slated to be initiated next year, officials said. The scheduled assessment by the Paris-headquartered watchdog was slated for September-October, 2020. These dates were postponed to February this year by the FATF secretariat. “The schedule for FATF mutual evaluation has again been postponed from February 2021 and it is tentatively expected to begin in September 2022 now,” an officer told PTI. As per this rescheduled calendar, the technical evaluation would begin in September next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fatf-review-of-india-put-off-again/article35400333.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Lokpal yet to get director of inquiry||More than two years after the Lokpal came into being, the Centre is yet to appoint a director of inquiry for conducting preliminary inquiry into graft complaints sent by the anti-corruption ombudsman, according to a Right to Information reply. The Lokpal, the apex body to inquire and investigate graft complaints against public functionaries, came into being with the appointment of its chairperson and members in March 2019. According to the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, there shall be a director of inquiry, not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the Government of India, who shall be appointed by the Central government for conducting preliminary inquiries referred to the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) by the Lokpal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lokpal-yet-to-get-director-of-inquiry/article35400334.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Buzz in Karnataka BJP circles on reboot of govt.||With all eyes set on the BJP Legislature Party meeting, slated for the second anniversary of the government on July 26, party circles are abuzz about a possible “reboot” of the government and party in the State, to make it ready for the 2023 Assembly and 2024 Lok Sabha polls. However, in a faction-ridden party, various groups are lobbying hard and speculating as to what should constitute that reboot. While Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s camp has been pitching for a large-scale Cabinet reshuffle, dropping several seniors, and expansion on the lines of the exercise carried out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, those seeking his replacement argue there won’t be any meaningful reboot without a leadership change. “There is definitely an acknowledgement in the party of the need to pull up our socks after the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. There has already been a course correction at the Centre and the same is expected in the State too. But whether it will include leadership change is still unknown to most of us in the party. We expect some clarity around July 26,” a senior party leader said. However, senior Minister R. Ashok, considered close to the Chief Minister, speaking to mediapersons on Sunday, ruled out a leadership change. “Ours is a national party where the high command will take a call on these issues. There have been no directions from Delhi on any leadership change,” he said, adding the party would now focus on winning the upcoming elections. “There is strong and popular leadership in both Delhi and the State for the party, so this issue is not before us,” he said. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Mr. Yediyurappa had also stressed how the high command had given him a mandate to bring the party to power in the State in 2023 and win 25 seats in the 2024 parliamentary polls. Seeking support Meanwhile, the BJPLP meeting has also set off political activity, with several small groups of MLAs meeting over the weekend, sources said. Though the Chief Minister’s camp denies any moves to replace Mr. Yediyurappa, some of his supporters have reportedly been busy calling up MLAs and eliciting support ahead of the crucial meeting, sources said. The Government Order constituting a Vokkaliga Development Board on Saturday, hours after the Chief Minister returned from his Delhi trip and announced the July 26 legislature party meeting, is also speculated to be a key move by Mr. Yediyurappa’s camp. Party circles were also abuzz speculating on possible candidates to replace Mr. Yediyurappa, suggesting a bunch of names from every caste group, and on how he would be rehabilitated in the party. “With Narendra Modi and Amit Shah in charge of party affairs, we have learnt only to expect the unexpected. Anyone who says they know what will happen is lying. We are also waiting for directions from the high command and are completely in the dark of the high command’s mind till then,” a senior Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buzz-in-karnataka-bjp-circles-on-reboot-of-govt/article35400376.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT asks CMRL to get green nod for new line||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) to not proceed with its project along the Nanmangalam Reserve Forest area without getting necessary permissions and approvals required under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. The NGT has directed that since the project is still under tender stage, CMRL must obtain the permissions and then proceed with the work. As part of CMRL’s phase-2, which consists of three corridors, the C-5 alignment connects Madhavaram in the north to Sholinganallur in the south. CMRL submitted before the tribunal that the alignment is confined to the periphery of the Reserve Forest and does not pass through the Nanmangalam Reserve Forest. “As the existing road between Velakkal and Medavakkam Koot Road at places does not even have two lanes width, the CMRL has no other option, but take the alignment along the boundary of the Nanmangalam Reserve Forest compound wall, whereby, half of the viaduct projects over the existing road, requiring the other half projecting on to the forest area,” CMRL submitted. CMRL submitted that a request had been made to the Forest Department to convert 1.569 hectares for non-forestry use and had submitted an online application as per the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. “This area constitutes only 0.48% of 320.92 hectares of the existing Nanmangalam Reserve Forest and the impact on biological diversity on account of the project is insignificant,” CMRL submitted. It contended that after completion of the viaduct structure, the entire area below the overhang would be redeemed scientifically and will provide all necessary precautionary methodology to protect Indian Eagle Owl that has nesting sites inside that reserve forest. The location of the station falls on the playground area of the Quaide Milleth College without disturbing the existing trees, it submitted. Clarifications sought The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Chennai, submitted that the project cannot proceed without obtaining necessary permission and that the application filed by CMRL was returned for certain clarifications. CMRL has not resubmitted the application, he said. Only after the resubmission will the application be considered for necessary permission, he added. CMRL informed the Tribunal that it will proceed with the work only after obtaining the permission. The Bench directed CMRL to strictly comply with the conditions, if any, imposed by the Forest Department.  This area constitutes only 0.48% of 320.92 hectares of the existing Nanmangalam Reserve Forest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-asks-cmrl-to-get-green-nod-for-new-line/article35400661.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More community participation mooted for beautification drive||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has planned to significantly increase the contributions and participation of organisations through their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, primarily in beautification projects, creation and maintenance of roadside parks and restoration of waterbodies. Senior officials said processes would be made simpler for organisations to partner the GCC so as to encourage more organisations to come forward. Social media reach-out Through Chennai Smart City Limited, the GCC has recently reached out on social media to organisations to express interest in the projects they would like to take part in and the amount of money they can commit. A senior official said participation could be at different levels for different projects. “Some people may have the money and the expertise to contribute to a particular project. Others may just be able to contribute funds. We want to work with them in whichever way possible by easing the processes,” the official said. The official said a number of projects had been identified for collaboration. ‘Funds not the aim’ GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the idea was not to raise more funds, but to enhance community involvement in the initiatives for fulfilling the vision of Singara Chennai 2.0. He said many organisations had expressed interest in collaborating with the civic body in different projects, including creation of roadside parks, beautification of medians and traffic islands, tree planting and creating artworks on walls. The aim was a long-term participation so far as maintenance of projects, not just cooperation in the initial phase of implementation. Mr. Bedi said a meeting would soon be held with all residents’ welfare associations to encourage them to come forward to plant trees across the city. “The GCC will provide approval for tree planting on suitable locations. We want them to plant indigenous varieties and take care of them too,” he said. He said any organisation or residents’ welfare association interested in taking part in such projects could reach out to the Regional Deputy Commissioners of the GCC or himself directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-community-participation-mooted-for-beautification-drive/article35400671.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports 2,079 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 2,079 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the number of persons under treatment to 27,897. So far, 25,35,402 persons have tested positive, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. Perambalur recorded nine cases, while Tenkasi reported 10 cases. The number of cases remained high in the districts of Coimbatore, Erode, Salem, Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thanjavur and Tiruppur. Coimbatore reported the highest number of fresh infections, at 220. Chennai recorded 150 cases while Chengalpattu had 118 fresh infections. The State also recorded 29 deaths. So far, 33,724 persons have succumbed to the infection. While 10 persons died of the infection at private hospitals, 19 died at government hospitals. Five of them had no pre-existing health conditions and 24 others had co-morbidities. Included in Sunday’s bulletin was the death of a 21-year-old man of Chennai on May 19. He tested positive on May 6, and was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 13. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia. The oldest person to lose his life to the infection was a 92-year-old man from Vellore, who tested positive on July 9. He had coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease and severe hypertension. He was admitted to a private medical college hospital in Vellore on July 16 with complaints of breathing difficulty for seven days. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia the same day. So far, 24,73, 781 persons have been discharged after treatment, including 2,743 on Sunday. The test positivity rate fell further to 1.5%. 82,000 vaccinated A total of 82,009 persons were vaccinated in 1,318 sessions in the State on Sunday. Till date, 1,80,003,527 persons have been inoculated. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the State had received 1,80,31,670 doses till Sunday. He refuted BJP member Khushboo’s charge that the government had wasted five lakh doses. “It was under the previous regime that over three lakh doses, approximately 6% of the vaccines, were wasted. This government trained nurses in administering vaccines, which resulted in over seven lakh doses being saved in the past two months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reports-2079-fresh-covid-19-cases/article35400653.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||International gang under watch for selling stolen credit details||An international gang has come to the notice of the police for selling stolen credit card details through the dark web to a city-based gang. The gang used virtual currency through a cryptocurrency exchange operating from India for buying the stolen data. Following the recent arrest of a gang — Lala Chandan, 32, and Praveen Kishore 30, natives of Tiruchi, and Sikkander Badusha, 37, of Begampet, Dindigul — for skimming, the cyber crime cell in Adyar seized skimmer devices and cards from them, and came to know of a wider network. The prime accused had adopted a modus operandi to make money from identity theft. Sources said they were downloading stolen credit/debit card details online from a website with cryptocurrency, which is not legal tender. Global scale “Unknown cyber criminals upload details of stolen cards from across the globe onto a website on the dark web. Through this, anyone can download from anywhere by paying cryptocurrency,” a police officer said. “ “It is an international network of shady businesses. The cyber criminals are selling data, such as credit card numbers with CVV details. Criminals on our side buy them for the bitcoin equivalent of $17 or $18. Since they have to pay in cryptocurrency, they receive them from an exchange in India after paying local currency. There is a need for bringing in stricter laws for cryptocurrency exchanges. Since, money transactions happen virtually, they are not under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India, and there is no way a law enforcement agency can get a hold of the data,” an officer said. “If we block the present IP of the shady operator, they will run their services on another IP. The card details are being stolen by skimming ATMs, compromising security credentials and phishing voice calls, and all this data are put up for sale at a single point. If a card belonging to an European national is stolen this way and used here, where will he/she go and complain? Such cases are challenges for law enforcement agencies,” a senior police officer said. Modus operandi The police identified the Indian cryptocurrency exchange and the credit card website used by the trio. After downloading the data, the gang programmed blank cards using a writer machine, and used them to steal money through ATMs and point of sale machines at different outlets. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman said, “We are taking all-out efforts to bring those involved to book. People should be cautious when using credit cards. They should not reveal CVV details, and should not have it written down or stored as cookies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-gang-under-watch-for-selling-stolen-credit-details/article35400770.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Design for new fish market along Marina Loop Road getting ready||A new design of the proposed state-of-the-art fish market along Marina Loop Road is expected to be finalised shortly. The new design will incorporate various aspects, including a sprawling parking lot for at least 100 vehicles, water supply, modern waste management facility and smart storage spaces for retail fish vendors. Following the directions of the Madras High Court and advice from Municipal Administration Minister K. N. Nehru, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal inspected the Marina Loop Road on Sunday, to explore the possibility of shifting the fish vendors to a new market near behind Santhome Church. During the initial meetings with fishermen a few years ago, the Corporation officials had said that the new fish market would be a temporary structure made of tin sheets on a two-acre area, to be modernised later. The fish vendors along the stretch from Light House to Srinivasapuram opposed the project as they were not convinced about its utility and demanded shops along the Marina Loop Road without any displacement. After the Madras High Court directed the Corporation and the police to evict the fish vendors, the civic body had started exploring options to convince the fish vendors by altering the design of the proposed market, making it more attractive for the fish vendors as well as their customers. Suggestions have been sought from experts and officials on innovative designs for the proposed fish market. The final design of the market is expected to be cleared after approval from the State government. A Coastal Regulation Zone clearance is also needed. Some experts have suggested a state-of-the-art retail space with adequate water supply, storage facility and waste management system for each vendor. On Sunday, civic officials led by Mr. Bedi proposed a design with parking space for at least 100 vehicles in the proposed fish market. Some experts have suggested the development of air conditioned modern fish market, similar to coastal cities such as Sydney and Dubai, with space for all the 350 fish vendors who will be displaced from the Marina Loop Road. But the Corporation has rejected the proposal for an air-conditioned fish market. “We will consult the Fisheries Department for the designs. We have told them today to get the designs done. We don’t want to put up an air-conditioned market as of now. Open skylight will make the market odour free. It is not the richest of the fishermen who will have their shops there. It will be the local fishermen. Let us see. Of course, we will consult the community also,” said an official of the Corporation. Suggestions have been made for exploring the possibility of getting additional land near the two-are area of TNSCB to develop a better designed market. A final decision is expected to be taken shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/design-for-new-fish-market-along-marina-loop-road-getting-ready/article35400655.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation keeps close watch on key central shopping districts||With the normalcy slowly returning to the city, the Greater Chennai Corporation is not in a mood to let its guard down although daily tally of COVID-19 cases has dipped below 150. The civic body has been deputing special teams headed by senior officials to make surprise inspections on weekends in commercial areas, shopping malls, markets and crowded places, to make the traders and shoppers follow wearing of masks and maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of pandemic. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the officials, in coordination with the the police, have been making surprise visits particularly on weekends when there is a surge in the number of visitors in the shopping districts of T. Nagar, Purasawalkam, Ritchie Street, Broadway and some markets. Comprising Corporation and police officials, the special teams visit shops to check the compliance to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the State government to allow only 50% occupancy and advise traders to compulsorily have thermal scanners and sanitisers at the entrance of their establishments. The special team, headed by Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) Vishu Mahajan along with Regional Deputy Commissioner (Central) Sharanya Ari and Deputy Commissioner of Police (T. Nagar) Hari Kiran Prasad visited T. Nagar and interacted with the office-bearers of traders associations. The senior team inspected the textile and jewellery shops on Saturday. During the inspection, the senior officials interacted with the traders and advised them to strictly follow the SOPs. Mr. Mahajan said the civic body had formed static surveillance teams and posted them in 44 locations, including 20 on Ranganathan Street, Ritchie Street and Purasawalkam and local markets, 20 in parks and beaches and four teams in the fish and vegetable markets. The static surveillance team, which has been functioning since July 1, consisting of volunteers would be handing over masks to shoppers who do not wear one and also create awareness through the public address system. The civic body has 15 mobile enforcement teams, one for each of the 15 zones, but these enforcement teams are diverted to highly crowded shopping areas of Purasawalkam, T. Nagar, and Broadway, on the weekends. A senior official said the revenue officials have been strictly advised to fine the traders and seal shops only as a last option as the traders had already suffered financially because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The civic body has asked shop owners and commercial establishments to put up boards on their premises about their workers having been fully vaccinated to make the shoppers feel assured. The civic body has been organising vaccination camps exclusively for traders in 20 market areas in addition to the special vaccination camps for the public and have vaccinated more than 40,000 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-keeps-close-watch-on-key-central-shopping-districts/article35400664.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman kills two daughters, ends life after domestic spat in Tirunindravur||A 24-year-old woman allegedly killed her two children, aged three and 18 months, and ended her life in Tirunindravur on Sunday. According to the police, Gowri lived with her husband Ramesh and two children Deekshitha, 3, and Ashwin, 18 months, in Dileepan Nagar, Tirunindravur. Domestic quarrel On Sunday morning, the couple fought and Ramesh left the house. Subsequently, Gowri allegedly killed her children and ended her life. Neighbours, who noticed this, alerted the police. The bodies were sent to Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered in the Tirunindravur Police Station. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-kills-two-daughters-ends-life-after-domestic-spat-in-tirunindravur/article35400660.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear Vijay’s plea to take on file his appeal against judge’s remarks||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court is slated to hear on Monday a plea made by actor C. Joseph Vijay to dispense with the production of a certified copy of an order passed by a single judge recently, dismissing his 2012 plea against the collection of entry tax by the State government for a Rolls Royce Ghost car imported by him from England. The dispense with application has been listed before the third Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and R.N. Manjula. Only after the Bench dispenses with the production of the certified copy can the writ appeal preferred by the actor against the single judge’s verdict be numbered and listed for hearing before the same Bench. As per the appellate rules, every appeal filed before a Division Bench must be accompanied by a certified copy of the order passed by the single judge. If the certified copy is not available immediately, the appellants must prefer a dispense with application and obtain the permission of the court to file the appeal on the basis of a web copy. The appeal assumes significance since Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the High Court had directed the actor to remit the entire entry tax demanded by the Commercial Taxes Department for the luxury car, along with a cost of Rs. 1 lakh that will go towards the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (TNCMPRF), and report compliance before him by June 28. Dismissing the actor’s writ petition pending in the court for nine years, the judge had criticised the actor for having filed the writ petition to “avoid” the payment of entry tax for the car, as per the Tamil Nadu Tax on Entry of Motor Vehicles to Local Areas Act of 1990, observing that the affluent were expected to pay taxes promptly and punctually. Further, highlighting that the State was dependant on the collection of taxes from the affluent to implement various social welfare schemes for the poor, the judge had made a general observation that actors who portray themselves as champions of social justice in their films were evading taxes in real life, not adhering to the laws of the land.  The judge had made a general observation that actors who portray themselves as champions of social justice in their films were evading taxes in real life||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-hear-vijays-plea-to-take-on-file-his-appeal-against-judges-remarks/article35400638.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination at pilgrimage sites expected to be completed by July-end: Health Minister||The government has identified pilgrimage sites for COVID-19 vaccination, and the drive is expected to be completed there by July-end. The towns of Tiruvannamalai, Nagore, Velankanni and Rameswaram have been chosen, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Sunday. At a vaccination camp organised at St. Francis Xavier School at Saidapet, he said the Christian community, including employees of a church in the locality, would be fully vaccinated because the church is a place of pilgrimage frequented by Christians from other districts. In the event of a third wave, the State was ready with 10,000 beds, and there need not be any concern about shortage, Mr. Subramanian said. That the third wave would affect children was only a guess, he said, citing experts at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Pneumococcal vaccine The Union government had introduced pneumococcal vaccine under the national immunisation programme two years ago and 21 States had been administering it. But the AIADMK government did not take any initiative to launch it in Tamil Nadu. The three-dose regimen helped to prevent brain fever and pneumonia in children. The DMK government launched the programme that would cover the entire paediatric population. The vaccine would to be administered to 9.23 lakh children aged below 5. He termed irresponsible the statement of a former Chief Minister that the State had received 30 lakh vaccine doses three days ago when the State had got only three lakh doses. “We do not want to create confusion. Priority is given to those due for the second dose. As and when Covaxin is received, it is being administered,” he said. He urged people to rely on information given out by the government and not to be influenced by what was circulated on social media about the third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-at-pilgrimage-sites-expected-to-be-completed-by-july-end-health-minister/article35400644.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Megalithic offering pot found||An intact offering pot was found during the excavation at Mayiladumparai, a megalithic site, in Krishnagiri district. “It was found intact 72 cm below the ground at the western side of the pit burial with a capstone at the excavation site. It is a red-ware pot, and its height is 25 cm and radius 20 cm. The rim measures 12 cm,” said Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, who is also in charge of Archaeology. R. Sivanandam, director, Keezhadi excavations, said that the offering pots would normally contain the favourites of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/megalithic-offering-pot-found/article35400649.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC set to commence hearing pleas on poll results from today||The Madras High Court is all set to commence hearing from Monday several election petitions that had been filed in the last two months challenging the victory of candidates from various constituencies in the Assembly elections held in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Justice V. Bharathidasan will be hearing the first three petitions challenging the victory of DMK MLA M. Nagathiyagarajan from Neravy-T.R. Pattinam constituency, in Karaikal, Congress MLA S. Palani Nadar from Tenkasi constituency and BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan from Coimbatore South constituency. AIADMK candidate S. Selva Mohandas Pandian, who had lost to Mr. Nadar by a thin margin of 370 votes, had approached the court, through his counsel B. Arvind Srevatsa, seeking recounting of postal votes as well as the electronic voting machine votes that were counted between rounds 28 to 30 in Tenkasi constituency. Claiming that there was a mismatch between the votes polled and the final results announced by the Returning Officer of Tenkasi, the petitioner alleged non-compliance of rules on the day of counting. Mr. Nadar was declared elected on May 7 since he had polled 89,315 votes, as against 88,945 votes polled by Mr. Pandian. Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan was the runner up in Coimbatore South Assembly constituency as he had polled 51,481 votes against 53,209 votes polled by Ms. Srinivasan, but the election petition against her had been preferred by K. Raghul Gandhi, who had contested as a candidate of the Hindustan Janata Party, and secured 73 votes. His election petition had been listed before the judge for deciding its maintainability. Though many other election petitions had been filed in the court, including one challenging the victory of Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan from Katpadi constituency, they were yet to be listed for hearing.  Justice V. Bharathidasan will be hearing the first three petitions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-set-to-commence-hearing-pleas-on-poll-results/article35400668.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MDMA pills, LSD stamps seized in Chennai||Ecstasy tablets, LSD stamps and cannabis worth Rs. 58.5 lakh were seized by the Chennai Air Customs, and two persons were arrested. Officials opened a postal parcel, which arrived from Spain at the Foreign Post Office, on suspicion that it could have narcotics, according to a press release. The parcel contained a cardboard box with a greeting card and two silver pouches that had pink tablets which were suspected to be MDMA pills. In all, 994 MDMA tablets, worth Rs. 50 lakh, were found and the greeting card had a plastic packet within which there were 249 lysergic acid diethylamide stamps worth Rs. 6 lakh, the release said. “The parcel was addressed to a person residing at J.M.J. Motherland, a locality near Auroville in Puducherry. A team of the Chennai Air Customs and Cuddalore Customs officers conducted searches at the address. Two persons were apprehended and two packets of Guntur cannabis (ganja) were found in the house, the release said. About 5.5 kg of ganja was seized. Rubakmanikandan, a freelance mural artist, and Loy Viegus, who works in a chicken farm, were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdma-pills-lsd-stamps-seized/article35400666.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newborn’s body washed ashore at Marina||A decomposed body of a newborn girl washed ashore at Marina beach on Sunday morning. According to the police, a patrol team noticed the body on the shore behind the Anna swimming pool. The body has been sent to the Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar for post-mortem. The police suspect that the baby could be one week old. A case has been registered and investigation has been initiated. (Childline operates a toll-free helpline -1098- for children in distress across the country.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborns-body-washed-ashore-at-marina/article35400657.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCLT approves Rs. 423-crore bid for Appu Hotels||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, has approved MGM Healthcare managing director M.K. Rajagopalan’s Rs. 423-crore bid to take over Appu Hotels Limited. Appu Hotels owns and operates Le Meridien in Chennai and Coimbatore. In 2020, the NCLT had admitted an insolvency petition against Appu Hotels in a case filed by the Tourism Finance Corporation of India Limited. The resolution plan by Mr. Rajagopalan was approved by the committee of creditors, with 87.39% voting in favour. The plan proposes to pay 100% dues of secured and unsecured financial creditors. As per admitted claims, the dues of secured financial creditors was Rs. 340.43 crore and that of unsecured financial creditors was Rs. 49.13 crore. However, it does not propose to pay dues of unsecured financial creditors and operational creditors who are related parties to the erstwhile promoter of Appu Hotels. The admitted claims of related unsecured financial creditors was Rs. 45 crore and that of related operational creditors was Rs. 2.37 crore. The plan also proposes to pay Rs. 1.87 crore to trade creditors, and Rs. 2.79 crore towards employee/workmen dues. It has also allocated Rs. 3.86 crore towards statutory claims, though no claim was received from any statutory authority. The plan also set aside Rs. 2.90 crore for the insolvency process cost, and Rs. 22.02 towards two contingency funds to meet out any contingency expenses being incurred after the approval of the plan. Mr. Rajagopalan has mobilised Rs. 150 crore, and for the remaining Rs. 273 crore, has already tied up for funding from one of the nationalized banks, as per the legal filing. The NCLT also rejected a slew of pleas against the resolution plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nclt-clears-rs-423-crore-bid-to-take-over-appu-hotels/article35400669.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister pays floral tributes to Fr. Stan Swamy||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday paid floral tributes to the urn and portrait of human rights activist Father Stan Swamy at Loyola college in Chennai. Fr. Stan Swamy recently died at a Mumbai hospital after prolonged incarceration in the Taloja Central jail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence case. Mr. Stalin was accompanied by Lok Sabha MPs Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran; State Minorities Commission chairperson Peter Alphonse; Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi general secretary and MLA Sinthanai Selvan, among others. A press statement from the Secretariat said Fr. Stan Swamy had fought for the rights and development of India’s tribal people and raised questions over how several aspects of the Fifth Schedule of the Indian Constitution had not been implemented. He had also called for a Tribal Advisory Council to ensure the safety, welfare and development of tribals. He fought for the protection of Adivasi lands in Jharkhand. In his condolence message, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had said that the tragedy that befell Fr. Stan Swamy, who fought for the downtrodden, should not happen to anyone else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-pays-floral-tributes-to-fr-stan-swamy/article35400646.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure transparency in awarding tenders, MNM urges government||Makkal Needhi Maiam vice-president A.G. Mourya on Saturday said the State government should not follow in the footsteps of the previous government and should be transparent when it comes to awarding government tenders. His statement comes in the wake of anti-corruption group Arappor Iyakkam alleging that many were prevented from making tender deposits in the Greater Chennai Corporation. Arappor Iyakkam alleged that similar scenes that played out during the AIADMK regime were seen under the DMK government as well in the Corporation. “Not even a week has passed since the Corporation Commissioner said that EMD (deposit) will be allowed to be paid online, those who came to drop it in the box were prevented by goons. Those who managed to do so were deemed as rejected stating that they did not pay it,” a tweet from Arappor Iyakkam said. The State government should look into the issue. “Arappor Iyakkam is doing a good job. I have been supporting them online. Party will not stay away from these issues,” he said. “Tender Transparency Act is already there. The law should be adhered to. The State government should definitely look into the allegation. The new government should not follow in the footsteps of the previous government,” Mr. Mourya added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-transparency-in-awarding-tenders-mnm-urges-government/article35401051.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired Metrowater staffer, woman found dead in septic tank of house||The bodies of an elderly man and a woman were found inside the septic tank of their house at Kolapakkam near Vandalur on Saturday. The suspects had sprinkled turmeric powder all over the house after trying to wash the blood stains. According to the police, Samson Dinakaran, 63, a retired timekeeper from Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), was living with Janet, 52, in Kolapakkam. His wife Alia, 55, son Immanuel, 28, and daughter Benita, 30, live in Guduvanchery. It is reported that the crime came to light when Ms. Benita called her father on Friday night and he did not respond. After making calls on Saturday, she reportedly asked a neighbour to check. When informed that the house was empty, Ms. Benita went to the house and found the back door open. She alerted the police who conducted inquiries. During investigation, the police found that blood stains had been removed and turmeric powder had been sprinkled in the room. “The team found the bodies in the septic tank and Samson’s neck was slit with a sharp weapon and Janet’s mouth was covered with a cloth. It is suspected that she choked to death,” said a police officer The bodies were sent to Chromepet Government Hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered and investigation is on. “Five special teams have been formed to crack the case,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-metrowater-staffer-woman-found-dead-in-septic-tank-of-house/article35400658.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||N. Ram lauds native digital news media||Native digital news media, irrespective of its reach, has kept the spirit of independent journalism alive, said N. Ram, Director, THG Publishing Pvt. Limited, on Saturday. Webinar Participating in a webinar on ‘State of the Indian media’ organised by Dravidian Professionals Forum, he commended native digital news media for keeping the spirit of independent journalism alive. “When you look at the Babri Masjid judgment of the Supreme Court, there was criticism but see how the media fell in line. I think CAA was a little different, but these are impressions. There has been some critical coverage on farmers’ agitation, for example, which is why so many cases are being filed against those who covered it, supported it or tweeted about it. It is a mixed performance but, by and large, we have failed to play anything like a minimally independent role. In contrast, you have the native digital news media. I really want to commend them for this – whatever their reach and business model – they have kept the spirit of independent journalism alive,” he said. According to him, one cannot avoid calling attention to the rise of authoritarianism – not authoritarianism in the abstract. “Sometimes people talk about the media during the Emergency and now. I think it is a mistake to even attempt that kind of comparison because the environment is totally different… the forces, formations are totally different and dominant players are totally different. We are familiar with what happened before… another kind of authoritarianism but fortunately short-lived. Today, it is what can be called Hindutva authoritarian regime,” he said. Authoritarian regime Mr. Ram said that one must not shy away from characterising the Centre as a ‘Hindutva authoritarian regime’. State Finance Minister P. Thiagarajan, said, “We are not in a stable media environment but we are in a moment of flux.” Taking the example of a ‘right wing’ local language newspaper, Mr. Thiagarajan said, “We find that their reach is declining very, very clearly. There used to be a time when what they said used to be taken as gospel truth but as time goes on, the power of the internet has fundamentally decayed their reach and revenue model. It has forced the owners to other businesses. In this transition from a traditional press model to an internet model, the pressure on media houses to stay profitable and afloat is making a big influence on outcomes.” Readers Editor of The Hindu A.S. Panneerselvan said social media hate gets amplified because the news media is unable to come up with a push back system. Opinion writers “There is a structured delegitimising of opinion writers. Never their content is questioned. We do not know how to confront this,” he said. There was also a mismatch between reach and revenue. “One issue which is being missed by the State regulatory framework is the relationship between content and carrier. In the last 10 years, the carrier companies have become more powerful than the content companies. Whether it is a newspaper or a television channel, you are at the mercy of who delivers. It can be an ISP or DTH company or cable operator,” he said. Professor Sukumar Muralidaran, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, said during the first phase of the internet, the media saw it as a very benign presence to expand its reach. “Internet content was text-based. But the situation changed very rapidly with Google’s IPO, Gmail and Facebook. Again for a while, this was benign and it was opening up. In 2016, there was a watershed moment. Algorithmic curation of news and the advertising model that rides on profiling of users is creating filter bubbles,” he added. Pamela Philipose, Public Editor, The Wire , said, “The new Information Technology rules which have targeted small and independent news portals like The Wire is all about bringing the media under State control.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/n-ram-lauds-native-digital-news-media/article35400769.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Atul Anand appointed Commissioner of Labour||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday appointed M. Karunakaran as the Commissioner of Economics and Statistics. It transferred Atul Anand, Principal Secretary/Commissioner of Economics and Statistics, and posted him as Principal Secretary/Commissioner of Labour in place of C. Munianathan, who has been appointed as member of the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission. K.S. Palaniswamy, Additional Commissioner of Land Administration, has been transferred and posted as the Commissioner of Fisheries in place of M. Karunakaran. Additional charge He shall also function as the Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation. The government has also directed S. Saravanan, Additional Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, to hold the additional charge as Director, Tamil Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atul-anand-appointed-commissioner-of-labour/article35400647.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No Aadi Chevvai celebrations||The Aadi Chevvai celebrations at the Agatheeswarar temple in Villivakkam stand cancelled. Conducted on Tuesdays in the Tamil month of Aadi , the special puja at the temple usually draws thousands of devotees. However, this year due to the pandemic, devotees will not be allowed to participate in the kaalasandhi puja , uchikaala puja , saayaraksha puja and palliarai puja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-aadi-chevvai-celebrations/article35400656.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP functionary booked under POCSO Act||A case has been registered under the POCSO Act against a BJP functionary in the MKB Nagar All-women Police Station for allegedly molesting a minor girl. The police said advocate wing member of the BJP in Kodungaiyur already had a case registered against him for misbehaving with a woman who complained that he repeatedly harassed her. The woman’s minor daughter has now alleged that he had molested her. The police have launched a search for him. Child marriage In a separate incident, police arrested Karthik of Puzhal for marrying a minor and sexually assaulting her. His friend M. Chandrabose, 21, was also arrested for helping them get married. A case was registered at the Royapuram Police Station. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old man from Andhra Pradesh was arrested for marrying a minor girl in the city. The accused, Akilagunda Ramesh, reportedly married the girl in Andhra Pradesh. A case was registered at the Washermenpet All-Women Police Station. The police are searching for the girl’s parents. (Childline operates a toll-free helpline -1098 - for children in distress)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionary-booked-under-pocso-act/article35400659.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five ganja peddlers arrested for murder||A five-member gang of ganja peddlers has been nabbed for allegedly murdering a man in Kancheepuram and burying his body near the Palar river three weeks ago. The police said Iyyappan of Thayar Kulam in Kancheepuram went missing on June 26 and a missing person case was registered. Anandan, a ganja peddler, was suspected to be behind the crime. The police arrested him and four of his associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-ganja-peddlers-arrested-for-murder/article35400665.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Seek doses based on 2011 Census data’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin must meet the Prime Minister and seek vaccines for the State based on at least the 2011 Census data, AIADMK co-ordinator O. Panneerselvam said. He lauded the Centre for its efforts to procure and distribute vaccines to States. He said based on data as of Sunday morning, Tamil Nadu had vaccinated 1.93 crore people. As per the 2011 Census, its population was 7.21 crore. He said of the 96 crore vaccines to be procured by the Centre to ensure the vaccination its 18-plus population by the end of this year, Tamil Nadu must get 6,33,343,935 doses. “The State must ensure that the doses are received,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seek-doses-based-on-2011-census-data/article35400650.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to call on President Kovind today||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin left for Delhi on Sunday evening to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. This will be Mr. Stalin’s first meeting with the President after taking over as Chief Minister of the State. During the meeting, Mr. Stalin is likely to invite the President to unveil the portrait of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in the Assembly. Last month, Mr. Stalin had travelled to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and had presented him with a memorandum of demands regarding Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-call-on-president-kovind-today/article35400651.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks turn cautious on student loans||With unemployment rising, the ability of those who have taken education loans to pay back has come down sharply. As a result, the non-performing assets (NPAs) have increased in the last one-and-a-half years. R. Nagarajan had taken a loan for his engineering course and started repaying it when he got a job at a start-up in the second half of 2019. In a few months, COVID-19 broke out and the start-up closed, leaving him and seven of his colleagues jobless. “I have not been able to repay the loan for over a year. And now I have a job with a lesser salary, and will have to close the loan soon,” he said. With the NPAs rising due to COVID-19, banks are very cautious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-turn-cautious-on-student-loans/article35400636.ece
19 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several GMs transferred in Aavin reshuffle||Effecting a revamp, Aavin on Saturday night transferred 34 officials in the rank of general managers across the State. Among them were those who headed various district unions. Aavin is the popular brand of the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, which comprises 25 district unions. The shake up comes after over a year to take on the competition from private dairies. “Officials who had complaints against them too have been given orders. There are those who have been in their posts for over two years. This will provide a fresh feel to the officials and those working under them,” said an official. Another official said this was a step towards steering the milk major towards success in a competitive environment. General manager (marketing) G. Ramesh Kumar has been shifted to the Villupuram district union, replacing R.S. Pugalendhi, who will now head the federation’s marketing wing. S.A. Ponnusamy of the Milk Dealers’ Association welcomed the transfers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-gms-transferred-in-aavin-reshuffle/article35400672.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins revenue mobilisation drive to improve its financial health||To improve its fragile financial health, the Coimbatore Corporation has started a revenue collection drive and looking at ways to widen its sources of income. The first step the civic body has taken is to identify and list ward-wise the property tax defaulters. This seems to have started yielding result as a few education institutions that owed the civic body crores of rupees have started clearing their dues. An institution in the city recently paid around Rs. 1.50 crore and another near the city’s southern boundary had cleared its property tax arrears, pending for the last three financial years, sources pointed out. The second step is updating the list of shops that have the Dangerous and Offensive (D&O) Trade licence. Given the reduction in COVID-19 positive cases, the Corporation has given to its field workers, who are doing door-to-door fever survey, the additional responsibility of finding out shops with and without the D&O licence. Based on the outcome, the Corporation will update the D&O licence list and cross-verify the same with the list of commercial connections in the city with the Tangedco. The Corporation wanted to do this because it had found that the D&O licence list was faulty as many defunct establishments found a place in the list and several new ones were not in, the sources said and added that the Corporation would carry out a similar exercise with professional tax list too. The third was monetising its assets. The Corporation had completed underground sewer line work in several areas in the old city – 60 of the 100 wards – but had not given house service connection and collected deposits. With the residents only willing to pay the deposits to get connection, as it happened in a ward in the recent past, the Corporation had thought of conducting camps to give house service connection and collect deposits. The other ways that the Corporation was looking at boosting revenue was advertisements in bus stands and bus shelters, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-begins-revenue-mobilisation-drive-to-improve-its-financial-health/article35400691.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner dies||A remand prisoner lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison died of health complications on Sunday. According to jail authorities, Sekhar (51) of Elk Hill Road in Udhagamandalam died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Sekhar, the second accused in the murder of a woman in Udhagamandalam last month, was admitted to the hospital around 10 a.m. and he died in the afternoon. He was a diabetic, jail officials said. A senior official said Sekhar was brought to the Central Prison a few days ago after 15 days of quarantine in another prison. The body would be autopsied in the presence of a magistrate on Monday. Mustafa, a SSI attached to the ‘Q’ Branch in Udhagamandalam, is the first accused in the case. Four held for theft The Sulur police arrested four persons who stole mobile phones worth Rs. 1.5 lakh and Rs. 10,000 from the employees’ quarters of a company. The arrested have been identified as Hemanth Kumar Malik (26), Pratap Malik (24), Rajesh Malik (22) and Manas Malik (33), all natives of Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-dies/article35400688.ece
19 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ensure water spread area is not reduced under lake development project: NGOs||Non-governmental organisations engaged in environment conservation have appealed to the Coimbatore Corporation to not reduce water spread area in the tanks it had taken up for development under the Smart Cities Mission. In its appeal, NGOs Siruthuli, RAAC, Kovai Kulangal Pathugappu Amaipu, CUBE, C4TN, Osai, Achankulam Pathugappu Amaipu, Kowsika Nadhi Neer Karangal and a few others said that in the seven tanks taken up for development by the civic body they were given to understand that the Corporation had reduced water spread area by 20 acre. In Valankulam, Muthannankulam and Selvachinthamani tanks, after demolishing houses built encroaching upon the water body, the Corporation had recovered 39.14 acre land. But instead of increasing the water spread area, the Corporation appeared to be using it for development, which went against various court orders. If the reclaimed land was used to increase water spread area by increasing the bund height by two metre, the Corporation would be able to store an additional 32 crore litre, the NGOs said and added that pouring more concrete along the bunds destroyed birds' habitat. ‘Protect biodiversity’ The Corporation would, therefore, do well to increase water spread area and protect biodiversity, the non-governmental organisations added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-water-spread-area-is-not-reduced-under-lake-development-project-ngos/article35400679.ece
20 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Very little money left for basic amenities||Interest to service loans worth Rs. 600 crore, payment to contractors for the on-going works for Rs. 300 crore and payment yet to be received from the Central and State governments under various schemes provide a sneak peek into the Coimbatore Corporation’s financial health. Sources said notwithstanding the near Rs. 100-crore work that the Corporation cancelled recently, its financial health continued to be fragile. The Corporation’s own revenue – excluding the grants and funds that its gets from the governments for scheme-specific purposes – was around Rs. 300 crore a year. After deducting the establishment expenditure that worked out to around Rs. 240 crore a year (salary and pension among others), the Corporation had only Rs. 60 crore to deliver basic services to the city’s 17 lakh population. Unless the Corporation trimmed its expenditure, it had very little manoeuvrability, the sources said and added that the Corporation had also started cutting down its expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/very-little-money-left-for-basic-amenities/article35400699.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth booked for sexual assault||The Mettupalayam police registered a case against a 23-year-old man from Pazhavanchipalayam near Tiruppur for sexually assaulting a minor girl after marrying her. The police said a case was registered on July 8 based on a complaint lodged by the father of the 16-year-old girl from a village near Mettupalayam. The complaint said, the girl, a class XI student, had gone out on the pretext of collecting books from school on July 6 and did not return. The police traced the girl on Saturday. She told the police that she got introduced to the youth on a social media platform. Based on her statement, the police altered the missing case and booked the youth under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-booked-for-sexual-assault/article35400695.ece
19 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NCB detains two Nigerians||Sleuths of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) detained two Nigerians at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Sunday. The two foreigners were said to have been carrying around 2.5 kg of a contraband. Sources in the know of the development said that NCB sleuths from Madurai came to Coimbatore and detained the two Nigerians based on specific intelligence. The NCB team questioned the two Nigerians, who have been staying in Tiruppur, at the office of the Railway Protection Force. Sources added that more details about the foreigners could be revealed after detailed questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-detains-two-nigerians/article35400680.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Petrol bomb hurled||The Selvapuram police have arrested two persons, including a minor boy, who hurled a petrol bomb at a woman over a petty argument on July 16. According to the police, the 17-year-old boy and his friend Afsal had come near a liquor outlet on Perur main road around 9 p.m. on July 16. A dog belonging to Kamalaveni barked at the duo and Afsal kicked it. Kamalaveni’s neighbour P. Vasuki (54) questioned the youth for his act, which led to a quarrel. Though the youth left the place, the boy returned with his friend V. Puviyarasu (19) around 10 p.m. The complaint lodged by Ms. Vasuki alleged that Puviyarasu hurled the petrol bomb at her which landed on the wall of her house as she moved. The duo also threatened her. A police officer said the accused had come with two petrol bombs and one was hurled at the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-bomb-hurled-at-woman-two-held/article35400694.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held with 1,100 kg gutkha||The Karumathampatty police on Sunday arrested two persons who were involved in stocking and sale of banned tobacco products near Somanur. The arrested have been identified as S. Motilal (40) and S. Sitaram (36) who were staying at Somanur. The police received specific information about the sale of banned tobacco products and a team searched a warehouse near Somanur bus stand. Motilal and Sitaram had stocked the products in the warehouse for sale in and around Somanur, primarily targeting the guest workers. A total of 1,100 kg of tobacco products of different brands manufactured in other States were found at the warehouse. Inspector S.P. Shamugam said this was the second case registered against Motilal for selling gutkha. The two accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-1100-kg-of-banned-tobacco-products/article35400693.ece
19 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protest against Mekedatu project||Tamizhaga Sena Katchi staged a protest in Gandhi Park here on Sunday against the Karnataka Government’s proposal to build a dam across River Cauvery in Mekedatu. Led by founder-president T. Guna, around 100 members participated in the protest. Mr. Guna said the protest was also against the Corporation for demolishing temples on the Muthannankulam bund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-mekedatu-project/article35400682.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Coimbatore-based Swamis Masala has distributed 4,000 grocery kits to the needy in the district as part of its corporate social responsibility activities for COVID-19 management. A press release said each kit was worth Rs. 500 and contained boiled rice, wheat flour, ragi flour, chilly powder, turmeric powder, coriander powder, and sambar powder. Many people lost their livelihood during the pandemic and the kits were distributed to 4,000 such needy people.     Lawrencedale Agro Processing, an integrated agriculture service provider, has partnered with Sagri, a Japan-based technology company, to build an eco-system that will blend technology with in-farm nurturing for the marginalised and tribal farmers. A release from LEAF said Satellite data obtained from a wide area would be used to analyse normalised difference vegetation index of a farmland over a period of time and use machine learning technology to solve major agricultural issues. “We can predict the quality of the produce along with the yield. It gives the farming eco-system the much needed confidence to come up with multiple services,” said Palat Vijayaraghavan, Founder and CEO of Lawrencedale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35400692.ece
19 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Green activists submit demands to NGT panel||The SIPCOT Area Community Environmental Monitors (SACEM) has made a list of demands in a memorandum submitted to the joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to inspect a pesticide unit at Cuddalore SIPCOT and submit a factual and an action taken report if any violation of norms is found. The Southern Bench of the NGT took suo moto cognisance of a report in The Hindu on a major industrial accident at Crimsun Organics Private Limited on May 13, which resulted in the deaths of four persons. The NGT appointed a joint committee, comprising the Cuddalore Collector and a senior officer each from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), the Central Pollution Control Board and SIPCOT, to look into the allegations. SACEM coordinator T. Arul Selvam said, “The joint committee should look into the environmental damage and pollution that could potentially be caused due to solid and hazardous waste stored illegally inside closed or sick industries, in addition to the pollution causative factors from industries under operation.” He pointed out that Mycelium sludge lying on the premises of a closed industrial unit was said to be polluting the adjacent Echangadu canal for several years now. The canal flows into the Uppanar, polluting the river, too. The committee should ascertain whether adequate emergency evacuation plans for industrial accidents were in place, including all safety measures, and whether the ground truths concur with existing plans, he said. SACEM also demanded that the committee constitute a community-based, local level crisis panel, comprising stakeholders from pollution-impacted communities, to respond effectively to any disaster situation in the SIPCOT Cuddalore region. A disaster management plan should be put in place for the entire SIPCOT area, including on-site and off-site emergency plans, to protect industrial workers, villagers and the ecosystem surrounding the industrial complex. The district administration should also revive the forum headed by the District Collector for conducting quarterly meetings on health and environmental issues in the SIPCOT area. The forum should also include stakeholders, including environmental monitors, elected village representatives and officials from TNPCB and SIPCOT, to converge the efforts towards better environmental management, SACEM said.  The joint committee should look into the environmental damage and pollution that could potentially be caused due to solid and hazardous waste stored illegally inside closed or sick industries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/green-activists-submit-demands-to-ngt-panel/article35401010.ece
19 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||94 persons test positive in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district on Sunday reported 94 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s tally to 59,497. The district saw 57,812 recoveries and 792 active cases. District tally In Villupuram, 34 persons tested positive, taking the total in the district to 43,387. Kallakurichi district reported 49 positive cases, taking the tally to 28,494.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/94-persons-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article35401005.ece
19 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Chinnalapatti dyeing units will get common effluent treatment plant||The demand to establish a common effluent treatment plant for the dyeing units in Chinnalapatti will soon become a reality. Following an inspection conducted by Minister for Cooperation I. Periasami and Collector Ss Visagan here on Sunday, the officials said that about four spots were identified for establishing the plant as per the government norms. The dyeing units here have been producing sungudi sarees, which are famous across the country. However, due to a series of issues in discharging the effluents, the cottage units were unable to expand. About three years ago, Mr Periasami had raised the issue in the Legislative Assembly and had offered to get it done from the MLA fund of Rs. 1 crore but it was neglected by the then government. With the DMK government now in power, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin was keen to redress the long pending grievances of the workers in Chinnalapatti region, the Minister said and hoped the associations would come up with the proposals and assured them of all support from the district administration and the government. Speaking to reporters, he said that the farmers’ had raised concerns about wild animal menace in Adalur and Panrimalai areas. Many crops raised by them were destroyed by the animals. “I have requested the Forest Minister to conduct an inspection in these blocks and find a permanent solution”, Mr Periasami said. Senior officials from the revenue and Pollution Control Board were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinnalapatti-dyeing-units-will-get-an-effluent-treatment-plant/article35400765.ece
19 July 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Special camps to vaccinate the disabled||The district administration will conduct special camps on Monday to vaccinate differently-abled persons. According to Collector P.N. Sridhar, the camps will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at taluk offices in Kallakurichi, Sankarapuram, Tirukovilur, Chinna Salem, Ulundurpet, Kalvarayan hills, town panchayat offices, government hospitals and primary health centres across the district. For those who cannot move out of their homes, arrangements have been made to vaccinate them at their place of stay. They can register their names by calling the COVID control room at 04151 220000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-to-vaccinate-the-disabled/article35401011.ece
19 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Steps on to resolve issue of property tax arrears||A special committee will be formed to identify the reasons for the delay in receiving property tax payments from the public and the steps to be taken to address the issue. In a statement, Madurai Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan said that the committee will be led by the Deputy Commissioner and will seek advice from three experienced former Corporation officials. The civic body held special camps from July 13 to 16 for changing name in property tax, and collection of property tax and vacant land tax. The camps were held at a total of eight locations, such that there were two camps each in the four zones of the city. A total of 1,928 petitions were received during these camps. Out of these petitions, 503 petitions were immediately resolved. A senior revenue official said that the committee, which will also include retired bill collectors, will find ways to address the issue of tax arrears. The members will first find out who are the major defaulters in payment of property tax and try to analyse the ways to solve the issue. The increase in rates of property tax is one of the major reasons for tax arrears. Some people file a case with the judiciary seeking to reduce the amount of property tax that they need to pay. This is also another reason for tax arrears The COVID-19 pandemic has caused severe financial crisis for business owners and shopkeepers. “Many of them say that they are unable to pay property tax as they had no income during the COVID-19 lockdown. The official also empathise with the shop owners and do not stress them to immediately pay the property tax,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-on-to-resolve-issue-of-property-tax-arrears/article35400943.ece
19 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stagnant sewage irks residents||The stagnation of sewage on Fatima Nagar, Second Street, in Bethaniyapuram here for over a week has irked residents. Despite lodging complaints with the Madurai Corporation officials, no action has been taken to address the issue yet, the residents complain. B. Selvi, a resident, said that there were around 100 families residing in the street. Sewage has been oozing out of more than five sewage chambers for the past one week. “In many cases, the sewage can be seen stagnant in front of the houses, causing severe inconvenience to residents,” she said. The residents complain about living amid the stench and squalor. “If the area receives a downpour, then the sewage water enters the houses,” complained P. Kumar, another resident. The sewage also poses the risk of becoming the breeding spot for mosquitoes, the residents echo. Ms. Selvi said that she lodged complaints with the Corporation's Whatsapp number two times to redress the issue. However, no action has been taken yet, she added. A Corporation official said that action will be taken to redress the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stagnant-sewage-irks-residents/article35400767.ece
19 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sorry state of temples: ‘HR & CE Dept. cannot be blamed’||The authorities, unmindful of the heritage value of various temples had licensed and leased out the temple property as well as the pragarams and verandas of the temples to traders to carry on the trading activity by selling articles which were unrelated and unconnected with the temple and the worshipping public, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that these shops have virtually become shopping centres, if not shopping malls. In spite of the fire incident at the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, people have not learnt their lesson. If this was the case, the sorry state of affairs of the temples cannot be avoided, the judges said. Insofar as the maintenance of the temples was concerned, it was undoubtedly the duty of the HR and CE Department to maintain the temple and preserve the heritage value of the temple for posterity. But, the HR and CE Department alone was not to be blamed for the sorry state of affairs of the temples. Due to lack of funds in several temples pujas were not even performed once a day. The temple priests were not being paid on time. The lessees were one of the reasons to be blamed for temples being left without sufficient funds. Several cases were filed by them claiming they were entitled to continue indefinitely in the temple property paying a paltry sum as rent or licence fee, the court pointed out. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Suresh. He sought a direction to the authorities to take steps to restore and conduct the pushpanjali rituals at the Adikesava Perumal Temple in Kanniyakumari district. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court disposed of the petition by directing the petitioner to seek the relief by sending an application to the appropriate authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-and-ce-dept-alone-cannot-be-blamed-for-sorry-state-of-temples/article35400678.ece
19 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete probe in encounter case’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed CB-CID to complete the probe in the alleged 2017 Ramanathapuram encounter case. A robbery suspect was shot dead by a team of policemen near Thiruvadanai in Thondi. Justice B. Pugalendhi directed the CB-CID to ensure that the investigation was completed in the case and a final report be submitted to the court concerned within two months. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Bhavani, the wife of the deceased Govindan. The petitioner said that her husband was picked up from their house on April 13, 2017 in the evening and was subsequently shot dead by the police. She sought direction to the State to take appropriate action against the policemen involved in the encounter. The State submitted that Govindan was an accused in a robbery case. He and his associates had assaulted and robbed a person of Rs. 9 lakh. A special team was formed to probe into the case and nab the accused in the robbery case. Based on information, the special team spotted Govindan near Thiruvadanai in Thondi. They then went after him and intercepted him. The State submitted that Govindan tried to assault the police team with a billhook and it was then that he was shot by the police. The court took note of the fact that apart from the CB-CID investigation in the case, Judicial Magistrate, Ramanathapuram had conducted an inquiry. The report said that the police had opened the fire in self defence. Since the investigation was not completed, the court directed CB-CID to complete the probe. The State can take appropriate department action against the policemen depending on the outcome of the investigation. With regard to the compensation amount sought by the family members of the deceased, the court said that the petitioner could submit a representation to the State. The representation can be considered by the authorities and an appropriate order passed, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-probe-in-encounter-case/article35400681.ece
19 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traders sell paddy at DPCs, allege farmers||A section of farmers in Madurai district have alleged that traders, claiming to be farmers, are selling paddy at the Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) in violation of the rules. This was the main issue that was discussed during the farmers’ grievance meeting held on Friday. N. Palanichamy, president of Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, said that the officials are giving various reasons and were delaying the procurement of paddy from farmers. As a result, farmers were selling paddy to private traders for lower profits. “Farmers are under extreme pressure to repay their loans. As a result, the farmers are willing to sell their paddy at even lower profits,” he added. P. Manikandan, president of Madurai District Wet and Dry Land Farmers’ Association, said that there was a need to form a committee with farmer leaders and officials to check upon the functioning of DPCs. The committee must identify and collect paddy only from farmers, he added. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan had replied that an enquiry would be held regarding the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-sell-paddy-at-dpcs-allege-farmers/article35400941.ece
19 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 129.40 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 2,700 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.91 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,601 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,798 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Thekkadi 14, Periyar dam 10.2, Gudalur 7.4, Shanmuganathi dam 6.8, Uthamapalayam 6.2, Veerapandi 3.2, and Chittampatti 1.6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35400758.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Kerala not for self-financing courses in aided colleges||The Kerala government has informed the Supreme Court of its policy to not sanction self-financing courses in aided colleges. The statement was made by the State government before a Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi in a petition filed by the Kerala Arts and Science Unaided College Management Association, represented by advocate Haris Beeran. The association had appealed against a Kerala High Court decision in 2014 to dismiss their plea challenging the action on the part of the State to permit aided colleges to run self-financing undergraduate and post-graduate degree courses in the same building or utilising the infrastructure meant for aided courses. “Bachelor of Vocational Courses have been sanctioned as self-financing courses in aided colleges as per UGC guidelines but the government policy is that no self-financing courses will be sanctioned in aided colleges,” the court recorded the statement made by Kerala State counsel, advocate G. Prakash, in its order recently. Case to be withdrawn Mr. Beeran agreed to withdraw the case on the basis of the government’s statement in court. The association, in its petition, argued that sharing of premises would do away with the “level playing field” between aided and unaided colleges. “Aided colleges are provided massive amounts of aid from authorities like the University Grants Commission as well as State governments while unaided institutions have to collect the capital themselves. Allowing aided institutions to then offer self-financing courses using the same premises and infrastructure paid for by the aid received thereby is on the face of it patently unfair,” it contended.  “The result of the process of granting affiliation to aided colleges to run self-financing courses out of the same premises would be that facilities granted to aided colleges would be made use of by the institution for self-financing courses as well. This does violence to the intention behind distinguishing aided and unaided colleges and runs counter to the legislative scheme,” the petition had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-not-for-self-financing-courses-in-aided-colleges/article35400386.ece
19 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Coming soon: NCC as an elective course for college students in U.T.||College students in Puducherry region would soon be able to join the National Cadet Corps (NCC) as an elective subject to notch up credits that would help fulfil their education goals in addition to expanding future employment prospects. This follows the guidelines issued by the UGC to the Vice-Chancellors of all universities on April 15 for the introduction of NCC as a General Elective Credit Course (GECC), in response to a proposal mooted by the Directorate General National Cadet Corps, New Delhi. The initiative, which is being planned from the current academic session, has evoked a positive response from the State governments, and is widely being viewed as a visionary step in the right direction, NCC officials said. “The big stride forward is that from an extra-curricular engagement, the NCC experience is getting integrated into the curriculum as an elective course. This will have manifold benefits to student cadets,” said Col. Piyush Srivastava, Commanding Officer, 1 Puducherry Girls NCC. NCC officials consider the move as one with far-reaching impact and falling in line with the NEP 2020, wherein students can select subjects of their choice rather than being confined to what is offered by the institutions. Students who enrol for NCC would benefit by obtaining academic credits for NCC training and acquiring NCC ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates, in addition to having enhanced job opportunities. Student-cadets would be able to avail themselves of employment incentives and benefits offered to NCC under various Central and State government schemes. As the largest uniformed force, which has contributed immeasurably to nation building since 1948, the NCC believes that the measure will draw talent and benefit the cadets, including those from coastal areas, where additional cadet strength has been authorised as part of the overall Border Areas Expansion Plan. Officials said concerted efforts had been initiated in this direction by Group Commander Col. Som Raj Gulia for early implementation of NCC as an elective subject in educational institutions in Puducherry. Council meeting The GECC item could be on the agenda of a forthcoming meeting of the Academic Council of the Central University, whose purview extends to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands . Once the NCC is integrated into the choice-based credit system (CBCS), it could broaden the advantage to the cadets, especially those appearing for the exams for the ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates, which are awarded after the stipulated training period of two to five years. These certificates offer several privileges, including reservation in admissions to institutions of higher learning and jobs in government organisations as well as the private sector, officials said. Significantly, on successful completion of the course, the credit points awarded to the students would enable them to qualify for their respective degrees. The NCC syllabus for ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates is designed as per the CBCS of NEP 2020, which grants 24 credit points covering six semesters, out of which a student can accrue four credits in the first two semesters, 10 credits in the third and fourth semesters, and 10 credits in the fifth and sixth semesters. The NCC training modules span a range of subjects, such as national integration, personality development, leadership, environmental awareness and adventure, in addition to exposure to drills, infantry weapons, battlecraft, map reading and community service. “For a programme that has been running at full intake capacity across institutions in the region, we have developed a sufficient base of resource persons to implement training,” Mr. Srivastava said. There are an estimated 13,732 cadets under the Puducherry Group, and their training needs are met by a pool of select college faculty members, who undergo a three-month course at facilities in the Officers Training Academy establishments for men at Kamptee, Maharashtra, and for women at Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, to become Associate NCC Officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coming-soon-ncc-as-an-elective-course-for-college-students-in-ut/article35401013.ece
19 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry University rolls out new MBA and diploma courses||The Pondicherry University has rolled out a new MBA course at its centres in Karaikal and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for the academic year 2021-22. According to a press note, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Study Centre has introduced two new courses, designed to promote the welfare of tribal students living in remote areas. Apart from a postgraduate course in MBA, the centre has also introduced a postgraduate diploma in biodiversity and animal taxonomy (sponsored by the Zoological Survey of India). Apart from this, a new MBA course has also been introduced in the university’s Karaikal centre in order to expand and offer management courses to rural students. The university recently released its prospectus titled ‘Towards Excellence’ for the Academic Year 2021-2022, containing the programmes offered, eligibility criteria and other information for applicants. Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor released the first copy, which was received by Rajkumar S., the nodal officer for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Centre. On the occasion, Prof. Gurmeet Singh said it was gratifying that Pondicherry University continues to be one of the leading universities in world rankings, especially in research activities. The vice-chancellor also appealed to the student community to make use of innovative opportunities being made available in Pondicherry University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-university-rolls-out-new-mba-and-diploma-courses/article35401007.ece
19 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 100 cases, two deaths||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 100 new cases on Sunday. Puducherry and Mahe reported one death each, taking the cumulative toll to 1,778. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,415), Karaikal (223), Yanam (104) and Mahe (36). Puducherry accounted for 75 of the new cases, which were detected from 6,172 tests, followed by Karaikal (14), Yanam (1) and Mahe (10). The number of paediatric admissions to the COVID ward at IGMCRI was seven, including six who tested positive for COVID-19 and one newborn of a COVID-19-positive mother. The test positivity rate was 1.62%, the case fatality rate 1.49% and the recovery rate 97.58%. With 144 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 1,124. Of them, 194 were in hospitals and 930 in home isolation. The Union Territory has reported 1,19,703 cases and 1,16,801 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 14.25 lakh tests administered till date, over 12.17 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of persons who have been administered the vaccine stood at 6,37,634, including 37,689 healthcare workers, 22,949 frontline personnel and 4,50,352 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-100-cases-two-deaths/article35401014.ece
19 July 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen to stay off sea today||Members of all fishermen associations in Rameswaram have decided to stay off the sea for a day on July 19, hoist black flags on their boats and stage a demonstration to oppose fishing rules and regulations that the Centre would likely introduce in the coming session of Parliament. Resolutions were passed at a meeting held at Rameswaram on Sunday. V.P. Sesuraja, a fishermen leader, said that according to the information they received, fishermen spotted crossing the international maritime boundary line would be jailed and fined. They should remit an entry fee for fishing. “These proposals would pose a threat to the survival of fishermen,” he said. At a time when the fishermen were finding it tough to make a living, these regulations showed the Centre’s scant regard for the community, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-to-stay-off-sea-today/article35400642.ece
19 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||400 police personnel apply for transfer at special camp||A total of 400 police personnel including special sub-inspectors, head constables and constables applied for transfers at a camp organised by the Salem district police at the Armed Reserve grounds here on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Sree Abhinav said the transfers were being held in a transparent manner and the personnel have been asked to provide their preferences. He said that feedbacks would be collected from the personnel at the end of the camp. Police personnel who have worked for more than three years in a police station or special wing and those who have worked for more than six years in the same sub-division had applied for transfers. Mr.Abhinav said that women help desks have been set up in all the 32 police stations and six All Women Police Stations in the district. The help desks had so far received over 20 calls. Three women had called the desk saying that there was no one to look after them. The women were shifted to homes and measures were under way to find out their relatives, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/400-police-personnel-apply-for-transfer-at-special-camp/article35400778.ece
19 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||400 kg ganja seized in Salem||The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau-CID on Sunday seized 400 kg ganja from two mini vans and arrested four persons. According to NIB officials, a team led DSP Manoharan conducted a vehicle check near the lorry stand at Ayothiyapattinam during the early hours of Sunday. During the check, the team intercepted two mini trucks and found 400 kg ganja in them. The police arrested Andisami, Thanabagyam, and Azhagesan -- all from Madurai-- and Venkatesan from Salem in connection with the case. Search is on for two more persons. According to officials, the gang had smuggled the goods into the State from Andhra Pradesh. Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/400-kg-ganja-seized-in-salem/article35400775.ece
19 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up committee to determine milk procurement price’||The Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Welfare Association submitted a petition to the Chief Minister requesting the State government to constitute an expert committee to determine the procurement price of milk and to revise the maximum retail price accordingly. In the petition, the association demanded the Chief Minister to increase the procurement price as the cost of livestock feed had gone up. It wanted the procurement price of cow milk hiked from Rs. 32 to Rs. 42 and that of buffalo milk from Rs. 41 to Rs. 57. Selling price The dairy farmers also sought to set up a seven-member expert committee with various stakeholders to determine the procurement price and selling price once a year. The association wanted insurance coverage for animals supplying milk to cooperative unions, inclusion of milk in nutritious meal scheme, and to follow ISI formula for identifying quality of milk. The association also demanded the government to direct private dairies to procure milk at Aavin price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-committee-to-determine-milk-procurement-price/article35400776.ece
19 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Bus conductor suspended||The Salem Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has suspended a bus conductor here for misappropriation of funds. During a routine check near the New Bus Stand here on Sunday, the ticket-checking inspectors found that some of the male passengers had been issued with ‘free travel ticket’ meant for women passengers. The State government had rolled out a scheme under which women can travel free of cost in government buses that charged ordinary fare. On inquiry, the officials found that the conductor, Naveen Kumar, had issued the free tickets to male passengers who were not fluent in Tamil. The conductor had issued 21 tickets to male passengers who hailed from Bihar in the trip and had collected money from them, the official said. Each ticket costs Rs. 6 and about 70 passengers had travelled in the bus. Officials said the conductor was suspended for misappropriation of funds and an inquiry was in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-conductor-suspended/article35400684.ece
19 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman stuck in elevator, rescued||A pregnant woman who got stuck inside an elevator at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, here, was rescued by the personnel from the Department of Fire and Rescue Services. According to officials, the 27-year-old woman had stepped into the elevator and got stuck. She could not open the door of the lift and the staff at the hospital could not open it. On information, firefighters rushed to the spot, broke open the doors of the lift and rescued the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-stuck-in-elevator-rescued/article35400779.ece
19 July 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Dengue prevention measures intensified in districts||The Health Department and the civic bodies have intensified measures to prevent dengue and Zika virus outbreak in the districts. With the onset of monsoon, officials here have deployed domestic breeding checkers and animators to check for water stagnation and mosquito breeding grounds. In Salem, health officials said that over 1,000 workers have been deployed across the district as part of dengue prevention measures. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Subramani said that 1,217 workers have been deployed across the district for disinfection, fogging and water chlorination activities. Officials said that 700 domestic breeding checkers have been deployed in Salem Corporation limits, 30 to 40 personnel in Municipalities and 20 personnel in a Block to carry out preventive measures. Awareness campaigns were being conducted among the public and they have been advised to discard unnecessary items and prevent stagnation of water. In Namakkal, health officials said that 300 persons have been deployed in the Blocks and one worker has been deployed for 300 houses in Municipalities and 10 workers have been deployed in Town panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-prevention-measures-intensified-in-districts/article35400774.ece
19 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TAMIL NADU||Kakatiya-era sculptures in neglect||Five sculptures of Kakatiya era are in utter neglect near a temple tank at Duddeda village in Siddipet district. E. Sivanagireddy, archaeologist and CEO, Pleach Infia foundation, visited the sculptures based on the information given by Ahobilam Karunakar, Samaleti Mahesh and Md. Naseeruddin, members of the New Telangana History group lead by Sriramoju Haragopal on Sunday . Dr. Reddy after a thorough survey said that the sculptures include two Devi sculptures, Chennakesava, Venugopala and Bhairava -- all belonging to 13th and 14th centuries, representing the Kakatiya style of art. The Chennakesava sculpture with exuberant ornamentation and typical iconography is a master piece of Kakatiya art and the same is the case with Venugopala and Bhairava sculptures, he added. Flourishing phase Dr. Reddy said that there is an extensive list of inscription of Kakatiya Prataprudra, dated 1296 AD., based on which it could be said that these sculptures of fine workmanship belong to the flourishing phase of the Kakatiya art. Sivanagireddy sensitised the local residents on the historical importance of the sculptures which are testimonials to the talent of the Kakatiya craftsmen. He urged the government to protect them for posterity by shifting them to inside the temple premises for safety and security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kakatiya-era-sculptures-in-neglect/article35400382.ece
19 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Man kidnapped, rescued||A 48-year-old man Gaur Mohandass, son of Beeman Sanjeevi of Meenakshipuram, Gandhi Nagar in Bodi Taluk police station limits was allegedly kidnapped by an unidentified gang on Friday night. Within about 12 hours, the police rescued the man. Theni Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre had formed five special teams to trace him. Dass had left home on his two-wheeler around noon, but had not returned till 6 p.m. His wife, Jayakrishna Lakshmi (45), had called him on his mobile but got no response. Around 8 p.m., she got a call and the voice at the other end demanded Rs. 3.50 crore for the release of her husband. She then lodged a complaint. Police traced the victim's location from the mobile phone tower and rescued Dass. They detained Rajiv Gandhi (40) of Manamadurai and his accomplice Boominathan (35), a TASMAC staff, the SP said. The police said that there were at least five cases booked against Dass including cheating and attempted robbery and others in 2018 and 2019. Investigations revealed that Dass had reportedly received Rs. 3 crore from Rajiv Gandhi a year ago promising to get him iridium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-kidnapped-rescued-within-12-hours/article35400759.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Popular hill station in Wayanad vaccinates all in tourism sector||As part of a programme to transform Kerala into a safe tourism destination during the pandemic period, the Vythiri panchayat, a popular hill station in Wayanad, has completed the COVID-19 vaccination for stakeholders in the tourism industry. As many as 4,837 persons, including employees in hotels, resorts, homestays and serviced villas, taxi and auto drivers, tourist guides, porters, and traders in 14 wards of the Vythiri gram panchayat have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. The Tourism Department took up the vaccination drive in association with the Health Department. Tourism Minister Mohamed Riyas said the campaign would be extended to other tourism locations across the State, in a move aimed at promoting Kerala as a safe tourism destination. Boosting confidence Observing that the tourism sector was one of the worst affected by the pandemic, he said the total vaccination would inspire confidence in tourists and help revive the industry. The Minister said the pilot project for total vaccination in Vythiri was completed in seven days. Three mobile units were pressed into service for the vaccination drive in Vythiri. More areas to be covered Lauding the NGO Doctors for You and health workers involved in the campaign, the Minister said the safe tourism campaign would be extended to Meppadi in Wayanad, followed by Munnar, Thekkady, Fort Kochi, Kumarakom, Kovalam and Varkala. Mr. Riyas said members of the Pulse Emergency Team Kerala would also contribute to the campaign in the next phase.  Campaign to be extended to Meppadi, Munnar, Thekkady, Fort Kochi, Kumarakom, Kovalam and Varkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/popular-hill-station-in-wayanad-vaccinates-all-in-tourism-sector/article35400380.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||New women’s safety drive to begin today in Kerala||The Pink Protection Project, the Kerala police’s new initiative for women’s safety, will begin on Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will flag off the vehicles of Pink Patrol teams in front of the Police Headquarters at 10.30 a.m. to launch the project. State Police Chief Anil Kant will participate. The project is aimed at preventing dowry-related atrocities, cybercrime, and crimes against women in public places. Team to visit houses The existing Pink Police patrol mechanism will be strengthened. As the police often become aware of domestic violence only when they receive complaints, a Pink Janamaithri beat will be launched as part of which personnel will visit houses and collect information on domestic violence so as to prevent such crimes. Details will be collected from local body members, neighbours, and the locals and handed over to station house officers (SHOs) for further action. Specially trained women personnel on the Pink beat will be seen on KSRTC and private buses and in front of schools, colleges, and in other public places, and at bus-stops. A Pink control room will start functioning in all 14 districts from Monday. A Pink shadow patrol team will be deployed in crowded areas to act against those harassing women. A bike patrol unit, solely comprising women, called Pink Romeo, will also kick-start on Monday. Counselling offered at women’s cells will be made more effective with the support of voluntary organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-womens-safety-drive-to-begin-today-in-kerala/article35400377.ece
19 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Squads formed to check illegal pumping of drinking water||Corporation Commissioner Charusree has warned of severe action as per the laws against illegal pumping of drinking water. He formed a special squad here on Sunday following complaints of using electric motors to pump water and store in huge containers and sumps in residential colonies and in some commercial undertakings Last week, officials seized 62 motors, which were found illegally tapping water directly from the tap in the city limits, during a surprise check. He said that apart from imposing fine, cases would be registered and severe action would be taken. The objective was to provide potable water to every dwelling and to those in the commercial establishments. When there were complaints from people living in tail end areas that they were not able to get water due to malpractice indulged in by some residents, action would be taken. Some people indulge in posting wrong and incorrect messages in the social media that the flying squad had been dismantled and officials would not conduct checks hereafter. They would be taken to task, he clarified. The public too can share information about the wards or buildings where people had fitted motors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/squads-formed-to-check-illegal-pumping-of-drinking-water/article35401045.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to empower women-led agri-business comes to Tiruchi||Iyarkai Velaan Inaiyam that has been funding eco-farming businesses of women in various parts of the State through funding support from corporates has begun its presence in Tiruchi to enable at least 100 women to start or continue their agribusinesses.. VOICE (Voice for the Oppressed through Integrated Community Emancipation) Trust initiated Iyarkai Velaan Inaiyam, a forum for eco-farming where people are trained in vermicomposting, sustainable methods of farming without destroying soil composition, utilisation of natural fertilizers, etc. On June 3, VOICE Trust received funding to support this initiative from the staff of Apple, Google and Visa through Benevity, an organisation that provides charitable donation management, based in Canada. Forty eco-farming enterprises, 38 in Tamil Nadu and two in Puducherry - have been identified for this project. Each unit will receive Rs. 1 lakh to enable 80 to 100 women each to start or further their agricultural business. Each women's group would receive Rs. 20,000, and VOICE Trust would support at least 160 women's groups with at least 3,200 members. The programme was inaugurated by K. N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply who appreciated the initiative. “In municipalities and municipal corporations, we are working to segregate waste as bio-degradable and non-biodegradable waste. This bio-degradable waste is being converted to compost and distributed to farmers practising sustainable farming,” he said. The minister said that consuming organically cultivated food was healthy for all. Peter Remigius, former Bishop of Kumbakonam and Kottar, and Albert Thambi Durai, Director, Tamil Nadu Social Service Society, were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-empower-women-led-agri-business-comes-to-tiruchi/article35400747.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bad roads give Ramalinga Nagar residents tough time||Residents of Ramalinga Nagar and localities in the surroundings struggle to travel to and from their homes as the streets dug up by the civic body to relay underground drainage system lines last year are yet to be closed properly. The width of what is left of the road is insufficient for vehicles to ride on, residents said. The Ramalinga Nagar First Main Road houses two hospitals, a few apartment complexes and even a gated community. Residents of all these houses and patients visiting the hospitals struggle to negotiate these uneven roads. “This road used to be well-laid and people travelling to Kuzhumayi Amman Temple, and further would use this route as a shortcut instead of taking the road along the Uyyakondan canal. However, in the last year, the rough roads have wreaked havoc,” said M. Muthu, a resident. The residents are forced to park their vehicles elsewhere and walk to their destination. “It has become a huge problem. We have raised complaints with whoever comes to conduct repair work and have even approached authorities at the zonal office. Nobody seems to pay heed,” Mr. Muthu said. A few days ago, a truck carrying a load of paint buckets got stuck on the road. The incident occurred at 7 a.m. and even by 8 p.m., it was not removed. “No vehicles, not even two-wheelers, are able to travel on that road the entire day. What would have happened had there been a medical emergency in even one of the houses and an ambulance had to rush to take them to the hospital?” another resident asked. Even a slight downpour makes matters worse as the entire street becomes one big swamp. “When rainwater fills up this area, we do not know where there is a ditch and several two-wheelers and pedestrians slip and fall down. This road has a natural slope and water does not stagnate usually; the sorry state has prevailed over the last year,” they said. The civic body, however, maintains that the work is yet to be completed and that the road will be relaid as soon as it is done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bad-roads-give-ramalinga-nagar-residents-tough-time/article35400750.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Victory Flame received with much enthusiasm||Victory Flame lit from the eternal flame at the National War Memorial by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commemorate 50 years of India’s victory over Pakistan in the December 1971-war arrived here from Madurai on Sunday. The ‘Mashaal’ (Victory Flame) is being carried to various parts of the country, including villages of awardees of Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra, who had made supreme sacrifice in the war. The Swarnim Vijay Varsh is being celebrated throughout the country to kindle the spirit of victory. The Rockfort NCC Group commemorated this event in a grand manner here on Sunday. The Victory Flame was received at the NCC Group Headquarters in Kallikudi by Commanding Officer, 4 TN Girls Battalion NCC. The event was presided over by Colonel C. Elavarasan, Group Commander, Rockfort NCC Group, Tiruchi. The Victory Flame was thereafter taken to the World War Memorial in Tiruchi, St. Joseph College and National College to create awareness among the people. The Victory Flame will depart from Tiruchi on Monday on its way to the Air Force Station in Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victory-flame-received-with-much-enthusiasm/article35400752.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Less than 400 cases now||The central districts reported 361 fresh cases for COVID-19 on Sunday. This is the lowest number of fresh cases reported since the spike in cases since May. The number of deaths reported too was markedly lower than the previous days. Two patients succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday. Perambalur and Thanjavur districts reported one fresh case each, while no deaths were reported in the other seven districts in the region. Thanjavur reported the highest number of cases - 120. However, it continues to report a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last few weeks. In Tiruchi district, 76 patients tested positive.The seven other districts in the central region reported less than 35 cases each. Nagapattinam district reported 40 fresh cases, while Pudukottai reported 31 and Tiruvarur 28. In Mayiladuthurai, 20 patients reported COVID-19 positive, 19 in Ariyalur, and 18 In Karur. Perambalur district reported the lowest COVID-19 cases in the region with nine fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-400-cases-now/article35400748.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Girl dies in freak accident||A nine-year-old girl, S. Nithyashree, died on Saturday after a ‘dupatta’ got entangled in her neck. It choked the girl while she was playing in her house at Keezha Kondayampettai in Tiruvanaikoil here. She had used it as a cloth-cradle when the cloth got entangled in her neck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-dies-in-freak-accident/article35401049.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four water tanks installed||Minister for Municipal Administration K. N. Nehru on Sunday declared open four drinking water tanks installed at a cost of Rs. 11.5 lakh. They have been established at Puttur Agraharam, North Muthuraja Street, Kalathu Medu and Kulathu Medu. Collector S. Sivarasu, Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-water-tanks-installed/article35400745.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 71.96 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 7,940 cusecs and the discharge 5,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article35400753.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident||Three persons were killed in a road accident here on Sunday. The police said that Ponsekar, 43, Wilson Herbin, 43, and Wilson Rajni Raja, 35, of Thisayanvilai near here were proceeding to their home from Tirunelveli. As the vehicle approached Mannarpuram Pass, it suddenly overturned. In the impact, the vehicle was badly damaged. The accident claimed Ponsekar’s life on the spot. While the other two suffered serious injuries. They both were rushed to the Nanguneri Government Hospital. However, doctors at Nanguneri government hospital said that they had also succumbed to their grievous injuries. Thisayanvilai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-killed-in-road-accident-near-thisayanvilai/article35400763.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 113.20 feet (maximum level 143 feet) with an inflow of 838.54 cusecs and discharge of 1404.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 74 feet (maximum level 118 feet) with an inflow of 37 cusecs and discharge of 250 cusecs. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours, said PWD officials on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35401047.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Fresh push for tourism in Yelagiri||A century and half ago, Yelagiri Hills was a summer retreat for the English officers from Arcot and Vellore. The spicy North Arcot cuisine like the Avadhi biriyani made with short-grained rice, makkan peda (gulab jamun) and a smoked milk sherbet, a dessert, adorned the menus during their stay, according to history. Now, history is set to repeat itself and this time, not for the English but for local tourists, as the Tirupattur district administration is gearing up to revive tourism on the hill station to generate the much needed revenue for the newly formed district. Job creation, both direct and indirect, is another aim of the new initiative. “Local tourism will form a major source of income for the new district. The idea is to convert the entire district into a tourist hot spot rather than categorising certain places alone as touristy spots. This will also help promote local history, for instance, in Ambur,” Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha told The Hindu.  Some features in the new initiative includes creation of more recreation facilities, such as an open-air stadium, boat houses, separate parks for fruits, flowers and herbal plants, a botanical garden, additional tourist accommodation and better connectivity by means of better roads and frequent buses. Spread over 80 acres in Pallakanniyur village, a tribal hamlet on top of the hill, the open-air stadium consists of separate spaces for volleyball, football, badminton, cricket, basketball and a swimming pool. The stadium will also have an open auditorium, which can accommodate 1,600 visitors. Further, the botanical garden will be coming up on a 25-acre plot in the village. The existing lake on the hill will be deepened, and more boathouses will be operated. Trekking trails will be marked out in coordination with the State Forest Department. A night safari is also part of the plan. Festivals, including summer celebrations and food and culture fetes, will be organised to boost the local economy. Unlike previous plans, the new initiative is aimed to fast-track its ideas within a stipulated time frame. In this regard, land for the amenities have been identified with departments, including the Public Works Department and the Horticulture Department, roped in to speed up work. District officials have been working to have certain facilities, such as the botanical garden, lake beautification and boathouses, ready before the place is reopened for tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-push-for-tourism-in-yelagiri/article35400686.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||54 peafowl poisoned near Tiruppur in nine days||A total of 19 peafowl were found poisoned near Tiruppur on Saturday, taking the number of the national bird to have been killed in the district in the last nine days to 54. Forest officials said the 19 peafowl were found dead in a coconut grove belonging to S. Palanisamy (65) of Valasupalayam in Ganapathipalayam village, near Palladam, on Saturday. Tiruppur Forest Range Officer A. Kasilingam said that Palanisamy admitted to poisoning the peafowl by littering rice mixed with pesticide. "The farmer said that musters of peafowl which foray into his land were causing various damages. We got specific information around 11 a.m. on Saturday that the farmer had killed peafowl. When inspected the grove, we found that he was attempting to burn the dead birds using dry coconut leaves", said Mr. Kasilingam. The Forest Department staff removed the heap of dry coconut leaves in the presence of the village administrative officer from Ganapathipalayam village and an assistant veterinary surgeon. They found 19 dead peafowl - 17 peacocks and 12 peahens. The dead birds were autopsied at the same place and samples were lifted for further examination. The farmer was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. Mr. Kasilingam said that Muthanampalayam, where 35 peafowl were found poisoned on July 9 and 10, was around 10 km away from Valasupalayam. The department had arrested K. Bannari (47) of Pollikalipalayam in Muthanampalayam in connection with the poisoning. The Forest Department has enhanced local intelligence networks to check whether more farmers were resorting to poisoning of peafowl as they cause damages to different crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/54-peafowl-poisoned-near-tiruppur-in-nine-days/article35400687.ece
19 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||4,300 vaccine doses available for the Nilgiris residents today||As many as 4,300 COVID-19 vaccine doses will be available in the district on Monday. Covishield vaccine will be available in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Gudalur, Nelliyalam, Kotagiri, Gudalur, Naduvattam, Bikkatty, Jegadala, O-Valley and Devarsholai. In a press release, the district administration stated that 1,200 doses of Covishield will be available in Udhagamandalam town and surrounding areas. People can get the vaccine shots at the Saint Anthony’s Higher Secondary School and the Nilgiri Matriculation School in Lovedale, as well as community halls in Belithala, Indira Nagar, Nanjanad, Sastri Nagar, and primary health centers in Kalhatti, Thummanatty, Thuneri and Denad Combai. The vaccine will be available in Coonoor at the community hall in Annai Velankanni Nagar, women’s co-operative society buildings in Arul Nagar, Hosatty and at Sholada Mattam. In Gudalur, vaccination camps are being held at the Government Higher Secondary School in Gudalur, Saint Thomas Higher Secondary School, the government middle school in Kozhipalam, the GTRS schools in Puthukolli, Ponnani and Muthirakolli. In Kotagiri, the vaccine doses are available at the community hall in Adubettu and at M. Kaikatty. Vaccination camps are also being held at the primary health centre in Naduvattam, the community halls in Thalaihatty, Naduhatty, Sundatty, and Patharkandi in Bikkatty, in Karakorai in Jegathala, Thavittumedu in Kotagiri and at the Panchayat Colony in Devarsholai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4300-vaccine-doses-available-for-the-nilgiris-residents-today/article35400698.ece
19 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 30 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,648, with 30 new cases reported on July 18. While a total 46,113 have been discharged, the active cases stands at 449. The district’s death toll is 1,086. In Ranipet district, 21 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,660. In Tirupattur district, 28 new cases were reported on Wednesday, and the total number of positive cases stood at 27,948. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 83, taking the total to 51,276. Out of this, 49,688 have been discharged and active cases stood at 960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-30-new-covid-19-cases/article35401008.ece
19 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector takes action against pay-and-use toilet for overcharging||A Chennai-bound passenger, who was fleeced by the staff at a pay-and-use toilet in the Villupuram Central Bus Stand, submitted a petition to the Collector D. Mohan at his camp office on Sunday, seeking a “loan” of Rs. 9 to use the facility. The passenger, P. Prakash, 36, of Valavanur, near Villupuram, was waiting at the bus stand when he went to relieve himself at the facility. Mr. Prakash was asked to pay Rs. 10 instead of the Rs. 1 fixed by the government for using the facility. He argued with the licensee and declined to pay the fee. He rushed to the Collector’s camp office around 6 a.m. and submitted a petition. Receiving the petition, Mr. Mohan went to the spot and spoke with another passenger, who was also charged Rs. 10 instead of Rs. 1. The Collector issued a stern warning to the licensee, and said that if he persisted in his action, the license would be cancelled. The Collector also asked the licensee to display the phone numbers of the Muncipality Commissioner and Sanitary Inspectors on the board so that the aggrieved public could contact the numbers instead of the toll-free number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-takes-action-against-pay-and-use-toilet-for-overcharging/article35401004.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 220 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 220 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday and the number of active cases stood at 2,927. A total of 391 persons were discharged. The toll in the district increased to 2,132 after four more persons died of the disease in the last few days. Tiruppur reported 121 new cases. The district had 1,605 active cases while 119 persons recovered from the disease. Two more persons died, taking the toll to 813. In the Nilgiris, 54 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 29,864. The toll stood at 172 in the district on Sunday while 916 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-220-new-cases/article35400697.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 142 new cases, 2 deaths||Salem district on Sunday reported 142 COVID-19 positive cases and two deaths. According to health officials, 127 cases were indigenous and 44 cases were reported in the Salem Corporation limits. Fifteen patients had returned from Namakkal, Kalakuruchi and Dharmapuri. Namakkal district reported 60 cases on Sunday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. While Dharmapuri reported 35 indigenous cases, Krishnagiri reported 24 cases and two deaths. Erode district reported 128 new cases and one death on Sunday. A total of 216 persons were discharged and 2,220 persons are under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 220 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday and the number of active cases stood at 2,927. Tiruppur reported 121 new cases. The district had 1,605 active cases while 119 persons recovered from the disease. Two more persons died, taking the toll to 813. In the Nilgiris, 54 persons tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-142-new-cases-2-deaths/article35400772.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Banks turn cautious on student loans as NPAs rise amid COVID-19 pandemic||According to data from CRIF High Mark Credit Information Services, the education loan market in Tamil Nadu grew to Rs. 20,200 crore in March 2021 from Rs. 18,600 crore in March 2019. The data also showed that NPAs, measured in terms of portfolio at risk (PAR) for 91-180 days, increased to 16.3% as of March 2021 from 15% at the end of March 2020. PAR is the proportion of loans overdue (for a specific number of days) to the overall loans outstanding. A senior official of the Chennai-based Indian Bank confirmed that the number of NPAs in the education loan sector had increased substantially, compared with the pre-pandemic period, and attributed the increase to unemployment and under-employment. For Indian Bank alone, the NPAs increased about 17.2% to Rs. 1,197.51 crore as on June 2021 from Rs. 1,021.1 crore as on September 2020. Even those who are seeking fresh education loans are finding it tough to get sanction. Parents of many students whom The Hindu spoke to said that after COVID-19 broke out, banks were reluctant to sanction loans, and some lamented that their reduced salaries did not meet the banks’ requirements. Data show that education loan disbursements declined to Rs. 1,478 crore in FY21 from Rs. 2,420 crore in FY20. But bankers say disbursements were low for several other reasons. Reduction in demand The Indian Bank official pointed out that there was a reduction in the demand mainly due to the decline in the demand in the recent years for engineering education, which constitutes a major exposure of loans under Rs. 7.50 lakh. Generally, engineering, medical and management courses account for a major portion of the demand for loans. He said the bank had not turned cautious in lending, since loans up to Rs. 7.50 lakh were covered under a credit guarantee scheme. “Tamil Nadu is an important region for education loans as the State accounts for one-third of the total number disbursed in the country,” said Vipul Jain, Head of Products, at CRIF High Mark. Under the Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme, full interest subsidy is provided for the moratorium period (the course period plus one year) on loans of up to Rs. 7.5 lakh taken from scheduled banks. The benefits are applicable to students of the weaker sections with a parental income of up to Rs. 4.5 lakh a year. Some experts pointed out that political parties promising education loan waivers is also affecting repayment and the CIBIL score of students (the score is a measure of credit worthiness). The education loan waiver is one of the promises of the DMK as well as the AIADMK for the 2021 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-turn-cautious-on-student-loans-as-npas-rise-amid-covid-19-pandemic/article35400640.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collectors’ delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-delight/article35400388.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl dies in freak incident||A nine-year-old girl died on Saturday after a ‘dupatta’ got entangled in her neck. It choked the girl while she was playing in her house at Keezha Kondayampettai in Tiruvanaikoil here. The incident occurred a few days ago when S. Nithyashree was playing with a dupatta. She had apparently used it as a cloth-cradle. The cloth got entangled in her neck and she choked. The girl was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here where she died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-dies-in-freak-incident/article35400744.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Municipal area expansion||It was announced long back that the outlying areas of Ramanathapuram town such as Sakkarakottai, Bharati Nagar, Om Shakthi Nagar, Manthoppu Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Pattinamkathan, Peravoor, Soorankottai, Rajasooriya Masai and Achuthanvayal will be annexed to the municipality. There appears to be an undue delay in the process. It is high time the above proposal is expedited. The Ramanathapuram municipality is due for elevation as a municipal corporation once the above areas are annexed. Asmabagh Anvardeen Ramanathapuram   Only 10 of the 50 streetlights are burning on the five-point corner railway overbridge in Paramakudi. Since it is dark, people are afraid of using this bridge after dark. I request the authorities concerned to ensure that all lights burn so that people can use the bridge without fear. V. Rajendran Paramakudi   Though Tiruppachethi is only 32 km away from Arapalayam, there is no city bus service between these two places. The DMK government, in its previous tenure, allowed operation of city/town buses for a distance of upto 35 km. So I request the Madurai and Sivaganga Collectors to direct the officials to operate direct buses from Arapalayam to Tiruppachethi. Moreover, after the four-lane highway came into being, TNSTC’s Kumbakonam division buses from Karaikudi depots do not enter Tiruppachethi and Tiruppuvanam. Whenever the issue is raised, officials take a temporary measure of deputing a checking inspector for one day. From the very next day, the buses again bypass these towns. So I request the Karaikudi General Manager to appoint full-time timekeepers at these two places. S. Saravanakumar Tiruppachethi   The government is extending the COVID-19 lockdown week after week with more and more relaxations. It has allowed even opening of TASMAC liquor shops where a huge assembly of men can be seen, throwing social distancing and mask wearing rules to the wind. But the government is reluctant to open the public libraries. The reading public, especially the senior citizens, are thus deprived of their useful pastime. Therefore I request the government to consider opening the libraries. If it is not feasible to keep the libraries open on the regular hours due to the pandemic, they can be opened at least in the morning for lending and returning of books. This will greatly help the senior citizens in maintaining their mental equilibrium and spend their quality time in a useful manner. S. Nallasivan Tirunelveli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipal-area-expansion/article35400755.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Paver-block streets||The previous government planned to lay paver blocks on many streets of Kovilpatti on an outlay of Rs. 31 crore before March 2021. The project was also much publicised. But areas such as Chellapandian Nagar, Pudhu Gramam, Loyal Mill Colony, Kadalaikara Street , Chekkadi Street and Sivakkadu have been left out of the scheme. I request the authorities to complete the project in the left-out areas soon. Sakthi Vinayagar Kovilpatti.   Thoothukudi Corporation took mosquito control measures in Jeyalani Colony and adjoining areas recently following the threat of dengue fever outbreak. It was a welcome move but it has been suspended resulting in resurgence of mosquito menace. If the situation continues, in all probability, dengue or even other infectious diseases may spread in these areas. I request the authorities look into the matter and take necessary steps to bring this problem to an end. Prabhakar S Thoothukudi   The Venkalarajankottai road in Agastheeswaram panchayat of Kanniyakumari district is in a battered condition. It is full of potholes that even pedestrians will trip and fall down. I request the authorities to relay the road. K. Chelliah, Aundivillai   It is understood the new building coming up on the premises of Arignar Anna Stadium in Nagercoil will house the commissionerate of the newly-formed Nagercoil Corporation. The building is being constructed at the site where Kalaivanar Kalaiyarangam was functioning. N. S. Krishnan, affectionately and reverentially called as Kalaivanar, was a leading figure in the field of Tamil drama and cinema. He propagated many profound ideas on social reforms though his films. He was also well known for his charity performances and extensive philanthropic gestures. It will be much appreciated if the new building is named after Kalaivanar. B. Nagalingam, Nagercoil   At the point where Ilanthaikulam Road near Palai bus stand meets South High Ground Road, there is a board stating that it is an accident-prone area. But some hoardings have been put up obstructing the view of the board. As the warning board is hidden from view, there is every danger of road users meeting with accidents. I request the authorities to remove the hoardings immediately and prevent accidents. A.M.N. Pandian, Tirunelveli   The government is extending the COVID-19 lockdown week after week with more and more relaxations. It has allowed even opening of TASMAC liquor shops where a huge assembly of men can be seen, throwing social distancing and mask wearing rules to the wind. But the government is reluctant to open the public libraries. The reading public, especially the senior citizens, are thus deprived of their useful pastime. Therefore I request the government to consider opening the libraries. If it is not feasible to keep the libraries open on the regular hours due to the pandemic, they can be opened at least in the morning for lending and returning of books. This will greatly help the senior citizens in maintaining their mental equilibrium and spend their quality time in a useful manner. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli   The Tiruchi -Thiruvananthapuram Intercity Express does not stop at Iraniyal station. So people in this region have to either use Nagercoil Town station which is 18 km away or Kuzhithurai which is 15 km away. It defeats the very purpose of providing a train link to Tirunelveli and the Kerala capital in the daytime when for 10 hours there is no train service on this sector. If the train stops at Iraniyal, the patronage will improve and pave way for introducing a similar Intercity express between Coimbatore and Nagercoil. District Railway Users’ Association Kanniyakumari||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paver-block-streets/article35401048.ece
19 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Inter-State bus services stopped||Strict enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines by the Belagavi district administration has led to a near-complete stoppage of all bus services between Maharashtra and Karnataka. The police stopped buses on the border. They sent back vehicles in which passengers did not follow COVID-19 protocol, including social distancing, wearing face masks or carrying vaccination or RT-PCR negative certificates. These vehicles included some KSRTC buses. NWKRTC officers said that most buses between Maharashtra and Nippani were stopped as the police had mandated that conductors give tickets to only those passengers who had vaccination or RT-PCR certificates. They said that even Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation buses were stopped. The police and health officers have increased vigil at the border, following the rise of case of the Delta variant strain in Maharashtra. NWKRTC divisional controller Mahadevappa Munji said that buses to Kolhapur and Sangli districts were stopped due to restrictions placed by the Maharashtra government. However, “we are running buses to Solapur and other areas where there are relaxations,” he said. He said that 67 staff members tested positive for COVID-19 in the division and six of them died. “Nearly 100% of our staff have been vaccinated. We are telling passengers to remain careful while travelling. We are asking them to get a vaccination or RTPCR certificate before boarding buses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inter-state-bus-services-stopped/article35400784.ece
19 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man falls into trench at Smart City site, dies||An old man from Belagavi died while he slipped and fell at a Smart City work site near the Central Bus Stand in Belagavi on Saturday. Mehmood Dastagir Mulla (65) of Gandhi Nagar was walking from the Town Police Station to the government guest house at night when he fell into a trench dug near the bus stand entrance. He fell between rows of steel bars. A steel bar pierced his neck and he bled to death. People who gathered at the spot tried to rescue him but they could not pull him out. He died within minutes. He was dead before an ambulance could reach the spot. A case has been registered at the Market Police Station. Meanwhile, the police said, contractor S. Shivakumar was arrested following a complaint filed by relatives of the deceased. MLA Anil Benake called police officers to the spot and directed them to file a criminal complaint against the contractor. He lost his cool on the Smart City officers and contractors. He said that he will punish them publicly if they continued to behave irresponsibly, without regard to public safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-falls-into-trench-at-smart-city-site-dies/article35400785.ece
19 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two teachers killed in road accident in Belagavi||Two high school teachers were killed in a road accident on the Ring Road here on Saturday. K.H. Huddar (58) and Sanganagouda Patil (50) died on the spot when their motorcycle hit a lorry. The two teachers were returning to Vijayapura to participate in a meeting to prepare for SSLC examinations. They were returning to the village to prepare for the examination that begins on Monday. The bodies were found near their motorcycle. The lorry driver ran away after abandoning his vehicle. He will be traced, the police said. A case has been registered at the City Traffic Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-teachers-killed-in-road-accident-in-belagavi/article35400789.ece
19 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man hacked to death||A gang hacked to death a youth in Gokak on Sunday. Manju Shankar Murkibavi (22) was killed near his house in Mahantesh Nagar. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-hacked-to-death/article35400788.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||700 pillars to come up on stretch infamous for traffic snarls||With the commencement of Namma Metro construction work on the Outer Ring Road [Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram stretch], motorists have demanded that civic agencies come up with a comprehensive traffic management plan. Traffic snarls and gridlocks are a daily occurrence on the ORR on normal days and motorists are worried that this will only increase once Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) starts erecting pillars. BMRCL has awarded a Rs. 1,325-crore contract in two packages to build the metro on the 19-km stretch. Officials say over 700 metro pillars will be built on the median of the busy road. Krishna Kumar Gowda, consultant to Outer Ring Road Companies’ Association (ORRCA), said that in the wake of metro construction works a meeting with various government agencies was held recently. “There is a need to keep arterial and sub-arterial roads connecting the ORR in good condition by asphalting and filling up potholes so that they can take up the load in future. A review meeting was recently held with officials from BMRCL, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Traffic Police, Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), the water board, and other agencies. We urged them to work in coordination to address grievances of motorists in the coming days. ORRCA will also help to decongest the road by asking employees to use buses or transport provided by the companies,” Mr Gowda said. The BMRCL has set June 2025 as the deadline to complete the ORR metro work which is part of the 58-km ORR – Airport line. Chief PRO B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan said, “The land required for the project was available even before the commencement of the work. Contractors have taken up initial works in pockets on the stretch. On issues such as bus lanes, traffic, and others, BMRCL will work with other agencies.” BMRCL had acquired 60,256 square meters of the land for the project. Bus lane to be retained Prahlad, Chief Engineer (Road Infrastructure), BBMP, said that the city’s first bus-priority lane that was built on the stretch for Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses will be retained as it is. “There are three lanes on either side of the road. To carry out the construction, a portion of the first lane on either side will be used. Bus lanes built along the stretch will be retained as it is.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/700-pillars-to-come-up-on-stretch-infamous-for-traffic-snarls/article35400609.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police yet to trace drug peddler who escaped from custody||The police are on the lookout for a 22-year-old man, who escaped, while being handcuffed, three hours after he had been arrested by the J.C. Nagar police for allegedly peddling drugs on Tuesday. He had escaped while the police were escorting him to a hospital for a medical examination. An inquiry has been initiated against the police personnel who were with him at the time.  The accused, Kiran Kumar from Benson Town, was caught allegedly selling marijuana on Bore Bank Road, barely a kilometre away from the police station on Tuesday morning. The police seized 160 grams of marijuana wrapped in 51 plastic bags. “He was arrested and booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. As part of the procedure, he was being taken for a medical examination before he could be produced in court,” said a police officer. The accused was being escorted to the hospital by head constable Krishnamurthy, assistant sub inspector Arase Gowda, and constable Rajkumar. They arrived near the hospital at around 12.45 p.m. However, they got down near Sultan Sha Hotel near the Shivaji Nagar bus stand and began walking to the hospital, said the police officer. “He used this opportunity to escape. Even though he was handcuffed, he pushed Krishnamurthy aside and ran away. The police team gave chase, but the accused managed to escape.” the police officer added. The matter was then brought to the notice of their senior sub inspector Raghupathy, who filed a complaint against the accused as well as Krishnamurthy charging him with negligence . An inquiry has also been initiated against the police on why they chose to walk instead of driving to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-yet-to-trace-drug-peddler-who-escaped-from-custody/article35400611.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA likely to take over probe into trafficking of women from Bangladesh||The investigation into the trafficking of women from Bangladesh, which was uncovered by the East Division police who rescued seven women and a five-year-old girl in the first week of June, may be taken over by the National Investigation Agency, said sources. “A team of officials approached the East Division police stating that the case has been entrusted to them and sought details, but there has been no official communication on this so far,” a senior police officer said. House raid On June 8, a police team raided a house in Kanaka Nagar and rescued the women and the little girl. The victims told the police officials that they were among over a hundred women who had crossed the border into West Bengal, where they were provided documents including Aadhaar cards. They were then sent in groups to different cities across the country by people who had promised them employment, but were forced into prostitution. “We had alerted other agencies as well as the police in neighbouring States. Considering the magnitude of the cross border prostitution racket, NIA officials are pitching in to probe the case in detail,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nia-likely-to-take-over-probe-into-trafficking-of-women-from-bangladesh/article35400610.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘32% of students were not readmitted in 2020-21’||Over 32% of 1.85 lakh students who were enrolled in a certain number of private schools for the 2019-20 academic year were not admitted the following year, according to a sample survey conducted by the Association of Primary and Secondary Schools of Karnataka. The survey was conducted across 250 private schools in Karnataka, though the association has 3,600 member schools. The association said this data has been submitted to the High Court of Karnataka, which is hearing a case pertaining to fees charged by private schools during the pandemic. While 1.85 lakh students had been admitted in these schools, enrolment dropped in the 2020-21 year to 1.25 lakh. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association, said school managements were unaware if these students were admitted in other schools. However, he alleged that the information has not been updated in the Student Achievement Tracking System. Most schools continue to show that these students are enrolled and that they have been auto-promoted, he said. “The data of the students enrolled is likely to be inaccurate in both private and government schools,” said the association at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-of-students-were-not-readmitted-in-2020-21/article35400622.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 1,708 new cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,708 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,83,947. Of the new cases reported on Sunday, 386 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.09%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.%. As many as 36 people succumbed to the virus across the State, taking the toll to 36,157. As many as 2,463 persons were discharged, and there are currently 29,291 active patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-1708-new-cases/article35400607.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man from Rajasthan held, 1.8 kg opium seized||The Magadi Road Police on Sunday arrested a 31-year-old man from Rajasthan and recovered 1.8 kg of opium from him. The accused, Sukhdev, was caught red-handed when a police officer posing as a customer approached him near a college on Magadi Road. According to the police, Sukhdev allegedly sold opium to his clients in liquid and gel form. He allegedly confessed to sourcing the opium from his hometown, where he said it was “in abundance”. A police officer said, “He brought it to the city by train and would hide it in a mixer-grinder. Our initial probe revealed that the accused was working as a salesman in Chickpet earlier, but started peddling drugs, given the demand.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-from-rajasthan-held-18-kg-opium-seized/article35400614.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shruthi replaced as KSTDC chief||The State government on Saturday withdrew the appointment of actor-turned-politician Shruthi as chairperson of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC). In her place, Kapu Siddalingaswamy, a old-timer in Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s circle has been appointed to the post. The GO did not specify the reason for Ms. Shruthi being replaced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shruthi-replaced-as-kstdc-chief/article35400619.ece
19 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||47 fresh cases in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district reported 47 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two more deaths due to the infection on Sunday. Among the fresh cases 23 are in Shivamogga taluk, four in Bhadravati, three in Thirthahalli, two in Shikaripur, five in Sagar, six in Hosanagar, one in Sorabaand three more from other districts. As many as 699 people are under treatment. Hassan reported 121 fresh cases on Sunday. As many as 1,516 people are under treatment. No deaths were reported on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/47-fresh-cases-in-shivamogga/article35400964.ece
19 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Tungabhadra water released into canals for irrigation||In compliance with the decision taken at the Tungabhadra Irrigation Consultative Committee (ICC) meeting chaired by Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf and Ballari district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh and attended by MLAs, MLCs and MPs from Raichur, Koppal and Ballari districts, recently, the authorities of the Water Resources Department, on Sunday, released water into different canals for the first crop of the year. After puja was performed at the Tungabhadra Reservoir at Munirabad, Koppal district, by people’s representatives and members of Karnataka Development Programme (KDP), water was released into the canals. In its 115th meeting held at the conference hall of the Tungabhadra Command Area Development Authority (T-CADA) near the Tungabhadra Reservoir in Munirabad, the ICC resolved to release 4,100 cusecs into the Tungabhadra Left Bank Canal (TLBC), 1,130 cusecs into the Tungabhadra Right Bank High-Level Canal and 700 cusecs into the Tungabhadra Right Bank Low-Level Canal from July 18 to November 30. The Rayabasava Canal will get water at a rate of 235 cusecs till December 10 and the Left Bank High-Level Canal 25 cusecs till November 30. “After B.S. Yediyurappa became the Chief Minister, the State has received good rainfall and farmers in Raichur, Koppal and Ballari are getting enough water from Tungabhadra Reservoir for cultivating two crops in a year. The Yediyurappa government has showed its commitment to the development of the farming community by prioritising irrigation projects,” a member of KDP Amaresh Karadi said after water was officially released into the canals. Legislators Paranna Munavalli, Raghavendra Hitnal, Basavaraj Dhadesugur, T-CADA chairman Tipperudraiahswamy, Koppal Urban Development Authority chairman Mahantesh Patil Mainalli and others were present. Speaking to The Hindu , honorary president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Chamarasa Malipatil demanded that the district administrations of Raichur and Koppal ensure that the Tungabhadra waters reached the tail-end areas of all canals, especially the TLBC, so that farmers in the lower reaches in Raichur can cultivate crops. “More than 1.5 lakh acres of unauthorised land in the upper reaches of the TLBC are illegally irrigated by drawing excess water from the canal. Drawing excess water for unauthorised land in the upper reaches will result in a scarcity of water for authorised land in the lower reaches. It is a serious issue and I raised it in the ICC meeting recently. Mr. Anand Singh, who presided over the meeting, clearly directed the district administration take immediate steps to remove all illegal pumpsets connected to the Tungabhadra canals and ensure adequate water supply to farmers in the tail-end areas of the canals. The administrations should immediately start removing all illegal pumpsets so that authorised farmers in Manvi and Sirwar in Raichur district get water for irrigation,” Mr. Malipatil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tungabhadra-water-released-into-canals-for-irrigation/article35400790.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||46,588 to write SSLC exam in 256 centres in twin districts||A total of 46,588 SSLC students from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have registered to write the examination in 256 centres in the two districts. The examination will be held on Monday and Thursday. It will be in the new multiple choice questions format. As many as 32,657 students will write the examination in 179 centres in Dakshina Kannada, while 13,931 students will write in 77 centres in Udupi district. Questions related to the core subjects, Mathematics, Science and Social Science, will be answered on July 19, while it will be on first, second and third languages on July 22. The examination will be held between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. on the two days. There will be 441 students from Kerala, including 121 from Kasaragod district in Kerala, who will come to write the examination in centres in Dakshina Kannada district. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that KSRTC and private buses have been asked to operate their regular schedules. Students can show their hall tickets and travel free on KSRTC buses on the examination days. “Most of the parents are bringing their children in their vehicles,” he said and added as a stand-by, the district administration has stationed five buses at the Talapady check-post for the use of students. He said that while 29,351 are regular students, there are 694 private candidates. As many as 2,050 are regular repeaters and 538 are private repeaters. A total of 3,700 invigilating staff will be deployed on the two days. Children have been adequately trained in answering in OMR sheets, which included bringing children in batches of 25 each to schools, in the last few days for orientation, Mr. Malleswamy said. Meanwhile, Block Education Officers have secured a list of students staying in far-flung areas in the district. Schools have made transport arrangements to bring these students to the examination centres. Nine students, who have tested positive for COVID-19, will write the examination in COVID Care Centres. Two rooms have been earmarked in each examination centre for students found with COVID-19 symptoms, he said. In Udupi Of the 77 examination centres in Udupi district, 26 are new and CCTV cameras are being installed in these centres. In a release, Udupi Deputy Director of Public Instructions N.H. Nagur said that a total of 1,780 rooms will be used, which includes two rooms earmarked for students with cold, fever and other COVID-19 symptoms. There will be a set of healthcare professionals in each examination centre. Mr. Nagur said that transport arrangements for students have been made at the taluk level. Teachers have taken the responsibility of bringing in their vehicles some students staying in remote places in Karkala, Kundapur and Byndoor taluks. Students and the invigilating staff will receive free N-95 masks, he said. Of the 13,931 students writing the examination, 12,881 are regular students and 204 are private candidates. There are 657 regular repeaters and 189 private repeaters. A total of 2,266 invigilating staff will be deployed and all of them have undergone vaccination. Arrangements have been made to ensure social distancing in the examination centres. Urban local bodies and panchayats have been entrusted with the responsibility of sanitising all rooms in the examination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/46588-to-write-sslc-exam-in-256-centres-in-twin-districts/article35400954.ece
19 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Techies happy to WFH, avoiding the hassles of Bengaluru||Amid a demand from sectors that also witnessed a boom along with the software industry, such as transport and real estate, to scrap the work-from-home (WFH) system, techies who have relocated back to their home towns are in favour of continuing it. “My family members are happy as I am in my home town. With high rent, exorbitant transport costs, and never-ending traffic jams, not many would want to continue to stay and work in Bengaluru by choice,” said Durga Ramadas, software professional in Mangaluru. He said 87% of employees in his company favoured WFH during a survey. Particularly, senior citizens are happy as their children are with them, he added. The development of Karnataka appears to be taking a course correction with WFH, said Gautam Shetty, a professional now in Kundapur. From Bengaluru-centric development, WFH has taken development even to villages where Internet connectivity is available. He argued that rural economy could improve with professionals working from their villages. “It was not that we wanted to work in Bengaluru. We were forced to do so because of a lack of opportunities in our hometowns,” Mr. Shetty said. Nithin Bhandary, now in Mangaluru, said several interest groups were behind the demand to scrap WFH. Politicians bought land and minted a fortune following the boom in the IT sector, followed by schools that charged exorbitant fees. The application fees itself would be around Rs. 200 and most parents usually buy applications from more than one school as they are unsure of getting admission at a particular school, he noted. Mr. Bhandary said the government should not succumb to lobbies if it really wants the comprehensive development of Karnataka, and should push for opening IT and IT-enabled service industries in different parts of the State with lessons from the WFH system. Venkatesh Rao, a resident of Koppa in Chikkamagaluru district, said the two lockdowns had helped revive the agricultural sector with many people returning home and taking up farming activities, at least part-time. Hybrid model Many companies are favouring a hybrid scenario. The HR head of a leading tech firm said the companyexpects around 30% of the techies to come back to work in 2022. IT companies are now saving 20% to 25% on operational costs, including rentals, energy cost, catering, transportation, housekeeping, water, and other charges, which is a direct positive impact on their bottom lines and profit, according to the CFO of a tech firm. However, most argue that WFH cannot be 100%. “Enterprises cannot fully exist out of homes. TCS just spoke about hiring 40,000 people. How will the newcomers learn culture, values, and process flow of their employer only via online?” asked B.S. Murthy, HR expert and CEO of CXO hiring firm, Leadership Capital.  (With inputs from Mini Tejaswi in Bengaluru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wfh-brings-a-sense-of-joy-among-families-of-techies/article35400617.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Buses to Kasaragod from today||Bus services between Mangaluru and Kasaragod (Kerala) will operate from Monday. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said in a statement on Sunday that the government has allowed both government and private operators to operate their buses between the two cities, albeit with certain restrictions. Accordingly, those from Kerala travelling to Mangaluru should have had their first dose of vaccination or they should produce their RT-PCR negative certificate for COVID-19. Test conducted 72 hours prior to travelling is valid. Bus conductors should ensure their passengers are carrying such certificates. All travellers should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. They should wear face masks and follow social distancing. Legal action will be taken against those found violating the guidelines, Dr. Rajendra said and added that this action is required to prevent the possibility of a third wave, if any, spreading in the State. The government has allowed travelling from Kasaragod considering the fact that people, mainly students, need to travel to Mangaluru daily for various reasons, including studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buses-to-kasaragod-from-today/article35400952.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut tomorrow in Udupi||Power supply in some areas in Udupi district will be disrupted between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Tuesday. The affected areas are Eshwarnagar in Manipal, Saralebettu, Arbi, Pragatinagar, Kotambail, Ninjurbettu, Kajke, Marali, Kota, Kotathattu, Manur, Saligrama, Karkada, Parampalli, Hangarakatte, Balkudru, Kundapur town, Kavradi, Koni and Basrur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cut-tomorrow-in-udupi/article35400956.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man taken into custody||The Uppinangady Police on Sunday took into their custody a 42-year-old man from Kokkada village of Belthangady taluk who was accused of harassing a 16-year-old girl on Saturday. According to the police, Rukmayya Madiwal forcibly took the girl away in his car on Saturday morning and made an attempt to harass her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-taken-into-custody/article35400955.ece
19 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Traffic police on a drive to remove footpath encroachments||The Mysuru City Traffic police has embarked upon an elaborate footpath encroachment clearance drive for the benefit of pedestrians. The drive, which began after two pedestrians were injured grieviously in a serial accident on New Sayyaji Rao Road on Thursday when they were forced to walk on the road due to encroachment of the footpath, entered the third day on Sunday. The traffic police cracked the whip on roadside vendors as well as shopkeepers who had kept their wares on the footpath, hindering the free movement of pedestrians. During the drive conducted in the limits of all the five traffic police stations in the city – Devaraja, Krishnaraja, Narasimharaja, Siddhartha Nagar and V.V. Puram – more than 100 cases were registered against vendors and shopkeepers, besides 50 cases against owners of vehicles for encroachment of the footpaths. While cases against vendors and shopkeepers were booked under the Karnataka Police Act, vehicle owners were booked under the IMV Act, said a statement by the police. On Friday, footpath encroachment removal drives were conducted on Vinobha Road, Irwin Road, Santhepet, Krishnaraja Boulevard, Mysuru-Bengaluru Road, New Sayyaji Rao Road and Kalidasa Road. On Saturday, traffic police went around K.R. Circle, M.G. Road, Sawday Road, Ashoka Road, St. Philomena’s Church Circle, Rajendra Nagar Main Road and from Deve Gowda Circle to Vidya Vikas College on Bannur Road removing the encroachments. The traffic police resumed the drive on Sunday by cracking down upon footpath encroachers on Vinobha Road, Udayaravi Road, Mahadevapura Road, Sayyaji Rao Road, Temple Road and Hootagalli junction. The city police and the civic officials have often taken up such drives, but the vendors would return soon thereafter. But, the city traffic police said the drive will continue till the footpaths provide unhindered movement to pedestrians. Referring to the injuries to the pedestrians during the serial accident on Thursday, a statement from the police said the pedestrians were unable to walk on the pavement along the road as it was encroached. The removal drive comes at a time when the number of roadside vendors had increased in the city, particularly after COVID-19 lockdowns last year and this year. The MCC, meanwhile, has identified vending zones in different parts of the city under the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana of National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM). Identifying areas on New Kantharaj Urs Road near Ballal Circle, in front of the Swimming Pool in Saraswathipuram, Vijaynagar High Tension Line Road near Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering, in front of St. Joseph’s Hospital in Bannimantap and near P and T quarters in N.R. Mohalla, the MCC has invited objections, if any, from the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-police-on-a-drive-to-remove-footpath-encroachments/article35400971.ece
19 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Gujarat handicrafts utsav begins||The Gujarat Handicrafts Utsav got underway at the JSS Mysore Urban Haat on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. Bringing a slice of the rich heritage and tradition of crafts of Gujarat, the handicrafts utsav will be on till July 25. More than 50 master craftsmen from Gujarat are participating in the exhibition. The artisans will exhibit, demonstrate and trade their rich customary art and craft including patola weaving, shawl weaving, Kutchi-embroidery, Arjakh block print, tie & dye (Bandhej), zari-zardosi work, bead work, wooden and metal art work, jewellery and accessories, nail painting, home decor and furnishings, and leather work. Marketing platform A release said the crafts festival is an initiative of the Industrial Extension Cottage (Indext-C), Government of Gujarat, and it aims to boost the livelihood of artisans. In addition, the initiative aims to provide a marketing platform for live artwork of handloom/handicrafts by the artisans coming from distant villages of Gujarat and pursuing the traditional artwork under cottage and rural industries, the release added With a step toward the self-reliant vision of the Gujarat government, the event is being organised for artisans related to handicraft with aim of making them self-reliant, creating better market reach, and eventually helping them to increase their income, said the organisers. For the people of Mysuru, it is an opportunity to not only admire and purchase the variety of handicrafts items on sale but also view cultural programmes of Gujarat besides savouring Gujarati cuisine at the food pavilion. The organisers said entry and parking is free and wearing of masks and adhering to social distancing norms are a must for the visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gujarat-handicrafts-utsav-begins/article35400967.ece
19 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||ACB inspects Hemavati canal repair works||The Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Lokayukta carried out a series of spot inspections in Mandya district spread over 4 days to ascertain charges of corruption in the Hemavati Canal repair works. The complaint was lodged by Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) which had filed a 570-page complaint suspecting embezzlement of funds to the tune of crores of rupees for repairs that were either shoddy in nature or were billed but not carried out. The civic works which were being questioned pertained to repair of irrigation canals in K.R.Pet taluk, a lift irrigation project in Godehosahalli in Kikkeri taluk, construction of a retaining wall and repair of the sluice canal of Hosaholalu Dodda Kere, among others. The Lokayukta staff conducted the inspection along different stretches of the canal from July 13 to 16 but the complainant, Nage Gowda of KRRS, has raised fresh concern that all the issues flagged by him were not addressed during the spot inspection. He has written to the office of the Lokayukta stating that the team which conducted the site inspection refused to visit the spot from where the gravel was supposedly excavated. The significance of the fact that sand and gravel supposed to have been extracted from a village - Chowdahalli – did not even exist and was fictitious in nature, was lost on the investigating team which brushed it aside, said Mr. Nage Gowda. The complaint was originally filed in March and the KRRS activist had also drawn the attention of the Governor, the Chief Secretary and other officials in the bureaucracy to seek inquiry to what he suspected to be a scam. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) wants Mandya MP Sumalatha to raise her voice against the alleged corruption in the modernisation of Hemavati Canal criss-crossing through Mandya district. KRRS leader K.R. Jayaram and Mandya district unit vice-president Maruvanahalli Shankar said that Ms. Sumalatha should take up the cause just as she had taken up the issue of quarrying around KRS dam and its implications on the safety of the reservoir. The KRRS said the modernisation of Hemavathi Canal which irrigates vast swathe of agricultural land in K.R.Pet, Nagamangala, Pandavpura, Mandya and Maddur taluk was shoddy in nature. Though the Lokayukta took up the spot inspection following complaints, the local engineers tried to misguide them in a bid to hush up the scam, alleged the KRRS. Hence it appealed to Ms.Sumalatha to conduct a spot visit similar to her visit to the quarry units in Mandya recently so as to unravel the scam.  KRRS had filed a 570-page complaint suspecting embezzlement of funds to the tune of crores of rupees for repairs that were either shoddy in nature or were billed but not carried out Repair of irrigation canals in K.R.Pet taluk, a lift irrigation project in Godehosahalli in Kikkeri taluk, construction of a retaining wall and repair of the sluice canal of Hosaholalu Dodda Kere under scanner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-inspects-hemavati-canal-repair-works/article35400968.ece
19 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Last rites of Made Gowda held with state honours||The last rites of former Mandya MP and Cauvery Hitarakshana Samithi leader G. Made Gowda was held with state honours at Hanumanthanagar in Maddur taluk on Sunday. Made Gowda passed away after a prolonged illness on Saturday drawing the curtains down on a life marked by simplicity and inspired by Gandhian philosophy. After the completion of traditional ceremonies State honours were accorded to the mortal remains of Made Gowda and the last rites completed in the presence of family members and others. Earlier, his body was shifted from the hospital to his house in Mandya to enable the immediate family members and close relatives and friends to pay their last respects to a man who had represented Kirugavulu Assembly constituency and elected as MLA six times. The mortal remains was then shifted to Gandhi Bhavan where a large number of people including farmer leaders observed silence and paid their respects to the departed leader after which the body was taken to K.M.Doddi. The business establishments in the town had downed shutters as a mark of respect to the departed leader. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, district in-charge Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda, Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, and Adichunchanagiri Mutt seer Swami Nirmalanandana were among those who paid their last respects and commiserated with the bereaved family members of Made Gowda. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, former Chief Minister H.D.Kumaraswamy, and Suttur seer Sri Shivaratri Deshikendra Swamiji sent messages condoling the passing away of Made Gowda. Mentor Mr. Narayana Gowda described Made Gowda as his mentor and recalled his contribution to uphold the interest of farmers of Karnataka on the Cauvery water issue. Mr. Ashwath Narayan said that he had called on Made Gowda when the latter was in hospital a few days ago and was hopeful of his speedy recovery then. Mr. Ashwath Narayan described Made Gowda as a person whose political and personal life was transparent and recalled his contribution to various spheres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-rites-of-made-gowda-held-with-state-honours/article35400969.ece
19 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ten arrested for burning e-waste on vacant sites near Ring Road||The sparsely inhabited residential areas around Rajiv Nagar 3rd stage outside the Ring Road, where garbage is found illegally dumped, had also become a convenient location for waste recyclers to extract valuable metals by setting fire to electronic waste. However, the police, responding to complaints from the residents, cracked down on the illegal activity and arrested a total of ten persons in two separate raids during the last one week. The vacant plots of land near Varuna Canal flowing adjacent to Rajiv Nagar 3rd stage in Devanur was being used by the accused to set fire to dry and electronic waste to extract copper, iron and other metals. But, the toxic fumes emanating from the burnt e-waste posed a serious health risk to the residents of the locality. After the residents complained about the possible spread of infectious diseases through the toxic fumes, a team of police personnel from Mysuru South police station raided the area on July 11 and again on July 17. While Amanulla Khan, Syed Ruman, Amjad Pasha, Tausifulla Baig, Riyaz, Nadeemulla Baig and Hamid were arrested during the first raid on July 11, Abdul Wahid, Mohammed Tahir Pasha and Arifulla were arrested during the second raid on July 17. The accused had been booked under Section 269 of the Indian Penal Code, which has provision for punishing whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread infection of any dangerous disease. The Mysuru district police, while warning people against indulging in such illegal activity, has also appealed to the general public to bring to their notice any such activity for necessary action. Superintendent of Mysuru District Police R. Chethan has appreciated the efforts of Mysuru South Police station in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-arrested-for-burning-e-waste-on-vacant-sites-near-ring-road/article35400965.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SSLC examination begins today||The number of centres, which were 3,310 in 2020, has been increased to 4,885. Examination rooms, too, have been increased from 48,000 last year to 73,064. 23 students test positive As of Sunday, 23 students across the State informed their schools that they had tested positive for COVID-19. They will write the examination at a COVID Care Centre (CCC) in their respective districts. V. Sumangala, KSEEB director, said arrangements have been made by the respective block education officers for CCCs following all standard operating procedures. Only 12 students, one per bench, will be seated in a classroom. Officials of KSEEB pointed out that candidates with symptoms of cough, cold, and fever will be allowed to take the test in a separate room. A health check-up counter equipped with thermal scanners and pulse oximeters have been set up at each centre. According to the department officials, all the staff involved in examination duty have received at least one dose of vaccination. Drills were conducted in various centres on Saturday. Students will have to appear for two examinations - one on Monday and another on July 22. The first paper includes all core subjects - science, mathematics and social science. On July 22, students will have to appear for three language papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-examination-begins-today/article35400621.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Work goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-goes-on/article35400613.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The headline for the report that appeared in these columns on Sunday should read “Have green buffer zone between flats and solid waste treatment plant at Kotekar”, and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article35400949.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flooded||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flooded/article35400626.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For a new crop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-a-new-crop/article35400787.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of power||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) head office last week witnessed a fight, literally, over a chair. The contention was over which of two senior officials was to be Joint Director in the Town Planning Department. When Joint Director Manjesh stepped out for a short break, Venkat Durga Prasad assumed office. He claimed that as per an order issued by the High Court, he was deputed as Joint Director. Mr. Manjesh was in for a surprise when he returned to find someone else occupying his chair. While the BBMP Employees’ Association backed Mr. Manjesh and demanded that Mr. Prasad be repatriated to his parent department, BBMP chief Gaurav Gupta only said he would examine the orders by the High Court and the Department Personnel and Administrative Reforms before initiating any action against the officials.   The airport coming up at Sogane, near Shivamogga, requires at least another year to be completed. It has already run into a controversy over the design of the structure, as it resembles a lotus, the symbol of the political party in power. Now, debates have begun over what the airport’s name should be. Among the names suggested for the airport initially were those of poet Kuvempu and socialist politician Shantaveri Gopala Gowda. Gradually, the list grew. Former Chief Ministers S. Bangarappa, Kadidal Manjappa, and J.H. Patel found a place on the list. Fans of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also came forward to suggest his name would be suitable for the structure as he was the one responsible for bringing the project to the district. Of the names doing the rounds, a few are backed by caste-based organisations. It remains to be how long the list will be by the time the airport is actually ready.   The death anniversary of Laxmanrao and Bheemavva Jarkiholi, parents of the Gokak-based Jarkiholi brothers, turned into an occasion for the clan to introduce its next generation. Every year, all the five brothers gather at their parents’ memorial and spend some time, forgetting their political differences. This time, however, of the five brothers, only Balachandra Jarkiholi, BJP legislator and KMF chairman, was present. Members of the younger lot that arrived to pay their respects were Amarnath and Santosh, the children of Ramesh Jarkiholi, the eldest sibling, Priyanka and Rahul, the children of Satish Jarkiholi, Sanat and Sarvottam, the children of Bhimshi Jarkiholi, and Lakhan Jarkiholi’s son Aditya. The youth paid their respects to their grandparents, spoke to friends of the family who had gathered, and spent time with their cousins. Later, they sat in a circle, listening to their uncle Balachandra. The unmarried leader is regarded as the mentor for all the younger Jarkiholis. He is known to act as mediator when differences arise among them. Satish Jarkiholi’s office promptly sent out a press note along with pictures of the “future leaders”.  Chitra V. Ramani   Sathish G.T.   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article35400623.ece
19 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two youths drown at Anayirangal dam||Two persons drowned in Anayirangal dam on Saturday evening. The victims were identified as medical officer at Periyakanal estate in Munnar, Dr Ashish, who belonged to Karnataka, and Gokul Thimmayya, Assistant Manager, Chenduvarai estate. The police said that they were part of a four-member group which came to visit Anayirangal dam in the district. While Ashish tried to swim, he was caught in the undercurrents and Gokul, trying to help him, also drowned, the police said. The local people with the help of police recovered the bodies. An autopsy was conducted at the Taluk hospital, Adimali||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-drown-at-anayirangal-dam/article35400908.ece
19 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||DSC toughens stance against use of land by school||The Defence Service Corps (DSC), which is planning to fence the land in front of St. Michael’s Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School, has toughened its stance against those using the land by fining them. On Saturday, defence personnel levied fine on those who parked vehicles in the space. It has apparently caused a rift between the DSC and people living around the cantonment area and the school authorities who were using the land. The school has moved the High Court against the decision of the DSC, with an appeal to preserve the ground as such for the school to use it. It has also appealed to the court to stop the DSC from reclassifying the space without issuing a notice. School principal S.J. John Francis said the management was looking for an amicable solution, as the school had been using the ground ever since its establishment in 1865. The ground had been classified as B-4 defence land. In February 2021, the school received a letter saying that the land had been re-classified as A-1 defence land for military purposes. “A lot of land is available with the DSC, and it should reconsider its decision, so that children attending the school are not inconvenienced,” Mr. Francis said. An earlier attempt by the DSC to fence the land was strongly opposed by local residents and people’s representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dsc-toughens-stance-against-use-of-land-by-school/article35400844.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Waste disposal gains steam under Green Mission||The movement to collect and dispose of waste in Ernakulam has gained momentum under the Green Kerala Mission. Sources in the mission said most local bodies in the district had set up material collection centres for aggregating waste from the respective areas. They said only 16 of the 82 panchayats in Ernakulam now needed to set up collection centres. The government proposal is to establish around 100 material collection centres across the State under the Rebuild Kerala initiative. The Rebuild Kerala mission was initiated after the devastating floods in August 2018. The proposals also include creating a database on commercially potential resources, riverine biodiversity conservation and rejuvenation, conservation of agro biodiversity, development of sanitary landfills, and integrated facilities for disposal of plastic. It was also announced that Rs. 4.5 crore was being set aside for setting up waste collection and disposal centres at government office complexes across the State. Each district headquarters will have a material collection centre. Larger material collection centres will be set up at the block level to ensure that waste is aggregated and processed in a scientific manner using methods like sorting. Haritha Keralam Mission (HKM) sources said around 80% of waste collected by local bodies could be disposed of without any environmental issues as they are recyclable. As part of the ongoing programme, the district collectorate will spare space for collecting, sorting, and disposing waste. The district authorities have designated around 1,200 sq.ft. space near the collectorate canteen at Kakkanad for storing and sorting waste. Work on the facility is expected to begin soon. The facility will collect waste materials from offices at the collectorate and sort and hand them over to HKM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waste-disposal-gains-steam-under-green-mission/article35400857.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Urban planners for passenger-centric transport infra||Architects and urban planners have sought inclusion of passenger-centric and climate-resilient solutions for infrastructure projects in Kochi, especially in the context of the proposal to relocate the KSRTC bus station to Karikkamuri, and to build a commercial complex in its place. Such projects entailing substantial public funds must not be stop-gap fixes, which abound in India. It is good that decision makers opted for an inter-modal hub at Vyttila — the Vyttila Mobility Hub (VMH) — away from the city hub and on the eastern side of the NH Bypass, over a decade ago, said Annet Bincy Edwin, urban planner-cum-consultant architect, who was associated with the smart city project in Shillong. “Long-distance buses must be routed through the NH Bypass, so that they call at VMH and do not need to waste time and fuel commuting all the way through congested roads to Karikkamuri where the new bus station has been envisaged. Entry to the new facility could be limited to mofussil buses which operate to the suburbs and to city buses. This is because extremely narrow roads dominate the Karikkamuri area, and that leaves little space for manoeuvring vehicles. It is also prone to getting flooded, just like the premises of the existing bus station,” she said. The ‘green corridor’ linking the Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations too must be in sync with the aspirations of passengers and the public. Care must be taken so that the upcoming projects are futuristic, considering the manifold increase in the number of commuters expected in the coming decades. In addition, steps must be taken to ensure modern and user-friendly bus waiting sheds across the city and well-maintained toilet blocks in public spaces. Put short, the city’s identity and the habits of its populace must reflect in planning such urban infrastructure, Ms. Bincy observed. Better Kochi Response Group (BKRG) president S. Gopakumar, who designed open spaces like DH Ground, sought shifting of the entire KSRTC bus station to VMH, which has a total of 25 acres. “The hub must thus be the transfer / changeover point for commuters who wish to board or alight buses. What is the need for people living in residential areas located mostly in the eastern side of the city to commute all the way through the congested commercial hub on the western side?” he asked. “The KSRTC-owned prime land at Karikkamuri can well be leased out as a public, commercial space. But care must be taken to prevent a situation like at the Thampanoor bus station in Thiruvananthapuram, where vast commercial space is idling for want of patronage,” he said. Vyttila fiasco Similarly, urban and traffic planners must be roped in for infra projects, so that they do not end up like the ill-conceived flyover at Vyttila. Traffic snarls would not have occurred beneath the flyover if the structure had been extended southward and northward by around 100 metres. This would have enabled readying of a pair of U-turns on either side for vehicles in the east-west direction, Mr. Gopakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urban-planners-for-passenger-centric-transport-infra/article35400854.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Row over judges’ apartment project takes a new turn||The dispute over the property where the Kerala Judicial Officers’ Cooperative Society is constructing an apartment complex at Chalikkavattom here has taken a new turn, with both the society and the Kochi Corporation approaching the police to file criminal cases. The society approached the Police Commissioner with a complaint that corporation councillors A.R. Padmadas and K.S. Saleesh had criminally conspired and forged documents relating to the permit issued for the property in question and replaced genuine documents with forged ones. Later, Mr. Padmadas made Mr. Saleesh file a false complaint against the society before the Kochi Corporation to stall the construction of the complex, according to the complaint. ‘False documents’ The Kochi Corporation Secretary filed a complaint against the society, alleging that it had submitted false documents to obtain the building permit. The civic body has listed the secretary of the society as the first accused and James George, the architect of the firm that took up the construction work, as the second accused. The corporation had earlier permitted the construction of the complex based on documents submitted by the society. However, the document pertaining to the nature of a portion of the land of around eight cents in the holding was found altered, according to the complaint submitted by the Corporation Secretary. Stop memo Incidentally, the dispute over the building permit had reached the Kerala High Court after the society challenged the stop memo issued by the corporation. The court had permitted the society to continue the work except in the disputed area. Meanwhile, Mr. Padmadas denied forging the documents. He maintained that he was targeted for attempting to regain the property of Thrikkovil Temple, Chalikkavattom, which was sold by some individuals. Building permit On its part, the society maintained that it had applied for the permit through a builder with genuine documents, and that the permit was granted in 2019. The construction of the building was almost over, and finishing work was in progress. No construction was proposed in the eight-cent holding, as it was marked as the setback area in the south-western corner of the holding, society officials maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-judges-apartment-project-takes-a-new-turn/article35400855.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,555 new COVID-19 cases||Ernakulam district reported 1,555 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Of them, six persons arrived from outside the State, while 1,540 are cases of local transmission. There are eight cases in which the source of infection is not known. One health worker is among the infected, said a communication from the district administration on Sunday. Nayarambalam reported the highest number of cases at 61, while those in Chellanam stood at 39, Thrikkakara 39, and Kothamangalam 37. There were 35 cases in Kizhakkambalam, while Mazhuvannoor recorded 33 cases, the communication added. Koothattukulam, Chittattukara, Edakkattuvayal, Valakam, Aikaranad, Pachalam, Panayappally, Maneed, Karuvelippadi, Palakuzha, and Perumpadappu are places where less than five cases were reported. A total of 1,224 people were declared cured of the disease on Sunday, while 2,623 came under observation. The district also saw 2,212 people completing the observation period. The number of those under observation stands at 37,064. Admissions to hospitals and first-line treatment centres stood at 104, while 196 persons were discharged. As many as 13,650 people are under treatment for the disease in the district. They include 92 at the Government Medical College, 27 at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital, and 65 at the Ernakulam General Hospital. A total of 16,497 samples have been sent for testing, and the test positivity rate stands at 9.43%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1555-new-covid-19-cases/article35400859.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Terminal-2 at CIAL to be renovated||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has decided to renovate Terminal - 2 of the airport to accommodate a business jet terminal, VIP safe house, and a budget hotel with 50 rooms. A communication from the airport said on Sunday that the work on the project was expected to be completed in a year. Terminal - 2 housed domestic flight operations, and they were shifted to Terminal - 1 in 2019. The new projects are being planned to scale up revenue, the communication added. CIAL Managing Director S. Suhas said the project had received the green signal from the director board of the airport headed by the Chief Minister. The CIAL authorities are looking at different income streams, and business jet arrivals, expected to go up considerably in the future, is among the future prospects. CIAL, the first airport in the world to depend solely on solar power for day-to-day operations, had recently unveiled plans to become the first airport in the world to do away with landing and parking charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/terminal-2-at-cial-to-be-renovated/article35400856.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bar council takes action against lawyer||Social media posts have landed a woman lawyer in trouble with the Bar Council of Kerala suo motu initiating disciplinary action against her. A meeting of the council held on Saturday “decided to initiate suo motu disciplinary action against Sangeetha Lakshmana for alleged misconduct under Section 35 of the Advocates Act.” It was the social media posts of Ms. Lakshmana against the wife of a deceased CPI(M) leader and a woman police officer who struggled to come up in life that irked the Council. A council member said it decided to initiate disciplinary action upon finding that many of her social media posts ‘denigrated the dignity of the profession.’ Ms. Lakshmana will be served a show-cause notice and her reply will be forwarded to the disciplinary committee of the council, which will decide on the case, said Joseph Jon, chairman of the council. If found guilty, the council can reprimand and even suspend the advocate from practice for a period it deems fit. Lawyer’s response Ms. Lakshmana said she was yet to receive any communication from the council. “I am unaware of the contents of the notice and hence cannot respond to it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bar-council-takes-action-against-lawyer/article35400860.ece
19 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man found dead near apartment||A young man was found dead on Saturday night, after he reportedly fell off an apartment complex at Netoor here. According to the police, Mohammed Shaan, 30, from Pathanamthitta was staying alone at an apartment in the multi-storey building. He and a few others had a get-together on Saturday night, following which he was reported to have fallen from the apartment complex. A case of unnatural death has been registered, while his call records and other details are being gathered as part of the probe, the Panangad police said. 51 cases registered Those who misuse lockdown relaxations will be sternly dealt with, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik said at an online meeting with representatives of traders on Sunday. A total of 51 cases were registered in the past few days against those who violated home quarantine norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-dead-near-apartment/article35400852.ece
19 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kufos to hold free entrepreneurship training||The Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) will hold a free entrepreneurship training programme with the support of the National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) between August 25 and October 11. The programme is online, and those wishing to join it may submit applications before August 14. They may contact 8075364710 for registration. Details are available atwww.kufos.ac.in. Those with technology diplomas or degrees will be given preference for undergoing training, said a communication from the university. NSTEDB was established under the aegis of the Department of Science and Technology to help knowledge-driven and technology-intensive enterprises, and one of the objectives of the institution is to make job-seekers job-generators through technology intervention. Meanwhile, KUFOS has been officially recognised by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The recognition will pave the way for research projects getting financial support from the UGC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kufos-entrepreneurship-training-programme/article35400847.ece
19 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew workers plan protests on July 28||All Kerala Cashewnut Factory Workers’ Federation and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC) will launch agitations in all cashew factories across the State demanding a comprehensive package to revive the sinking sector. Downed shutters “Among the 846 factories in the State, only 40 are run by Kerala State Cashew Workers Apex Industrial Cooperative Society (Capex) and Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC). Rest of the factories are in private sector and most of them have downed their shutters rendering thousands of workers jobless. All major processors have relocated to other States due to government apathy,” said A.A.Aziz, working president of the federation. The federation members said that both the State and Centre have failed to address the issues of the sector even after five processors committed suicide. The Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had suspended the powers vested with Cashew Export Promotion Council of India (CEPCI) headquartered in Kollam and authorised Agriculture and Processed Food Export Development Agency (APEDA) to issue Registration Cum Membership Certificates (RCMCs) to cashew exporters. White elephant Alleging that Cashew Board, constituted to to procure RCN directly from cashew exporting countries, is nothing but a white elephant, federation president N.K.Premachandran, MP, said that the industry will not survive without adequate government support. “When the LDF government announced the 100-day action plan, the industry was totally ignored. The new budget too had nothing for the sector,” he added. While former Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had introduced subsidy to coir workers under income support scheme to help the sector, cashew, another traditional sector, received no such stimulus from the government, he pointed out. Jobs to thousands “The industry that provided livelihood to thousands of women from underprivileged sections, has come to a standstill. Right now the industry needs a comprehensive package for revival. Cashew federation will organise a protest as per COVID-19 protocol on July 28 at Kollam collectorate and it will be extended to all factories in the State in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-workers-plan-protests-on-july-28/article35400909.ece
19 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||An app to protect doctors from assault||While COVID-19 threw the world into a haze of fear and uncertainty, healthcare professionals were left to fight a two-front war. Doctors, the front-line brigade handling an unprecedented public health emergency, had to face sporadic incidents of violence that increased steadily over the time. Amidst tremendous work pressure and resultant burnout, they were hardly prepared to tackle acts of aggression, obstruction or threat. Since the situation calls for upgraded measures, NS Co-operative Hospital, Kollam, has come up with a mobile app to safeguard medical professionals on duty. Safedoc, the app developed by the IT Department of the hospital, will send SOS messages to police, hospital authorities and IMA unit officials if an emergency occurs. “Reports of attacks on doctors have been on the rise since the pandemic and at present we are bracing for an impending third wave. There have seen several incidents of medical staff getting assaulted and miscreants vandalising hospitals, ” says P.Shibu, hospital secretary. Apart from alerting police, IMA unit and hospital authorities, Safedoc also has a provision to record live sound and send the file. “The highlight of the app is that you can send messages to all groups with a single click and the recipients will also get the latitude and longitude of your exact location. It will be a faster and more efficient method compared to making calls,” says V.S. Akhil from the IT department of the hospital. The app can be used in places without internet connectivity as it requires mobile network coverage only. “ Safedoc will be available on the playstore from next week,” adds Mr.Akhil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-app-to-protect-doctors-from-assault/article35400919.ece
19 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1.026 new COVID cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,026 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,499 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,022 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include four health workers. The test positivity rate of Kollam is 8.8% and 11,568 people were tested on Sunday. At present the district has 30,191 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 18,15,698. Alappuzha The district reported 786 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 9.52%. Of the fresh cases, 748 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 34 others remains unknown. The 786 cases include 107 logged from Alappuzha, 40 from Mannancherry, 33 from Cherthala, 31 from Arattupuzha, 27 from Thuravoor, 26 from Krishnapuram, 25 from Thrikkunnapuzha, 22 from Kadakkarappally, 21 from Kanjikuzhy, and 20 from Ezhupunna. ( With inputs from Alappuzha bureau  )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1026-new-covid-cases-in-kollam/article35400912.ece
19 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Students lend a hand for running flood alert system||Every morning as the clock strikes 8.30, Emel Luke, a sixth standard student, and his little brother Tom Dev rush to the backyard of their house at Pathampuzha, Poonjar. Out there in a corner, they have a cylindrical rain gauge. The children then take out its measuring jar, pour out the water and record the rain they received over the past 24 hours. It is all done in just five minutes as they have to reset the system to measure the rainfall that the location will get in the next 24 hours. Upon returning, the children log on to a website through a trusted user ID and upload the measures collected, adding to a series of precipitation monitoring statistics collected from different points along the Meenachil river basin in Kottayam. These children, students of St. Joseph’s UP School, Malayinchippara, are part of a 30-member student group that assists the Meenachil River Protection Council (MRPC) in running a hi-tech flood alert system for the Meenachil. According to Eby Immanuel, MRPC secretary, the council engages volunteers of all ages from upper primary school students up to people above 70 years to document the size, intensity, duration and patterns of precipitation by taking simple measurements in their own backyards. People only need a cylindrical rain gauge, some training and an interest in weather observation to participate in the programme. “We are pleased that this simple home monitoring mechanism has become so popular. It is fun, easy and takes less than five minutes a day,” he said. At 150 locations As part of the initiative, the MRPC has already installed rain gauges in over 150 locations across the river basin from Vagamon to Kumarakom, besides the scales to measure the depth of the river at 10 points. “While the initial plan was to associate with the educational institutions in the region and form student support groups, the plan did not take off due to the COVID-19 crisis. But as the conservation group commenced its weather monitoring activity, several youngsters volunteered for it,” added Mr. Immanuel. Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said the data collected through the volunteers were being monitored by experts while the entire system was open to periodical verification by government departments or officials. “The high-density of the data collection mechanism helps remove the outliers. Over a period of time, we will be able to link up the rainfall variability with water-level variability and forecast the occurrence of floods in the Meenachil,” he explained. More on the cards Meanwhile, two educational institutions – St. George College, Aruvithura, and the College of Engineering, Kidangoor, have expressed interest in analysing the river- monitoring data. Plans are afoot to expand the group’s activities to other issues faced by the river such as recurring droughts and soil erosion as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-lend-a-hand-for-running-flood-alert-system/article35400937.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||High-level panel nod for tunnel road DPR||A high-level committee entrusted with the supervision of multi-crore infrastructure development projects in the State has approved in-principle the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel road project. After the completion of remaining technical works, the report will be submitted to the Centre for final clearance. According to officials entrusted with the implementation of the project, civil works for the Rs. 2,000-crore tunnel road are likely to be launched on November 1, on the occasion of Kerala Piravi Day. The four-lane tunnel could be commissioned by April 2025 if all works were executed within the fixed time without any technical hurdles, they said. In the wake of the in-principle approval for the DPR, local welfare committees have called for the speeding up of four-lane road construction works covering the Mukkam-Marippuzha stretch. It was on October 5, 2020 that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan officially announced the project launch. The project got fresh impetus after the Konkan Railway completed the scientific surveys, alignment, and the preparation of the DPR. Various other government agencies also conducted site inspections to ensure that the project could be executed without any environmental issues. Though the earlier proposal was to construct a two-lane tunnel, the State accepted the four-lane proposal, considering the improved safety requisites. There was also a proposal to construct a parallel security tunnel, which increased the total project cost by around 60%. According to officials, the old proposal was revised by incorporating the required changes. For the execution of the project, the Kerala government had appointed the Kerala Road Fund Board as the special purpose vehicle. The Left Democratic Front-led government in its first budget had allotted Rs. 20 crore for meeting the preliminary survey cost and other DPR preparation expenses. Former Thiruvambady MLA George M. Thomas was at the forefront to ensure fast clearance for the project. Both Mr. George and Linto Joseph, current MLA, said the propaganda by Opposition parties to stall the project would not affect it. They said the project would be an asset for the constituency and the district to promote tourism, and it would facilitate safe journeys by reducing the existing distance between Kozhikode and Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-level-panel-nod-for-tunnel-road-dpr/article35400849.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police act tough on COVID protocol violators||The Kozhikode City Police on Sunday resorted to stringent legal action against shop owners and customers who flouted the COVID-19 protocol while trying to take advantage of lockdown relaxations announced by the State government till Tuesday. On S.M. Street, 70 persons, including 14 traders, were booked for violating physical distancing norms. Considering the uncontrolled rush, some wayside traders were denied permission to carry out sales. The call to follow a token system was ignored by many traders citing technical difficulties. By Sunday evening, police deployment was strengthened near major shopping centres and streets to enforce physical distancing norms. Senior citizens and children found in public places were asked to go home. The police issued warnings to families that took children below the age of 10 years and senior citizens with them for shopping. Traffic police officers said more regulations would be in place on city roads on Monday to ensure smooth traffic. On Sunday, the entry of a large number of vehicles on city roads had affected the flow of traffic in several locations. Health Department officials said the huge rush on city roads could emerge as a big challenge in controlling the spread of COVID-19 in the days to come. Meanwhile, traders on S.M. Street said the police were trying to enforce regulations ignoring relaxations granted by the State government. In many areas, the checking squads created a lockdown-like situation without permitting free movement of traders and customers, they alleged. A section of street vendors also accused the police of disrupting their livelihood in the name of enforcing safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-act-tough-on-covid-protocol-violators/article35400851.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants unhappy with controlled easing of curbs||Merchant bodies across the State has expressed displeasure over the relaxations announced by the Chief Minister on Saturday, citing that they are hardly adequate to overcome the crisis faced by the commercial sector. A joint meeting of the Malabar Development Council (MDC), Wayanad Chamber of Commerce, Small Scale Building Owners’ Association and the All Kerala Consumer Goods Distributors’ Association requested the State to allow relaxations in all sectors so that all establishments could function normally following COVID-19 protocol. Citing the uncontrollable crowd on S.M. Street in Kozhikode on Friday and Sunday, the merchant bodies pointed out that impractical and unscientific restrictions, besides apprehensions led to the situation. The State should adopt the policy followed by many foreign countries by allowing all establishments to function and extending their working time, the organisations said. In debts Most entrepreneurs were in severe debt, and without any support from the government, were on the verge of suicide. If the lockdown continued, the pending stocks would become unsaleable resulting in further crisis. The building owners’ association said most of its members had waived rents of their buildings during the lockdown, but did not even get a relaxation of building tax from the government. MDC president C.E. Chakkunni presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/merchants-unhappy-with-controlled-easing-of-curbs/article35400921.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ayurveda medical forum files complaint against hepatologist||The Ayurveda Medical Association of India (AMAI) has filed complaints to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan against a Kochi-based doctor accusing him of defaming AYUSH. The letter by Sadath Dinakar, general secretary, AMAI, claimed that Cyriac Abby Philips, hepatologist with a private hospital in Kochi, had tried to defame Ayurveda in a video uploaded on a YouTube channel on June 21. Dr. Dinakar alleged that Dr. Philips had called AYUSH Department ‘unscientific’. Dr. Philips also mentioned that immunity boosters given for COVID-19 by the AYUSH Ministry could damage the liver cells. “The video said that 34 of the 1,440 patients who had consulted Dr. Philip are having liver-related diseases due to the consumption of Ayurvedic drugs. He even defamed companies with Good Manufacturing Practices certificate in the Ayurveda field by claiming that they promote quackery,” the letter said. Dr. Dinakar alleged that Dr. Philips had not followed the guidelines prescribed by the Department of AYUSH to study Ayurvedic drugs. His arguments were based on his assumptions and not on scientific studies. He demanded that Dr. Philips’ registration be cancelled and action initiated against the YouTube channel. Dr. Philips told The Hindu on Sunday that the complaint did not seem to have any legal ground. “I had not mentioned the AYUSH Department in the video. I just pointed out that all the herbal medicines are not safe, a fact proved by various scientific studies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayurveda-medical-forum-files-complaint-against-hepatologist/article35400922.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Forest Dept. foisting false cases on farmers’||We Farm, a collective of hillside settler farmers, has accused the Forest Department of foisting false cases on those who recently took part in a protest against the officials for their alleged apathy in addressing the wild elephant menace in Chakkittappara panchayat. The association leaders said the farmers took part in the protest as they were scared to live on their own land amid frequent raids by wild elephants. The farmers had recently lost crops worth Rs. 40 lakh, they said. We Farm functionaries claimed that a Range Officer was behind the attempt to implicate the farmers in fabricated cases. The leaders called upon the Kozhikode Divisional Forest Officer and other senior officers to withdraw the cases. They also threatened to go ahead with indefinite protest again in case of any hostile action against the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-foisting-false-cases-on-farmers/article35400848.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CB checks in Kozhikode to track suspected Maoists||The Crime Branch (CB) officials on Sunday conducted flash inspections in some of the houses, flats and offices at Paroppady and Malaparamba areas in the city following a suspicion that a local resident was maintaining close contact with Maoist elements. The raid was carried out after some of the local industrialists allegedly received threatening communications from a man who owned these buildings. According to Crime Branch sources, there were two persons suspected of having involvement in the incident. The threatening letter which also sought money for avoiding revengeful action was posted by one of the suspected Kozhikode natives from a post office in Wayanad district, who would be arrested soon after interrogation, they said. The investigation team led by Police Superintendent T.P. Sreejith zeroed in on the suspected after tracking visuals from CCTV cameras. Police sources said they would cross-check whether the threat was issued to fool the industrialists in the name of Maoists. Some of the documents were also recovered from the raided spots for further verifications, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-checks-in-kozhikode-to-track-suspected-maoists/article35400935.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,666 more test positive||As many as 1,666 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Sunday. District Medical Officer V. Jayashree said the daily test positivity rate was 13.57% when 12,500 samples were tested. Of the fresh cases, 1,646 are locally acquired infections, and the source of 18 others is not known. As many as 1,686 people recovered from the infection. The active caseload in the district is 18,419.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1666-more-test-positive/article35400843.ece
19 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Youth killed in ship accident||The family of V. Athulraj (28) of Koyilandy, who was killed in a ship accident in the Persian Gulf, has sought the intervention of the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Embassy to bring his body home. The ship reportedly caught fire on July 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-killed-in-ship-accident/article35400938.ece
19 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||FHC resurrected to bring laurels to health sector||A government health centre at Vazhakkad in Malappuram is getting spruced up to bring laurels to the State’s health sector. The centre, being reconstructed after it was destroyed in the 2018 floods, is poised to become the biggest and the most advanced family health centre (FHC) in the country when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurates it on July 24. The Rs. 10-crore FHC at Vazhakkad, funded by Shamsheer Vayalil, NRI entrepreneur and chairman of VPS Healthcare, will be the first of its kind in the State. From ruins, it underwent a complete makeover through the use of modern design and technology. It will be the first such facility in the country promoting the concept of health and wellness with an open gymnasium, play area for children, and other amenities. In line with the design and structure developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras, the glass fibre reinforced gypsum (GFRG) rapid-wall technology has been used in the 13,700-sq.ft. FHC, besides eliminating bricks, blocks, timber, and plasterboard linings. It has an advanced laboratory and a modern imaging department. Moreover, there are 15 oxygen concentrators and a stabilisation unit to attend to patients suffering from low oxygen saturation. The FHC has an emergency room, a mini operation theatre, doctors’ consulting rooms, nurses’ station, medical store, vaccine store, sample collection centre, vision and dental clinics, and a special zone for mother and child, pregnant women, and the elderly. The second floor has a conference hall, apart from administrative offices. “It has an exclusive OP for pregnant women and the elderly. Before the floods, the centre used to take care of 75,000 patients a year. The upgraded FHC is equipped with facilities to attend to around two lakh patients a year,” said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena. “The FHC is also expected to strengthen our relentless efforts in battling the pandemic,” she added. As many as 40 students of architecture from Government Engineering College, Thrissur, lent their support in the construction of the centre. For them, it was a great learning experience as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fhc-resurrected-to-bring-laurels-to-health-sector/article35400846.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Scholarship issue: UDF presents united face||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Sunday scrambled to stymie speculation that the Congress-led coalition was seriously divided over the government’s 2011 population census based restructuring of the merit-cum-means scholarship for the educationally backward minority community students. The issue came into the political spotlight after the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) corrected Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan’s remark that the amended award had “not caused any loss” to the Muslim community. Mr. Satheesan flip-flopped on the issue hours after IUML leader E.T. Muhammad Basheer, MP, said Mr. Satheesan was patently wrong. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said the UDF would discuss the concerns raised by the IUML. He denied the matter had caused cracks in the coalition. Meanwhile, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committe (KPCC) has banned leaders from making any public statements on the issue. The Church has indicated that it welcomed the decision. The Congress was mindful that any callous statement might offend the Kerala Congress (J), essentially representing the Christian community. The Congress felt that the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] might weaponise the issue to unsettle the UDF. The party has repeatedly insinuated that the IUML had eclipsed the Congress in the UDF. The CPI(M) would also need to a walk a tight rope between Christian and Muslim interests in the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The Kerala Congress (M) and the Indian National League (INL) have opposite views on the matter. IUML view The IUML said the current allocation had cost the community dear. It violated the spirit of the Sachar committee, which had reserved minority scholarships exclusively for Muslim students. The LDF government in 2011 had whittled down the scholarship for Muslim students from 100% to 80%. It awarded the 20% hewn out of Muslim allocation to Latin Catholics, converted Christians and other minorities. Subsequently, the 2011 decision paved the way for the current High Court order, the IUML said. The High Court had declared the 80:20 allocation legally unsustainable and heavily loaded in favour of the Muslim community. It ordered the government in February to rectify the anomaly as per the 2011 population Census data. As per the 2011 population Census, Christians constitute 18.38%, Muslim 26.56%, Buddhists 0.01%, Jain 0.01% and Sikh 0.01% of the population. The government has awarded the scholarships as per this ratio. An LDF insider said the government had tasked a commission to study Christian backwardness. It might be a precursor of separate scholarship schemes for minority communities shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scholarship-issue-udf-presents-united-face/article35400927.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||13,956 more cases in State||The State reported 13,956 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,30,553 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate (TPR) continues to remain steady at 10-11% and registered 10.69% on the day. The State’s active case pool continues to rise, as it has been for the past two weeks. Though over 2,000 persons on an average are being hospitalised every day with COVID-19 for the past three weeks, the total hospitalisations have remained steady at around 25,000, never going up, which is a major relief. The active case pool now has 1,25,041 patients, with 13,613 recovering on the day. 81 deaths The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 15,350, with the State adding 81 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list on the day. On Sunday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 was 2,005, taking the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 currently in hospitals in the State to 24, 794. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients went up to 1,899, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 669 The cumulative case burden stands at 31, 60,937 cases. District-wise Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,271 cases, Kozhikode 1,666, Ernakulam 1,555, Thrissur 1,486, Kollam 1,026, Thiruvananthapuram 977, Palakkad 952, Kannur 797, Alappuzha 786, Kottayam 670, Kasaragod 636, Wayanad 473, Pathanamthitta 342 and Idukki 319 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13956-more-cases-in-state/article35400925.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50% of those above 18 given vaccine||Over 50% of the population above 18 years of age—50.04% to be exact—has been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the State, Health Minister Veena George has said. Second dose has been administered to 19.5% of the population above 18 years. A total of 1,66,89,600 doses of vaccine has been administered, which includes 1,20,10,450 first doses and 46,79,150 second doses. When taken as a proportion of the population as a whole, 35.95% of the population has so far received the first dose and 14%, the second dose. The government’s attempt was to reach vaccines to people as fast as it receives additional supplies, Ms. George said. More women had received vaccines than men. Ernakulam district leads in vaccination, followed closely by Thiruvananthapuram district. The State also launched the ‘Mathrukavacham’ campaign last week for the vaccination of pregnant women in the State. ASHAs have been deployed to ensure at the ward-level that all pregnant women have been registered on Cowin portal to receive the vaccine. At the vaccination centres also, special facilities are being arranged so that pregnant women do not come into contact with the rest of the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/359-of-states-population-vaccinated/article35400915.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Testing times for coaching centres||Like many other sectors, the COVID-19 pandemic has triggered a paradigm shift in the burgeoning coaching sector. While the transition into virtual classrooms has enabled some well-established institutions to lure students, many small and medium-scale centres appeared to lose the competition. Coaching institutes would normally buzz with activity during the months leading to competitive examinations including the State’s entrance examinations KEAM, NEET and the JEE–Main. But the pandemic has robbed them of their usual business for two years on the trot. This has forced several job losses and wage cuts in the industry. Allied sectors including the student hostel and printing businesses have also come to a grinding halt. The scenario has presented a mixed bag of fortunes for even the biggest players in the sector. Brilliant Study Centre, Pala, which jumped on the e-learning bandwagon last year, has witnessed an increase of roughly 25% in enrolment for its crash and repeaters’ courses. Students from as far as the Middle East and the northern Kerala districts have registered for their classes, George Thomas, one of its directors, says. However, around 50 hostels, some directly run by the institution, have remained shut down for two years. Riju Shankar, director of Thrissur-based Riju and PSK Classes, says the churn has led to a situation in which institutions that failed to retain their competitive edge could lose significance. To prevent the feared exodus to institutions in other places like Kota, institutions here are forced to make additional investments to purchase customised online teaching and assessment tools. Besides, profits are bound to take a hit with the pandemic affecting several livelihoods and institutions forced to reduce their course fees. Faced with mounting loan and rent dues, almost all coaching centres have effected salary cuts in a bid to prevent closure. A teacher who was laid off by an institution in Kochi, says he was assured of re-employment once physical classes resume. Not enthusiastic Despite being spoilt for choices in terms of options, not all students are enthusiastic about coaching in the online mode. Thiruvananthapuram native Shreya Roshan feels students tend to lose focus during virtual classes that presented several distractions one would not normally encounter during offline sessions. However, Satwik Sivam who pursues entrance coaching in an institute in the State capital feels otherwise. The opportunity to study from the comforts of his home has been a huge advantage for him, he says.  Coaching institutes normally buzz with activity during the months leading to competitive exams||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coaching-institutes-in-the-midst-of-a-churn/article35400916.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Film forums to set shooting norms||Even though the State government has accorded permission for the resumption of film shootings, the work on the sets will begin only after the film bodies come up with a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the same. The Kerala Film Chamber, the Kerala Film Producers’ Association and the Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) met on Sunday, and decided to prepare the SOP. Clearance The Producers’ Association will provide clearance to the producers who agree to shoot as per the SOP, which is expected to be finalised by Monday evening. The FEFKA will also co-operate with the shooting of films which are cleared. Those who enter the sets should have got at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine and also must have tested negative in an RT-PCR test. No one will be allowed into shooting sets without following these conditions. The shooting sets will be turned into a bio-bubble. The shooting of a a film by Kannan Thamarakkulam in Idukki was stopped following the intervention of the film bodies. The prevailing COVID-19 protocols had brought the entire Malayalam film industry to a halt over the past few months, after the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic. With gradual easing in restrictions in some sectors over the past few weeks with the reduction in the number of cases, the film bodies have been urging the government to take a favourable stand regarding film shooting. The FEFKA had last week written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan questioning the logic of allowing television serials to be shot, even while the restrictions on film shooting continued. The shooting of some major films, including Bro Daddy , directed by Prithviraj and starring Mohanlal, was shifted to Telangana as the restrictions continued. Close to seven movies have shifted the shooting to neighbouring States, including Tamil Nadu. The film bodies also highlighted the plight of the daily wage workers in the sets, who have been struggling hard to earn a living, even though the government and the film bodies have pitched in with financial and other aid during the pandemic for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-bodies-to-come-up-with-sop-for-shooting/article35400913.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||977 new cases in district, TPR at 7.5%||The district’s active COVID-19 caseload fell to 9,511 after 977 fresh cases and 1,133 recoveries were recorded on Sunday. The test positivity rate remained largely stable at 7.5%. While 905 cases have been attributed to local transmission of SARS-CoV-2, two health care workers have also tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 32,260 people in quarantine. The death toll rose to 3,087 with the pandemic claiming 11 more lives. Directive to traders With the city witnessing rush on the first day of the three-day relaxed phase of restrictions on Sunday, the Thiruvananthapuram City police have directed commercial establishments to ensure effective crowd control during the remaining course of the Bakrid festivities. City police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay instructed traders to permit entry for customers on their premises only in accordance with their space limitations. Physical distancing must also be ensured. Additional counters must be arranged in garment shops in anticipation of increased rush. Police squads led by station house officers have been assigned with conducting inspections. Public has been urged to restrict venturing outdoors. He also called for steps to ensure only the permissible number of people entered places of worship.  He called for steps to ensure only the permissible number of people entered places of worship||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/977-new-cases-in-district-tpr-at-75/article35401035.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister calls up COVID-19 patient’s kin, gives updates||Employees of Government Medical College Hospital here cleaned the out-patient block of the institution in just one day on Sunday. Nearly 70 employees skipped their off to participate in the clean-up mission. Besides the three-storey building, wheelchairs, trolley, and chairs were washed and cleaned. Minister for Health Veena George who heard about the staff initiative reached the hospital and praised them. Hospitals had been directed to strengthen cleaning operations in the wake of a rise in Zika virus and other communicable diseases. However, the staff had joined hands to carry out the cleaning operations, Ms. George said. She also participated in ‘Veettilekku Vilikkam’ programme started by the hospital to pass on information of patients under COVID-19 treatment to their relatives. She visited the hospital COVID-19 information centre and spoke over the phone to the brother of a patient from Vakkom who was under intensive care. Relieved He was relieved when the Minister told him directly his brother’s health was improving, his oxygen levels had improved, and he was eating food. The information centre is functioning in the out-patient block itself. Patients can speak to their relatives too under the initiative on the Minister’s directions.  Veena George participates in the ‘Veettilekku Vilikkam’ programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-calls-up-covid-19-patients-kin-gives-updates/article35401030.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power Bill: protest today||The KSEB Engineers’ Association will join the nationwide protest called by the All India Power Engineers’ Federation on Monday against the BJP-led government’s move to table the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the monsoon session of the Parliament. The Bill seeks to de-license electricity distribution, a move which is opposed by the State and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). ‘Privatisation bid’ The association said that the Bill was aimed at privatising distribution by allowing a free rein to private players. In no way would this benefit the State or the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-bill-protest-today/article35400931.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prime accused in assault case held||The Vizhinjam police have arrested the prime accused in connection with the alleged assault of two people including a woman after barging into her house. The police identified the accused as Renju, 32, of Venniyoor. His accomplice Shyju was arrested a week ago. The duo broke into a house in Nellivila and attempted to sexually abuse her. A relative who attempted to protect her was hacked using a machete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prime-accused-in-assault-case-held/article35401032.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held on charge of chain-snatching||The Medical College police arrested a youth on the charge of snatching the chain of a woman at Kumarapuram on Sunday. The accused, Aswin, 29, of Karode purportedly accosted the complainant, a 62-year old woman around 11 a.m. and snatched a gold necklace weighing three sovereigns before fleeing. The police apprehended him near the scene of the alleged crime after being alerted by the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-charge-of-chain-snatching/article35401033.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tributes paid to Danish Siddiqui||Calling Danish Siddiqui a symbol of secularism, filmmaker Shaji N. Karun paid rich tributes to the photojournalist who was killed in a Taliban attack in Afghanistan two days ago. He was speaking at a condolence meeting organised by the Manaveeyam Theruvidam Cultural Collective at Manaveeyam Veethi in the capital on Sunday. Cultural activists and photojournalists participated in condolence meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tributes-paid-to-danish-siddiqui/article35401036.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Easing curbs: IMA cautions government||Indian Medical Association (IMA) has termed the State government’s decision to ease lockdown for religious gatherings “inappropriate,” at a time when COVID-19 cases were on the rise in the State. In a statement, the IMA said when many northern States had stopped the seasonal pilgrimages, mindful of public safety during COVID-19 times, it was unfortunate that the State had decided to open up just for the festivities. The IMA requested the government to withdraw the decision and to enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/easing-curbs-ima-cautions-government/article35400926.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||11 more held in Neyyar Dam attack case||The Neyyar Dam police on Sunday arrested 11 more alleged members of a drug racket that targeted a police patrol team and a local resident during a recent spate of violence in the region. One person was nabbed a day ago during an intense combing operation undertaken in the Kottoor and Amboori forests. The police identified those arrested as Asif, 25, of Uzhamalakkal; Waseem, 22, of Poovachal; Ashiq, 19, of Undappara; Siby Vijayan, 22, of Aruvikkara; Renjith and Abhijith, both aged 22, and Harikrishnan, 23, of Veeranakavu; Ratheesh, 22, and Anu, 31, of Amboori; Sarath alias Shambu, 23, of Kulathummal; and Ajith, 23, of Nelikkunnu colony in Vlavetti. Nineteen-year old Aman of Kulathummal was nabbed. The man-hunt was launched after a gang unleashed a wave of violence in the Nelikkunnu colony and nearby areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-more-held-in-neyyar-dam-attack-case/article35401031.ece
19 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||No safety concerns at Kuthiran: Rajan||There is no need for any concern over the safety of Kuthiran tunnel, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said after reviewing the work on Sunday. “Steps will be taken to ensure the tunnel’s safety. The National Highway Authority of India will examine the tunnel before opening it to traffic. Big trees above the tunnel will be removed. Steps have been taken for preventing flooding. Toll collection will not be allowed now,” the Minister said. Questions raised As the authorities are preparing to open one of the tunnels by August, Pragathi Constructions, the company which had constructed 95% of the tunnel, has alleged that the tunnel lacks safety measures. According to the company spokesperson, there is no system to prevent flooding inside the tunnel or against landslips. The company also warned that it would be disastrous if the area above the tunnel was not reinforced with concrete. It alleged that the company presently doing the work did not have the requisite technical expertise. Before August 1 A fire safety trial run was done at the tunnel recently. The Fire and Rescue Services Department will conduct the final test soon. District Collector Haritha V. Kumar has directed the company to finish the work before August 1. “The officers concerned have been monitoring the work regularly. The monitoring, led by the District Collector, will continue even after it opens for traffic,” the Minister said. “I don’t think there is any problem with the construction. The work is progressing scientifically. Drainage and fire safety systems have been constructed properly,” Mr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-safety-concerns-at-kuthiran-rajan/article35401040.ece
19 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Elephant herd with disabled calf camps at Thrissur estate||A herd of 20-odd elephants has been camping in the Chimmini and Palappilly estates in Thrissur district for the last two weeks with a disabled calf. The calf is disabled by birth, section forest officer P.M. Seena said in a report to the Chalakudy Divisional Forest Officer. The herd is camping in the area since the calf is unable to walk for long. Lush grass on both sides of the road and availability of sufficient water are incentives for the herd to stay in the human inhabited area. Rubber trees cut Elephants started straying into human habitations from the forest after the rubber trees in the estates in Palappilly and Chimmini were slaughtered for replanting. A large number of visitors have been coming to the site to see the elephants and to take photos, ignoring forest officials’ warning. According to forest officials, seven elephants were delivered in Palappilly and Chimmini in the past six months. A two-month-old calf too is part of the herd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-herd-with-disabled-calf-camps-at-thrissur-estate/article35401042.ece
19 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Panel will reform varsity laws: Minister||A University Law Reform Commission will be formed to revamp university rules in the State, Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu has said. Addressing a face-to-face programme of the Thrissur Press Club on Saturday she said a commission would be formed to modify the conduct of examinations too. “The six-decade-old university rules are outdated. They are inadequate to face the new challenges, including digital learning and online examinations. They have to be revamped.” A learning management system would be set up to ensure digital learning facility for all students, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-will-reform-varsity-laws-minister/article35401043.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The elusive silver lining||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-elusive-silver-lining/article35400934.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fun time for children||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fun-time-for-children/article35400918.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unlocked!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unlocked/article35401038.ece
19 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadiri receives 21.5 cm rainfall in 12 hours||The southern parts of Anantapur district received heavy rain on Saturday and in the early hours of Sunday. As a result, road connectivity was cut off between Kadiri and Bengaluru as the stretch connecting Kadiri with the National Highway 44 via Gorantla was inundated. A temporary bridge between Gorantla and Kadiri on the Bengaluru-Kadiri highway was washed away at Mittapalli. The officials asked people to avoid this road, and instead take the longer route via Nallamada and Kondakamarla Cross. Kadiri experienced 21.5 cm rainfall in 12 hours, which led to the overflowing of several rivulets that empty into the Chitravathi river and flooding of large areas. The Lakshminarayana Swamy temple at Kadiri too was inundated. Meanwhile, the Kadiri Urban police rescued a mother and child who were stuck in their house in the Adapala Veedhi area that was inundated. Woman, child rescued Manasa, a volunteer in Gandlapenta mandal, along with her 10-month-old baby, had to spend the entire night in their house as they could not move to a safer place. At 4 a.m., she sought police help over ‘Dial 100’. The police immediately rushed to the spot with the help of inflated tubes and tyres, and shifted the mother and child to a safer place. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli congratulated DSP Bhavya Kishore, Circle Inspetor Srinivaulu, and other staff for their immediate response. House collapses A house at Ambedkar Nagar in Kadiri town collapsed as floodwaters entered it from the rivulets in neighbouring mandals. However, there were no casualties as the inmates had gone to Madanapalli to attend a marriage. The residents of the colony urged the government to reach out to the family in distress. Meanwhile, at Sri Reddyvari Palli village of Nallamada mandal, 1,500 sheep were swept away in the waters gushing out of the Bapanaiyya Kunta following a breach in its bund late in the night. About 400 of them perished as they were washed away into a pond nearby, while the others got scattered in the fields in the vicinity. Rescue operations were in progress. The rainfall (in mm) in various places are as follows: Kadiri (215.4), Lepakshi (100.4), N.P. Kunta (90), Amadaguru (85.2), and Chilamathur (80.6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadiri-receives-215-cm-rainfall-in-12-hours/article35400557.ece
19 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student leaders ‘placed’ under house arrest in Anantapur and Kurnool||Several student leaders of the TDP and the CPI have allegedly been placed under house arrest or detained at police stations in Anantapur and Kurnool districts. TDP Polit Bureau member Kalava Srinivasulu and CPI State Committee member Kuruva Ramanjaneyulu have accused the police of scuttling the programme to picket the Chief Minister’s residence on Monday. Mr. Srinivasulu on Sunday said that the rounding up of all student leaders belonging to the opposition parties three days prior to the proposed picket was akin to the situation that had prevailed during the Emergency. “The TNSF and the TDP have been demanding a new job calendar to fill all the 2.30 lakh vacant posts. The government, instead of addressing the issue, has resorted to arresting the student leaders,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. In a separate statement from Kurnool, Mr. Ramanjaneyulu said the activists of the AISF, the SFI, and other student leaders who were readying to leave for Vijayawada, were either confined to their houses or taken to the police stations, which was against the democratic right of the students to express their dissent. High drama Meanwhile, high drama preceded the arrest of TDP leader J.C. Pawan Reddy in Anantapur. The TDP leader, who was coming to Anantapur from Hyderabad, was intercepted by the police at several places between Kurnool and Anantapur. To avoid arrest, Mr. Reddy left his car behind and boarded an RTC bus. At Anantapur, however, he was taken to the III Town police station and then to the Rapthadu police station. After taking him to a few other police stations, Mr. Reddy was finally placed under house arrest, where, he along with other TNSF activists, staged a dharna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-leaders-placed-under-house-arrest-in-anantapur-and-kurnool/article35400992.ece
19 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE chairman launches e-content preparation programme||Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education(APSCHE) chairman Konireddy Hemachandra Reddy launched a programme on e-content preparation at the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University in Anantapur. The APSCHE chairman stressed on the immediate need for developing online content (e-content) in view of the difficult situations created due to the pandemic and added that it was pertinent to have an exclusive content that suits the syllabus of the university. “There are several videos and text files available online, but students might take a lot of time to follow them to suit their academic needs,” he added. The programme ‘Strategies for Enhancing Communication Skills’ for rural students, which makes them industry-ready, was also launched on Saturday. Professor Hemachandra said both the programmes would go a long way in improving the employability of the graduates, and their preparation for the examinations would also be boosted with online content suited to their course curriculum. The workshop on communication skills was attended by 40 delegates from 20 professional colleges. The participants shared their ideas about methods of imparting communication skills to the students through non-formal methods like activity-based learning or through student groups etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsche-chairman-launches-e-content-preparation-programme/article35400567.ece
19 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seminar held on new education policy||Merging of classes I and II with the anganwadis is part of the conditions put forward by the World Bank that is funding the new National Education Policy 2020, said Progressive Democratic Front(PDF) floor leader and pro-tem Speaker Vithapu Balasubramanyam. The PDF floor leader said that Rs. 1,897 crore loan was taken from the World Bank for the implementation of the education policy and as part of its conditions, classes III, IV and V were being merged with higher education leading to total abolishing of Primary Education system, he said while speaking at a seminar on the implementation of the new education system and its consequences in Andhra Pradesh. The seminar was organised by UTF, CITU, SFI and KVPS. United Teachers’ Federation(UTF) president and general secretary Jayachandra Reddy and Nagendra said that the nutritious food being given to children and their mothers at anganwadis would be stopped and it would be a great loss to the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seminar-held-on-new-education-policy/article35400568.ece
19 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases double in a week in Chittoor||When the daily count of COVID-19 cases fell to 200 a week ago, complacency began to creep into people’s minds in Chittoor district, with many thinking that the worst of the second wave of the pandemic was behind them. However, their relief proved to be short-lived, as the number of daily positive cases again shot up to touch 501 in the district on Sunday, once again forcing health officials back on their feet and leading to despair among people. Senior medical officers expressed concern at the sudden spike in cases on Sunday. COVID cases in urban areas — the two municipal corporations of Tirupati and Chittoor and the six municipalities of Srikalahasti, Puttur, Nagari, Palamaner, Punganur and Madanapalle — had fallen below 60 last week. However, the figures have doubled now, and the situation in the rural areas too is not very different. According to officials, during the last 24 hours, the number of active cases had gone up by a hundred, taking the total cases (since March last year) to 2,27,087, and casualties to 1,682. In terms of death toll, Chittoor district continues to occupy first place. The number of patients joining COVID hospitals in Tirupati and COVID Care Centres elsewhere in Chittoor district showed an increase in the last couple of days. Srikalahasti mandal witnessed some respite with daily cases falling below five last week, but Sunday’s graph lifted the figure to 20. Similarly, several mandals in the district, abutting the urban areas, saw the cases remaining below five till last week, but Sunday saw the cases ranging between 10 and 24. The municipalities of Nagari and Punganur which experienced zero cases last week are again witnessing an uptick in cases. The upward movement of the COVID graph is largely attributed to unchecked movement of the public within the district and across the borders with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Though APSRTC buses are not plying on inter-State routes, private buses are crisscrossing the area with full occupancy, mostly found ignoring COVID safety protocols. The full-fledged functioning of bakeries and eateries, and crowding at meat and fish markets, is also said to be a factor behind the resurgence in cases. Municipal Commissioner (Chittoor) P. Viswanath said that amidst fears of a third wave, a three-day awareness campaign would be launched in Chittoor municipal corporation limits from Monday. He said that the initial session would commence at Nagaiah Kalakshetram for field staff on COVID duties, including ward secretaries, sanitation workers, DWCRA and ICDS functionaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-double-in-a-week-in-chittoor/article35400571.ece
19 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed, 9 hurt as lorry mows down pedestrians||A man was killed and nine others were injured, two of them critically, when they were mowed down by a speeding lorry at Anjeramma Kona on Chennai NH close to Vadamalapeta, 75 km from here on Sunday. The group from Chennai was on its way to Tirumala on foot when the incident occurred. According to the police, the stretch of the NH where the mishap took place is an accident-prone zone due to its steep slope towards the toll plaza. The Vadamalapeta police rushed to the spot and shifted the nine injured, all men, to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati. The body of the deceased, identified as Tyagaraju (35), was removed to the area hospital for autopsy. The lorry driver abandoned the vehicle and went absconding. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-9-hurt-as-lorry-mows-down-pedestrians/article35400572.ece
19 July 2021||Eluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister lauds college for its hygiene practices||Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) presented ‘Institute with Good Hygiene Practices’ certificate to Ch.S.D. St. Theresa College management on Sunday. Institute principal Sr. Marietta D’ Mello and other staff received the certificate conferred by Hyderabad-based HYM International Certification Services Agency. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister praised the college management for being a role model for other institutions in maintaining hygiene. He congratulated the institute faculty and staff on being the first among the missionary colleges in the State to achieve the certificate. HYM International’s Alapati Venkata Sivaiah also appreciated the college management for the good practices being followed in hygiene in accordance with the international standards and COVID-19 guidelines, for the safety of students and staff. College correspondent superior Sr. Marietta Pudota, faculty Dr. R. Madhavi, Ume Salma, R. Indira, Dr. Gayatri and other staff participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-lauds-st-theresa-college-for-its-hygiene-practices/article35400984.ece
19 July 2021||GANGANAMETTA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Koya tribe’s Kommu dance form faces risk of extinction||Deep inside Chintoor Agency, on the banks of the Chandravanka stream near the Andhra Pradesh-Chhattisgarh border, Kunja Santhi Kumari and Kunja Sailaja were unstoppable for a few hours performing their traditional Kommu Koya dance. However, the usual sparkle that lit up their faces during a dance was missing — the reason being a constant worry over the future of their dance tradition that has been handed down over generations. Situated in the Polavaram project submergence area, seven mandals including Chintoor, Kunavaram, and V.R. Puram of Telangana State were merged with East and West Godavari districts (Andhra Pradesh), where the Kommu Koya tribal dance is thriving now. Until the merger, the seven mandals were part of Khammam district in Telangana State. “The future of Koya tribal culture, primarily the dance form, looks bleak in Andhra Pradesh as a majority of the Koya tribals will face a cultural shock with the submergence of our region and rehabilitation to non-forest-dwellings to make way for the Polavaram irrigation project,” said Kunja Santhi Kumari of Ganganametta-Tummala area. Five teams, with at least ten performers each, are actively promoting the dance in the Ganganametta-Tummala area in Chintoor Agency. In East Godavari, nearly 200 performers are active. Half of them are women performers who perform anywhere outside their habitations. Over 90% of them are in the 20-30 age group, according to the Koya tribals. The tribe's tradition is to perform the dance during the festivals of local deities, Mahua harvest, ‘bhumi puja’, and weddings. “Our tribe did not hear about any policy from the State government for the promotion and conservation of our dance since the merger. Once rehabilitated, the future of our tribal cultural practices and dance will be in question. Had we not been merged, our future would have been rosy,” Kommu dance performer Veka Lenin told The Hindu . Accompanied by her team manager Mr. Raj Kumar, performers Kunja Sailaja and Vetti Chinnammi said; “We have decided to continue to be the performers even after our wedding. Our families allow us to perform the dance as long as we wish to as it is an integral part of our traditional life. However, there would be no cultural life for us in the absence of our forests.” “Once displaced, we cannot even imagine the changes to our cultural and traditional life. The impact that the absence of the forests will have on our life cannot be expressed in words, given our association with it for generations,” Mr. Lenin said. Another performer, Madakam Durga Rao, said, “In the new settlements of the Koya tribal families, the unique drum will fall silent. The horns of the Bison (Indian Gaur), worn by the male dancer, will be the sole reminder of our past.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koya-tribes-kommu-dance-form-faces-risk-of-extinction/article35400994.ece
19 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors trek to Kondaveedu hill||A group of doctors decided to break their routine on Sunday morning and trekked to the hill leading to the Kondavedu Fort to explore the nature at its best. The trekking began at the Chowdavaram Hill on the road leading to the RVR and JC College of Engineering and the group trekked down, after trekking for about 2.5 km. Trekking is yet to catch the imagination of the adventure lovers in Guntur, but the rugged terrain of Kondaveedu Hill Range offers a plenty of opportunities for this. The doctors led by senior neurologist Ram Taraknath, senior cardiologist Karumuri Srinivasa Reddy, gastroenterologist Myneni Seetharama and radiologist Yamini had a good experience on the cloudy morning. Led by Kalli Siva Reddy, convener of Kondaveedu Fort Development Committee, the group climbed the hill. “This is a trekkers’ paradise. We are keen on developing the place. Earlier, the ITC had supported the Green Guntur project. Now, we will lend our support to beautify the place,” said Dr. Taraknath. Later, the group drove to the fort where Mr. Siva Reddy explained about the historic significance of the monuments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-trek-to-kondaveedu-hill/article35400574.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderbad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hackers target AIMIM Twitter handle||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s verified Twitter handle on Sunday was hacked for a few hours, after which access was restored. Party sources said that hackers targeted the @aimim_national handle, which frequently tweets activities of party leaders, including party president Asaduddin Owaisi. The profile picture was purportedly changed to that of Tesla co-founder Elon Musk. The display name too was changed to ‘Elon Musk’. Sources said that the account was hacked earlier on Sunday afternoon. After the purported hacking, the handle tweeted several memes connected to cryptocurrency. In a separate development, the AIMIM’s Uttar Pradesh State president Shaukat Ali’s Twitter handle was temporarily restricted. The reason provided on the timeline for the move was that there was ‘unusual activity’ witnessed from the account. While Mr Ali remained unavailable for comment, party sources in Hyderabad said that this is not the first time the party’s verified handle was targeted. “At the moment our team has reached out to Twitter informing it of what has happened. We are making efforts to get back the account access. We will soon approach the police with a complaint. The access to the account was restored in the evening,” the source said. The hacking comes at a time when the party announced its intention of contesting the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Earlier this month, Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi made trips to Uttar Pradesh to address people. Elon Musk was the top trend in the country, with over 22,800 tweets, several of which were memes or had content taking jabs at the hacking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hackers-target-aimim-twitter-handle/article35400383.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nothing to do with audio clip: Karnataka BJP chief||An audio clip, in which Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel allegedly hints at a possible change in leadership, went viral on Sunday. However, Mr. Kateel clarified that he had nothing to do with the clip and that it was not his voice. In the clip, Mr. Kateel is heard saying in Tulu: “Don’t tell anybody. The K.S. Eshwarappa and Jagadish Shettar team will be changed. We are forming a new team. Don’t tell anybody …” Hinting at a leadership change, the BJP chief purportedly says: “There are three names. Anyone can be selected. If any one of them gets selected, they will be in our hands. The choice will be made from Delhi only.” In a release later, Mr. Kateel said: “It is a case of impersonation. Such a fake audio clip is being circulated to defame the party and the government. I have requested the Chief Minister to conduct a probe to verify the authenticity of the audio clip and to identify the culprits behind it.” He maintained that there was no discussion on leadership change in the State. The audio clip has been released at a time when the State is gripped by speculation of a possible leadership change. The speculation has been gaining momentum ever since Mr. Yediyurappa visited Delhi recently and met party top leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nothing-to-do-with-audio-clip-karnataka-bjp-chief/article35400547.ece
19 July 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train services resume on Mangaluru-Mumbai section||Train services on Mangaluru-Mumbai section resumed on Sunday after the track affected by Friday’s landslip near Kulashekara in the city was restored. A communique from Southern Railway said that the Kulashekara-Padil track was certified fit at 7.57 a.m. and the first passenger train, Ajmer-Ernakulam Special, passed the restored Kulashekara stretch at 8.54 a.m.–8.55 a.m.  Cancelled Meanwhile, a Konkan Railway release said on Sunday that Train No 06163 Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Kochuveli Bi-Weekly Special and Train No 01152 Madgaon-Mumbai CSMT Special have been cancelled for Monday. In addition, Train No 06345 Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Thiruvananthapuram Central Netravati Daily Special has been cancelled for Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-services-resume-on-mangaluru-mumbai-section/article35400385.ece
19 July 2021||TANUKU,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,000 kg ganja worth Rs. 50 lakh seized, 2 held||Police seized 2,000 kg of ganja reportedly being smuggled from the Visakhapatnam Agency to Hyderabad, West Godavari Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said. The value of the seized contraband is said to be Rs. 50 lakh, according to investigating officers. A Tanuku police team led by Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinath and Circle Inspector D.S. Chaitanya intercepted a lorry on Sunday, and seized the contraband which was packed in plastic bags. Sub-Inspector K. Gangadhara Rao, who participated in the operation, said that the accused were smuggling the ganja from Paderu to Telangana State. Efforts are on to trace the kingpin of the racket in Hyderabad. Police took the lorry driver Rajappa and cleaner Anand into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2000-kg-ganja-worth-rs-50-lakh-seized-2-held/article35401059.ece
19 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shoppers trickle in as Kerala opens for Bakrid||Kerala dialled down COVID-19 curbs on retail for three days from Sunday for Bakrid on July 20. Police were deployed in strength to enforce the mask and physical distancing mandate. They also warned traders against allowing crowding. The spectre of a third wave loomed with the relaxing of government orders on business, mobility, and social life for 72 hours. The administration was worried about the average test positivity rate (TPR) remaining above 10%. Kerala has requested the Centre for at least 60 lakh vaccine doses in the next 45 days. The relaxing of pandemic regulations prompted shoppers to trickle into textile, footwear and fancy stores that opened on Sunday after a hiatus of 71 days. Showrooms of jewellery, home appliances, and electronic goods also opened at 7 a.m. All establishments should close at 8 p.m. before the State-wide night curfew commenced an hour later. The easing of restrictions was applicable only in localities where the average TPR was less than 15%. In areas where it was higher, the relaxations would be applicable only on Monday, Bakrid-eve. Mosques, temples, and churches admitted less than 40 worshippers. Mosques insisted that worshippers bring prayer mats, rinse in running water, observe physical distancing, and wear masks. Beauty parlours and barbershops were allowed to function on alternate weekdays in localities with TPR less than 10%. However, the government allowed them to open between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. on all days in the run-up to Bakrid. Kerala entry norms Fully vaccinated individuals entering Kerala were not required to produce RT-PCR negative certification. A COVID-19 vaccination-completed certificate would suffice. The government allowed cinema and television serial shooting in localities where the average TPR was below 15%. Artists and crew should have received at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. The government also allowed engineering colleges and polytechnic hostels to admit students preparing for their semester examinations. The Karnataka Government on Sunday further pared down COVID-19 restrictions by keeping the curfew hours from 10 p.m to 5 a.m. besides allowing cinema theatres to open with 50% capacity. Higher education courses would commence from July 26, and students who had taken one vaccine dose could attend. The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The teaching and non-teaching staff with at least one dose would be allowed. However, student attendance was optional. Special surveillance measures to screen those coming from Kerala and Maharashtra would continue. Health Minister K. Sudhakar was absent at the meeting. Sources in the Government said that the Health Minister was opposed to opening cinema theatres with 50 % capacity.  (With inputs from Bengaluru bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shoppers-trickle-in-as-kerala-opens-for-bakrid/article35400375.ece
19 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala keeping watch on reservoirs after rain alert||Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has been asked to keep a close watch on dam reservoir storage and increase hydel generation with the southwest monsoon turning active over Kerala. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that a low pressure area was likely to form in the Bay of Bengal only by July 23, two days later than earlier expected. Rainfall-related alerts have been suitably modified. Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall and are on orange alert on July 21 and July 22. Minister for Electricity K. Krishnankutty said the combined storage in dams managed by KSEB stood at 52.57% as of 7 a.m. on Sunday. While the storage in the big reservoirs is not a cause for concern, the KSEB has nevertheless been directed to increase hydropower generation to keep water levels safe, Mr. Krishnankutty said. Low pressure The low pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood around July 23, according to a monsoon update from the IMD. The west coast can expect widespread rainfall in the days ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-keeping-watch-on-reservoirs-after-rain-alert/article35400379.ece
19 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postman’s daughter defies daunting odds to crack CAT||For Arigala Lakshmi, securing admission to the prestigious Indian Institute of Management (IIM) has been a dream come true. The third year B.Sc. Computer Science student at Sri Padmavathi Women’s Degree and PG College in Tirupati managed to clear the Common Admission Test (CAT) and secure admission to Indian Institute of Management-Bodh Gaya. Ms. Lakshmi competed with over two lakh students who appeared for the exam to secure admission in one of the IIM’s campuses. Humble beginning The daughter of a postman, Ms. Lakshmi’s humble beginnings did not deter her from dreaming big. “It was thrilling to see my name on the final list,” she said. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Lakshmi narrated how she was trained by Kautilya CL coaching institute that helped her crack the difficult test. She gave full credit to her father A. Murali for helping her with information on CAT, as well as getting her into preparatory mode. Her mother A. Sridevi, a homemaker, also gave her full support. “Many alumni of TTD degree colleges, despite their poor financial background, have settled in great fields and it is due to their sheer ability to hone their skills that they managed to reach the goal,” says Kautilya-CL director N. Sridhar. “It is a matter of pride that a student from our college is all set to enter the IIM’s portals. Girls should look beyond the possible,” said principal K. Mahadevamma, who felicitated the girl along with vice-principal P. Kumari, warden C. Umarani and student council in-charge C. Bhuvaneswari. As the current academic year has run astray due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ms. Lakshmi is getting ready to write her last semester examination, while simultaneously holding on to the reins of her first year MBA at the IIM Bodh Gaya, which is set to begin by the end of this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postmans-daughter-defies-daunting-odds-to-crack-cat/article35400996.ece
19 July 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Empowerment of deprived sections possible only with Jagan’||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy has said that empowerment of the deprived sections is possible only with the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, the Deputy Minister said the manner in which the government had filled the nominated posts was pointer to the government’s commitment to the elevation of SC, ST, BC and minority communities. “The deprived sections that remained oppressed under the feet of the politically and socially affluent classes have finally been liberated to get their due,” he said, adding that the composition of posts to the various nominated bodies by the State government is an example even to the national government on distribution of political power. He also indicated that the State government had already fulfilled 95.5% of promises made in the manifesto, thus directly depositing benefits to the tune of Rs. 1,31,725.55 crore into the accounts of beneficiaries. “Every impoverished family has benefited with the pro-poor measures adopted by the present government. The distribution of nominated posts is yet another milestone of our government,” he said. Mr. Narayanaswamy opined that making the various communities part of the government would enable them reap the fruits of social and financial inclusion. As much as 58% of the posts had been given away to the communities that had thus far remained away from political power, he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/empowerment-of-deprived-sections-possible-only-with-jagan/article35400575.ece
19 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gazette on river boards will help settle disputes amicably: GVL||The gazette notification on the jurisdiction of the Krishna and Godavari river management boards has paved the way for an amicable settlement of the disputes between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, but fresh controversies are being raked up with ulterior motives, BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has said. If the two States want to share the river waters in a congenial atmosphere, the governments should desist from politicising the matter, Mr. Narasimha Rao said while addressing the BJP Kisan Morcha State executive meeting here on Sunday. Mr. Narasimha Rao pointed out that the agriculture budget, which was about Rs. 20,000 crore during the Congress regime, was increased by the NDA government to Rs. 1.22 lakh crore. ‘Farm Acts beneficial’ He asserted that the new Farm Acts would fetch better returns on investments made by the farmers by providing them better marketing opportunities. The funds given by Union government for paddy procurement were being diverted by the State government, Mr. Narasimha Rao alleged, and demanded that the State government take concrete action to help the farmers in overcoming the crisis precipitated by the COVID-19 and solving certain other serious problems faced by them for decades. ‘Clear farmers’ dues’ The YSRCP government, which claims to be spending Rs. 80,000 crore on farmers’ welfare, should immediately clear their dues amounting to Rs. 3,000 crore, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said. He expressed regret that the millers were calling the shots to the detriment of the farmers as the successive governments failed in taking remedial action. The prices of various agricultural commodities skyrocketed due to the government’s failure in taking market intervention measures when the situation warranted. For instance, red gram was to be sold at Rs. 80 to Rs. 90 per kg, but the price in the open market went up to Rs. 150 per kg. Similar was the trend of various commodities, and the consumers were left to fend for themselves, he alleged. Mr. Veerraju criticised the opposition parties for spreading misinformation on the new Farm Acts, which, he insisted, were intended to improve the lot of the farmers. Mr. Veerraju said the State government was not properly implementing the crop insurance scheme, and the farm mechanisation programme was going on at a sluggish pace. The government made tall claims about the Rythu Bharosa Kendras, but what was their use in reality, Mr. Veerraju questioned, exhorting the Kisan Morcha to take up cudgels on behalf of the beleaguered farmers. Kisan Morcha national vice-president Suresh Reddy, State president Sasibhushan Reddy, BJP State vice-president Suryanarayana Raju were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gazette-on-river-boards-will-help-settle-disputes-amicably-gvl/article35400988.ece
19 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR to resume 82 unreserved train services from today||Officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) will operate 82 unreserved express trains from Monday to various destinations in neighbouring States. Indian Railways had suspended many trains due to COVID-19 in March end last year. Upon learning that trains will resume from tomorrow, thousands of migrant workers, working in various companies in the State, thronged Vijayawada, Rajahmundry, Kakinada, Bhimavaram and other railway stations to book tickets. Railway officials said that track-strengthening works were taken up on many routes in the last one year during the pandemic and the maximum permissible speed limit has been enhanced, which will reduce the travel time. “Passengers are requested to follow the COVID norms for their safety as well as the railway staff,” said SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya, asking passengers to prefer booking tickets through non-physical interactive mediums such as UTS (Online), Automatic Ticket Vending Machines (ATMSs) and Coin Ticket Vending Machines (CpTVMs) to maintain distancing. Mr. Mallya appealed to the passengers to wear masks and gloves, use sanitizers and avoid gatherings on the platforms and in the trains. Meanwhile, officials cleaned the platforms, waiting halls and the railway premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-to-resume-82-unreserved-train-services-from-today/article35401058.ece
19 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. committed to welfare of under-privileged: Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Sunday said that allotment of nominated posts in the State reflected Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s commitment to the upliftment of the under-privileged sections and women empowerment. In a statement, the Minister pointed to the allocation of nearly 60% of the 137 State and district-level chairpersons’ posts in various corporations in the State to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and Minorities and said it mirrored the government’s concern for the less privileged sections in the society. The act of allocating 50% of these posts to women proved the determination of the State to bring women to the fore in every sphere of life, he added. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha and Minister for Backward Class Welfare Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna on Saturday announced 137 nominated posts of chairpersons for various corporations and other offices. Out of those posts, 76 were allotted to SC, ST, BC and Minorities while 59 for other castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-welfare-of-under-privileged-minister/article35401060.ece
19 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports highest number of cases in last nine days||With close to 3,000 COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the State reported the highest single-day tally in the last nine days. With 17 deaths and 2,974 infections during the 24-hour period, the toll reached 13,132 and the cumulative tally increased to 19,40,096. The mortality rate remained at 0.68%. East Godavari, Chittoor, Prakasam and Krishna districts had been witnessing a gradual rise in the infections in the past one week. These three districts also shared over 55% of the State’s active caseload. The number of infections reported in the past week was 13% less than those reported in the week before it. While 17,253 infections were reported in the past week, 130 had died and 21,095 recovered. The number of samples tested in the 24-hour period was 1,05,024, which was the highest in the last one month, and their positivity rate was 2.83%. The positivity rate of the 2.35 crore samples tested so far remained at 8.22%. The number of recoveries crossed 19 lakhs and stood at 19,02,256 and the recovery rate remained at 98.05% The number of active cases came down to 24,708. Prakasam district reported five deaths in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor and Krishna (three each), Anantapur and East Godavari (two each), and Nellore and Visakhapatnam (one each). Six districts reported no fatalities. East Godavari reported 577 new infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (501), Prakasam (349), Krishna (311), Nellore (282), West Godavari (280), Guntur (179), Visakhapatnam (120), Kadapa (106), Anantapur (98), Srikakulam (73), Kurnool (65) and Vizianagaram (33). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,73,142), Chittoor (2,27,087), West Godavari (1,67,387), Guntur (1,66,119), Anantapur (1,55,578), Visakhapatnam (1,51,001), Nellore (1,31,400), Prakasam (1,26,655), Kurnool (1,22,859), Srikakulam (1,19,952), Kadapa (1,09,084), Krishna (1,05,836) and Vizianagaram (81,101).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gradual-rise-in-covid-19-infections-in-state/article35400555.ece
19 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition driving a wedge between BJP and Muslims: Siddiqui||BJP Minority Morcha national president Jamal Siddiqui accused the opposition parties of conspiring to drive a wedge between the party and the Muslims and that the YSRCP government had adopted anti-minority policies. Taking part as the chief guest in the Minority Morcha State executive meeting here on Sunday, Mr. Siddiqui said the Vajpayee and Modi governments had done justice to the minorities, which was partly evident from the allocation of key ministries to Shahnawaz Hussain and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi. Urdu language received the due importance during the Modi regime, he said, adding that the BJP-led Central government has taken many steps for the development of Muslims. Referring to the filling of nominated posts in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Siddiqui said the creation of various corporations on caste lines would further divide the society. BJP State party affairs co in-charge Sunil Deodhar said the Congress and other ‘pseudo-secularists’ were habituated to calling the BJP anti- minority. BJP State president Somu Veerraju said Muslims continued to be viewed by political parties as vote banks. Minority Morcha State president Sk. Baji and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-driving-a-wedge-between-bjp-and-muslims-siddiqui/article35400989.ece
19 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre owes Rs. 5,056 cr. towards crop procurement’||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao has said the Union government owes Rs. 5,056 crore to his department towards the crops procured by it. The Centre had promised to release Rs. 1,600 crore on July 25, and another Rs. 1,600 crore was expected from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) in a couple of days, Mr. Venkateswara Rao told the media here on Sunday. Following the Chief Minister’s instructions, the government was paying the farmers within 21 days of crop procurement, the Minister said. The government was procuring an average of 83 lakh tonnes of paddy per annum against about 55 lakh tonnes during the TDP term, he said. Efforts were being made to clear all the pending arrears on paddy procurement by the end of July, he added. The Minister further said that the State government paid Rs. 32,000 crore towards crop procurement at the rate of Rs. 16,000 crore annually, while it was Rs. 8,500 crore a year during the TDP term. Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had no moral right to speak on the farmers’ issues as he betrayed the fraternity, Mr. Venkateswara Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-owes-rs-5056-cr-towards-crop-procurement/article35400990.ece
19 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why fill nominated posts when State’s economy is in shambles?’||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu doubts the government’s intention behind the creation of nominated posts at a time when the State’s economy is in a shambles . The former Finance Minister said, “The government says there are no funds for developmental works. Public assets are being sold to generate revenue. Welfare schemes are being implemented after obtaining loans. For payment of salaries too, the government is looking for loans. Pensions are not being disbursed and so is the case with retirement benefits. At this juncture, is it necessary to create nominated posts?” “The posts have been created to benefit the politically unemployed in the YSRCP. The government needs to borrow more to to pay them salaries. It will only deepen the financial crisis,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his advisers had cheated the weaker sections as social justice was not ensured in the selection of candidates for the nominated posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-fill-nominated-posts-when-states-economy-is-in-shambles/article35400997.ece
19 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Madhusudhan Reddy is Adviser, Skill Development||The government has appointed Challa Madhusudhan Reddy as the Adviser, Skill Development and Training. Chief Secretary Adityanath Das has issued an order to this effect. Mr. Reddy has been working as the Chairman of A.P. State Skill Development Corporation for last two years. A B. Tech graduate, Mr. Reddy worked in the U.S. for 10 years before returning to the State in 2009. He has been an active participant in the activities of the YSRCP since its inception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/madhusudhan-reddy-is-adviser-skill-development/article35400998.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rush at picnic spots in the district triggers concerns||The mad rush at picnic spots and tourist places makes one wonder whether the revellers have forgotten the sight of scores of bodies being taken for cremation when the second wave surge of COVID-19 was at its peak barely two months ago. Some of the revellers seem to be oblivious to the fact that not wearing masks and observing physical distance in crowded places is like an open invitation to coronavirus. With the threat of the third wave looming large, irresponsible actions of some individuals could endanger the whole community, say medical experts. The recent opening up of tourist places, after the long shutdown, has given ample reason for people to break the monotony of staying at home and rush to their favourite haunts. The sharp decline in COVID-19 cases and the livelihood concerns of tour and transport operators and petty vendors might have prompted the government to open up the tourist places but it has triggered a rush of people to the beaches in the city. Many are also going to Borra Caves and Araku Valley to spend the weekend with family and friends. Safety takes back seat “The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is against the reopening of tourist spots as a third wave is anticipated. A number of new variants of the virus are surfacing and their potency is not known and we cannot take chances,” says Dr. P.A. Ramani, president, IMA-Visakhapatnam. “The entire stretch of Beach Road from Appu Ghar to Rushikonda was full of vehicles on Sunday. Crowds gathered at Tenneti Park, Sagar Nagar and Rushikonda and played at the park and on the beaches as though the golden opportunity will not come again,” remarks Ganjivarapu Srinivas of Sagar Nagar. The crowds on the roads and at the restaurants at Borra Caves and Araku Valley were no different. Many of them were neither wearing masks nor trying to maintain a safe distance from others. The shopkeepers and vendors were not bothered either. “We are insisting on compulsory wearing of masks by tourists and our staff. Spraying of sodium hypochlorite solution is being done in the rooms and public places,” says the divisional manager, AP Tourism, T.G. Prasad Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rush-at-picnic-spots-in-the-district-triggers-concerns/article35401065.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) decries house arrest of student leaders||The CPI(M) has condemned the house arrest of leaders of student and youth organisations to prevent them from going ahead with their plan to meet the Chief Minister on July 19 to express their ire against the announcement of mere 10,000 posts in the job calendar released recently. Addressing the media here on Sunday, party city committee leaders R.K.S.V. Kumar, B. Jagan and V. Krishna Rao said that various student and youth organisations had given a ‘Chalo CM Camp Office’ call, and in a bid to foil their plans, the State government had used police force to detain the student and youth leaders at their homes for the past two days. The CPI(M) leaders demanded immediate release of the arrested leaders and release of a new job calendar with 2.30 lakh posts. They alleged that the police and ruling party supporters went to the residence of SFI city president Kusuma and State leader L. Chinnari to scare them. The university gates were closed to prevent student leaders from coming out of the campus. The YSR Congress Party has come to power by saying that the TDP government had cheated the unemployed youth with false promises, they alleged. The public would teach a lesson to the YSRCP in the next elections, if it treads the same path, they added. The CPI(M) leaders warned that the party would mobilise other political parties and launch an agitation, if the arrested leaders were not released immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-decries-house-arrest-of-student-leaders/article35401018.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Iconic Town Hall and Old Municipal Building to be opened for public soon||The silent corridors of the 120-year-old Town Hall are finally shining bright after decades of being clouded under apathy and neglect. The much-awaited Town Hall renovation project is nearing completion.. Upon completion, the well-lit halls and sections of the iconic heritage structure are expected to shed light on a significant chapter of the city’s past. With the renovation projects of the Town Hall and the adjacent Old Municipal Building nearing completion by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), officials are now planning the next phase to reopen the two structures to the public. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana told The Hindu that a final plan is being drawn up for both the heritage structures. “The idea is to make the entire place a no-vehicle zone and keep the parking area on the main road and close the back gate to seal the thoroughfare. We plan to convert the Town Hall into a museum that reflects the colonial history of Visakhapatnam and develop the Old Municipal Building as a venue for hosting art events, exhibitions and workshops,” she said. The renovation project of the two buildings was carried out at a cost of Rs. 15 crore and was executed by Savani Heritage Conservation Pvt. Ltd. A most significant part of the project is the scientific approach in restoring several parts of the dilapidated structure with materials that are in sync with the original materials used. “Three types of materials were mainly used in the restoration process—lime plastering, teakwood work and Mangalore tiles. Only for the flooring, we had to use epoxy instead of the original Indian Patent Stone (IPS) flooring. This was because if we had to remove the IPS flooring and redo it again, that would have hugely impacted the structure. So we decided to go with a lighter type of flooring with three-millimetre thickness,” said Jitesh Kumar, project manager, Savan. Both the heritage structures have an amphitheatre designed outside the entrance. The biggest hall of the Town Hall facing the back gate has unique eight-foot-long hanging lights, possibly used for the first time in a heritage structure. “The amphitheatre was not part of the original plan. Having spent many years in Delhi, I wanted to replicate the Purana Qila vibes here by having a space like an amphitheatre where cultural events showcasing the rich tradition of Andhra Pradesh can be hosted in the backdrop of the magnificent Town Hall structure,” said Ms. Srijana. This apart, there are plans to utilise the water tank area — which has also been given a facelift — into a play area and sand pit for kids. “We expect to open up the heritage structures to the public by August and have written to the State Dept. of Museums and INTACH to support us in creating a museum,” she added. Interestingly, the Town Hall still has the original billiards table dating back to the 1910s from the British times with a cue and scoring board on the wall that belonged to the Vizagapatnam Club. “The whole place was covered under a heap of junk from the late 1960s,” said Jayshree Hatangadi, a history narrator who has been conducting heritage walks in the city for years. “Vizag has a rich colony history that can be documented though letters, old photographs, postcards, drafts that also showcase the history of the port and cyclones of the region. The winding corridors of the Town Hall can be an excellent space to have an interactive museum,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iconic-town-hall-and-old-municipal-building-to-be-opened-for-public-soon/article35401063.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, ‘lover’ held for killing husband||The PM Palem police on Sunday arrested a woman and her boyfriend on the charges of killing the former’s husband. The arrested were identified as Sheikh Basha (29) of Arilova and K. Ramya of Durga Nagar, Madhurawada. Satish (37), who was working as a financial freelancer in Dubai, was killed while he was on an evening walk with his wife Ramya at 7 p.m. here on July 13. Ramya told the police that she was walking ahead of Satish when she suddenly heard some sound and found her husband lying in a pool of blood. She complained that the business partner of Satish, Sudhakar Reddy of Dubai, had been threatening her husband over financial disputes and alleged that he was involved in the murder. Based on the complaint, a team led by ACP (North Sub division) Ch Srinivas and Inspector of PM Palem K. Ravi Kumar conducted the investigation. During the investigation, the police found that the accused killed Satish to continue their relationship. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) S. Gowthami said that Ramya and Sheikh Basha had studied Class X together in the city during 2007 and since then they were in love. In 2013, the duo got separated after Ramya’s parents came to know about their relationship. In 2015, Ramya was married to Satish, while in 2018 Sheikh Basha also got married. The DCP said that the accused had met again in 2019 through a school reunion. After Ramya returned to the city from Dubai in August 2020, the duo used to meet. Ever since Satish also returned to the city in February 2021, Ramya and Basha were unable to meet, the DCP said. The duo reportedly decided to eliminate Satish to live together. On July 12, Basha allegedly conducted a recce. He allegedly hit Satish on his head from back to kill him. The duo was remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-lover-held-for-killing-husband/article35401020.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM given representation to all communities in filling of nominated posts, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy fulfilled his promise of giving 50% of the nominated posts to those who could not be given ticket to contest the general elections. A total of 11 nominated posts were given to the Visakhapatnam district by the YSRCP leadership. The party leaders, who secured the nominated posts, were felicitated at a programme organised at the party office here on Sunday. The appointment of women from the weaker sections to the posts of the Mayor and the VMRDA chairperson reflected the integrity of the Chief Minister, he said. The chairman posts in 76% of the 136 corporations in the State were allocated to candidates from BC, SC, ST and minority communities, the Minister said. MLAs Adeep Raj, Karanam Dharmasri and Tippala Nagi Reddy, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, AP Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation Chairman Malla Vijaya Prasad, NREDCAP Chairman K.K. Raju, AP State Christian Finance Corporation Chairman B. John Wesley, VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijaya Nirmala, VKPCPIR Chairperson Chokkakula Lakshmi, Greater Visakha Smart City Corporation Limited Chairman G. Venkateswara Rao, Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha Chairperson Konda Ramadevi, DCMS Chairperson Palla Chinathalli, DCCB Chairperson Ch. Anitha, AP Maritime Board Chairman Kayala Venkata Reddy and YSRCP city president Vamsikrishna were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-given-representation-to-all-communities-in-filling-of-nominated-posts-says-minister/article35401068.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19, diabetes have bidirectional link: expert||There is a bidirectional relationship between COVID-19 and diabetes. On the one hand, diabetes is associated with an increased risk of severe COVID-19 while on the other, new-onset diabetes and severe metabolic complications of pre-existing diabetes have been observed in patients with COVID-19, says endocrinologist Sravani Tanna. Many of those who develop diabetes during or after COVID-19 have risk factors like obesity, sedentary lifestyle and family history of diabetes. But diabetes was also seen in patients without the above risk factors and not treated with corticosteroids and had normal blood glucose levels prior to COVID-19 infection, says Dr. Sravani, a consultant at KIMS ICON Hospital. This could be due to viral infection, or due to previously undiagnosed diabetes, discovered incidentally while investigating COVID-19 or the person could actually be in a pre-diabetic stage and acute inflammation and steroid treatment could have finally pushed him into diabetes, she said. Dr. Sravani says that the association between viral infection and new-onset diabetes was seen in past outbreaks of other corona viral diseases such as SARS. SARS CoV2 that causes COVID-19 binds to ACE 2 receptors which are expressed in key metabolic organs, including pancreatic beta cells. “The virus impairs insulin secretion from beta cells there by aggravating diabetes mellitus which was already present or triggering new-onset diabetes. Acute infection could also cause stress hyperglycemia which may resolve once the infection and coexistent inflammation subside. Further, COVID-19 patients are increasingly being treated with glucocorticoids which are known to induce hyperglycemia,” she says. Awareness of symptoms Auto antibodies against pancreatic beta cells triggered by viral infection may develop over months and causes Type 1 diabetes. Patients who recovered from COVID should be aware of the symptoms of diabetes like frequent urination, increased thirst, increased appetite, blurry vision, weight loss, slow wound healing, and fatigue. Fatigue could last in COVID-recovered patients for many months even without developing diabetes. “Blood glucose levels should be checked immediately, if COVID-recovered patients develop the symptoms and provided treatment, if required. Undiagnosed and untreated diabetes may lead to increased morbidity. Whether these alterations in glucose metabolism persist or resolve is unclear at present,” Dr. Sravani added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-and-diabetes-have-bidirectional-link-expert/article35400985.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to be thrown open to visitors from tomorrow||Following instructions from the State government, officials of the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) have decided to reopen the zoo to visitors from July 20 (Tuesday). The zoo was closed for about three months due to the COVID-19. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria in a release on Sunday said that the formal reopening of the zoo park will be on July 19 at 10.30 a.m in the presence of Principle Chief Conservator of Forests, Andhra Pradesh, Prateep Kumar. However, entry of people will be allowed from Tuesday. The Curator also said that guidelines as per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi, in view of prevailing COVID-19 will be strictly followed on the zoo premises. Online booking Ms. Salaria said that visitors have to compulsorily wear masks and observe social distancing norms. Visitors would be subjected to thermal scanning and wearing of mask will be checked at the gate and only those who comply with it would be allowed into the zoo. To avoid queue lines, visitors also have an option to book tickets onlinewww.vizagzoo.comshe said, adding that fines will be imposed against those who are found disobeying the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-zoo-to-be-thrown-open-to-visitors-from-tuesday/article35400579.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All Vizag Central Jail inmates vaccinated||All the inmates in the Central Jail here have been vaccinated against COVID-19. The prison staff and their family members have also been covered under the drive. According to the jail authorities, around 1,750 persons were given the vaccine in phases, which included 1,370 inmates and around 400 staff and their family members. About 200 of them completed their two doses of the vaccine. According to the Superintendent of the jail, S Rahul, since the beginning of the pandemic they have been educating the inmates on the COVID-appropriate behaviour and ensuring that physical distancing is maintained. Other measures like release of some prisoners temporarily, and cancellation of general meetings of outsiders/family members with the inmates were also taken to prevent the spread of the virus. But still, many prisoners got infected. “Slowly, the number of COVID-19 cases increased to 62 in the prison ,” said the SP. Apart from the inmates, about 15 jail staff were also affected by COVID-19 and cured too, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-vizag-central-jail-inmates-vaccinated/article35401070.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MEMU trains between Vizag and Kakinada from today||The Railways will run MEMU express special trains between Kakinada Port and Visakhapatnam. The 07265 Kakinada Port-Visakhapatnam MEMU special train will leave Kakinada Port at 4.25 a.m. from July 19 and reach Visakhapatnam at 9.40 a.m. In the return direction, 07266 Visakhapatnam-Kakinada Port MEMU special will leave Visakhapatnam at 5.05 p.m. from July 19 to reach Kakinada at 10.10hrs. These trains will have stoppages at Kakinada Town, Samalkot, Pithapuram, Gollaprolu, Annavaram, Tuni, Gullipadu, Narsipatnam Road, Regupalem, Elamanchili, Narasingapalli, Anakapalle and Marripalem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/memu-trains-between-vizag-and-kakinada/article35401054.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People should operate with intellect’||On the auspicious occasion of Guru Purnima, Swami Parthasarathy, a renowned philosopher, gave a discourse on the topic ‘Live by choice, not by chance’, organised by Vedanta Institute, Visakhapatnam, on Sunday evening .  Swami Parthasarathy emphasised that man alone has the freedom to choose his actions by virtue of being endowed with intellect (Buddhi), which is denied to plants and animals. Study of Vedanta during early morning hours helps in strengthening the intellect to make right choices in life, reiterated Swami Parthasarathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-should-operate-with-intellect/article35401055.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death and 120 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 120 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning taking the cumulative case tally to 1,51,513. The death toll increased to 1,042 as one more patient succumbed to the coronavirus. As many as 118 persons recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. This takes the number of recoveries/discharges to 1,48,352. The number of active cases stands at 2,119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-sees-one-death-120-new-covid-cases/article35401056.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amenities will be provided in all slums in city: Srijana||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana has said that proposals are being made to provide amenities in all slums in the city. She said that in the recent survey, the GVMC has identified a number of households in the 793 slums in the city. The basic idea of the survey is to provide all amenities to the people living in them. She said that there are around 1,59,831 households in the slums. There are 6,62,596 people living in them in all the eight zones, she added. She said that through the survey the GVMC has also identified the list of facilities lacking in the wards and they would be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amenities-will-be-provided-in-all-slums-in-city-srijana/article35401069.ece
19 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New executive body installed||The Obstetric and Gynaecological Society of Visakhapatnam installed its new executive body here on Sunday. T. Radha, who has been the president for the last two years, formally handed over charge to T. Padmavathi. The other members of the executive body are secretary P. Sailaja and vice-presidents Sitarama Raju, Padmavathi Naidu, Y.L.N. Rao and I. Vani. The installation function was followed by a scientific programme and lectures on COVID in pregnant women and vaccinations in pregnancy by Prem Kumar, I. Vani and R. Vidya Rama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-executive-body-installed/article35401067.ece
19 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Issue caste, income certificates’||Vizinagaram Telaga Welfare Association leader Chanamalla Prasada Rao on Sunday urged the Vizianagaram district administration to issue caste and income certificates as early as possible to applicants in order to help them avail the benefits of the EWS reservation and financial assistance under various schemes. Mr. Prasada Rao said that 1,306 applications submitted for Kapu Nestam scheme were yet to be approved at various mandal offices. He said that the government’s timely support would help the Telaga community avail benefits of EWS reservation once they are issued caste and income certificates. Mr. Prasada Rao thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for extending EWS quota to poor people of forward castes including Telaga community. He hoped that the government would ensure BC status for the community in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issue-caste-income-certificates/article35401016.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to visit Polavaram today||Mr. Balaraju had an interaction with the project-affected tribal people in the Agency area and assured them that compensation would be paid to all the eligible families. “All arrangements have been made for the Chief Minister’s programme scheduled on Monday. Officials of the Revenue, Irrigation, K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Panchayat Raj, Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited and other wings will attend the review meeting,” said Mr. Kartikeya Misra, who visited the project site. Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma, along with Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Latha Kumari, ASPs and other officials reviewed the security arrangements for the Chief Minister’s programme. “Additional forces have been deployed in the Agency area. Vehicle checks are being done on all the roads leading to Polavaram,” the SP told The Hindu.  “Special party police have been positioned at the project site and on both sides of the river in East and West Godavari districts as a precautionary measure,” Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma said. Air of expectation Meanwhile, the visit, the first by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy after fulfilling his poll promise of Rs. 10 lakh compensation for the affected families within the +41 contour of the project, has drawn much attention. In July, the State government granted Rs. 550 crore package for more than 17,000 displaced families, ensuring them a Rs. 10 lakh package each, including Rs. 6.5 lakh entitled as per the land acquisition guidelines. R&R package The visit and a review of the ongoing Resettlement and Rehabilitation exercise are expected to lead to finalisation of an action plan to tackle the floods in the river and the impact of the closure of cofferdam simultaneously. From East Godavari, Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha, ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkataramana, and ITDA-Rampachodavaram PO Praveen Adithya would participate in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-visit-polavaram-today/article35400986.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aashada masam fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aashada-masam-fervour/article35400577.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-to-normal/article35401000.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Podium’ parking to minimise flood risk||Last year’s floods may not have brought about a dramatic change in ground-level stormwater drain system, but it got builders thinking of alternatives to cellar parking. The norm for both residential and commercial buildings is to go deep, dig one, two, three or more basements for parking. Cellars also served as power, internet, telephone and other points, and massive inundation of several areas led to major disruption besides vehicle breakdown. Pumping out water caused more chaos as sewer lines burst to capacity and overflowed with complaints galore to the municipal authorities. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India-Hyderabad chapter (CREDAI-Hyd) scoured through the National Building Code (NBC) and parking norms in cities like Mumbai to come forth with ‘podium’ floors proposal, which is a ‘horizontal projection (platform) extending beyond the building footprint on one or more sides, and may consist of one or more levels’. In simple terms, it is taking the parking floors above the ground instead of below. “National Building Code (NBC) has podium parking, however, it was never tried here. We studied various models, talked to eminent architects and pitched it to the government because unless it is clearly indicated in building rules, permissions cannot be granted,” explained president P. Rama Krishna Rao, in an exclusive interaction. The government appointed a committee consisting of representatives of the Municipal Administration Department, fire services, architects and real estate association to study the proposal. And, based on their report, fresh orders were issued by principal secretary Arvind Kumar recently allowing podium parking. It will be restricted to 15 metres or five floors as per the approach road width. If the site is more than 10 acres, more podiums will be allowed and building height will be exempted from these parking floors akin to stilt parking. Seven metres setbacks for 55 metres towers with 12 metres turning radius and nine metres setback for 55 metres towers and above with 14 metres turning radius has been mandated. Basements will be restricted to three for commercial and two for residential. Setbacks will treated identically for towers and podiums. For buildings with floor area of more than 10,000 sq. metres, fire engines will have access to half the building perimeter and if it is less than 10,000 sq. metres, 1/3rd perimeter. Between 2-10% of podium space can be utilised drivers amenities, visitors lobbies and toilets only. “Excavating deep basements is an expensive proposition due to sheet rock along with transport and debris disposal besides not being eco-friendly. Artificial lighting and ventilation has to be provided in them at a considerable cost. Podium parking with natural ventilation offers a solution for multi-storey buildings. But it is optional for developers as they can choose existing bylaws too,” clarified Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/podium-parking-to-minimise-flood-risk/article35400803.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalita Bandhu will start soon, says KCR||Telangana Dalita Bandhu, the scheme aimed at providing financial assistance to Dalit families for their empowerment, will start soon. The State government has allocated Rs. 1,000 crore for the project in the budget for the current financial year to ensure that the amount is credited into the accounts of eligible beneficiaries so that they could realise their aspirations and ensure their livelihood prospects. The project would be implemented on a pilot basis in Huzurabad constituency of Karimnagar, considered to be a sentiment for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who initiated several projects, including the prestigious Rythu Bandhu, emulated by the Centre and other States from this constituency. The date of the launch would be finalised soon. The project envisages assessment of the conditions of Dalit families spread across the constituency following which there would be an elaborate exercise to identify and enrol beneficiaries under the scheme. According to initial estimates, 5,323 families had been identified in Huzurabad mandal followed by Kamalapur (4,346), Veenavanka (3,678), Jammikunta (4,996) and Illanthakunta (2,586) taking the total number of families in the constituency to 20,929. Once the eligibility of the identified families is established, Dalita Bandhu would be implemented in saturation mode. The government had decided to implement the pilot project to understand the field-level operational issues so that full scale implementation could be taken up across the State, Mr. KCR said. He held a detailed review on the implementation of the scheme with senior officials on Sunday. The CM asserted that the scheme should be implemented in line with the intentions of the government rather than following the traditional methods and the selection of beneficiaries should be made accordingly. Officials should not take the implementation “as usual” and ensure that the statistics collected were accurate. The officials could rely on the data collected during the Samagra Kutumba survey for the purpose as much of the data was available in this direction. He said a three-pronged strategy would be outlined for the implementation — supervision of the implementation of the scheme, assessment of results and establishment of a corpus with contributions from the government. Accordingly, it has been decided to establish a corpus fund in addition to the Rs. 10 lakh assured to the beneficiaries so that the fund could be utilised in the event of emergencies. “The scheme will be a protective cover for the families of the beneficiaries,” the CM said. He was particular that the official machinery that would supervise the implementation of the scheme should be committed for the welfare of Dalits and behave more like coordinators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalita-bandhu-will-start-soon-says-kcr/article35400836.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalita Bandhu to start from Huzurabad||The State government has decided to kick-start Dalita Bandhu, the ambitious Dalit empowerment scheme aimed at providing financial assistance to Dalit (Scheduled Caste) families for making them financially self-sufficient. Huzurabad constituency, represented by former Minister Eatala Rajender, had been selected for implementation of the pilot project. A release from the Chief Minister’s Office said the constituency had been selected in view of the fact that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had kick-started several of the welfare schemes from the district. The district had been the starting point for intensified separate Statehood agitation with the TRS holding the ‘Telangana Simha Garjana’ which culminated in the formation of the separate State. The prestigious Rythu Bandhu which several States have emulated was also started from Karimnagar district and hence, selection of Huzurabad for implementation of the pilot project of the Dalit empowerment scheme. Interestingly, the constituency is set to go for bypoll after Mr. Rajender, who was stripped off his portfolio, resigned from his MLA post and joined the BJP. The bypoll to the constituency has now turned out to be a battle of prestige between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the Bharatiya Janata Party which made impressive gains in the State since past few months. The Congress too had shown indications of resurgence after the party high command promoted Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy as the Telangana party president. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who held an elaborate review meeting on the recently announced Dalit empowerment scheme for providing financial assistance to Scheduled Castes for making them financially self-sufficient, said it will be named as Telangana Dalita Bandhu, on the lines of Rythu Bandhu investment assistance scheme launched in the interests of farmers. The scheme involving a budget outgo of Rs. 1,000 crore a year would benefit about eight lakh Dalit families and the allocation, the government clarified, was over and above the allocations made under the SC sub-plan. The date for the launch would be announced soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalita-bandhu-to-start-from-huzurabad/article35401028.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to fight for farmers’ cause||State BJP will increase protests in the coming days for the cause of farmers to put pressure on the government to fulfil the assurances made like loan waiver, free supply of fertilizers, right price for their produce and efficient procurement, said party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday. Participating in the party’s Kisan Morcha meeting at Yadagirigutta, he accused the TRS government of being ‘anti-farmer’, seeking to crush any kind of protest with illegal arrests and repression across the State. “Farmers’ plight has not changed even after Telangana formation with suicides continuing and the Rythu Bandhu scheme is going waste. We will not keep quiet and will make sure this tyrannical and arrogant regime comes to its knees. My proposed State-level maha padayatra from next month is precisely to understand the issues at the local level,” he said. He also accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of pushing a ‘rich’ State into debt, confining new jobs to his family and now auctioning land for revenue. He expressed the fear that even agriculture lands could be sold off in the near future, and questioned the government’s reluctance to spend Rs. 120 crore released by the Centre for soil testing. “The Narendra Modi government at Centre, in contrast, had introduced many welfare schemes and subsidies for farmers like ‘Kisan Sanman’. Only those having farmers’ interests in the heart and respect for tillers should be ruling. TS people are waiting for a farmer-friendly government like the one in the Centre. Our efforts from now on will be in that direction,” he said. AIIMS Hyderabad Mr. Sanjay Kumar inaugurated the forensics and toxicology department at AIIMS-Bibinagar and assured that he would take up with the Health ministry the matter of changing the name to ‘AIIMS-Hyderabad’ as it would bring certain inherent advantages. He regretted that the State government has been dragging its feet in providing the necessary assistance to make the hospital fully functional by not giving the land documents and preventing expansion plans. “The third batch of MBBS students will soon be joining but they do not have a building. I request the government to hand over the buildings in the vicinity. Tenders for a new main building will be finalised soon and I would ensure more funds are allocated from the Centre,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-bjp-to-fight-for-farmers-cause/article35400833.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Narappa’ stays true to the emotions portrayed in ‘Asuran’, says actor Venkatesh||“In my experience of having worked on more than 20 remakes, I have learnt that it is best not to spoil the original material,” says actor Venkatesh Daggubati, when we discuss his new Telugu film Narappa , directed by Srikanth Addala. Scheduled to stream on Amazon Prime Video on July 20, the film is a remake of the much-appreciated Tamil film Asuran (2019).  Asuran , directed by Vetri Maaran and starring Dhanush, was an adaptation of Poomani’s Tamil novel Vekkai (meaning heat/rage) and harks back to the 1968 massacre in Kilvenmani, Tamil Nadu. Narappa’s trailer hints at a faithful remake of the original, much like some of the other remakes that the actor starred in, Drushyam (remake of the Malayalam film Drishyam ) and Gopala Gopala ( Oh My God! ) in recent years. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of a media interaction at the Ramanaidu Studios, Hyderabad, the actor says it was imperative to stay true to the hard-hitting story of Asuran . He is not worried that a section of viewers might have seen the original film with subtitles on the same digital streaming platform. Given the unpredictability of the pandemic, the team decided to go for a digital release: “Vetri Maaran did a fine job and Dhanush was fantastic; he is among the best actors we have today in Indian cinema. Asuran is a raw, rustic film with strong emotions. Even those who didn’t understand Tamil had so much empathy for the character. If people can relate to the emotions, it wouldn’t matter even if they have seen the original.” Haves and have-nots The story explores the clash between the haves and have-nots, of caste, and is a fight for survival and dignity. Asked if the film contextualises to refer to true incidents of social uprising that took place in Andhra Pradesh or Telangana, he says, “We preferred to keep it simple, as a battle between haves and have-nots. For a good half of the film, we see Narappa staying silent, suffering and wanting to protect his family more than anything else. His younger son, too, doesn’t understand him for a long time. The fact that what was rightfully his was taken away, and his struggle for survival is deep and strong enough for viewers to connect with.” While Priyamani reprises Manju Warrier’s part, Karthik Rathnam plays the elder son and Rajeev Kanakala plays the brother-in-law, the Narappa team chose to retain Aadukalam Naren and Ammu Abirami from Asuran : “We really liked their work, and they fit in very well into Narappa ,” says Venkatesh.  Narappa is a new terrain for director Srikanth Addala, known for feel-good family dramas. This is Venkatesh’s second collaboration with the director after Seethamma Vaakitlo Sirimalle Chettu and says it proved to be a challenging project for both the director and him: “ Narappa is my most challenging film so far. I had to prepare, be it the body language or to portray those intense emotions. There were times I would feel so drained after a shot. In fact, I used to wear the same clothes in the hotel after the day’s shoot was over, just to be in that zone.” Much of Narappa was filmed in early 2020. Venkatesh remembers, “We were in Madurai when we heard that a few COVID-19 cases had trickled into that region. We called off the shoot to safeguard the unit members. We returned to Hyderabad on March 18 and the nation went into lockdown in a few days. The remaining portions were filmed later.”  Drishyam 2 remake In the later months of 2020, Venkatesh also worked on the Telugu remake of Drishyam 2 and lauds Mohanlal for his performance: “He was excellent in the film; there is so much he conveys with his eyes. Everything fell in place for the remake and I took it up as a new challenge.” Meanwhile, the comedy F3 co-starring Varun Tej is also underway. As someone who is known for his spiritual leanings in recent years, the actor says the pandemic brought with it lessons for everyone, some of which are quickly being forgotten as normalcy returns: “None of us was prepared for this. Fear brought out the weakness in all of us and we began caring even more for the health of our near and dear ones. We might forget about COVID-19 at night but we wake up to the reality each morning. Right now, the best we can do is follow safety protocols and encourage everyone to get vaccinated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narappa-stays-true-to-the-emotions-portrayed-in-asuran-says-actor-venkatesh/article35400812.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||82 unreserved passenger trains to run from today||The South Central Railways will be resuming its unreserved train services for the benefit of intra-State passengers from Monday. These trains will be operated on par with express trains in terms of speed, thanks to the major major track strengthening works done over the last one year, senior officials said on Saturday. These trains to be operated as ‘Unreserved Express Train Services’, will be introduced in a phased manner over the next week with 82 services to resume operations spread over the entire network of SCR. Passengers will be able to purchase their tickets through all the mediums – both at the booking counters in the stations as well other non-physical interactive mediums like UTS App (online), ATVM (Automatic Ticket Vending Machines), CoTVMs (Coin Ticket Vending Machines) etc. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the importance of maintaining physical distance, passengers are encouraged to use the UTS App and ATVMs to avoid queues at the booking stations. Season tickets will also be available. General Manager Gajanan Mallya appealed to all passengers to follow the COVID protocols while both at the stations and also in the trains. He said that while these train services are being resumed to meet the travel demands of the commuter passengers, adequate precautions like compulsorily wearing face masks, maintaining physical distance, frequent sanitisation, etc should be practiced for the safety of all rail passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/82-unreserved-passenger-trains-to-run-from-today/article35400819.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain, deluge force snakes to slither into homes||Flooding caused by heavy rain is perturbing not just for human beings but also for creepy-crawlies and dangerous reptiles which are forced to come out of their natural habitat in search of a safe haven. The chances of encountering a snake is quite high in this season. In the past eight days, when it rained in and around the city, volunteers of Friends of Snakes Society rescued 178 snakes, including some venomous ones. They included 98 spectacled cobra, 25 rat snakes and 25 checkered keelback among others. Most distress calls were from people living on the outskirts of the city. The snakes were rescued from Beeramguda, Nizampet, Kukatpally, Lingampally, Patancheru, Hayathnagar, Vanasthalipuram, L.B. Nagar, Nagole, Attapur, Raidurgam, Shaikpet, Damaiguda and Rampally. General secretary of Friends of Snakes Society, Avinash Visvanathan said most snakes rescued by the volunteers are found outside homes but inside compounds. To keep themselves warm and dry, the cold-blooded reptiles hide under just anything — a pile of wood, bricks, construction debris or under the staircase. He said that the snakes entered homes only in a few cases when there was a gap under the door. “The society receives over 100 calls on its helpline every day, requesting assistance to remove snakes that enter residences or office spaces. With the help of over 150 well-trained volunteers, the organisation safely rescues the animal and relocates them to forest areas away from human habitation, with the help of Telangana Forest department,” Mr Avinash said. Till June 30 this year, despite lockdown, the society rescued and relocated 4,793 snakes from various districts of Telangana.  We receive over 100 calls on our helpline every day, requesting assistance with removing snakes from residences or offices. Avinash Visvanathan, General secretary, Friends of Snakes Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rains-make-snakes-slither-into-homes-offices/article35400806.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Storage in major reservoirs improves as flood continues||Flood into most of the Krishna Basin reservoirs in Karnataka and Telangana-Andhra Pradesh continued in a good measure on Sunday, improving the storage in large dams, while inflows into Godavari Basin reservoirs remained in a small measure. With Agumbe recording nearly 17.7 cm rain and Mahabaleshwar recording 7.8 cm rain during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. Sunday, the inflows into upstream reservoirs such as Tungabhadra, Almatti and Narayanpur, all in Karnataka, are expected to remain steady and increase over the next few days as more rains are forecast. Inflows into Tugabhadra dam went up to 52,000 cusecs on Sunday evening with the storage approaching halfway mark (48.55 tmcft) against its capacity of 100.86 tmcft. Almatti and Narayanpur dams were getting over 52,200 and 60,000 cusecs of flood and discharging in the same measure. As a result, Jurala was getting nearly 84,000 cusecs of flood and discharging 52,650 cusecs through 13 spillway gates and another 34,700 cusecs after power generation as of 9 p.m. on Sunday. The flood being discharged at Jurala was reaching Srisailam taking its storage to 41.83 tmcft at 9 p.m. against its capacity of 215.81 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/storage-in-major-reservoirs-improves-as-flood-continues/article35400830.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth invites Devender Goud, son to join Congress?||In an apparent move to invite leaders from other political parties into the Congress fold, TPCC president Revanth Reddy, along with senior leader Madhu Yaskhi Goud, called on former Home Minister and TDP leader T Devender Goud at his residence on Sunday evening. They apparently discussed the political situation in Telanagana and Mr. Goud was invited to strengthen the Congress to fight against the TRS government. Mr. Goud’s son Veerender, who is presently with the BJP, was also asked to consider joining the Congress. However, neither the Congress leaders nor the Goud family revealed the details of the deliberations. Later, Mr. Reddy said that it was a courtesy call to meet a senior leader like Mr. Devender Goud who played a key role in the Telangana movement with his padayatra. He said even the late CM Y.S.R. Reddy had great respect for Mr. Goud given his commitment to Telangana. He said he had personal relations with both the sons of Mr. Goud since a long time and they discussed issues related to Telangana. Mr. Madhu Yaskhi reminded that Mr. Goud fought for the rights of Hyderabad and that it’s revenues should go to Telangana only when the State was being formed. “He is a respected leader and we will gain from his experience,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-invites-devender-goud-son-to-join-congress/article35400831.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||What happened to alternate SCB roads?, BJP asks State govt.||Secunderabad Cantonment’s BJP wing has accused the State government of not holding a “single coordination meeting between the local military officials and its own officials for the last six years” which could have led to resolution of many issues and for not taking a single step towards developing alternate roads like Gough Road. “The government cannot wash off its hands by complaining against the military authorities when it has been refusing to heed requests to host the annual liaison meeting between both parties despite repeated pleas. It was an annual affair till 2014 when many contentious issues were being sorted out but for reasons best known, the practice has been dispensed with,” charged senior leader and former vice-president of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) J. Pratap. “The State government through the GHMC, municipal and revenue authorities also took up a survey on the prompting of the High Court for a plan to build alternate roads in lieu of those the military wants to keep the civilians away. However, there has been no progress to take up these works,” he pointed out. Mr. Pratap noted that Minister K.T. Rama Rao had written to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh objecting to the closure of roads without mentioning the reasons for the delay in taking up alternate roads. “We were informed that if the government finalises the requirements of defence land for road widening or building flyovers like the one proposed to connect to Rajiv Rahadhari towards Karimnagar, separately, and with prompt payment of compensation, the land will be handed over without much ado,” he said. In fact, the governments of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and even Delhi had obtained substantial extent of defence lands for building roads or flyovers in their respective cities, said the former VP and urged the government as well as defence authorities to make joint efforts in resolving the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/what-happened-to-alternate-scb-roads-bjp-asks-state-govt/article35400817.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGT asks SCCL to pay up for excess mining||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) to pay environmental compensation for the excess coal mined from the JVR OC-I mine and extract coal only to the extent of environmental clearance. It has also made it clear that the company could go for additional quantity of coal extraction only after getting separate clearance. Hearing the proceedings in a petition filed by B. Nandu Nailk, O. Srinivas Reddy and others last week virtually, on excess mining done by the SCCL leading to large-scale environmental harm, the Southern Zone Bench of NGT has directed the joint committee that investigated into the aspect to file further report by considering compensation to be paid by the mining company for the excess mining done already. The NGT Bench comprising Judicial member K. Ramakrishnan and expert member K. Satyagopal observed that seeking bank guarantee of Rs. 26.67 crore as performance guarantee for doing certain works is different from assessing environmental compensation for the violation of excess mining and both stand on a different footing. After going through the report of the joint committee submitted before NGT, the Bench wanted the panel to assess the environmental compensation to be collected from SCCL for excess mining of coal done already in violation of the EC norms. The amount sought as bank guarantee was for implementing the environmental management plan for the mine – remediation and natural community resource augmentation plan within a period of three years, the Bench felt. SCCL was also liable to pay royalty with penalty for the excess mining done, as provided for under the mining rules for the expanded portion of mining done in addition to the extent considered for environmental clearance, the NGT Bench said and asked the joint committee to specify whether they had imposed and realised such amount. It also asked PCB to file further action taken report, ascertain compliance of the panel recommendations by the company and posted the matter to August 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngt-asks-sccl-to-pay-up-for-excess-mining/article35400829.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Covaxin, Covishield effective against Delta’||Covishield and Covaxin are effective in preventing disease severity and mortality against the Delta variant in fully vaccinated hospitalised patients, according to a joint study undertaken by scientists of CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) and doctors at AIG Hospitals on Sunday. Clinical outcomes in vaccinated individuals hospitalised with Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 study has been published in ‘MedRxiv - The preprint server for health sciences’ and stated that the emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2 with increased transmissibility or immune escape have been causing large outbreaks of COVID infections across the world. As most vaccines in use have been derived from viral strains circulating in the early part of the pandemic, it became imperative to constantly assess the efficacy of the vaccines against emerging variants. In this study, clinical profiles and outcomes of 1,161 hospitalised patients vaccinated with Covishield, 495 vaccinated with Covaxin and 666 unvaccinated persons here between April 24 and May 31 were investigated. Viral genome sequencing revealed that >90% of patients in both groups were harbouring Delta variant and vaccinated individuals showed higher neutralising antibodies when compared to the unvaccinated group. Severity of the disease and requirement of ventilatory support were significantly low in the vaccinated group despite the fact that those individuals had significantly higher age and risk factors. Mortality rate was about 50% lower in the completely vaccinated breakthrough infections although mortality in individuals who took a single dose was similar to the unvaccinated group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covaxin-covishield-effective-against-delta-variant-study/article35400809.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR urges Centre to hold recruitment tests in regional languages||Municipal and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has urged the Central government to permit candidates taking all-India competitive exams to write in regional languages also, to ensure a level playing field. In a letter to Union Minister Jithender Singh, he said that every year many candidates from different States appear for competitive exams for recruitment in Central services, departments and undertakings through UPSC and other recruitment agencies. These competitive exams are held only in English and Hindi, which is a serious disadvantage to students who did not study in English medium or not from Hindi-speaking States. He said the National Recruitment Agency has decided to facilitate a Common Eligibility Test to replace multiple examinations and conduct these in 12 languages. The changes are not being implemented properly, he said, citing the recent job notification of Constables (GD) in Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), NIA, SSF and Rifleman (GD) in Assam Rifles Examination, 2021. “Here candidates are allowed to write the exam only in Hindi or English. Same is the case with a few other employment notifications. This comes as a rude shock to applicants knowing only regional languages, who are forced to lose great opportunities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-urges-centre-to-hold-recruitment-tests-in-regional-languages/article35400838.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS rejects allegations on Kokapet lands||The TRS has rejected the allegations made by TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy on the Kokapet land auctions and said the process was transparent. “No one prevented Revanth Reddy from participating in the bidding to check its veracity. Opposition should stop damaging the image of Hyderabad,” said TRS general secretaries Bodakunti Venkateswarlu and Srinivas Reddy. At a press conference here, they said the online bidding was conducted by a Central agency and all State governments follow the same procedure. They accused Mr. Revanth Reddy of blackmailing people and continuing it even after becoming the PCC chief. “He is damaging the image of Hyderabad with his baseless allegations,” Mr. Venkateshwarlu said. The TRS leaders also defended the sale of land now than when they were in Opposition. “We opposed the land sale then as money accrued then was spent on Andhra Pradesh and not Telangana,” Mr. Srinivas Reddy said. He reminded that Raj Pushpa Pvt Ltd was a well-known real estate company much before Telangana was formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-rejects-allegations-on-kokapet-lands/article35400839.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Venkaiah Naidu takes up SCB issue with Centre||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday advised Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt to examine the issue of closure of public roads in Secunderabad Cantonment area as it is causing difficulty to thousands of people living in surrounding colonies. Mr. Naidu referred to the issue when the newly-appointed Minister called on him at Upa Rashtrapati Nivas in New Delhi. He suggested the Minister to look into the closure of public roads in detail and take steps to mitigate the hardship faced by the people. In this context, Mr. Naidu also mentioned about a recent letter written by the Telangana government to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the issue. The Minister assured the Vice President to examine the matter and address the concerns of the people, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/venkaiah-naidu-takes-up-scb-issue-with-centre/article35400821.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||172 children rescued as part of ‘Operation Muskan’||The Rachakonda police on Sunday announced that they have rescued 172 children as a part Operation Muskan VI initiative. Of these 172, 103 are boys and the remaining - girls. As many as 19 children were rescued after they were found begging. Police said that 88 children are from Telangana, 20 from Madhya Pradesh, 16 from Chhattisgarh, and 13 from Jharkhand. As many as 18 cases were booked and 37 persons were arrested in connection with making minors work. Police said the accused brought the minors from different States so that they could pay them less. They then made them work for more than nine hours, paid them poorly, and kept them in inhuman conditions, police said. Cases under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Juvenile Justice Act, Child Labour Act and Bonded Labour Act have been booked against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/172-children-rescued/article35400822.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Staff details sought by today||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister E. Dayakar Rao has directed senior officials to submit details relating to sanctioned strength and existing vacancies in the two departments to the Finance department by Monday. The Minister wanted to ensure that the details of the two departments reached the government at the earliest so that steps could be initiated to fill the vacancies. Reviewing the situation with senior officials on Sunday, Mr. Dayakar Rao wanted them to ascertain regular employees as well as those working on contract and outsourcing basis, so that the number of vacant posts could be prepared. Officials were asked to take into consideration staff sanctioned and working at the mandal and village levels in the reorganised districts, including the newly-formed ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/staff-details-sought-by-today/article35400834.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Release flood compensation’||Congress leader and AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan urged the government to immediately disburse compensation to the families devastated by incessant rains and floods in Greater Hyderabad and take necessary steps to prevent inundation with rains predicted for the next three days in the city. “It is estimated that damage to the extent of Rs. 200 crore occurred to properties and personal belongings of people especially in Malakpet, LB Nagar, Uppal and parts of old city,” he said and demanded immediate compensation to them. The government has not even responded to my own RTI query to GHMC Commissioner, the Congress leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/release-flood-compensation/article35400813.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Convict dies in hospital||A convict serving two concurrent sentences, including life imprisonment, who attempted suicide in Cherlapally Central Jail, succumbed at the Osmania General Hospital, police said on Sunday. According to Kushaiguda police, the victim, Banothu Srinu, was a resident of Thoorupu tanda in Suryapet district. He was serving sentences for murder and attempt to murder and was awarded the sentence by the II Additional Sessions Judge, Suryapet. The victim attempted suicide on July 17 and hanged himself at around 10.40 p.m. Medical staff provided him first aid after which he was rushed to the Osmania General Hospital. Doctors at the hospital pronounced him dead on 11.43 p.m., police said.  (Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/convict-dies-in-hospital/article35400824.ece
19 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State posts 578 new infections, three deaths||A sharp drop in COVID-19 cases in Telangana was recorded on Sunday as testing took a nosedive. Only 90,966 samples were tested on Sunday as compared to the usual 1 lakh-plus, and 578 tested positive. Results of 1,159 were awaited. Three more patients died, taking the death toll to 3,759. The new cases include 75 from GHMC region, 53 from Karimnagar, 43 from Khammam, 38 from Suryapet, and 36 each from Warangal Urban and Mancherial. No case was recorded in KB Asifabad, and only one person tested positive in Narayanpet. The State’s case tally stands at 6,36,627, of which 9,824 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/578-new-covid-cases-3-deaths/article35400804.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy releases NAAC’s book on best practices in colleges||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy has released a book in the series of “Best Practices - Student Admission Process” published by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The book compiles the best practices that different colleges have been following in student admission process. He called upon NAAC to bring out more such books documenting best practices in teaching and learning methodologies, administration, infrastructure creation and maintenance, and protection of environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-reddy-releases-naacs-book-on-best-practices-in-colleges/article35400629.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Essential provisions distributed||South Central Railway Women’s Welfare Organization (SCRWWO), led by president Jayanthi Mallya, distributed essential provisions to 202 members of contract housekeeping staff at Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda and Rail Nilayam, Secunderabad, in the presence of principal chief medical director Prasanna Kumar and medical director Dr. C.K. Venkateswarlu, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/essential-provisions-distributed/article35400816.ece
19 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 Constable dies by suicide||A police constable was found dead here in Hyderabad on Sunday. The victim was identified as Dandagala Ramanjaneyulu, 25. He was a resident of New Vasavi Nagar in Karkhana. He was found hanging around 7 a.m. at his home. Police suspect that personal problems could be the reason behind the suicide. The victim’s body was sent to Osmania General Hospital for post mortem. Police registered a suspicious death case and began investigation. (Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-found-dead/article35400823.ece
19 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Gutha: Centre conspiring against TS||The Centre’s gazette notifications to take control over Krishna and Godavari projects in Telangana is BJP’s planned action, former Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy said on Sunday. “It shows the Centre’s conspiracy and revengeful approach against Telangana. The BJP, since its prospects are bleak here, wants to turn Telangana into a desert,” he said. Addressing the media at his house here, the former Nalgonda MP said that the conspiracy was not new, but had begun with the merging of Telangana’s seven mandals with Andhra Pradesh in 2014. The two gazette notifications establishing the jurisdictions of Krishna River Management Board and Godavari River Management Board for all administration and operation purpose, Mr. Reddy said, would quash the State rights. “The gazettes say Telangana cannot use any water without the permission of the Centre. Should Telangana be at the Centre’s mercy?” he questioned. Mr. Reddy also termed the State BJP leaders ‘inefficient’ for not playing any ‘for Telangana’ role. Observing that no political party, in the interest of Telangana, would welcome such orders, he demanded the Centre to rethink the decision and roll back the gazettes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gutha-centre-conspiring-against-ts/article35400826.ece
19 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Dalit rape and murder: CPI(M) seeks action||Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and its affiliated organisations on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao requesting strict action in the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit minor girl at Kethepally last week. State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, along with former legislator Julakanti Ranga Reddy and others, visited the victim’s family at Koppole to know the details. Mr. Veerabhadram said the 17-year-old was kidnapped, raped and murdered by a few youths from the village, but the police registered the crime as suicide. Only following pressure by the party’s wings Kula Vivaksha Porata Samithi, The All India Democratic Women’s Association and other voluntary organisations, the police initiated a fresh inquiry. The CPI (M) leaders said the victim’s family was poor and the girl’s father was disabled and needed State support. They demanded Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia, a job for one person in the family and a double bedroom house, besides expeditious trial through a fast-track court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-rape-and-murder-cpim-seeks-action/article35400827.ece
19 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Integrated market inaugurated for farmers||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that from now on farmers can get fertilizer and pesticides at one place and that they need not run around to buy them. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the integrated market for farmers here on Sunday along with District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) chairman M. Shivakumar, the Finance Minister said the market was established to extend better services to farmers without profit as motive. He said that awareness camps will also be conducted for farmers at the market on increasing farm produce. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao said that he is proud of Indira Nagar Government School which has been competing with corporate schools. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating multi-purpose computer lab in the school, Mr. Rao said that people are approaching him for admissions in the school. He said already 1,040 students studying in the school while another 270 applications are pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/integrated-market-inaugurated-for-farmers/article35401024.ece
19 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Action Aid donated oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 20 lakh to the district on Sunday. Addressing a gathering after receiving the devices, Finance Minister Harish Rao said that these should be used for the needy at government hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres. He called upon corporate organisations to follow the path shown by Action Aid. The organisation regional manager Anjaneyulu, programme officer Phanindra and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article35400841.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cat settling a dispute?||The recent move by the Centre to take over the irrigation projects in the two Telugu States along with hydel generation by issuing a gazette notification has evoked strong reaction (opposition) from various quarters except the Andhra Pradesh government, the ruling party (YSRCP) there and BJP in AP and Telangana welcoming it. The ruling party (TRS) in Telangana, Congress, the Left and other parties in the two States opposed the move terming it an axe on the federal structure of our democracy. Some parties wondered why the Centre had to take over the projects on which there was no dispute between the two States and some politicians likened it to Telugu saying: ‘pitta, pitta poru pilli teerchinattu’ – a cat settling the dispute between two birds by eating them both! (usurping their powers).   As the government has given permission to theatres to open with full capacity, apprehensions are rife among people on whether these places of gathering would be safe enough to watch movies with families. These fears rise from reports that people are giving a go-by to COVID norms once vaccinated and hence, the scope for spread of the virus again. Amid reports on the likely occurrence of a third wave, the powers that be should take steps to keep a watch on whether people were following all safety norms in theatres, lest they could become breeding centres for the next wave.  (B. Chandrashekhar   and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cat-settling-a-dispute/article35400828.ece
19 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||4 feared trapped as building collapses||A three-storey residential building inside the premises of a cargo company in Pataudi here collapsed on Sunday. Around four labourers were suspected to be trapped under the debris, and one person was rescued. The building inside the premises of the company in Khawaspur village came crashing down late in the evening. Around four labourers were feared trapped under the debris, according to the security guard at the company’s premises. Gulshan Kalra, Assistant Divisional Fire Officer, said one person was rescued and taken to hospital and the team was close to pulling out another person from under the debris. Yash Garg, Deputy Commissioner, said rescue and relief teams were sent to the spot soon after the incident. Local MLA Satya Prakash, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Pradeep Kumar, and fire brigade personnel were present at the spot.  One person was rescued and taken to hospital and the team was close to pulling out another person from under the debris Gulshan Kalra Assistant Divisional Fire Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-feared-trapped-as-building-collapses/article35400721.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prisoners, out on bail, arrested as they return to crime||Several inmates, released on emergency parole or interim bail from Delhi prisons to decongest jails amid the COVID-19 outbreak, have been arrested again for being allegedly involved in various criminal cases, said a Delhi police officer on Sunday. The Supreme Court had on Friday ordered that prisoners, who were released by the high powered committees (HPCs) of States during the second wave of COVID-19 following its May 7 directions, will not be asked to surrender until further orders. Keeping a watch The officer said that each police district has a separate jail-bail cell to keep track on criminals on bail. All police stations have been instructed to keep a watch on them. The inmates were lodged in the jails in West, South, Dwarka and Outer Delhi districts. The North district police on July 5 this year, arrested a man released on bail after being allegedly involved in a murder case. Out on bail, he tried to put pressure on the witnesses using several methods but when he failed to win them over, he decided to take the other alternative by implicating them in a false case of attempt to murder. But his plan was exposed and he was arrested. In South district, one Amarjeet, a vagabond, was arrested in a theft and house trespass case registered at Kotla Mubarakpur police station. The crime took place on June 24, a senior police officer said. Amarjeet was earlier sent to jail in a case of violation of the Excise Act, he said. Dwarka district police also reported arrests of two other inmates out on bail. According to the police, Naresh Kumar, a resident of Ujwa in Delhi, was arrested in an Arms Act case registered at Jaffarpur Kalan police station. The other person identified as Deepak Kumar, a resident of Jai Vihar in Baprola, was arrested for his involvement in a criminal case. In Outer district, a person was arrested in a robbery case. However, the police said they protested against the bail of an inmate who was involved in several criminal cases, following which his bail plea got rejected. Four people were arrested in the West district. Among them, two were arrested in theft cases, one in robbery and one for violation of the Excise Act, the police said. In South East district, three such criminals, out on bail, were arrested for allegedly being involved in robbery and snatching cases. Different picture According to the police, at least 90 inmates of North West district and 95 of North East district jails were released. However, no one has been arrested again so far. In Shahdara district, 104 undertrial prisoners were released from jail, but none of them have been found involved in any other criminal case so far, they said. A senior Delhi Prisons official said over 3,800 inmates were released from three jails. “This year, the process of releasing inmates started from the second week of May. Around 3,000 undertrial prisoners and over 800 convicts were released from the prisons,” the official said. These include inmates who were released last year and then surrendered with no adverse report, and also new prisoners who were eligible for such interim bail or emergency parole in view of the pandemic, under the criteria laid down by a high powered committee in its meetings on May 4 and May 11. Last year, over 5,500 undertrial prisoners and 1,184 convicts were released on interim bail and emergency parole from the three Delhi jails — Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli — during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. But over 2,400 undertrials and 90 convicts have not reported back to the jail. The district police have been informed about them. Court direction The Supreme Court has also directed the State governments and their high powered committees to file the norms or the guidelines being adopted by them in implementing the order on release of prisoners for decongesting jails during the second wave of the contagion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/prisoners-out-on-bail-arrested-as-they-return-to-crime/article35400739.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reconstruct demolished church, says Cong.||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Sunday visited the site where Little Flower Church was demolished in South Delhi last week and assured the church authorities that he would do his best to ensure that the church is re-built at the same site. Mr. Kumar wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that the church was demolished by the Block Development Officer without giving proper notice or reasons for the demolition of the church on July 9. He hit out at Mr. Kejriwal for issuing a statement in Goa saying that the DDA had demolished the church. False statement “It is very unfortunate that you made a false statement in Goa that the DDA demolished the church, whereas the land on which the church existed was Gram Sabha land and was under the Delhi government. The matter was also not referred to the religious committee of the Delhi government dealing in thesetype of matters,” Mr. Kumar wrote in his letter. Saying that the church was in existence since 2005, and its demolition had hurt religious sentiments of the Christian community and had created a sense of alienation and insecurity among the Christian community, Mr. Kumar demanded that the church be reconstructed immediately so that no attempt is consciously made to cause deep hurt to the religious sentiments of people. “Mr. Kejriwal’s silence on the issue was proof enough that he was in tacit support of the BJP agenda of subjugating the minority community in a systematic manner,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that the Congress has always upheld religious freedom and allowed people to worship the faith of their choice, and strongly condemned the demolition of the church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/reconstruct-demolished-church-says-cong/article35400731.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sarojini Nagar’s export market shut for violating COVID norms||The Delhi government on Sunday closed the export market at Sarojini Nagar till further orders for violating COVID-19 safety protocols. The market was found to be overcrowded with people not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Sudden inspection The shops that fall under the export market will be closed from Sunday, according to an order issued by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Vasant Kunj) Ankur Prakash Meshram. Officials surveyed the market at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday and found that it was very crowded with COVID norms being “grossly violated and no social distancing being followed at all”, the order added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sarojini-nagars-export-market-shut-for-violating-covid-norms/article35400734.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ protest: police ask DMRC to be alert||The Delhi police have written to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to keep extra vigil at seven metro stations and close them if needed in view of the farmers’ protest near Parliament during its monsoon session, officials said on Sunday. The metro stations are Janpath, Lok Kalyan Marg, Patel Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Mandi House and Udyog Bhawan. Precautionary measure A senior police officer said it is just a precautionary measure and if required, only then the metro stations will be closed.  Since Delhi metro is the most favoured form of conveyance in the national capital, the protesters may use the metro to reach New Delhi, it said. Besides, Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) has also requested to keep an extra vigil on the seven metro stations as well as other metro stations which lies in the New Delhi area, it stated. The farmer unions’ have planned to protest near Parliament against the three farm laws from July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-protest-police-ask-dmrc-to-be-alert/article35400737.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Efforts on to ensure water supply to all’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that his government was constantly making efforts towards ensuring regular water supply for the people of Delhi and that the engineers were working 24x7 to achieve the goal. The Chief Minister said this on a day when the Delhi Jal Board said that water production in the city reached 955 MGD whereas the usual average of production was 910 MGD of water. The Capital had been facing a severe water crisis as its share of water had not been released by Haryana. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said that this feat was made possible by improved engineering solutions and an adequate water supply in the Yamuna after 16,000 cusec water had reached Delhi from Haryana on Friday. “The efforts and struggle of all the people of Delhi have now borne fruit. This has exposed the true face of the Haryana government. They had earlier withheld our share of water, which dried up not only the Yamuna but also left the people of Delhi thirsty for water,” Mr. Chadha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/efforts-on-to-ensure-water-supply-to-all/article35400732.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital records no COVID death||The Capital recorded zero deaths due to COVID-19 on Sunday, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The last time the Capital had zero deaths was on March 2. The number of new cases added was 51 after 71,546 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.07%. There are currently 592 active cases in the Capital, of which 203 are under home isolation. The total number of cases since the pandemic began has climbed to 14,35,529 and the total fatalities stand at 25,027. According to the bulletin, the Capital has less than a day’s stock of COVID-19 vaccines left as of Sunday morning. There are 72,240 doses of Covishield remaining, of which 60,000 doses were added on July 17, the bulletin said. There are 2,05,630 doses of Covaxin available but due to irregular delivery cycles, only 20% of stocks can be used for first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-covid-19-death-reported-in-the-capital/article35400735.ece
19 July 2021||Doha,||Taliban leader seeks ‘political settlement’||The Taliban’s supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada on Sunday said he “strenuously favours” a political settlement to the conflict in Afghanistan, even as the hardline Islamist movement pursues a sweeping offensive across the nation. The announcement came as representatives of the Afghan government and Taliban insurgents sat down for a new round of talks in Doha over the weekend, stirring hopes that the long-stalled peace talks were being resuscitated. “In spite of the military gains and advances, the Islamic Emirate strenuously favours a political settlement in the country,” Akhundzada said in a message released ahead of next week’s Id-ul-Adah holiday. “Every opportunity for the establishment of an Islamic system, peace and security that presents itself will be made use of by the Islamic Emirate,” he added. “We fully assure neighbouring, regional and world countries that Afghanistan will not permit anyone to pose a security threat to any other country using our soil.” Doha talks For months, the two sides have been meeting on and off in the Qatari capital, but have achieved little if any notable success, with the discussions appearing to have lost momentum as the militants made enormous gains on the battlefield. The two sides were due to talk again on Sunday. The Taliban leader said his group remained committed to forging a solution to end the war, but slammed “the opposition parties” for “wasting time”. “Our message remains that instead of relying on foreigners, let us resolve our issues among ourselves and rescue our homeland from the prevailing crisis,” he added. The insurgents capitalised on the withdrawal of U.S. and other foreign troops from Afghanistan to launch a series of offensives across the country. The group is now believed to control roughly half of the nation’s 400 districts, several border crossings, and has laid siege to a string of vital provincial capitals. A spokesman for the Afghan security forces said that pro-government fighters had conducted 244 operations, killing 967 “enemy” fighters — including key commanders. “We have recaptured 24 districts so far, our goal is to retake all the territories... We are ready to defend our country,” Ajmal Omar Shinwari told reporters. Questions remain over how firm a hand the Taliban’s leaders have with commanders on the ground, and whether they will be able to convince them to abide by a potential agreement if signed. The leader’s statement notably made no mention of a formal ceasefire call for the Id holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-leader-seeks-political-settlement/article35400323.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Julia Ducournau’s Titane wins big at Cannes||Julia Ducournau, the 37-year-old French director of Titane , a freaky and provocative body-horror drama has become the first female director in 28 years to win the Cannes Film Festival’s Palme d’or. The awards of the 74th Cannes Film Festival were decided by a jury chaired by Spike Lee and handed out at the event’s closing ceremony in the Grand Theatre Lumiere on Saturday. Women-led jury For the first time in history, women outnumbered men five to four in the Cannes Film Festival’s main international competition jury. The women members of the jury were Mati Diop, Mylene Farmer, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Jessica Hausner and Melanie Laurent. Kleber Mendonca Filho, Tahar Rahim and Song Kang-ho served alongside the quintet. Ms. Ducournau burst on the scene with Raw , which bowed in the International Critics’ Week in 2016. She is only the second woman director to ever win the Cannes top prize. New Zealand’s Jane Campion was the first woman to win the Palme d’or for The Piano in 1993. The Grand Prix, regarded as the festival’s runners-up prize, was shared by two films — Iranian Asghar Farhadi’s A Hero and Finnish director Juho Kuosmanen’s Compartment No. 6 . Leos Carax won the Best Director Award for the pop-opera musical Annette , the Marion Cotillard-Adam Driver starrer with which the festival kicked off on July 6. The Camera d’or for the best first film screened in Cannes this year went to the coming-of-age drama Murina . The jury gave the Best Actor prize to Caleb Landry Jones for his lead performance in Nitram , a disturbing peep into the mind of a mass killer. The Best Actress prize was bagged by Norwegian late-bloomer Renate Reinsve for her performance in The Worst Persona in the World .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/julia-ducournaus-titane-wins-big-at-cannes/article35400326.ece
19 July 2021||Paris,||China denies politics behind UNESCO move on Barrier Reef||A top Chinese official said on Sunday that political tensions between Beijing and Australia were not behind a UNESCO recommendation to place the Great Barrier Reef on its endangered list. Deputy Education Minister Tian Xuejun is chairing the meeting of the UN cultural agency’s heritage committee, which comes amid worsening relations between China and Australia. The Great Barrier Reef has been put on a list of World Heritage sites that could be put on the in-danger list after losing half of its corals since 1995. Australia has assailed the move, blaming global warming for the loss, while UNESCO experts argued that pollution run-off has contributed to the loss. When asked about “Australian government allegations” that Beijing pressed to have the Barrier Reef listed as endangered, Mr. Tian said the decision was based “on reports and data provided by Australia itself.” “Australia should fulfil its obligations to protect world heritage sites instead of making baseless accusations against other members” of UNESCO, he added. Both China and Australia are among the 21 nations on heritage committee, which is evaluating nearly 50 sites that could be added to its more than 1,100 World Heritage list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-denies-politics-behind-unesco-move-on-barrier-reef/article35400327.ece
19 July 2021||London,||Johnson in quarantine ahead of ‘freedom day’||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday urged the public to remain prudent against COVID-19 on the eve of lifting pandemic curbs in England, as he confirmed he is self-isolating until July 26. “Please, please, please be cautious, and go forward tomorrow into the next step with all the right prudence and respect for other people, and the risks that the disease continues to present,” he said in a video message. Mr. Johnson and Finance Minister Rishi Sunak were required to isolate after Health Secretary Sajid Javid said on Saturday he had tested positive for COVID-19. The development came just as Mr. Johnson’s government prepares to ditch most restrictions in England on Monday, which has been dubbed “freedom day” by many U.K. media, despite daily infection rates now topping 50,000 — behind only Indonesia and Brazil. Keir Starmer, leader of Labour party, said the government was in “chaos” after sending mixed messages about what it expects the public to do from Monday. The government insists that with two-thirds of the adult population now vaccinated, the risk can be managed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-in-quarantine-ahead-of-freedom-day/article35400331.ece
19 July 2021||Kabul,||Afghanistan recalls envoy to Pakistan over ‘threats’||Afghanistan on Sunday said it was recalling its Ambassador to Islamabad and all senior diplomats over “security threats” after the top envoy’s daughter was briefly kidnapped in the Pakistani capital this week. “Following the abduction of the daughter of Afghan Ambassador in Pakistan, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan have recalled the Afghan envoy and senior diplomats back to Kabul until all the security threats are removed,” the Foreign Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghanistan-recalls-envoy-to-pakistan-over-threats/article35400324.ece
19 July 2021||Mecca,||Scaled-down Hajj begins in Saudi Arabia||Hajj pilgrims streamed out of the holy city of Mecca and into the Mina valley on Sunday, launching the great pilgrimage, which Saudi Arabia is holding in a scaled-down form for a second year. Since Saturday, pilgrims have been performing the “tawaf” at Mecca’s Grand Mosque, circling the Kaaba, a large cubic structure draped in golden-embroidered black cloth towards which Muslims around the world pray. Participants were chosen from more than 5,58,000 applicants through an online vetting system, with the event confined to fully vaccinated adults aged 18-65 with no chronic illnesses. “Smart hajj card” have been introduced to allow contact-free access to camps, hotels and buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scaled-down-hajj-begins-in-saudi-arabia/article35400329.ece
19 July 2021||Los Angeles,||'I quit!' says Britney Spears in new, furious Instagram post||Britney Spears, in a furious Instagram post, said she has “quit” doing live performances and slammed her father’s control over her affairs. For weeks the pop superstar has been pleading with a judge in Los Angeles to free her from the years-long conservatorship largely governed by her father, Jamie. “I'm not gonna be performing on any stages anytime soon with my dad handling what I wear, say, do, or think,” she wrote.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/i-quit-says-britney-spears-in-new-furious-instagram-post/article35400320.ece
19 July 2021||NAIROBI,||AF--Kenya-Fuel Fire||A fuel tanker exploded in Kenya while people were siphoning fuel from it, killing 13 people, police said on Sunday. Residents started siphoning fuel from the tanker after it collided late on Saturday with a trailerin Siaya county, Gem subcounty Police commander Charles Chacha said. In 2009, at least 120 people were killed after a huge crowd descended on an overturned gasoline tanker, which then blew up.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/af-kenya-fuel-fire/article35400321.ece
19 July 2021||Johannesburg,||Zuma graft trial to resume despite deadly S.Africa protests||A long-running corruption trial of South Africa's jailed ex-president Jacob Zuma will resume on Monday, despite violence that swept the nation after his imprisonment in an unrelated case. Mr. Zuma faces 16 charges of fraud, graft and racketeering related to a 1999 purchase of fighter jets, patrol boats and military gear from five European arms firms when he was deputy President.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/zuma-graft-trial-to-resume-despite-deadly-safrica-protests/article35400332.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A ‘tolerant’ India can be majoritarian||B.R. Ambedkar once said, “... fraternity can be a fact only when there is a nation. Without fraternity, equality and liberty will be no deeper than coats of paint.” In a recent comprehensive face-to-face survey (of nearly 30,000 people) on religious identity, nationalism and tolerance in Indian society, and conducted in 17 languages between late 2019 and early 2020 by the reputed United States-based Pew Research Center (https://pewrsr.ch/3xQqlVQ), 85% of Hindus affirmed that “respecting all religions is very important to being truly Indian.” But, paradoxically, 64% of Hindus think “it is very important to be Hindu to be ‘truly’ Indian”. And 80% among them say, “it is very important to speak Hindi to be truly Indian”, giving credence to the slogan of Hindutva. Rather than celebrating toleration, or seeing the paradoxes as a peculiarity of the Indic mind, it is crucial to recognise that a virulent majoritarianism can coexist with the professions of tolerance. It is misreading to treat the latter as a paradox because mere toleration or an empirical plurality of cultures is not the same as a conscious democratic project of multiculturalism or composite culture. Thus, in the last two Lok Sabha elections, not a single Muslim has been elected on a Bharatiya Janata Party ticket. This obliteration of political representation of a significant minority (numbering 200 million) — which arguably has no parallel in any established democracy in the world — has become completely normalised in India, and is not a matter of discussion at all. Other findings and paradoxes The Survey abounds in other paradoxes: 80% (across all religions, in almost same proportion) think that respecting other religions is a very important part of their own religious identity, 91% assert that they are free to practise their religion, 77% of Muslims believe in the Hindu notion of karma, but when it comes to inter-religious marriages, friendships and neighbours, there is a marked tendency to keep communities separate. Thus, 67% of Hindus and 80% of Muslims believe it is important to stop women of their communities from marrying outside; 86% of Hindus have their close friends come mainly or entirely from their religion. Scholar Bhikhu Parekh argues that plural cultures have always existed in the past, but what marks out contemporary multi-cultural societies is the premise of equality of cultures, and not just self-contained co-existence.The key features of multi-culturalism/composite culture are, as Prof. Lord Parekh asserts, cultures beyond compartments, constant dialogue and mutual change, and a strong streak of interrogation of “settled beliefs” across all cultures, especially the dominant culture. It is a mistake to see the electoral success of religious majoritarianism in recent years as constructed in a vacuum. Instead, it is precisely the decades-long compartmentalisation of different religious communities, and the absence of solid state and civil society arrangements in educational pedagogy, personal relationships, workplace, to facilitate inter-cultural interaction, and based on equality and respect, even under supposedly secular regimes, that has made the soil politically fertile for the demonisation of the minority, especially the Muslim (and occasionally the Sikh, as in the recent farmer protests). This is despite the Survey breaking the Hindutva appellation of the anti-national Muslim. In fact , 95% of Muslims (and Sikhs) declare that they “are very proud to be Indian”. India’s ‘skyboxification’ The American philosopher Michael J. Sandel argued that under rising extreme inequalities of capitalism, there is a “skyboxification of American life”, in which the affluent classes and people of poor means have no connection at all, and they “live and work and shop and play in different places” and their “children go to different schools”. In India, this plays out differently not just in economic terms, but also in religion, and more starkly, caste, the fundamental divide. Every religion is riven by caste. Like with religion, 64% say that it is “very important” to prevent women from crossing caste boundaries in marriage, and 70% affirm that “most or all of their close friends share their caste”. Again, the Survey brings to the fore the central contradiction of a democratic nation that is divided by compartmentalised hierarchies. Thus, it is vital to note that amidst the gathering clouds of majoritarianism, it is a minority of upper castes that holds the reins of power, across religions, and it is the lower castes among the religious minority that face the brunt of majoritarian attacks. Glossing over this reality, ironically, reinforces religious majoritarianism, and reduces conflicts to merely religion. This can only be overcome by the unison of social groups, especially the oppressed, across, religious and caste boundaries. As B.R. Ambedkar recognised a long time ago, the central barrier to the making of a nation is “separation in social life”. It cannot be eliminated simply by elements like, as the Survey shows, a quarter of Muslims and a third of Christians believing in the purifying power of the Ganga, or the same kind of numbers believing in reincarnation, etc. The antidote to the fear of other social groups, especially minorities, often is increased interaction among them in a variety of public and private settings. This is demonstrated in earlier Pew surveys in India, and those elsewhere. In the United States and West Europe, there is a big difference in positive attitudes towards other social/religious groups when members of those groups are personally known. Despite anti-Muslim sentiments, much higher numbers than India are willing to accept Muslims as neighbours. In the Pew Survey on 11 Emerging Economies including India (https://pewrsr.ch/2VVyEBV), a higher percentage of the majority community in countries such as Lebanon, Venezuela, and South Africa interact with the minorities than India. Attitudes in South India But contrary voices to the majoritarian and segregated vision can be seen within the present Survey too. In several aspects such as the superiority of one’s own religion, having friends and neighbours from other religions, preventing inter-religious marriages, the importance of being a Hindu and speaking Hindi to be a true Indian, prohibition of beef, the attitudes in South India differ, not by a small, but a substantial margin to the rest of India, especially the North and the Central parts. This enhanced willingness to break differences permeates both Hindus and Muslims in the South, showing the wider reinforcing effects of increased mutual interaction. Since culture affects politics, Hindu nationalism has had much less electoral success in the South, at least so far. Social reality and complexity cannot be reduced to numbers. After all, one cannot compare attitudes of different social groups blandly without understanding power differences. But quantitative surveys are still necessary tools. Majoritarianism, accompanied by mere tolerant acceptance of minority communities as non-interacting enclaves, is the death knell of democracy. To the extent that the Pew Survey hints at majoritarian attitudes and compartmentalisation, it can only be ignored at our own peril. Nissim Mannathukkaren is with Dalhousie University, Canada, and tweets @nmannathukkaren||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-tolerant-india-can-be-majoritarian/article35400308.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Calculating the benefits of lockdowns||Data show that as of now 26.2% of the world population has received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. Of them, only 1%  live in low-income countries. By contrast, the richer nations, such as the U.S., Canada, Germany and Britain, registered above 50% vaccination by July 17.  For India, the percentage of the adult population that has received at least one dose stands at 34.1% as of July 18. How long it will take to eliminate the inequality in the administration of vaccines is shrouded in mystery. Till that happens, long or short lockdowns from time to time will remain the only defence against the virus. Several researchers have studied the effectiveness of the lockdowns in economic terms. It is important, therefore, to take stock of the issues that have materialised in this context. A trilemma  The Economist has come up with a paradox of sorts in an article concerning the trade-off between lives and livelihoods. The article is rooted in the COVID-19 disaster and questions the practicability or even desirability of simultaneously protecting lives and livelihoods with the aid of lockdowns. The discipline of economics, or its dominant school at least, is intimately linked to trade-offs and its fundamental teaching is that one cannot have one’s cake and eat it too. During pandemic-driven lockdowns, this boils down not to a dilemma but a trilemma perhaps. Draconian lockdowns help you to keep on living, but they prevent you from earning a living. With incomes drying up, essential expenditures such as those on food, health and education cannot be sustained, implying that life cannot be lived. Extreme lockdown policies imply that you cannot quite have your life and live it too — at least not meaningfully. The vicious trilemma needs to be torn down if humanity is to be preserved. This calls for a careful assessment of the severity of lockdowns, their costs, and the resulting gains they hopefully lead to in terms of lives saved. If the expected benefit of a policy falls short of cost, economists will reject it and suggest the adoption of alternative policies, involving an excess of benefits over costs. In other words, one needs to understand the nature of the trade-off. Is the suffering caused by a lockdown sufficiently compensated for in terms of lives saved? The question is probably less simple than it appears to be at first sight. The New York Governor, Andrew Cuomo, said, “To me, I say the cost of a human life is priceless.” In technical economic language, this amounts to asserting that the (monetary) price of a human life is infinitely high. If this be so, saving a life calls for endless sacrifice. If such sacrifice assumes the form of extreme lockdowns, then the line of argument precipitates the trilemma all over again. It is counterproductive to start off with infinity. Clearly, the Governor had failed to come up with a meaningful definition of the value of a human life. Let us push aside this question for now and estimate instead the cost of a lockdown. Some researchers believe this can be measured by the value of lost GDP. The Economist quotes the case of two European countries — France and Italy. Both imposed heavy lockdowns and suffered 3% shrinkage in GDP. Not that people did not die, but the 3% shrinkage cost of keeping a number of people alive was not insignificant. Similarly, Finland, which experienced a negligible rise in the mortality rate, experienced a 1% fall in per capita GDP. On the other hand, Lithuania performed miserably on its death rate front, but its GDP per person is expected to rise by 2%. The Economist points out yet another horrifying estimate of the cost of saving COVID-19-infected lives. Research, it says, has established that for every infected person cured in poorer countries, 1.76 children die on account of a fall in the quality of life, which is not enviably high even in the absence of lockdowns. This is worse than the trilemma scenario outlined earlier. There are other costs too that should not be overlooked. The horrors faced by migrant labourers in India will continue to jolt our collective memory. One wonders also if life expectancy itself has not been adversely affected in poor as well as emerging economies. Children are held back from school. One cannot rule out the emergence of child labour either. If and when the pandemic takes leave, researchers will surely address the child labour question in India caught in the iron grip of COVID-19. The benefits of a lockdown, seen in isolation, do not appear to be all that clear. Lockdowns — severe or mild — prevent the spread of the disease so long as they last. Mortality falls perhaps, only to resurface once the lockdown is lifted. For the U.S., a researcher has come up with the disappointing conclusion that there is no lifesaving impact of lockdowns at all. How, then, should the benefit of a lockdown be computed? However absurd this may sound, the question takes us back to the value of a human life, which the New York Governor had calculated more emotionally than he should have only to end up in a paradox. Interestingly enough, a good deal of theoretical and empirical research has been done by economists on this issue for the past 50 years at least. The pandemic has merely generated new interest in the subject. The value of a human life There are many different ways in which the value of a human life may be calculated. A straightforward method is to study the life insurance premiums people are willing to pay to ensure proper treatment if afflicted by fatal diseases. In rich societies, large amounts will be paid. This could well be used to compute the social benefits of lockdowns, which will probably have higher values in rich societies than in poor societies where few are covered by life insurance. Further, all lives cannot command the same value. It is not criminal to ask if an aged person’s life has the same value as that of a younger person. This means that a person’s own valuation of his life may well differ from the way policymakers are likely to value it. Consequently, the social benefit of lockdowns continues to be a puzzle. This is not to suggest that lockdowns ought to be avoided. Quite clearly, they are unavoidable for now, but they need to be carefully designed, guided by trade-offs between harsh and mild policies. Or else, the damaged economies of the world will not revive too soon. Dipankar Dasgupta is former professor of Economics, Indian Statistical Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/calculating-the-benefits-of-lockdowns/article35400318.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A new chapter in Nepal’s quest for political stability||On July 12, 2021, the Supreme Court of Nepal handed over a 168-page verdict on a case filed by 149 lawmakers out of the 275 parliamentarians demanding that Sher Bahadur Deuba be made the Prime Minister. Although the parliamentarians had gone to the Supreme Court as Mr. Deuba had gathered enough support to become the Prime Minister of Nepal under Article 76(5) of the Constitution, President Bidhya Devi Bhandari refused to entertain it. Instead,the President re-appointed K.P. Sharma Oli as the caretaker Prime Minister till the elections that they decided to hold in October and November 2021 were concluded. This ends now. Impact of court intervention Amidst such circumstances, the Supreme Court verdict has ended the collusion between Mr. Oli and Ms. Bhandari to continuously take decisions that were against the provisions of the Constitution. In December, when the President dissolved Parliament at the behest of Mr. Oli, the Supreme Court ruled against this order and reinstated Parliament. The Supreme Court even had a piece of warning for the President to remind her that the office of the President is also defined by the Constitution and hence, cannot be above it. On Wednesday, July 14, 2021, Mr. Oli left his official residence at Baluwatar which, for the past three and half years, had become his office, party headquarters and the centre of power in Nepal comparable to Narayanhiti Palace during the direct rule of the Kings. He left his residence after addressing the nation in a manner similar to when King Gyanendra left the Narayanhiti Palace on June 11, 2008. His supporters had a procession. The Oli years In the past, Mr. Oli’s popularity rose when he challenged India during the blockade in September 2015 and whipped up nationalism to emerge as the leader who could lead Nepal. For the 2017 Federal and Provincial elections, the two major communist parties, the Nepal Communist Party (Maoist) and the Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist Leninist–UML), joined hands, and with a landslide victory, were to provide a stable government in Nepal in three decades. This coalition between the two parties had laid out some conditions, one of which was that Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda and Mr. Oli were supposed to rotate the prime ministership. Even amidst these conditions and party coalitions, for the general Nepali public, Mr. Oli came with many expectations. He appointed a technocrat Finance Minister, a former Governor of the central bank, and other team members who, in people’s eyes, were perceived to deliver the goods. Prior to taking over, he held various consultations. In one of the long sessions, he gave the impression that he means business. He had a slogan, ‘Prosperous Nepal–Happy Nepali’, that appealed to Nepalis both in the country and abroad, giving a feeling that, perhaps, the great moment has arrived for Nepal’s transformation. However, the infighting within the ruling party that united in May 2018 began to surface in December 2019. Mr. Oli had, in two years of his rule, ensured that his kitchen cabinet ran the country while his image and international relations were being handled by prominent citizens who kept defending him till the end. He unleashed crony capitalism. Many business groups gained from his rule. International relations plummeted with Mr. Oli taking on India with an amended map of the country, which only affected bilateral relations. With the United States Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) grant not being ratified (https://bit.ly/3BhClSs), ties have been hit as far as U.S. investors are concerned. With China, while he hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping during a whirlwind transit stop, the agreements never saw the light of the day when it came to implementation. The complaints of Chinese investors in Nepal in terms of governance and bureaucracy have been no different than the complaints of others. However, his handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic created a public outcry due to a lack of health-care facilities. He was personally dragged into the Nepal vaccine scam in the purchase of vaccines from the Serum Institute of India. In his swan song, he tried to take credit for the support that Nepal received, which was more due to the goodwill Nepal has and the efforts of many known and unknown activists who ran from pillar to post in different countries to get support and vaccines for Nepal. Looking ahead The newly appointed Prime Minister, Mr. Deuba, has served as Prime Minister four times but does not have a great track record. He may have won the confidence vote of July 18 ( picture ). But in this, there is a great lesson for India to be learnt: on how not to push relationships through intelligence agencies and other tacit ways as it fails each time. This has been seen in earlier decades. India needs to continue to build on people-to-people relationships and engage through official channels of bilateral platforms and diplomacy. Let us not forget that geopolitics is changing as Nepal is now free from being ‘India locked’. Sujeev Shakya is the author of ‘Unleashing Nepal’ and ‘Unleashing The Vajra – Nepal’s Journey Between India and China’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-chapter-in-nepals-quest-for-political-stability/article35400311.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Humanity is the fulcrum of journalism||Last Saturday, we had readers discuss various aspects of news coverage, editorial choices and visual elements at The Hindu ’s virtual Open House. One of the suggestions was to reimagine the newspaper for the next generation of readers. There were intense discussions about how to provide credible information and in-depth analysis for a small device such as a mobile phone. As a news ombudsman, I have one non-negotiable condition. Reaching out to newer generations is a logical necessity. According to the online reference section of Britannica, India’s population is young: “Its birth and death rates are both near the global average. More than half the population is under age 30 and less than one-fourth is age 45 or older.” Many newsrooms, The Hindu included, keep debating on what should be the right wordage and mix of visuals and words for various devices. In my view, these essential elements seem to be external factors. The core internal and intrinsic requirement for a news organisation is its ability to foster humanity. Rise in online hate speech The spread of social media has contributed to a substantial rise in hate speech-related violence. The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) has documented the spike in violence that is directly attributed to online hate speech. It says users’ experiences online were originally designed to maximise their engagement. However, with an increase in algorithm-mediated customisation, there is promotion of extreme content. An investigation in The Wall Street Journal , “How YouTube Drives People to the Internet’s Darkest Corners”, was on how the site often recommends divisive or misleading material. A report in CFR recorded that in many ways, the debates in courts, legislatures, and among the public about how to reconcile the competing values of free expression and non-discrimination have been around for a century or longer. It is this context that we need credible media outlets that can halt the spread of hate, vitriol and misogyny and once again work towards an inclusive public sphere. Though no one has quantified the cost of hate that is generated by social media, we are able to sense its corrosive effect on social harmony. A credible news media has two major functions: bearing witness and making sense. The growth of toxicity on social media has delegitimised the act of bearing witness. The recording of pain, the poignancy of loss, and the space for democratic aspirations are filtered through a narrow partisan lens. The photojournalist who bore witness Nothing illustrates this inhuman delegitimisation of bearing witness than the racist campaign on social media against photojournalist Danish Siddiqui who was killed while doing his job of documenting the newly emerging politico-military situation in Afghanistan. Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist, was working for Reuters. According to the news agency, he was embedded with a convoy of Afghan forces that was ambushed by Taliban militants near a key border post with Pakistan. In 2018, he won the Pulitzer Prize in feature photography. He won it alongside colleague Adnan Abidi and five others for their work documenting the violence faced by Myanmar’s minority, the Rohingya. Much has been written about the power of his images of the mass funerals held at the peak of India’s devastating second wave of COVID-19. Empathy was central to his documentation process. “While I enjoy covering news stories — from business to politics to sports — what I enjoy most is capturing the human face of a breaking story,” Siddiqui had told Reuters. His untimely death also brought out the pitfalls of the amplification of partisan politics on social media. There were hate posts about Siddiqui; some celebrated his death. The Editor’s Guild statement explained the significance of a photojournalist bearing witness to an event. After listing out some of the key assignments of Siddiqui — the 2019 Easter blasts in Sri Lanka, the riots in north-east Delhi in 2020, and the devastating human tragedy caused by the pandemic, the Editor’s Guild observed: “His work was therefore a living testament to the axiom of photojournalism, ‘if your pictures aren’t good enough, you aren’t close enough’.” Hence, in our quest to reinvent journalism for the new age, we need to ensure that humanity remains the fulcrum of any public discourse. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/humanity-is-the-fulcrum-of-journalism/article35400314.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Leaving the past behind||Two events in Central Asia last week, which India attended, saw Afghanistan’s neighbours seeking solutions to the conflict there. The first was a meeting in Dushanbe, of the Contact group on Afghanistan of SCO Foreign Ministers, and the second, a Central and South Asia connectivity conference in Tashkent. The meetings also took on a special salience due to their timing. Just days after the U.S. and NATO completed their pullout from the Bagram air base, and most other key locations, it is clear that the Taliban are making advances to return to power, by force if necessary. Of particular concern are the Taliban’s attacks on border posts, particularly the border with Central Asian countries, and the Spin Boldak-Chaman border with Pakistan, which are for territorial control and to cut off crucial supply chains to the government in Kabul. At such a time for the SCO Ministers’ grouping that includes Russia and China, India and Pakistan, and four Central Asian countries to have issued a joint statement, albeit without naming the Taliban directly, that decried the violence by terrorist groups, was significant. At Tashkent, the host, Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev, also gave Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani the opportunity to confront Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan for Pakistan’s failure to keep its promises on stopping the Taliban from crossing over and ensuring the Taliban conduct peace negotiations in earnest. Despite Mr. Khan’s protests, the message is that the region, and global players, will not support the Taliban to enforce its brutal regime in Afghanistan through violent means. For India and the Central Asian States, the worries are about the violence at the frontiers and the resultant refugee influx, extremism, and support to transnational groups such as al Qaeda, LeT, JeM, ETIM and IMU, as it happened earlier under Taliban rule. As External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said, Afghanistan’s past cannot be its future, and in an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Ghani made it clear that the Afghan forces will not simply crumble this time. The emergence of the regional consensus to shun any attempt to take power by force will also give the Taliban and its backers in Pakistan reason to pause, and the high-level intra-Afghan talks in Doha over the weekend, and the Taliban’s Eid announcement that they will pursue a political solution “seriously” and to assure neighbours they will not allow Afghan territory to be “used against any other country” may be evidence that the message has been received. As the future of Afghanistan is decided in the weeks ahead, it is necessary for the neighbourhood’s voice, Central and South Asia included, to emerge more united and determined to protect the gains the nation has made over two decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/leaving-the-past-behind/article35400304.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to build a valuable economy||This July marks the 30th anniversary of the economic reforms launched by the Narasimha Rao government in 1991. Evaluations, mainly celebratory, have appeared in the media. A dispassionate assessment would be appropriate as the economic policy changes of 1991 were the first major changes in the policy regime since the 1950s. The hallmarks of the reforms were lessening of government control and opening the economy to international trade and capital flows. As the timing of the reforms was determined by a balance of payments crisis, it would be natural to assess the reforms in terms of their consequence for this aspect of the economy. In mid-1991, India had foreign exchange reserves that would barely finance three weeks’ imports. In mid-2021, the import cover is estimated at well over 12 months. Furthermore, in the three decades since 1991 there has not been a balance of payments crisis. On the other hand, in the preceding three there had been several. This marks a significant reversal. Financial inflows A disappointing feature, though, is that the foreign exchange reserves have accumulated as a result of financial inflows rather than export surpluses, as was expected. It is now apparent that competitiveness cannot be established by simply reducing government control over the private sector. The history of globally successful economies shows that publicly provided infrastructure, private R&D and a facilitating government machinery are crucial for a country’s export competitiveness. Most of these ingredients have been present in the case of India’s software services-exporters but are not equally available for exporters of goods. The occasions since 1991 when there has been a trade surplus have been rare. The balance of payments has been shored up by portfolio capital. Such capital can flow out just as easily, leaving reserves to deplete rapidly. The only guarantee against balance of payments stress is a consistently strong export performance. The reforms are yet to take us there. The reforms were also meant to raise the rate of growth of the Indian economy, which they did. Though the acceleration took some time coming, the rate of growth of the Indian economy has been higher after 2001. However, it started slowing progressively after the demonetisation of 2016, dropping to less than pre-reform levels even before we were struck by the pandemic. Since then, output has actually contracted, and there is no certainty on how growth will play out in the immediate future. Much depends upon whether there will be a third COVID-19 wave, necessitating the shutting down of economic activity yet again. Returning to the question of long-term growth, it needs to be pointed out that its acceleration after the reforms of 1991 was not the first time it happened. Not only had this occurred before, in the early 1950s and the late 1970s, but also the degree of acceleration had been greater then.  In 1991, we were, in effect, dealing with a cash-flow problem, albeit in foreign exchange. Now COVID-19 has brought home to us something larger, the absence from the economy of certain crucial services and the underlying assets that enable their production. We realised how inadequate our health system is, as we watched helplessly the scramble for oxygen, the overflowing hospital wards and the overburdened crematoria. But our rickety healthcare infrastructure is merely a metaphor for the absent ecosystem for living in India. Sanitation, transportation, urban governance and the producer services, from power supply to waste management, needed to undertake economic activity, are all inadequately available. This deficit cannot be bridged by legislating changes to the policy regime as was done in 1991. The necessary infrastructure would have to be first created and then managed to supply the stream of services expected. We have learned the hard way that the value of an economy depends on the extent to which it serves our needs. The current crisis of lives and livelihood in India is the time to start building a valuable one. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches economics at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-to-build-a-valuable-economy/article35400315.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Bangla mission staff refuse to go to Pak||All but one of the 65 staff members of the former Pakistan Deputy High Commission in Calcutta, who had switched over their allegiance to the Bangla Desh Government, stuck to their decision at their “screening” held to-day [Calcutta, July 18] at the instance of Dr. Bonard, Counsellor in the Swiss Embassy in Delhi. The interviews, which lasted about two and a half hours from 10-30 a.m. clears the way for the repatriation of Indian and Pakistani diplomats from Dacca and Calcutta, where the two countries closed their respective Deputy High Commissions in April. Mr. Ashok Roy, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs, and Mr. Mehdi Masud, former Pakistani Deputy High Commissioner in Calcutta, were witnesses to the interview. Mr. Hossain Ali, head of the Bangla Desh Mission in Calcutta, who was not present at the interview held in a school in a posh locality of South Calcutta, met Dr. Bonard, Mr. Roy and Mr. Masud at a separate house. All the three officials later visited the Park Circus residence of Mr. Maksoud Ali, Assistant Press Attache to the Bangla Desh Mission, who could not attend the interview as he is down with chicken pox.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bangla-mission-staff-refuse-to-go-to-pak/article35400312.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am planning to start SIP in the NPS Tier 2 account instead of investing in mutual funds. On redemption, how will the capital gains be taxed? Kumaravel K.S.  Aarati Krishnan answers: NPS Tier 2 account offers an opportunity to choose from among equity, corporate bond and government bond options and is a very low-cost vehicle like the Tier 1 account. The corporate and government bond options have also tended to beat comparable options from mutual funds. The corporate bond option invests mainly in high-quality bonds rated AA and above. However, the equity option has not managed to consistently beat benchmarks like the Nifty50. Do look at index funds as an alternative before opting for equity under the Tier 2 account. The NPA Tier 2 account is not specifically mentioned in the Income Tax Act. But given that the account offers no tax benefits on your contributions, some tax experts believe that your redemption amount will not be subject to any special restrictions. NPS being a market-linked vehicle, its maturity proceeds should be subject to capital gains taxation. As NPS units are not chargeable to securities transaction tax, long-term capital gains will apply if they are held for 3-years plus and short-term capital gains, if held for a shorter period. The long-term capital gains tax rate would be at 20% with indexation benefits. But this is just an interpretation of the tax rules and could be subject to debate. Q.I am 25 and work in a PSU bank. Recently, I received salary arrears payment in one lump sum on which a greater portion was deducted under the head ‘Income Tax’. I am of the view that the deducted tax amount will be refunded by ITR filing. I want to know how far it is correct and how and on what basis it will be refunded. Also, in the present monthly-salary sheet, after an increase in salary, a portion of salary credited is also being deducted as income tax. Will this deduction in monthly salary be nullified by any investments in tax-saving schemes? If so, how much do I have to invest in tax-saving schemes? Also, will the deducted tax amount be refunded; and by when? Rajesh Ande  N. Sree Kanth answers: Your employer, the PSU bank, is obligated to deduct tax (known as TDS) on its employee’s total income if the total income exceeds the taxable limits (above Rs. 5 lakh where rebate u/s 87A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 cannot be claimed). Depending on your salary structure, your employer will compute your tax obligation based on the slab rates after considering all the components such as deductions, exemptions, other income, rental income, among others, and deduct the same over the year at the time of disbursement of salaries each month. In case of arrears of more than 12 months’ salary, wherein the salaries are assessed at a rate higher than that at which it would otherwise have been assessed in the respective previous years, relief under Section 89 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 can be claimed, for which you are to file form 10E. If the arrears are less than 12 months’ salary, the same will be included in your total income and the corresponding additional tax will be deducted from that. Usually, you have to declare your investments/spending that qualify for tax deduction to your employer so that the TDS is deducted accordingly and no excess TDS is deducted. At the end of the year, your employer will provide you with Form 16 which contains the particulars of your salary, corresponding tax liability and the TDS deducted over the year. Post that, you as an income tax assessee are required to file your respective ITR by incorporating these details along with any other income which will not be covered in your Form 16 such as capital gains. In case you have missed out any, you may include the same at the time of filing your ITR and avail of the corresponding refund if it applies. You will be entitled for refund only if your employer has deducted TDS more than your tax liability and not otherwise. This may be on account of non-consideration of your deductions/exemptions. A few examples of deductions that you may avail of are: payment of life insurance premium for self, spouse and children; investing in ELSS, ULIPs, PPF and NSC among others, payment of tuition fee for children etc. You may refer Chapter VI-A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, to further know the various exemptions and deductions that may be suitable to you and the corresponding conditions. Q.My husband is a senior citizen and a regular income tax payer. For the assessment year 2021-2022, he plans to opt for ‘yes’ with IT Sec.115 BAC . In case he opts for ‘yes,’ can he get the benefit of deduction of Rs. 50,000 u/s 80 TTB , an additional boon for senior citizens? Lakshmi Vishwanath  A.Under Section 115BAC of the Income Tax Act, 1961, deductions under Chapter VI-A cannot be claimed except Section 80CCD(2) and 80JJAA. Deduction under Section 80TTB falls under Chapter VI-A, thereby opting to pay tax under the new tax regime will restrict the benefit of deduction in respect of interest on deposits in case of senior citizens.  (N. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article35400299.ece
19 July 2021||Chennai,||Finally, it is time for TNPL to kick off||The Tamil Nadu Premier League, following a season’s break and a postponement this year, is finally here when newcomer Salem Spartans takes on Lyca Kovai Kings at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Monday. All the matches will be played in Chennai, without spectators and the media as a precautionary measure in the times of Covid. Thrust to State cricket The TNPL has given a thrust to Tamil Nadu cricket. And unearthed cricketers such as paceman T. Natarajan and leg-spinner Varun Chakravarthy, who made it to the India squad. Some like N. Jagadeesan and Shahrukh Khan found a place in the IPL, with Chennai Super Kings and Punjab Kings. Natarajan not playing The feisty Natarajan went to represent the country in all three formats. Sadly the left-arm seamer will not be available for Lyca this season, tending to fitness concerns at NCA, Bengaluru. Varun is with the Indian team in Sri Lanka and could join the competition in the later stages. While T20 cricket isn’t quite the best format to assess talent, a competition such as the TNPL, televised and watched by millions, does provide a platform for young talent and catapults them from obscurity to limelight. Tamil Nadu coach for the past two seasons, D. Vasu, his contract is up for renewal this season, believes the coming edition of TNPL will be crucial since it will provide the selectors an opportunity to assess cricketers and their form, ahead of the domestic season beginning with competitions in the shorter formats. Coming to Monday’s contest under lights, Lyca, featuring the buccaneering Shahrukh, will be without Natarajan but is pinning much of its bowling hopes on another left-arm seamer E. Srinivasan who was outstanding in TNCA’s second division.  With the lively K. Vignesh, and the combative pace bowling all-rounder Abhishek Tanwar, in its ranks, Lyca, even without Natarajan, has a useful seam attack. With its star player Washington Sundar away in England, Salem will rely on pace bowling all-rounder Vijay Shankar, a heavy-hitter and a useful seamer. The team possesses experienced strokemaker K.H. Gopinath, potent slinger G. Periyasamy and influential leg-spinner M. Ashwin. Vijay’s absence It’s a pity former India opener M. Vijay — nobody is sure where his career is heading these days with his sightings becoming increasingly rare — and former India-A top-order batsman Anirudha Srikkanth have pulled out of this year’s edition. For the others, it’s all to play for. Play starts at 7.30 p.m.  Obviously, there is going to be more pressure this year than last year because of my performances. I will try to keep it simple and stay focused on the job Sharukh Khan Lyca Kovai Kings captain   As of now everything has gone well and we have prepared really well. We are very happy that we have two IPL players and Vijay Shankar has represented India as well Daryl S. Ferrario Salem Spartans captain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-for-tnpl-to-kick-off-after-a-seasons-break/article35400631.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Neeraj spearheads India’s challenge||Two years ago, Kamalpreet Kaur was in the 60m range but this season the discus thrower has hit a heady high. The 25-year-old, who could manage just 55.59m at the 2019 Doha Asians, broke the National record and bettered her personal best by more than five metres! That 66.59m throw has placed her sixth in this year’s world list. Every time the Olympics come around, many Indian athletes raise their performance magically and become world class. This time too, despite COVID-19 messing up their foreign trips and much of training, the athletes have pleasantly surprised everybody by making the cut for Tokyo in a number of events. When the entry standards for Tokyo were announced, many felt that very few would qualify as athletes needed to break National records in almost all events. Surprisingly, they did just that. Record-breaking deeds Nine of the 16 qualifiers in individual events have broken National records this year and while 12 achieved the qualification standards, four — 400m hurdler M.P. Jabir, 50km walker Gurpreet Singh, sprinter Dutee Chand and discus thrower Annu Rani — made it through the World rankings route. That has raised expectations sky high in a country that is yet to win its first Olympic medal in athletics. Sticking one’s head out and predicting medals or finalists is risky business, especially during this pandemic period when out-of-competition dope-testing has been weak, but considering the awesome form the athletes are in, this promises to be a very memorable Olympics for the country.  Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra could end independent India’s long wait and could even return with a silver if he is at his best. A shoulder sprain spoiled his hopes of making it to the last Olympics but a few days after the entry doors closed, Neeraj won the under-20 Worlds gold with a junior world record throw that would have fetched him a bronze in Rio. He missed the 2019 Doha Worlds after an elbow surgery but early this year, Neeraj raised his National record to 88.07m which placed him fourth in the world list. German Johannes Vetter, who produced a series of 90-plus throws (season best 96.29m) but whose two recent meets ended meekly (85.25m and 86.48m), is the favourite for the gold while Marcin Krukowski (89.55m), 2012 Olympic champion Keshorn Walcott (89.55) and Gatis Cakss (89.12) will give the Indian a fight. Other prospects Long jumper M. Sreeshankar, shot putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor, steeplechaser Avinash Sable among men and javelin thrower Annu Rani and Kamalpreet should also make the final if they repeat their season’s best. Of the two 4x400m relays, the men have a better chance of entering the final than the mixed. But then, though quartermiler Amoj Jacob improved stunningly with every meet, national record holder Muhammed Anas has run the individual 400m in just one meet while another star Noah Nirmal Tom has not run any. That makes predictions difficult. And the mixed team is without any of the leading girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-spearheads-indias-challenge/article35400533.ece
19 July 2021||Phoenix,||Bucks on brink of ending drought||Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 32 points, including a clinching slam dunk in the final seconds, and Milwaukee Bucks beat Phoenix Suns 123-119 on Saturday to move within one win of a first NBA title since 1971. Middleton shines Khris Middleton added 29 points and Jrue Holiday contributed 27 points and 13 assists for the visiting Bucks, who seized a 3-2 lead in the best-of-seven NBA Finals. With the Suns seeking a go-ahead basket in the dying seconds, Holiday stole the ball from Devin Booker and made an alley-oop pass to Antetokounmpo for a slam dunk and Middleton added a final free throw to seal the Suns' fate. The Bucks could become only the fifth team in NBA Finals history to win the crown after dropping the first two games. Teams winning game five to take a 3-2 edge in the Finals have won the title 72% of the time, 21 of 29 in all. Paul had 21 points and 11 assists for Phoenix while Bahamas big man Deandre Ayton had 20 points and 10 rebounds.  The result:   Milwaukee Bucks 123 bt Phoenix Suns 119 (Bucks lead series 3-2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bucks-on-brink-of-ending-drought/article35400588.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A story of near misses!||There’s a nice little asterisk every time Norman Pritchard’s name is mentioned in Olympic record books that should make every Indian miss a heartbeat. It’s more than 120 years since Pritchard won two silver medals, in 200m and 200m hurdles, at the second Olympics in Paris in 1900 but nobody is sure whether the Calcutta-born Pritchard represented India or Great Britain. Well, the scene appears very gloomy when one removes the Pritchard angle. Only 10, so far Just 10 Indians — five from track and five in field events — have qualified for the finals (not counting straight finals) at the Olympics since independence. They are Milkha Singh (1960, 400m, 4th), G.S. Randhawa (1964, 110m hurdles, 5th), Sriram Singh (1976, 800m, 7th), P.T. Usha (1984, 400m hurdles, 4th), Lalita Babar (2016, 3000 steeplechase, 10th) on track and Henry Rebello (1948, triple jump, 5th in qual., NM), Baldev Singh (1948, long jump, 11th in qual., DNS), Anju Bobby George (2004, long jump, 5th), Krishna Poonia (2012, discus throw, 6th) and Vikas Gowda (2012, discus throw, 8th). Injury woes While the near-miss stories of Milkha and Usha are well known, Rebello pulled a muscle after he was forced to wait nearly 30 minutes for his first triple jump because of victory ceremonies in 1948 where long jumper Baldev also missed the final with an injury. And there was Lavy Pinto who entered the semifinals in both the 100 and 200m at the 1952 Helsinki Olympics and would have been in the final in the shorter sprint had he been running in 1964 Games or after. Unlike today’s eight lanes, the100m was run in six lanes in 1952 and Pinto was fourth in one of the two semifinals in a hand-timed 10.7s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-story-of-near-misses/article35400531.ece
19 July 2021||Colombo,||Shaw, Dhawan and Kishan star for India||Ishan Kishan celebrated his 23rd birthday with a dazzling half-century (59) on debut while Shikhar Dhawan (86 not out), in his first match as captain, anchored India to a walk-in-the-park seven-wicket victory over Sri Lanka in the opening ODI here on Sunday. The inexperienced Sri Lankan batters managed to get 262 for nine. But India achieved the target in just 36.4 overs. Prithvi Shaw, with his new found swagger in 50-over cricket, butchered the Lankan pacers during his brief stay by hammering nine boundaries in a 24-ball 43. That set the pace for Kishan to come in and hit a six off the very first delivery he faced. He then decided to use his bat like a sledgehammer, scoring the second fastest ODI fifty on debut — off 33 balls — to kill the contest inside the first 20 overs. Dhawan then took over to finish off the match with an unbeaten 86 off 95 balls. Earlier, Indian bowlers combined to restrict Sri Lanka to 262/9 in 50 overs despite a late cameo of 43 by Chamika Karunaratne.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-debutant-kishan-star-for-india/article35400525.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s chances ride on Fouaad Mirza||A little over a month ago, Fouaad Mirza was a relieved man. Fouaad had finally sealed India’s lone equestrian Olympic berth, after overcoming several hurdles along the way. Fouaad was affected by multiple lockdowns in his base at Germany, and was also forced to keep his horse Dajara 4 in quarantine after an outbreak of Equine Herpes Virus. As the Olympic qualification deadline fast approached, Fouaad was desperate to gain the Minimum Eligibility Requirement (MER) needed to book a Tokyo spot. That several qualifying events were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic only made his task harder. The breakthrough came in May, when Fouaad achieved the necessary MER on both his horses, Seigneur Medicott and Dajara 4, in the CCI44*-Long eventing competition in Baborowko (Poland).  The Bengaluru rider, backed by Embassy Group, has chosen Dajara 4 as his equine partner for the Olympics. “At the Olympics, we have two rounds of show jumping after cross-country, which is Medicott’s weak link. That was the main reason why we chose Dajara,” Fouaad explained during a recent media interaction. Fouaad made headlines by bagging two silvers in the 2018 Asian Games. He became the first Indian to win an individual medal (eventing) in equestrian at the Asian Games since 1982. He also won a silver in the team event alongside Jitender Singh, Akash Malik and Rakesh Kumar. In 2019, Fouaad received the Arjuna award. Fouaad was encouraged to take up the sport at a young age by his father and renowned equine veterinarian, Hasneyn Mirza. Fouaad, who trains under triple Olympic medallist Sandra Auffarth, will compete against the German at Tokyo. It will take an extraordinary show for Fouaad to make a mark in the Olympics. The sport is dominated by Great Britain, Germany, USA, Netherlands and France, while Asian nations have struggled to create an impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-chances-ride-on-fouaad-mirza/article35400536.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A tough prospect for Shushila||Shushila Likmabam, who made the cut via the Additional places (Asia) continental quota in the women’s extra-lightweight (48 kg) category, is India’s lone judoka entry for the Tokyo Olympics. This will be Shushila’s first Olympic appearance. Shushila, silver medallist at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games, took up the sport under the guidance of her uncle and judoka Dinit Likmabam. The Manipuri athlete’s bid to qualify for the Olympics was put in jeopardy when the Indian contingent was forced to withdraw from the Asia-Oceania Olympic qualifiers in Kyrgyzstan after two judokas tested positive for COVID-19. Shushila’s return to competition was unimpressive, as she lost in the first round of the World Championship to reigning Pan American champion Mary Dee Vargas. With an Olympic ranking of 46, Shushila stands little chance of winning a medal at Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-tough-prospect-for-shushila/article35400539.ece
19 July 2021||Baghdad,||Their dream is to just take part||For the four Iraqi athletes who have made it to Tokyo, there is no realistic talk of medals. Having overcome war, politics and pandemic, their dream is simply to participate. Right up to November of last year, when a new national Olympic chief was elected Iraq’s very participation in the Games was in doubt. Despite the loss of state financial support and the difficulties of travelling to qualifying events during the coronavirus pandemic, two Iraqi hopefuls managed to qualify for Tokyo. Rower Mohammed Ryadh, 27, will take part in the men’s single sculls for the second Games in a row. But he has no illusions about his medal chances after his French coach of the past nine years, Vincent Tassery, was prevented by restrictions linked to the pandemic from travelling to Baghdad. To date, Iraq has won just a single Olympic medal — a silver for weightlifting in Rome in 1960. Sprinter Dana Hussein, 35, left it to mid-June to claim her women’s 200 metres berth with a qualifying time of 22.51 seconds with a gold in the pan-Arab athletics championship in Tunis. Two other Iraqis were handed wildcard slots after coming close to their qualifying scores — 400 metre specialist Taha Hussein and shooter Fatima Abbas. The four make up Iraq’s smallest squad of Olympians since London in 1948.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/their-dream-is-to-just-take-part/article35400596.ece
19 July 2021||Barcelona,||Messi favourite to win Ballon d'Or, says Koeman||Barcelona coach Ronald Koeman has said that Argentine striker Lionel Messi is the favourite to win Ballon d'Or. "Messi is vitally important. For what he brings to the team, he's the captain and an example. His goalscoring has been brilliant despite a difficult start," Koeman told Barcelona's official website. "He has shown time and again he is the best in the world. I know how much he wanted to win the Copa America and he has done it at last. Messi is the prime candidate for the Ballon d'Or after a great season and, for me, he is the favourite," he added. Messi managed to score 38 goals in 47 matches for Barcelona in the last season, including 30 in La Liga. The Argentine striker also recorded four goals and five assists for the national side in the Copa America and adjudged as Player of the Tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-favourite-to-win-ballon-dor-koeman/article35400796.ece
19 July 2021||Paris,||Can Paris Saint Germain retain the services of mercurial striker Mbappe?||Paris Saint-Germain wanted an experienced central defender with leadership skills to shore up its defence after losing eight games and the French title last season. So, the club went for Sergio Ramos, handing the former Real Madrid captain a two-year contract at the age of 35. Ramos arrives a year after a bitterly disappointed Thiago Silva left the club, at the age of 35, after talks over a new deal for him collapsed. He had wanted a similar deal, but PSG was reluctant to offer it given his advanced age. Somewhat ironic, then, that PSG has signed Ramos. Perhaps it would have made sense to keep Silva, who joined Chelsea last summer and won the Champions League — the trophy that still eludes PSG. Ramos has won it four times. Silva’s last game for the club was in the 2020 final, which PSG lost 1-0 to Bayern Munich. PSG reached the semifinals of the competition last season, losing to Manchester City. The route to the semis came after a complicated group stage and then entertaining knockout matches against Barcelona and Bayern Munich. Navas hard done? PSG’s best player throughout was arguably Keylor Navas. He made key saves to keep his side from going out of the group stage and was outstanding against Barcelona and Bayern. His reward for a superb season? PSG signed Italy’s European Championship-winning goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma. He was given a five-year contract and his arrival on a free transfer after running out his contract with AC Milan. It seems like a big coup for PSG. But it may also create tension, because Navas proved last season that he is among European soccer’s best goalies. The 22-year-old Donnarumma was voted Euro 2020’s best goalie, and he is 12 years younger than Navas — so clearly could become a major player for a long time at PSG. But it still seems unfair on Navas, given that it was largely because of him that PSG stayed in contention so long before losing the title to Lille on the last day. Ramos knows him well, too, having played five seasons with him at Madrid. When PSG opens its campaign away to promoted Troyes next month, it will be interesting to see who wears the No. 1 jersey and how the No. 2 will react. Attacking fullback PSG’s other main signing of the season is right back Achraf Hakimi. The 22-year-old Morocco international joined for a reported fee of €60 million after helping Inter win the Italian title. He was widely considered the best fullback in Serie A and his foraging runs, passing skills and eye for goal will benefit PSG. Hakimi scored seven goals last season and should complement left back Juan Bernat, who is a similar type of player and an excellent crosser of the ball. The major question, however, is whether these three signings are enough to persuade striker Kylian Mbappe to stay. Madrid move The 22-year-old France star is out of contract at the end of the season and, unlike teammate Neymar, he has yet to commit to a new deal. He has been linked with a move to Madrid for several months. Mbappe netted a career-high 42 goals in the last campaign, and his departure would be a huge blow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-paris-saint-germain-retain-the-services-of-mercurial-striker-mbappe/article35400979.ece
19 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand triumphs||In a fascinating battle between two former World champions fought over four games in a brand new format of chess, Viswanathan Anand defeated Vladimir Kramnik to win the Sparkassen Trophy at Dortmund on Sunday. Just draw needed Anand needed only a draw in the final game of the No-Castling Chess event, and he got it in 40 moves. It was once again an English Opening — all the three previous games had also begun thus — with Anand having the black pieces. The Russian, who started the day 1-2 down, had to win the game if he wanted to stop his old rival from claiming the trophy. Kramnik, who conceived this variant of chess with the intention of making the game less predictable and more dynamic, however, was forced to draw the game by giving perpetual checks. Anand was just one move away from putting a second queen on the board. The Chennai maestro won the match 2.5-1.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-triumphs/article35400582.ece
19 July 2021||Coimbatore,||Coimbatore has amazing talents, says Rohan Bopanna||Indian tennis star Rohan Bopanna was quite excited with his Academy (RBTA) stitching a partnership with RaK’s Pallikkoodam here a few days ago. It is Bopanna’s first venture outside his home State (Karnataka) and he plans to bring in a new dimension to tennis coaching in Coimbatore. “I will be focussing on enabling holistic development at the grassroot level,” he said. “We will be introducing a balanced curriculum with equal emphasis on fitness and tennis skills to young children looking to learn the sport,” he added. The junior development centre will be headed by coach Arpan Lakhani. “He has been with me for the past four years, running the junior development programme in Bengaluru. He, along with the entire team, will be moving to Coimbatore,” said Bopanna. Lakhani from Maharashtra, along with a team of highly-trained coaches and qualified fitness trainers will oversee the programme that offers an integrated routine at various levels — from beginners to intermediate. Bopanna will also be actively involved. “The entire programme will be monitored by me and our most experienced coach (M. Balachandran), who has a coaching experience of 30 years,” he said. “Coimbatore has always had some amazing talents but now I feel it just an added structure in place to help these young children turn into champions,” he added. RaK’s had earlier tied-up with Pullela Gopi Chand’s Academy and Raman Vijayan Sports School. It is the first of its kind facility that provides sports training along with school education as well as on-site residential facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coimbatore-has-amazing-talents-says-rohan-bopanna/article35400592.ece
19 July 2021||SANDWICH,||Morikawa triumphs||American debutant Collin Morikawa produced an ice-cool final round to win the British Open by two strokes on a blazing hot afternoon at Royal St George’s on Sunday. The 24-year-old began the day a stroke behind Louis Oosthuizen but played faultless golf in a four-under round of 66 to overhaul the South African and resist resurgent fellow American Jordan Spieth. Morikawa barely missed a fairway all day as he made four birdies and showed incredible composure when he came under pressure late in the day. Spieth, finished on 13-under with Oosthuizen ending in a tie for third with Spain’s U.S. Open champion Jon Rahm, four shots back. Morikawa, who only turned pro in 2019, has now won two of his first eight Majors having also won on his PGA Championship debut last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morikawa-takes-control/article35400526.ece
19 July 2021||Bengaluru,||BFC signs up Harmanpreet||Bengaluru FC (BFC) signed teenage winger Harmanpreet Singh on a two-year deal, the club announced on Sunday. The 19-year-old moved on a free transfer and joins BFC ahead of its upcoming AFC Cup playoff stage clash against Eagles FC. Harmanpreet joined Indian Arrows in 2018 and made 14 appearances in the I-League before moving to SC East Bengal ahead of its debut season in the Indian Super League. He represented SC East Bengal seven times last season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-signs-up-harmanpreet/article35400973.ece
19 July 2021||Dublin,||Trouble back home taking its toll: Boucher||South Africa cricket coach Mark Boucher has said civil unrest at home allied to a prolonged spell in a bio-bubble it taking its toll on the Proteas squad in Ireland. “To say it’s not affecting us is not true. It is affecting us and every South African,” Boucher told the ESPNCricinfo website. South Africa went straight from one bubble in the Caribbean to another in Ireland. “Having to be locked down in your room can be quite tough, especially if you have been personally affected,” said Boucher. “We are going along with a gut feel of what we feel is best for the players and trying to be there for the guys who feel quite emotionally drained by what is going on,” the former South Africa wicketkeeper added. South Africa still has three more Twenty20 Internationals to play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trouble-back-home-taking-its-toll-boucher/article35400975.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit, Hari, Pragg take lead||Vidit Gujrathi outplayed B. Adhiban before P. Harikrishna and R. Praggnanandhaa took the lead in the third round of chess World Cup in Sochi, Russia, on Sunday. Though Nihal Sarin was lucky to escape with a draw against Dmirty Andreikin, D. Harika was not so fortunate against Russia’s Valentina Gunina.  The results (involving Indians):   Round 3, Game 1: Men: Vidit Gujrathi bt B. Adhiban; Nihal Sarin drew with Dmitry Andreikin (Rus); P. Harikrishna bt Constantin Lupulescu (Rom); R. Praggnanandhaa bt Michal Krasenkow (Pol) Women: Valentina Gunina (Rus) bt D. Harika .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-hari-pragg-take-lead/article35400740.ece
19 July 2021||LEEDS,||England draws level||England beat Pakistan by 45 runs in the second T20 international at Headingley on Sunday as the hosts levelled a three-match series at 1-1. Stand-in captain Jos Buttler top-scored with 59 in England’s 200.  The scores: England 200 in 19.5 overs (Buttler 59, Moeen 36, Livingstone 38, Hasnain 3/51) bt Pakistan 155/9 in 20 overs (Rizwan 37, Shadab 36 n.o., Saqib 3/33) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-draws-level/article35400527.ece
19 July 2021||Tokyo,||Hearty welcome||The first batch of athletes from India’s Olympic contingent arrived here on Sunday, clearing the exhaustive COVID-19 protocols at the airport before entering the Games Village on a day when two sportspersons staying there tested positive. The 88-strong contingent from India, which left last night after a grand send-off, was joined by the shooters and boxers who were training in Italy and Croatia till Saturday. The group travelling from India included archers, badminton players, table tennis players, the men’s and women’s hockey teams, and qualifiers from judo, gymnastics, and swimming. They landed in the Japanese capital aboard a chartered Air India flight from New Delhi. “It was a six-hour wait at the (Tokyo) airport where we underwent COVID-19 tests but that was expected. All came out clear and we have checked into the Games village. All smooth so far,” a contingent member told PTI. The group included stars such as World champion shuttler P.V. Sindhu, six-time World champion boxer M.C. Mary Kom, World No. 1 boxer Amit Panghal, World No. 1 archer Deepika Kumari and TT player Manika Batra. The Indians arrived on a day when two athletes staying at the Village and one at a designated hotel were confirmed COVID positive by the organisers, who insisted they were prepared for some cases given the influx of people in the city. The total number of Games-related COVID cases have now risen to 55 as per the OC records. Sen-off On Saturday night, Sports Minister Anurag Thakur gave the contingent a formal send-off at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi. The send-off was also attended by Minister of State for Sports Nisith Pramanik, Sports Authority of India director-general Sandip Pradhan and Indian Olympic Association officials, including president Narinder Batra and secretary-general Rajeev Mehta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hearty-welcome/article35400529.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Not much to show||Shushila Likmabam will be the 13th judoka from India to feature in the Olympics and in seven Olympic Games appearances (1992-2016), Indian judokas have managed to win only four bouts. In 2004, Akram Shah defeated USA’s Williams Murray in the men’s 60 kg Repechage 1 round. Since then, — Tombi Devi, Divya Tewar in 2008, Garima Chaudhary in 2012, and Avtar Singh in 2016 — failed to record a win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-much-to-show/article35400537.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit, Hari, Pragg take lead||Vidit Gujrathi outplayed B. Adhiban before P. Harikrishna and R. Praggnanandhaa took the lead in the third round of chess World Cup in Sochi, Russia, on Sunday. Sarin, Harika lose Nihal Sarin lost to Dmirty Andreikin and so did D. Harika after facing Russia’s Valentina Gunina.  The results (involving Indians):   Round 3, Game 1: Men: Vidit Gujrathi bt B. Adhiban; Nihal Sarin lost to Dmitry Andreikin (Rus); P. Harikrishna bt Constantin Lupulescu (Rom); R. Praggnanandhaa bt Michal Krasenkow (Pol).     Women: Valentina Gunina (Rus) bt D. Harika .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-hari-pragg-take-lead/article35400580.ece
19 July 2021||Harare,||Bangladesh beats Zimbabwe||All-rounder Shakib Al Hasan hit an unbeaten 96 as Bangladesh beat Zimbabwe by three wickets on Sunday after a thrilling run chase to take a winning 2-0 lead in a three One-Day Internationals series here. Zimbabwe made 240/9 off 50 overs and Bangladesh reached 242/7 through a four from Shakib off the first ball of the final over.  The scores: Zimbabwe 240/9 in 50 overs (Wesley Madhevere 56, Brendan Taylor 46, Shoriful Islam 4/46) lost to Bangladesh 242/7 in 49.1 overs (Shakib al Hasan 96 n.o.).   Toss: Zimbabwe.   MoM : Shakib Al Hasan.   Bangladesh won by three wickets and leads series 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-beats-zimbabwe/article35400594.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Anees, only rider to complete a competition||In 1980 at Moscow, four eventers — J.S. Ahluwalia (astride Shiwalik), Hussain Singh (Rajdoor), Mohammed Khan (I-Am-It) and Darya Singh (Bobby) — become the first Indian equestrians to compete in the Olympics. Their entry was made easier due to the boycott, with entries received from only 11 nations. None of the four riders could record a finish. Suffering a fall In the 1996 Atlanta Games, Indrajit Lamba (Karishma) competed in eventing, but was eliminated after a fall. Imtiaz Anees (Spring Invader) became the first Indian first rider to complete an Olympic competition, when he finished 23rd in individual eventing, at the Sydney Games in 2000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anees-only-rider-to-complete-a-competition/article35400534.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Risheek stars for Bharath University||Risheek Kumar’s four-wicket haul helped Bharath University beat Vinayaka Packaging by four wickets in the all-India YSCA Trophy on Sunday.  The scores: Sri Vaishnavi-B 129 in 27.4 overs (Harshid 28, Abraham 3/28, Lakshy 3/27) bt Jawahar 123 in 25.5 overs (Mani 51).   Vinayaka Packaging 96 in 25.2 overs (Sampath 37, Risheek Kumar 4/11) lost to Bharath University 96/6 in 18.3 overs.    Mohammed Irfan Basha’s five-wicket haul went in vain as United Indians went down to Kovalam CC by 19 runs in the CDCA second division league on Sunday.  The scores:   II div.: Rainbow 190/7 in 26 overs (R. Naveen 76, D. Vijay Kumar 3/37) bt OZ Sports 83 in 20.2 overs (D. Saravanan 3/30, R. Santhana Krishnan 4/8).   Kovalam 163 in 29.5 overs (R. Raja Babu 50, E. Aravindan 66, Md. Irfan Basha 5/35) bt United Indians 144 in 28.4 overs (K. Akshay Kumar 40, K. Samuel Rajasekharan 4/36, S. Ramachandran 3/29).   Chakra 198/8 in 30 overs (V. Sathish 46, B. Aravind 67, R. Vishal 3/28) bt Prajit 91 in 28.5 overs (Y. Tushar 4/23).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/risheek-stars-for-bharath-university/article35400634.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Sania & Ankita felicitated||Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy visited the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy and felicitated Sania and Ankita Raina who are headed for Tokyo. “We are proud of you Sania for bringing laurels at the highest level over the years. The entire State and the country is now looking once more at you to bring an Olympic medal and we wish you realise this dream,” said Reddy.     The Sreenidhi University Telangana Premier Golf League will be organised by the Hyderabad Golf Association at the Golconda Golf Course from September 12, according to Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud. Unveiling the logo, the Minister said the TPGL, featuring about 200 golfers, was intended to provide a friendly, fair and well-managed opportunity to play. “A committed group of golf enthusiasts has nurtured golf in the State over the years and now we need to do much more to encourage young talent since golf is now an Olympic sport,” the Minister said. The event will have 16 teams playing eight rounds in three different formats over five weeks. The league stage will be five rounds of match-play format followed by three rounds of knockout culminating on October 9. HGA president C. Dayakar Reddy thanked the State Government for its support and the Sreenidhi University for sponsoring the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-ankita-felicitated/article35400795.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking inwards||Arun Prabhu Purushothaman’s sophomore feature Vaazhl was supposed to have had a theatrical release in February last year, but was pushed due to the pandemic. By then, he had sent it to a couple of film festivals. But as the release kept getting delayed, Arun grew nervous and decided to do something that most filmmakers vehemently vouch against, in fear of bad press: hold a test screening for audiences. In doing so, he was able to gauge responses by observing their reactions. Arun does not fear losing exclusivity. Even when Vaazhl was at the scripting stage, he narrated it to a host of people to get their feedback. “We got a satisfactory response from the screening and I wasn’t scared about bad press. In fact, it gave us a better finding about our film and the boxes we need to tick,” he says over phone just days before Vaazhl dropped on the streaming platform SonyLIV. It has been four years since the release of Aruvi ,which opened to lavish praise and became successful. Were you at all pressured by the weight of Aruvi ? We decided to make Vaazhl as our second film because of the response we got for Aruvi . The script is too unconventional. At least Aruvi had a few generic moments for the mainstream audience. But that is not the case with Vaazhl , whose screenplay grammar is very different.  You wrote Vaazhl in 2010 and it was supposed to be your first film. Did you have to make changes to what was originally conceived a decade ago? Not many changes, to be honest. Its subject doesn’t have an expiry date.... because it is a story about life. I wanted this to be my directorial debut and worked on the pre-production for nearly two years. In fact, my team — Shelley Calist (cinematographer) and Raymond Derrick Crasta (editor) — got together to make Vaazhl but eventually made Aruvi .I was not able to make this film because of its unconventional nature. We needed a producer with a lot of trust and hope. That is how Sivakarthikeyan anna came in. He knew the story in 2010 itself and then later, we met after Aruvi . He said, ‘You please finish it the way you want, I will watch the final product’. That gave us an additional responsibility. Could you talk about working with Pradeep Antony and Pradeep Kumar... We had a lot of people audition for the lead character, but we were satisfied with Pradeep’s [Antony] who appeared briefly in Aruvi . He is a natural actor and has a great reflex. He doesn’t need prompting and I share a comfort level with him. Singer-composer Pradeep [Kumar] and I go back in time. There were lots of musical notations in the script itself. I didn’t have to communicate much to Pradeep. But we composed and recorded the background score before shooting. It’s a reverse-engineering process that sort of helped us and the actors to grasp the mood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/looking-inwards/article35400869.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Code your moves||Is there a connection between a chess grandmaster and a software developer? Any seasoned coder will tell you that there is and, as a matter of fact, a powerful one. For instance, both require analytical thinking, problem-solving, cognitive skills, and pattern recognition. They also have to think 10 steps ahead. If playing chess is all about checkmating the opponent in as few moves as possible, then, programming is also about coding lean with proper logic. Attention plays a critical role; a single blunder in chess is as dangerous as leaving vulnerabilities in your programme. There are plenty of other correlations.  Know your tools first: Before you can start playing chess, you have to understand the board’s layout. You must know the pieces, their names, and how they move. Understanding rank and file is also imperative. In coding, you will have to learn about different tools such as code editor, deploy code through GitHub, and run it through a terminal.  Get the basics right: It is not enough to know how to move or some game terms. You need to know how to play. You have to learn the opening principles and different techniques. Gradually, you understand piece development, which openings lead to what kind of vulnerabilities, or opportunities, and so on. It is the same for coding. You need to grasp the basics such as arrays, objects, and functions, and also understand how each works when you code, when used together, which of them will lead to what kind of output, or what type of functionality they can create.  Learn the syntax: Chess has precise notations to mark and record moves. Therefore, it is essential to know the difference between QxH6 and QxH6#. This is a unique language specific to chess. Similarly, for coding, learning the syntax for functions, arrays, objects, and so on is critical. It is important to know the difference between = , == and ===. So, be it coding or chess, understand and know the language well to master it.  Understand advanced moves: Once you understand all this, you need to take your game to the next level. You learn more advanced moves such as Forks and Discovered Checks, to keep your opponents on their toes. In programming, you learn advanced concepts such as Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), Nested Functions and Classes, which help you create more nuanced programmes and keep your code clean.  Figure out your style: Once you have mastered the building blocks, start figuring your style. In chess, you could be aggressive like Carlsen, or persistent like Vidit. You do the same while programming. You could be innovative like Steve Wozniak, robust like Linus Strovald, or creative like Mark Zuckerberg. Your style differentiates you from the rest, and takes you from being proficient, to becoming a master. The writer is CEO and Co-founder, School of Accelerated Learning  Both require analytical thinking, problem-solving, cognitive skills, and pattern recognition...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/code-your-moves/article35400522.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Code your moves||Is there a connection between a chess grandmaster and a software developer? Any seasoned coder will tell you that there is and, as a matter of fact, a powerful one. For instance, both require analytical thinking, problem-solving, cognitive skills, and pattern recognition. They also have to think 10 steps ahead. If playing chess is all about checkmating the opponent in as few moves as possible, then, programming is also about coding lean with proper logic. Attention plays a critical role; a single blunder in chess is as dangerous as leaving vulnerabilities in your programme. There are plenty of other correlations.  Know your tools first: Before you can start playing chess, you have to understand the board’s layout. You must know the pieces, their names, and how they move. Understanding rank and file is also imperative. In coding, you will have to learn about different tools such as code editor, deploy code through GitHub, and run it through a terminal.  Get the basics right: It is not enough to know how to move or some game terms. You need to know how to play. You have to learn the opening principles and different techniques. Gradually, you understand piece development, which openings lead to what kind of vulnerabilities, or opportunities, and so on. It is the same for coding. You need to grasp the basics such as arrays, objects, and functions, and also understand how each works when you code, when used together, which of them will lead to what kind of output, or what type of functionality they can create.  Learn the syntax: Chess has precise notations to mark and record moves. Therefore, it is essential to know the difference between QxH6 and QxH6#. This is a unique language specific to chess. Similarly, for coding, learning the syntax for functions, arrays, objects, and so on is critical. It is important to know the difference between = , == and ===. So, be it coding or chess, understand and know the language well to master it.  Understand advanced moves: Once you understand all this, you need to take your game to the next level. You learn more advanced moves such as Forks and Discovered Checks, to keep your opponents on their toes. In programming, you learn advanced concepts such as Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), Nested Functions and Classes, which help you create more nuanced programmes and keep your code clean.  Figure out your style: Once you have mastered the building blocks, start figuring your style. In chess, you could be aggressive like Carlsen, or persistent like Vidit. You do the same while programming. You could be innovative like Steve Wozniak, robust like Linus Strovald, or creative like Mark Zuckerberg. Your style differentiates you from the rest, and takes you from being proficient, to becoming a master. The writer is CEO and Co-founder, School of Accelerated Learning  Both require analytical thinking, problem-solving, cognitive skills, and pattern recognition...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/code-your-moves/article35400519.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Engineering a two-language system||Mechanical and Civil engineering programmes in Tamil medium were introduced by Anna University over a decade ago. Currently, the College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG) and the university’s constituent colleges offer one or both these programmes. The courses are not popular in other colleges despite 20% reservation in government jobs for the students. In the 1970s, efforts were made to introduce Engineering courses in Tamil, and many textbooks were prepared in the language. However, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) did not permit Engineering courses in Tamil as it had to evolve a national policy on the subject. In a recent survey, however, the AICTE discovered that 42% of the students surveyed nationally, favoured pursuing Engineering in regional languages. The Madras High Court’s Madurai Bench recently reiterated the 20% reservation for Tamil-medium candidates, in every stage of recruitment, in government departments. Demerits Even for the courses available in Tamil, textbooks are unavailable and capable faculty scarce. Material on advanced topics and research or postgraduate programmes are rarely available. Given that NASSCOM surveys report that 75% of English-medium engineers are not adequately equipped with soft skills, job prospects for Tamil-medium candidates are rarer still. Rejuvenation Given that these courses have been in existence for 10 years, many textbooks in Tamil should have been prepared. In fact, this can still be done. Capacity building programmes can be implemented for the faculty, who can be trained to design and popularise Tamil equivalents for the technical terms. English need not be tabooed; it can be used alongside Tamil as it will serve a dual purpose of clarifying the subject and preparing the students to face the world better. Soft skills programmes can also be offered to the Tamil medium students. PG/Research programmes Relevant PG and research programmes must also be designed and introduced, with proper study and reference material. Universities, the Tamil Nadu government, and educationists can help create/translate quality research material into Tamil. Two decades ago, a Tamil Nadu Science Congress founded by Kunrakkudi Adigalaar, conducted an annual international congress in Science and Technology, where local and foreign researchers participated. Significantly, the proceedings were in Tamil. Revival of such an activity will help enrich research material in Tamil. The writer is Former Professor and Head, Entrance Exams and Admission, Anna University, Chennai  In a recent survey, the AICTE discovered that 42% of the students surveyed nationally, favoured pursuing Engineering in regional languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/engineering-a-two-language-system/article35400521.ece
19 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Protest at ex-Minister’s home in Haryana ends||Former Minister Manish Grover touched the feet of the women protesters seeking their blessings, causing the five-day-long sit-in outside his residence in Rohtak to end late on Saturday night. Farmers unions had been staging a sit-in against alleged obscene gestures to women protesters in Hisar on July 10. The protests concluded following a meeting between protesting farmers and Mr. Grover at the initiative of some distinguished persons with the mediation of the local administration. The former Minister spoke to the enraged women who supposedly had witnessed a man sitting in a car with him and Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana and making obscene gestures to them in front of Guru Jambheshwar University, Hisar. After listening to their version that they did not exactly recognise the person sitting close to Mr. Bhayana, the former Minister touched the feet of women and sought their blessings, said a press statement issued by Samyukt Kisan Morcha. All the aggrieved women led by Jagmati Sangwan, national vice-president, All-India Democratic Women’s Association and the farmers leaders expressed their satisfaction over the deliberations and the outcome. Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Haryana, All-India Kisan Sabha, announced the lifting of the sit-in and cancellation of the Mahila Nyaya Panchayat scheduled for July 19, which was to be addressed by top brass of the SKM. Meanwhile, the stalemate continues in Sirsa where farmers are demanding the release of five protesters who were arrested following an attack on Haryana Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car on July 11.  Over 100 booked Police had booked over 100 people, mostly unidentified, for sedition, obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative and damaging public property. The first round of talks between protesters and the district administration had failed. The SKM said a senior farmer leader has also gone on a fast-unto-death over the issue. It demanded immediate release of the five farmers and withdrawal of all cases.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protest-at-former-ministers-residence-in-haryana-ends/article35400716.ece
19 July 2021||Sonipat,||Where honour matters more than life||The sun was peaking on a summer afternoon in Gopalpur village in Sonipat. A suffocating silence prevailed; most stayed indoors. A 12-year-old boy popped up. Asked about the house of a girl whose husband had recently been killed ‘to save the honour’, the boy directed promptly: “Everyone in the village knows both the houses, of the girl and the boy, and the whole story,” he said with a rather stern face. Past a bungalow was a double-storey house with cemented exterior. Two wooden cots and chairs were laid out inside the courtyard. Sheela Dahiya had just returned after buying groceries from a nearby shop. As soon as she heard her daughter Kiran’s name, she broke into tears. Her husband Jai Bhagwan – visibly drunk – sat on a chair finding it tough to speak coherently. “I will approach Narendra Modi,” he kept repeating. Ms. Sheela complained that police are not letting her meet her daughter and that the family had visited the police station thrice in the hope that officers will take them to the hospital because that’s the only way they know they’ll be able to meet the daughter. Futile visits “I received a call from her from a police officer’s number right after the incident. She asked me to take her home. We went to the hospital to meet her but we were not allowed. We haven’t been able to since then,” she said, adding that she, her husband, and two sisters-in-law had gone to Dwarka Sector 23 police station on July 12 and 13. They waited all day long at the police station but without any luck. However, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that Kiran was discharged from the hospital and sent to a women’s shelter to ensure her safety. She reportedly told officials that she wouldn’t be safe at her maternal house. Kiran’s brother Aman (21) and her cousin Vicky (22) have been arrested along with others for shooting her husband Vinay Dahiya dead at their rented accommodation in Ambrahai village on June 24. They fired bullets at both, but she survived. Feuding families Both families were against the relationship and marriage because they were fromthe same gotra. But now Ms. Sheela wants her back. “I can even die to keep my daughter safe here. I’ve never even laid a hand on her. I just want her back. Whatever happened was in the past,” the mother cried with a passing mention of Vinay. The father butted in: “Us ladke ka naam mat le… vo to marr gaya.. mujhe bas meri beti wapas chahiye [Don’t take the boy’s name… he is dead now… I just want my daughter back]”. The mother promptly told him to shut up. Long story The shooting episode was not an on the spur of the moment incident. The antipathyhad been brewing since the lovers fled their houses and got married in Chandigarh in August 2020. Their love story dates further back to 2013 when Kiran was in Class VIII. Ms. Sheela remembered that Kiran used to go to school in the bus and Vinay used to follow her. The word spread in the village and the family members became aware of it. “Those were the last days when she physically attended the school. We made her drop out and sit at home. She took Class IX exams from home and wasn’t allowed to study thereafter,” the mother recounted. She said they did everything they could to salvage their honour. “Sab kuch izzat bachaane ke liye kiya tha,” she said. With a tinge of regret, she says: “ Police ko complaint dene ka socha tha us waqt bas izzat ke maare chhor diya. Agar us waqt bola hota to shayad aaj ye din na dekhna padta . [We wished to complain against Vinay but stopped because of honour. If we would have, then maybe we wouldn’t have had to see this day]”. Deeper, stronger The end of studies didn’t mean the end of their relationship. Over the next few years, the two families met through mediators and both lovers were instructed not to see each other. But the more they tried to disunite them, the stronger their relationship grew. Kiran’s brother Aman, however, had a streak of violence. “Aman bhai was teased among his peers for didi ’s relationship. A few years ago, Vinay had told Aman bhai that he was his brother-in-law in front of 25 other boys. It hurt his pride. Vinay had also said that he would kill Aman,” recalled Himanshu alias Sunny (15), Kiran’s cousin and Vicky’s brother. Aman allegedly killed a friend of Vinay in 2017 when he refused to call Vinay to a place Aman wanted him to come. Aman was then 17 and spent a year in an observation home. But the panchayat intervened, and the issue was apparently resolved. Two years later, on August 13, three months after Kiran has turned 18, she left the house when everyone was asleep. The same day, they got married in Chandigarh and sought protection from Kiran’s family. The court, however, stated that they should seek protection from local police. A few days later after the marriage, the village panchayat ruled that the couple should stay out of the village following which both families reportedly snapped contact. But Aman was still seething with anger. On June 24, he, Vicky and a few other youths entered the couple’s house and shot multiple rounds at them, leaving Vinay dead. “If I had any idea that Aman was going to do something like this, I would have beaten him black and blue myself. I have two children and none of them are with me now,” cried Ms. Sheela. A house in mourning A few meters away from Kiran’s house is Vinay’s double-storey residence. His photograph, with a garland of yellow genda , hangs on the wall. His family is vehemently against bringing Kiran to the house and wants nothing to do with her anymore. But just before his murder, they had begun talking with their son, and though reluctantly, accepted the marriage. “I had spoken to him the day he was killed. She was pregnant and she and Vinay had gone to a hospital for her abortion because of some complications. He had called me to ask for some home remedies and visit them to help the girl,” claimed Vinay’s mother, who didn’t wish to be named. Half an hour before the murder, Vinay’s brother Deepak said they had spoken to him. Now, all that remains of him is a car — he used to drive while working as a driver at the IGI Airport —parked outside their residence. “ Bohot samjhaya tha use. Maara bhi tha. Nahin maana. [We tried a lot to make him understand but he didn’t. We beat him too],” said Mr. Deepak. The villagers too were against the relationship, and they pinned the blame on city culture. All this happens in cities like Delhi, not here, said grocery store owner Rakesh. “They were brother and sister. No girl and boy in this village can marry each other. It’s against the rule of nature. It’s a sin,” he said, assertively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/where-honour-matters-more-than-life/article35400729.ece
19 July 2021||Pune,||‘Centre’s vaccination programme has foundered’||Remarking that the Centre’s vaccination programme had foundered miserably, former Chief Minister and senior Congressman Prithviraj Chavan on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi ought to stop self-congratulation about breaking “vaccination records” and focus on expediting the pace. Mr. Chavan said here that after more than 180 days of the rollout, just 32 crore people had taken one dose while barely 8.15 crore citizens across the country had taken both doses. “With more variations in the virus being reported, unless the Centre quickens the pace of inoculation, the danger of fresh infections cannot be averted…in my constituency Karad South [in Satara], I have come across reports where people who have taken both doses are getting re-infected. At this glacial pace, only 15 crore of the populace will be vaccinated before the year is out,” he said. Mr. Chavan expressed concern that even if the rate of vaccination was doubled, just 25 crore people would be completely vaccinated by December 31. “The Central government has completely mismanaged the vaccination programme and its effects are now showing on the economy. The full effects of the PM’s misguided ‘vaccine diplomacy’ are only apparent now,” he said. He lashed out at the Centre for failing to control ratcheting fuel prices, alleging that relentlessly increasing the excise and customs’ duties on petrol and diesel was akin to looting the public. “The price of petrol has risen 23% as compared with last year’s per litre price, while diesel and LPG have risen by 28% and 41% respectively. From January this year till now, petrol and diesel prices have increased no less than 66 times while in more than 250 towns, petrol prices have breached the Rs. 100 per litre mark…this is incredible,” Mr. Chavan said. Stating that the common man was being crushed by the Centre’s appalling policy decisions on fuel, he alleged that a misconception was being spread by the BJP-ruled Centre of its inability to do anything about the fuel price rise. “The Centre claims there is nothing to be done as fuel is being imported from abroad. But this is false. Costs are rising only due to the Centre increasing excise and custom duties… in 2014, just as the Manmohan Singh-led UPA exited the stage and the BJP took over, the excise on petrol was Rs. 9.48 per litre. Today, it has risen to Rs. 32.90 — a 316% surge,” Mr. Chavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centres-vaccination-programme-has-foundered/article35400877.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man kills neighbour for not returning borrowed amount of Rs. 25,000; arrested||A 35-year-old man allegedly killed his neighbour, beheaded the body, and disposed it in a canal in U.P.’s Muradnagar, the police said on Sunday. Riyasat, a driver from Old Seemapuri and his 30-year-old accomplice Javed from Garima Garden in Ghaziabad have been arrested, they said. The case came to the fore when on Tuesday, a missing report of a man named Shahjad (52) was registered at Seemapuri police station. On Friday, the police found a body in Khekra, U.P. The family members of Shahjad identified the body. Next, a post-mortem was conducted by the U.P. police. “On the basis of technical surveillance and call details record, the police identified one of the accused persons. A raid was conducted, and the accused were nabbed,” said DCP (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram. During interrogation, Riyasat said the victim the victim had borrowed Rs. 25,000 from him before the lockdown. When he asked Shahjad to return the money, the latter abused and threatened him. Riyasat then decided to take revenge and planned his murder for five days, the police said. On Monday, he asked the victim to come to Khekra for purchasing mangoes and also promised him employment in painting work. He told the police that Shahjad was looking for work. Offered liqour to victim Riyasat picked him up at Seemapuri border in his car and took him to Khekra. On the way, Riyasat called Javed. Later, Riyasat also called his nephew Nadeem, who is a resident of Khekra, to eliminate Shahjad. Riyasat offered liquor to the victim and got him drunk. After some time, they reached one of the fields in Khekra, the police said. Riyasat and Nadeem took Shahjad to to the field. They attacked him with a chopper, killing him. After this, they beheaded the body and disposed of in a canal near Village Surana. Manhunt on for Nadeem, the police said. Riyasat was gramin sewa driver and lost work during the lockdown. Javed is also a driver by profession, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-kills-neighbour-for-not-returning-borrowed-amount-of-rs-25000-arrested/article35400722.ece
19 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam’s Dhubri district cracks down on dacoit groups||The police in western Assam’s Dhubri district have cracked down on groups of dacoits that have reportedly been playing mind games with their victims before striking. A person known to some victims took to social media seeking Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s help in checking a string of dacoities in the district bordering Bangladesh. He said the dacoits had been forewarning the families they target about striking on a particular date. “They come on the dot, loot every valuable, beat up the inmates and melt into the darkness,” the appeal from social media user Apratim Mukarji read. The district police negated such a strategy used by miscreants but said more than a dozen dacoits and thieves have been arrested since June 20, when a failed incident of dacoity happened. “We have arrested 13 dacoits and thieves in several operations and are continuously watching the situation. But it [dacoits forewarning victims] seems to be fear psychosis or rumour,” SP Gaurav Abhijit Dilip said. Special DGP Gyanendra Pratap Singh said every information received about dacoity has been attended to. ‘Shot in the leg’ The police said one of the dacoits identified as Sahidul Islam was shot in the leg while trying to flee from police custody in the Chapar area of Dhubri district.  “We have arrested 13 dacoits and thieves in several operations and are continuously watching the situation. Gaurav Abhijit DilipSuperintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-cracks-down-on-dacoit-gangs/article35400717.ece
19 July 2021||Kanpur,||Probe ordered into scuffle between woman, S-I in U.P.||An inquiry was ordered after images of a scuffle between a sub-inspector and a woman, who alleged that she was dragged to the ground and assaulted by the policeman, appeared on social media, though the police here refuted her claim citing video clips of the incident. S-I Mahendra Patel was taken off active duty on Saturday night to ensure a free and fair probe, officers said. Superintendent of Police of Kanpur Dehat, Keshav Kumar Choudhry, said a photograph of the S-I allegedly overpowering a woman in Durgadaspur village of Kanpur (Rural) on Saturday went viral on social media. The officer said an inquiry was ordered as it was alleged by the woman that the S-I pulled her to the ground and hit her after sitting on top of her as she did not agree to his “demands” for sparing her husband who was to be arrested. The SP, however, said that images of the incident showed the woman caught hold of the S-I’s collar after which he fell on her. Action after CO’s report Circle Officer (Akbarpur) Arun Kumar Singh has been asked to probe the matter properly and submit a report at the earliest, the SP said. He added that further action would be taken on the basis of the findings. Yadav was allegedly gambling and caught by the police but his mother and wife got him forcibly freed which led to a scuffle between the S-I and the women, said another senior officer. Police officers said Yadav’s wife fell on the ground accidentally, but claimed that she was beaten. The woman had told mediapersons that the S-I slapped her and then pushed her to the ground. She further alleged that S-I Patel had demanded money to let off Yadav and the family’s refusal enraged him. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had slammed the U.P. police and shared a picture of the woman lying on the ground and struggling with the policeman. The BJP hit back, accusing him of spreading fake news. “A former CM should check the facts before making accusations,” BJP’s IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted, while sharing a video of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-ordered-into-scuffle-between-woman-s-i-in-up/article35400895.ece
19 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Driver arrested in Punjab for stealing employer’s Rs. 80 lakh||A 40-year-old driver was arrested from Punjab’s Ludhiana for allegedly stealing Rs. 80 lakh cash from his employer in south Delhi, the police said on Sunday. The accused — Kinder Pal Singh from Ludhiana — was working with the victim for the last 10-12 years. Complainant Ajay Gupta from Ludhiana reported on Friday that the incident happened when he went to Sainik Farms in his car along with his driver for making an advance payment of a property, an officer said. After parking his car near the office of a property consultant, Mr. Gupta told his driver to keep the money in the car and not leave the vehicle unattended, the police said. Next, Gupta went to see some property sites in Saket and Mehrauli along with the consultant. Driver goes missing When he returned at 3.30 p.m., he found the cash missing from the car. He told the police that his driver was also nowhere to be found. During probe, the police analysed CCTV footage of the incident and found that the driver was involved in the offence. A raid was conducted in the driver’s residence in Ludhiana. Several CCTV footage were checked and it was found that the accused was using a white Punjab-registered Innova car, the officer said. “Later, the accused was arrested from the residence of his sister in Ludhiana. The entire amount and the vehicle used in the offence were recovered from his possession,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. Further probe is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/driver-held-for-stealing-rs-80l-of-employer/article35400723.ece
19 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Night curfew relaxed in Haryana, lockdown extended by a week||The Haryana government on Sunday relaxed the night curfew in the State, allowing the restaurants, bars and gymnasiums to remain open for an additional hour but extended the COVID-induced lockdown for another week. Announcing the extension of lockdown till July 26, the State government, in a detailed order, delayed the imposition of night curfew in the State for an hour, now from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. on all days of the week. With relaxation in the night curfew, the government allowed the restaurants, bars, and club houses to remain open from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. with the seating capacity of 50% and adherence to requisite social distancing and other COVID-19 appropriate safety norms. The gyms are also allowed to open from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. with 50% capacity. However, despite a sharp decline in positivity rate and the number of new COVID-19 cases, the government decided “to continue the preventive and precautionary measures” to contain the pandemic and extended the lockdown till 5 a.m. on July 26. The government had last week allowed the cinema halls, swimming pools and spas to open with certain restrictions in a major relaxation. The Haryana government had first imposed a week-end lockdown in nine districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad — from 10 p.m. April 30 to 5 a.m. on May 3. The entire State was then brought under lockdown for a week on May 3 and the restrictions are being extended on a weekly basis thereafter. Decline in new cases The number of fresh COVID cases in the State has declined by almost 71% from 146 on June 22 to 41 on July 17, said a press statement issued by the Haryana Public Relations Department. The State’s recovery rate has also improved by 0.15% from 98.50% on June 22 to 98.65% on July 17. However, the fatality rate has increased by 0.04% from 1.21% on June 22 to 1.25% on July 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/night-curfew-relaxed-in-haryana-lockdown-extended-by-one-week/article35400715.ece
19 July 2021||Kohima,||Nagaland reports 106 new COVID-19 cases||Nagaland’s COVID-19 tally rose to 26,682 on Sunday as 106 more people tested positive for the infection, a Health department bulletin said. Four more fatalities pushed the death toll to 528, it said. Dimapur district recorded the highest number of new cases at 39, followed by Kohima at 33, and Mokukchong at 15. As 56 more people recovered from the disease during the day, the recovery count now stands at 24,261. The recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the State dipped to 90.93% from 91.08% on Saturday. The State now has 1,149 active cases, while 744 patients have migrated to other States, it said. Nagaland has thus far tested 2,46,396 samples for COVID-19. As of Saturday, a total of 5,49,252 people have been vaccinated in the State, said State Immunisation Officer Dr. Ritu Thurr.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nagaland-reports-106-new-covid-19-cases/article35400894.ece
19 July 2021||Agartala,||BJP gives green signal for expansion of Tripura Cabinet||The BJP central leadership has reportedly advised the Tripura leadership to reshuffle the Cabinet to give proper representation to all social communities and drop a couple of ‘inefficient’ Ministers. The reshuffle and expansion are expected to take place in the coming week after the return of Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb from New Delhi. Mr. Deb and State president Manik Saha left for New Delhi on July 14 soon after attending the swearing-in of new Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya. They met a number of central leaders looking after the organisation and the State. After meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few days back, Mr. Deb met national president J.P. Nadda at his office on Sunday. Prior to their meeting, Mr. Nadda met Pratima Bhoumik, newly inducted Minister from Tripura in the Union Cabinet. Sources in the BJP here said the Chief Minister and Mr. Saha would return on Monday. Newly appointed organisation in-charge for Tripura Kishore Barman is also expected to arrive next week. Amid buzz in the BJP circles over possible expansion, sources said two Ministers of the BJP-led coalition government will be dropped. Tripura can have a maximum 12 Ministers but the Ministry was formed with nine members including the Chief Minister when the BJP-led alliance assumed office in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-gives-green-signal-for-expansion-of-tripura-cabinet/article35400713.ece
19 July 2021||Mumbai,||Drivers halt train, save life of elderly man||A senior citizen crossing rail tracks at Kalyan station on Sunday was saved when the drivers of a Mumbai-Varanasi train applied emergency brakes in the nick of time after being alerted by a rail official, the Central Railway (CR) said. The incident occurred around 12.45 p.m. when the train started from platform no. 4 of Kalyan railway station in Thane district. Hari Shankar (70), who was crossing the tracks at that time, fell and got stuck under the train, the CR said in a release. Chief Permanent Way Inspector (CPWI) Santosh Kumar then shouted to caution loco pilot S.K. Pradhan and assistant loco pilot Ravi Shankar G. The two loco pilots immediately applied emergency brakes and pulled up the elderly man from under the train, the release said. The CR’s general manager, Alok Kansal, announced a cash reward of Rs. 2,000 each for the two loco pilots and CPWI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/drivers-halt-train-save-life-of-elderly-man/article35400873.ece
19 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab’s Chhatbir zoo to reopen from July 20||The Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir zoo, will reopen for public from July 20 with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, an official statement said on Sunday. Punjab’s Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation said apart from Chhatbir zoo, which is about 20 km from here, four small zoos at Ludhiana, Bathinda, Patiala and Neelon, closed earlier due to rise in Covid cases, will also reopen from Tuesday with strict adherence to coronavirus-related guidelines. The Chhatbir zoo would be open for public six days a week (Monday closed), the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjabs-chhatbir-zoo-to-reopen-from-july-20/article35400890.ece
19 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU denies report on participation in U.P. poll||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday denied media reports that suggested the organisation could participate in the upcoming Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. “The report published in a leading Hindi newspaper was misleading and mischievous,” said Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of BKU. ‘Oufit is apolitical’ He said BKU president Naresh Tikait has repeatedly said the outfit was apolitical and would continue to be so. Addressing a panchayat in Sisauli village of Muzaffarnagar on Saturday, Mr. Tikait said, “The Congress was also keen on bringing the farm laws we are protesting against. However, at present, our goal should be to uproot the ruling arrogant government which has not been listening to us for the last eight months.” ‘No appeal’ Mr. Tikait said the organisation didn’t appeal to vote for any particular party but farmers should elect candidates who would resign from their parties and join the movement if farmers’ interests are not taken care of. Mr. Malik said the BKU would send five members every day from July 22 as part of the 200-member contingent of the Samyukt Morcha to protest in front of Parliament. “They will be selected after due care. Identity cards are being issued to them on the basis of their Aadhaar cards. They will have one leader who would be responsible for the behaviour of the team,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bku-denies-report-about-participation-in-up-election/article35400711.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||Court rejects petition of 93 CRPF jawans seeking deployment in UN Mission||The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of 93 CRPF personnel seeking direction to the force to deploy them in the upcoming United Nations (UN) Mission. It noted that it is not for the Court to interfere in administrative tasks such. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Amit Bansal further said the CRPF personnel “merely by being empanelled, therefore, did not acquire any right to be posted at UN Mission, whensoever and wheresoever”. The court said if the 93 CRPF personnel still meet the requirements set out in the new notices for empanelment, they can compete with the fresh applicants and if selected, would again be empanelled. The direction came on a petition filed by the personnel challenging the decision of the CRPF inviting fresh applications for deployment in the upcoming UN Mission in July, 2021. The 93 personnel contended that pursuant to similar notices taken out by the CRPF in 2016, they had applied and participated in the selection process comprising of written examination, physical standards, physical efficiency and medical tests and were selected. In June, 2017, they cleared the Pre-Deployment Training and from time to time, till the year 2019, they were subjected to further training for deployment in the UN Mission. However, they were not deployed at any of the UN Missions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-rejects-petition-of-93-crpf-jawans-seeking-deployment-in-un-mission/article35400719.ece
19 July 2021||Mumbai,||8 killed as car falls into gorge in Nandurbar||Eight people were killed after the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge in Nandurbar district of north Maharashtra on Sunday, the police said. The car was on its way to Sindhimal village from Toranmal, when the driver lost control of the vehicle, due to which it veered off the road and fell into the gorge, the police said, adding that a few occupants managed to jump out. Some people were injured in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-killed-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-nandurbar/article35400870.ece
19 July 2021||Nagpur,||Five promised fake Metro rail jobs, duped||Four women and a man were duped of Rs. 9.18 lakh allegedly by a person who promised to get them ticket examining jobs in the Metro rail system, the police in Nagpur said on Sunday. A Wadi police station official identified the accused as Gaurav Ashok Uke (27), a resident of Suraburdi. “The accused has duped the five people between July, 2019 and July, 2021. He had even sent bogus appointment letters to them,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-promised-fake-metro-rail-jobs-duped/article35400871.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Commuters’ nightmare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/commuters-nightmare/article35400875.ece
19 July 2021||Khargone (M.P.),||Two drown during picnic||Two men drowned in a river while celebrating the birthday of one of them at a picnic spot near Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place late Saturday evening at Chidiabhadak picnic spot under Balwada police station limits, about 90 km from the district headquarters, they said. The victims, aged 21 and 22, ventured into deep waters of the Choral river while taking bath and got swept away, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-drown-during-picnic/article35400889.ece
19 July 2021||July 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Minister at work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-at-work/article35400893.ece
19 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC closes FIR against man in road rage case||The Delhi High Court has closed an FIR against a man in a road rage case after the parties amicably settled the issue, noting that the accused has shown remorse for his conduct and undertook not to repeat the same in the future. Accused to give Rs. 3 lakh Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri directed the man him to deposit a cost of Rs. 3 lakh in the lawyers’ pandemic relief fund as the accused volunteered to financially contribute to a social cause. “In view of the above facts and since no useful purpose will be served in continuance of the present criminal proceedings, it is directed that the aforesaid FIR and the consequent proceedings arising therefrom are hereby quashed,” the court said. The decision would be subject to payment of cost of Rs. 3 lakh by the man with the Delhi High Court Bar Association Pandemic Relief Fund within a period of two weeks. The court also recorded the statement of the complainant that he has settled the matter out of his own free will, volition and without any coercion and he has no objection if the FIR and proceedings are quashed. The FIR was lodged on the complainant’s allegation that on October 17, 2020, he and his wife were coming from Safdarjung Enclave at around 2a.m.-2.30 a.m. after having dinner in a restaurant and a road rage incident took place near the AIIMS Trauma Centre. The complainant alleged that the accused beat him using his belt and he sustained injuries after which the FIR was lodged. The court was informed that a cross-case was also registered against this complainant in the same incident and it was settled and the FIR was quashed earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-closes-fir-against-man-in-road-rage-case/article35400720.ece
19 July 2021||Bhopal,||Minister sets condition for selfies with her||Madhya Pradesh Minister Usha Thakur has said those wanting to click selfies with her must pay Rs. 100 as it is a “time-consuming process” which leads to delays in her programmes and this amount will be deposited in the BJP’s coffers for party work. Speaking to reporters in Khandwa, some 250 kilometres from here, she also asserted that she would accept books instead of bouquets. “A lot of time gets wasted in clicking selfies, and often we get late by hours for our programmes. From the (party) organisational point of view, we though any person clicking a selfie (with her) should deposit Rs. 100 in the treasury of the BJP’s local mandal unit,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-sets-condition-for-selfies-with-her/article35400888.ece
