21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pegasus spyware row rocks Parliament||The Pegasus snooping controversy led to multiple disruptions in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday before the House was adjourned for the day. In what seemed to be a different strategy by the Opposition parties for the two Houses, proceedings in the Lower House got washed out while the Rajya Sabha discussed the COVID-19 situation after a couple of hours of disruptions in the morning. “The government on its own had moved for a discussion on COVID-19 after it was discussed in the Business Advisory Committee (BAC). We didn’t want to give them a chance to say the Opposition doesn’t even want to discuss the pandemic. But the government will find itself cornered in the Lok Sabha. On July 22, farmers have planned some action outside the House and we will raise their voices inside the House,” a senior Congress leader told The Hindu . Multiple notices With multiple notices from Lok Sabha members, such as Manish Tewari, Manickam Tagore and Gaurav Gogoi, for the suspension of routine business to discuss the snooping controversy, the Opposition made its intentions clear on the second day of the monsoon session. Trinamool Congress leaders too had given an adjournment notice after the name of the party’s Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee, who is also the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, figured in the list of potential targets for hacking. As soon as the Lok Sabha proceedings started at 11 a.m., the Congress and the Trinamool started raising slogans and showed placards targeting the government. While some placards showed former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi being in the list of targets, another was about Mr. Banerjee. One of the placards read that while people were suffering from unemployment, the government was busy with jasoosi (spying). The proceedings lasted for five minutes before the House was adjourned until 2 p.m. When it reconvened, similar scenes were witnessed, prompting the Chair to adjourn it for an hour. After the House assembled at 3 p.m., the Opposition members again started raising slogans, and the Chair adjourned it for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pegasus-spyware-row-rocks-parliament/article35437244.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,||‘We are ready to handle natural disasters’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Tuesday informed Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa that the administration is geared up to face any eventuality arising out of natural disasters during the current monsoon season. He was participating in Udupi in a video conference meeting chaired by Mr. Yediyurappa who interacted with district administrations of 13 rain-ravaged districts. Mr. Jagadeesha said that every gram panchayat has prepared a disaster management plan. The district administration is in constant touch with the National Disaster Response Force team stationed in Mangaluru. Panchayats in need of boats are provided with fibre boats to manage events arising out of floods. While every official has been directed to be alert to face any disaster, a round-the-clock control room has been established at the district office. So far, a man died, five houses have been completely damaged, 196 houses partially damaged and 14 cow sheds have been affected during this monsoon season, he said. CM’s direction Mr. Yediyurappa directed the Deputy Commissioners concerned to take all required steps to face natural disasters that may arise out of the monsoon and stressed upon the need for safeguarding the life of vulnerable sections of society — the elderly, women and children. He said that four each teams of NDRF and State DRF have been kept ready to extend support to district administrations. He also told them to immediately disburse compensation to those affected by natural disasters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-are-ready-to-handle-natural-disasters/article35437681.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,||CAMPCO plans to build chocolate park at Kavu||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO) has proposed to develop a chocolate park at Kavu, near Puttur, on the Mani-Madikeri-Mysuru National Highway 275, according to CAMPCO president A. Kishor Kumar Kodgi. The board of the cooperative will take a decision on making a proposal, mooted during the 49th Foundation Day of the cooperative a week ago, a reality in its meeting this week. Mr. Kodgi told The Hindu that if the board agrees, it has been proposed to commission the park after a year when the cooperative completes its golden jubilee. It will be dedicated to the memory of founder-president late Varanashi Subraya Bhat. The park has been planned near the new warehouse of CAMPCO at Kavu. The park, as per the proposal, will have a museum on cocoa and chocolate products and a cafeteria among other facilities. There will be a mini demonstration unit to explain to people the process of making chocolate and cocoa products. It will have a counter to sell cocoa products of CAMPCO and a children’s play area. It is expected to serve as a stop-over for tourists on the national highway to witness how cocoa is cultivated and introduce them to how cocoa beans can be made use of for making different food and other products. The park will also serve as a brand building initiative of the cooperative, he said and added that it might require at least 50,000 sq ft area. Managing Director of the cooperative H.M. Krishna Kumar said that the construction of the new warehouse has almost been completed. It has a capacity to store 15,000 tonnes of arecanut, pepper, cocoa beans. The warehouse built on about one lakh sq ft area has halls for storing cocoa beans, rubber, arecanut and pepper seeds. Sterilised pepper seeds will be stored in the warehouse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campco-plans-to-build-chocolate-park-at-kavu/article35437679.ece
21 July 2021||Mumbai,||Public health above religion, says Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday disposed of pleas seeking relief related to increase the number of water buffaloes to be sacrificed at the Deonar abattoir for three days of Bakrid celebrations starting July 21. In its order the court said, “We are afraid the decision is entirely within the executive domain and the court in exercise of its powers cannot grant the relief as sought for by the petitioner.” The bench also noted, “Public health is above religion and it will be difficult for the administration to manage in case of relaxations.” A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni was hearing two petitions filed by Al-Quraish Human Welfare Association and All India Jamiatul Quresh. They sought to increase the number of big animals from 300 to 700 per day. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare representing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said a circular has been issued on July 19 saying the abattoir will be open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. and no import licence has been issued. He said the civic body had last year permitted 50 animals and this year it has been increased to 300. However, advocates A.A. Siddiqui and Tanveer Nizam, appearing for the petitioners said over seven lakh people will be sacrificing animals and 300 animals are for a retailer. All the purchases have already been made online and we want the number to be increased to 1,000. COVID protocols Mr. Sakhare said a decision was taken keeping COVID protocols in mind as now festivals will start for the Hindus and the Muslims and precautions have been taken for the third wave. Mr. Siddiqui said the cattle that is being referred to belongs to retailers, “and we are concerned with qurbani. This is about the weaker sections who earn their livelihood through qurbani”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/public-health-above-religion-says-bombay-high-court/article35437373.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,||2,239 students ace second PU exam with 600/600||The second pre-university (PU) exam results for the 2020–21, which were announced on Tuesday, broke multiple records. Not only were all candidates passed, 2,239 students were awarded full scores — 600/600. Last academic year, when the examination was conducted, not a single student bagged the full score. The maximum mark, 598/600, had been awarded to a student in the Commerce stream. Of the 2,239 students, who got the full score this year, a majority of the candidates, 1,929, were from the Science stream, while 292 were from Commerce, and the remaining 18 were from the Arts stream. The results were announced by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. Of the 6.6 lakh students who passed, 95,628 (14%) secured distinction, 53% were awarded first class, and as many as 1,47,055 (22%) students got second class. As many as 68,729 students were in the pass class category. R. Snehal, Director of the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), acknowledged that the high scores could be the result of the ‘grace marks’. As the examination was cancelled on account of the pandemic, all students have been promoted this year. They were graded based on their SSLC and first year pre-university marks, which were given 45% weightage each. Internal assessments accounted for the remaining 10%. In addition to this, students have been given 5% grace marks on their first PU scores. The DPUE in a press release stated that students — both freshers and repeaters — who are not satisfied with their marks can appear for the examination that has been tentatively scheduled from August 19 to September 3. Mr. Kumar said that those who are not satisfied with their results can approach the officials and register for the examination by July 30. Performance comparison With all students being declared as pass, there was also a corresponding increase in the number of candidates who secured distinction, and first and second class, when compared with the 2019–20 academic year when only 4.17 lakh students wrote the examination. As a result, the number of students with distinction shot up by 39%, first class by 60%, second class by 89%, and third class by 40%. However, the percentage of students who secured distinction this year has dropped when compared with the previous year where candidates were able to write the final examination. In the 2020 PU examination, 17% of the candidates secured a distinction, compared with 14% this year. In keeping with past trends, the maximum number of distinction was obtained by students in the Science stream (67,175). Candidates in the Art stream bagged the least number distinction (5,974).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-2239-students-secure-600600/article35437270.ece
21 July 2021||GUNTUR,||Prioritise vaccination, Jagan instructs officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed officials to prioritise vaccination as it was the only way to fight against COVID-19. During a COVID review meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said the State government was able to vaccinate a large number of people through efficient management. He instructed the officials to focus on vaccination of teachers and complete it before the reopening of schools and stated that vaccination of pregnant women should be actively pursued. Flagging the issue of a large number of vaccine doses given to private hospitals, Mr. Jagan said that although nearly 35 lakh vaccine doses were given to private hospitals since May 2021, the consumption was only about 4.63 lakh. In regard to this, the State government had decided to appeal to the Centre to allocate those vaccine doses to the government. So far, the State government received 1.80 crore vaccine doses, of which 8.65 lakh doses were yet to be administered. As on date, a total of 1.82 crore people have been vaccinated, including those vaccinated by private hospitals. About 11 lakh doses were saved from wastage through efficient management. All mothers with children under the age of five had been vaccinated, and 31,796 people who travelling abroad were also vaccinated. Mr. Jagan directed the authorities to brace up for the possible third wave, since studies were showing that children could be affected in the third wave. Officials were instructed to be prepared with a good action plan, especially considering the treatment for children. Mr. Jagan instructed the authorities to make oxygen beds available right from CHCs to teaching hospitals. He ordered officials to ensure proper internet facility for smooth access of telemedicine services. He said that the night curfew should be continued for another week from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. and all the protocols strictly followed. The Chief Minister inquired about the progress of setting up oxygen generation plants in private hospitals with more than 50 beds. He clarified that the State government was giving 30% incentive for setting up the plants. The officials informed the Chief Minister that there were 24,708 active cases at present, where the recovery rate was 98.05% and positivity rate had decreased to 2.83%. They said the positivity rate was less than 3% in eight districts and almost 94.19% of patients in network hospitals were being treated under Aarogyasri scheme. The authorities stated that the number of black fungus cases had come down, where 4,075 black fungus cases were registered till date of which 863 were undergoing treatment. Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani), Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, DGP Gautam Sawang, COVID Command and Control Chairman K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Principal Secretary, Health, Anil Kumar Singhal, Health Secretary M Ravi Chandra, Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar, Finance Secretary Sasibhushan Kumar, 104 call centre incharge A Babu, Aarogyasri CEO A Mallikarjuna, APMSIDC VC and MD Vijayarama Raju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prioritise-vaccination-ap-cm-tells-officials/article35437194.ece
21 July 2021||Pune,||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports 6,910 cases||Maharashtra’s declining case trend continued on Tuesday with the State reporting 7,510 recoveries as against 6,910 new COVID-19 cases causing the active case tally to fall to 94,593. The reconciliation process (completed till July 12) has resulted in a massive updation of cases and fatalities, adding 3,509 more deaths and 2,479 cases to the State’s cumulative tally, said the State Health Department medical bulletin. This fresh addition, along with 147 deaths in the last week, has pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,30,753 with the case fatality rate climbing to 2.09%. The total cases have reached 62,29,596 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 60,00,911 with the recovery rate standing at 96.33%. “Of a total 4,58,46,165 laboratory samples tested thus far, 62,29,596 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 13.59%) have returned positive with over 1.98 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Mumbai reported 348 new cases to take the tally to 7,31,561 while the active count rising to 10,638. As many as ten fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,787. Pune reported over 1,000 new cases total cases to 10,77,540. As many as four deaths were reported as the toll rose to 18,289. As per district authorities, the active case tally stands at 10,000. Kolhapur reported more than 800 new cases, taking the case tally to 1,86,392. The active cases declined to 10,100. As many as 23 deaths saw the toll rise to 5,332.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-maharashtra-reports-6910-cases/article35437370.ece
21 July 2021||THENI,||Allow us to enter Idukki district with ease: workers||Demanding the Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments to help them permit to enter Idukki district, a large number of SUV drivers and workers employed in cardamom estates staged a demonstration in front of the office of Tahsildar at Uthamapalayam in Theni district on Tuesday. Following the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown, they were rendered jobless for four months. Now that the restrictions have been eased, they were expecting to return to work, when the pandemic appeared to have declined and when workers were preparing to go to work, but they were not permitted to enter Idukki district by the Kerala government, they said. Every day, about 10,000 to 13,000 workers from Cumbum, Uthamapalayam, Chinnamanur, Thevaram, Bodi and Gudalur travelled in SUVs to estates in Idukki district and returned home in the evening. The Kerala officials in the border insist that they must show proof that they had taken the two doses of vaccine for COVID-19 before entering Idukki district. Sometimes, they also ask them to produce certificate that they tested negative for the virus. This is unrealistic to do so on a daily basis, they said. The drivers said that the government should direct the district administration to arrange for vaccine doses (first or second) for the drivers through special camps. They also demanded financial relief of Rs. 7,500 each “as the lockdown had pushed many of them to borrow from moneylenders.” Idukki district officials have conveyed to their Theni counterparts that since the number of fresh COVID-19 cases was on the rise in Kerala, they were cautious. However, those who had been inoculated were permitted but on the assurance that they would maintain the precautionary norms such as wearing of face mask, using hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing.  We have conveyed to our Theni counterparts that since the number of COVID-19 cases is on the rise in Kerala, we are cautious Idukki administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/allow-us-to-enter-idukki-district-with-ease-workers/article35437457.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Install complaint boxes in all schools, says High Court||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to install complaint boxes in every school to encourage students to shun hesitation and complain freely about any case of sexual abuse, either by the managing committee members or by the teaching or non-teaching staff. Justice P. Velmurugan ordered that the keys of the complaint boxes be in the custody of the District Legal Services Authority. The DLSA should check the boxes every week along with the District Social Welfare Officer and forward the relevant complaints to the police. The judge said the District Educational Officers could be asked to visit every school once a month to inquire with the students about any kind of sexual harassment or abuse being faced by them. He also suggested constitution of district-level committees, comprising officials from the DLSA and the Social Welfare Department, women police officers, and psychiatrists and physicians from government hospitals to help the children in need of help. Conviction confirmed The orders were passed while confirming the conviction and five years of rigorous imprisonment imposed by a mahila court in Salem in 2019 on S. Jayaseelan, a pastor, for having sexually abused a 12-year-old school girl in 2013. Dismissing his appeal, the judge held that the prosecution had proved its case by examining an independent witness, who was the victim’s friend and to whom she had confided about the incident immediately after it took place at the pastor’s official residence. The judge also said that the failure of the prosecution to subject the victim to medical examination would not affect the case since the pastor had only molested the victim even as per her complaint, and there were no physical injuries on her body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/install-complaint-boxes-in-all-schools-hc/article35437340.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. drops plans to relax restrictions||The State government on Tuesday baulked at the demand for further easing of COVID-19 regulations. Seemingly stung by the Supreme Court’s disapproval of the Bakrid relaxations, the administration decided to continue weekend lockdown and other allied curbs on retail, life and mobility at least till July 27. Night curfew after 9 p.m. would remain. So would the ban on inessential travel. The expert committee, presided by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, noted an uptick in the average test positivity rate (10.8). The committee attributed the marginal increase to enhanced testing.  The government noted that the pandemic situation in several local body jurisdictions in Kozhikode and Kasaragod was worrying. The TPR in many localities was above 15%, prompting the respective district administrations to categorise the areas as critical spread (D category) zones. Mr. Vijayan ordered the district administration to tighten restrictions in such zones. The administration would demarcate critical-spread spots as micro-containment zones with strict restrictions on public activity. It would allow only one route for ingress and egress into such hotspots and persuade residents to sequestrate themselves at home. Only essential services could open. The government would allow only essential services in such localities. Everything else would remain shut. Family clusters The administration was worried that household-level clusters could upend the State’s pandemic control. Hence, Mr. Vijayan ordered ward-level committees to work intimately at the neighbourhood level. The local bodies should mandatorily shift infected persons who lack adequate space to isolate themselves from the rest of the family at home to nearby first-line treatment centres or hospitals without any delay. Mr. Vijayan ordered the police to prevent cross-border traffic of plantation workers in Idukki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-drops-plans-to-relax-restrictions/article35437569.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Health officials point out politicians’ reckless behaviour||On several instances, people have frowned at the sight of politicians cheering through crowd not wearing masks, not maintaining physical distancing between them and others. In a rare instance, the irresponsible behaviour of politicians was pointed out by Telangana Health department officials. Pointing out that padayatras (foot march), rallies, and other political activities have increased in Telangana from the past few days, the State’s Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr G Srinivasa Rao said that politicians and cadre did not follow COVID-19 precautions. “Politicians do not wear mask while speaking. How many droplets fall when one speaks without wearing a mask and when activists and people are around? Virus spreads through droplets,” Dr Srinivasa Rao said at a press conference held at the State Health Campus, Koti, on Tuesday. He added that while the leaders and political parties have rights, they also have the responsibility of securing people’s health. The efforts put in by over one lakh Health Care Workers (HCW), police, municipal and other frontline workers (FLWs) from the past one-and-half year to control the pandemic was mentioned. When asked if fines were levied on the politicians, including MLAs, Ministers and the Chief Minister, for not wearing mask or, if the DPH will ask police or other authorities to ensure that the politicians follow rules while in public, Dr Srinivasa said that some public representatives did not follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and requested other departments to fulfil their responsibility of enforcing rules. “If you follow rules as a public representative, it will stand as an example for people,” he added. At the press conference, Mr. Srinivasa Rao and Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy have urged people participating in festival celebrations, functions, and other gatherings to continue maintaining COVID-appropriate behaviour. They spoke about the ongoing second wave, continuing spread of coronavirus in some pockets of the State, and other topics. The officials earlier urged people participating in Bonalu and Bakrid celebrations to wear masks, maintain physical distance, sainitise hands regularly. This was reiterated on Tuesday. Besides this, people thronging shopping malls, youth meeting at pubs, and other places, were mentioned to caution the public. The trauma and tragedies face by people in the two COVID waves, such as struggles to find a hospital bed was mentioned. The officials urged the people to realise their responsibility of avoiding the virus to keep themselves, their families, and others safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/politicians-recklessness-gets-health-officials-goat/article35437535.ece
21 July 2021||Mysuru,||Leopards face threat of snares in State||Snares have emerged as a major threat to leopards in human-dominated landscapes in the State. As many as 113 snaring incidents involving leopards were recorded between 2009 and 2020 of which 67 leopards, accounting for 59.3% of such cases, died. A majority of snaring incidents were reported from Dakshina Kannada (15%) followed by Mysuru (14.2%), Chikkamagaluru and Udupi (11.5% each), Hassan (10.6%), and Tumakuru and Ramanagaram (7.1% each). These are as per a new study by Sanjay Gubbi, Aparna Kolekar, and Vijaya Kumara who published their findings in a paper titled ‘Quantifying wire snares as a threat to leopards in Karnataka, India.’ It was published in the journal Tropical Conservation Science and Mr. Gubbi, the lead author, said leopards are widely found in human-dominated landscapes, including small forest patches, arecanut plantations, and maize and sugarcane fields, and they face a higher threat in such habitats. The study evaluated the number of leopards captured in snares and the mortality of leopards due to snares during a period of 12 years (2009–2020) in Karnataka. Most snares (97.5%) were set to catch wild prey, specifically wild pigs, highlighting leopards — a non-target species — as a “bycatch” as farmers tried to protect crops from wild herbivores. Nearly 50% of the snaring incidents occurred during monsoons when farmers tend to put extra efforts to protect their farms against crop-raiding wild ungulates which may be the reason for a higher number of leopards getting caught in snares during the season, according to the authors of the study. A majority of snaring incidents occurred in areas densely populated by people such as plantations and farmland and accounted for 54.7%, followed by unprotected forests (21.4%), and then in reserved/State forests (14.3%). The least incidence was within protected areas (national parks/wildlife sanctuaries/tiger reserves/conservation reserves, 9.5%). The study also indicated that the number of snaring incidents was high in areas that crossed a human population density of 225 people/square kilometre. Mr. Gubbi said though the death of nearly six leopards per year due to snares may not look very significant, it is much higher compared with other unnatural mortalities such as vehicular collisions (4.6 leopards/year) or 3.6 leopards/year due to retaliatory actions such as poisoning, and less than 1 leopard per year due to falling in open wells as demonstrated in other studies. The authors called for greater protection against poaching, especially outside protected areas and underlined the importance of reducing human-wildlife conflict .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leopards-face-threat-of-snares-in-state/article35437715.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||RINL among six steel plants up for sale, Rajya Sabha told||Union Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad on Tuesday confirmed that six steel plants, including the RINL-VSP, were listed for sale. The Minister was referring to YSR Congress Party member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s unstarred question in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, on whether the Union government was proposing to sell some steel plants in the near future. The Minister stated that disinvestment of the Central Public Sector Enterprises, including the steel plants, was guided by the New Public Sector Enterprise Policy for Atmanirbhar Bharat. It was notified on February 4 this year, after it was approved by the Cabinet on January 27, 2021. The Minister further stated that as per the new policy, the existing PSEs were broadly classified as strategic and non-strategic sectors. In the strategic sector, the existing PSEs at the holding company level would be retained under the government control. In the non-strategic sector, including steel plants, the PSEs would be considered either for privatisation or closure. The Minister identified RINL, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited, NMDC Integrated Steel Plant and Alloy Steel Plant, Durgapur, Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant, Bhadravathi, and Salem Steel Plant for disinvestment. He also confirmed that no steel plant had been sold during the last five years. Revoke decision: MP In the Lok Sabha, the YSR Congress Party MPs displayed placards against the decision of the NDA government on the strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The steel plant was established after a lot of sacrifices, and its privatisation would not be allowed, said Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana. Holding a placard that said ‘Vizag Steel Plant – Not for Sale’, Mr. Satyanarayana demanded that the decision be revoked immediately, failing which they would go to any extent to save the VSP. The Speaker later adjourned the House till 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rinl-among-steel-plants-listed-for-sale-rs-told/article35437239.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||YSRCP stalls Rajya Sabha proceedings over SCS||YSR Congress Parliamentary Party (YSRCPP) leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy went to the podium and staged a protest holding a placard, when his notice to the Rajya Sabha Chairman, under Rule 267, seeking a debate on the issue of granting Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh, was disallowed for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Soon after the session began, Mr. Reddy and other Opposition leaders sought that the notice given by them under Rule 267 be allowed. The Chairman, M. Venkaiah Naidu, said that 15 members had issued notices under Rule 267 on Tuesday, and many of them were issues of national importance, but he could not allow all of them at once. Mr. Reddy said that granting of SCS to Andhra Pradesh was also an issue of national importance, and sought to know as to when the Chairman would allow the debate on it. The Chairman asked Mr. Reddy not to argue on the issue, and said that SCS was an issue between the State and Central governments. Not satisfied by the reply of the Chairman, Mr. Reddy went to the podium and stood before it, holding a placard. As pandemonium prevailed, the Chairman adjourned the House for an hour. When the House reassembled at 1 p.m., the YSRCP members continued their protest holding placards and standing near the podium. At this stage, BJP Floor leader in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal intervened and appealed to Mr. Reddy to allow the House session to continue. as the COVID-19 pandemic remained a challenge not only in India but also across the globe. People all over the country were eager to know what Parliament was discussing on the pandemic. Mr. Goyal said that the Centre was ready to discuss the problems of Andhra Pradesh. He asked the YSRCP members to allow the session to continue and speak on their experiences in handling the pandemic in A.P. The session was further delayed when the YSRCP members continued their protest .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-members-stall-rs-proceedings-over-scs/article35437238.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Our aim is to make Tamil Nadu a $1 trillion economy, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched a fully digitised single window portal 2.0, with more than 100 services from 24 departments for investors, at the Investment Conclave-2021 here on Tuesday. It will have features such as parallel processing of clearances, virtual meetings with departments, artificial intelligence-based chatbot facility and deemed approval for select clearances. The Chief Minister exchanged copies of 35 memoranda of understanding with the representatives of various companies, entailing a cumulative investment of Rs. 17,141 crore and envisaging 55,054 jobs, in the presence of officials of the Department of Industries and Guidance Tamil Nadu, a government agency tasked with investment promotion. “Our aim is to make Tamil Nadu a $1 trillion economy. And we will provide a conducive business environment,” he said. The State’s finances, he pointed out, were not so good when the DMK entered office two months ago, but the economy was slowly recovering.  General Electric has proposed to open a centre of excellence to enhance production of aircraft and aeronautical components for aerospace and defence industries through advanced manufacturing technologies. A memorandum of understanding was signed between General Electric Company and the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO). A deal was signed with JSW Renew Energy Two Limited for a 450-MW wind power generation project entailing around Rs. 3,000 crore in investments. Cryolor Asia Pacific Private Limited has signed a Rs. 70-crore deal for making bulk cryogenic storage tanks. The other key deals are Tata Consultancy Services’ Phase III project at SIPCOT IT Park, Siruseri, with an investment of Rs. 900 crore, and a facility to be opened by Srivaru Motors in Coimbatore for manufacture of electric vehicles at an investment of Rs. 1,000 crore. Mr. Stalin laid the foundation for 9 projects with an investment commitment of Rs. 4,250 crore and potential jobs for 21,630 persons. He also inaugurated 5 projects with an investment commitment of Rs. 7,117 crore and potential jobs for 6,798 persons. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said the Chief Minister had ordered that each investor be guided and assisted at every stage. “The Chief Minister has set a target of Rs. 23 lakh-crore in investments and over 46 lakh new jobs by 2030,” said Industries Secretary N. Muruganandan. Guidance Tamil Nadu entered into a memorandum of understanding with American Tamil Entrepreneurs Association to promote start-ups in innovation and research and development in Tamil Nadu. This digital accelerator programme sanctions grants to the start-up projects. The government has sanctioned Rs. 5 crore for this programme. Around 75 applications were received, and 5 were selected for the grant. Mr. Stalin handed over the sanction orders to these companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-1-trillion-economy-is-our-aim-stalin/article35437303.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: court acquits accused in first verdict||In the first judgment on the north-east Delhi riots, a local court on Tuesday acquitted a man accused of being part of unlawful assembly, dacoity and rioting, noting: “The prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case, forget about beyond reasonable doubts.” Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said a perusal of the testimonies and evidence produced by the prosecution in connection with the case showed “glaring inconsistencies in the testimony of the prosecution witnesses”. ‘Inconsistent testimonies’ “All the major witnesses are at variance with each other on material terms impacting the prosecution version... There is no testimony worth its salt which connects the accused to the offence in question,” the judge said while acquitting Suresh alias Bhatura in the case. According to the police, Mr. Suresh, along with a huge crowd of rioters carrying iron rods and sticks, allegedly broke open the lock of a shop on the Main Babarpur Road and looted the premises on the evening of February 25 last year. The FIR was lodged on a written complaint by Asif who stated that he saw 15 to 20 rioters breaking into his shop. The details of the items looted from the shop were also mentioned in the complaint. The shop is owned by Bhagat Singh and given on rent to Mr. Asif. The court noted that there is no denial that an unlawful assembly gathered outside the shop, ransacked it and committed robbery. “However, the crucial question is the identification of the accused (Mr. Suresh) and his role in the present offence of rioting by the unlawful assembly,” the court said. The court also pointed out that Mr. Asif “was not an eyewitness to the incident of rioting”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-riots-court-acquits-accused-in-first-verdict/article35437377.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||No plan to revise water tariffs, says Minister||The State government does not intend to revise the water tariffs at present, Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine has said. Mr. Augustine was participating in a meet-the-press on Tuesday organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ). He said the Water Resources Department had no plans to plug the two lakh functional public taps in the State. All rural households would be given tap connection by 2024 under the Jal Jeevan Mission and urban household by 2026. The department would give shape to new projects aimed at addressing the future drinking water needs of the State. New projects The possibilities in sea-water desalination would be studied, he said. Stress would be given to community-based irrigation schemes and the micro-irrigation project in memory of the late K.M. Mani, former Minister, was part of this initiative, Mr. Augustine said. He added that the department had plans to start a bottled water plant in the Malabar region as well. Priority would be given to the modernisation of the Water Resources Department, he said, adding that 10 more services would go online by October this year, Mr. Augustine said. The online general transfers in the Kerala Water Authority had not been suspended. Shortcomings in the online system would be addressed, Mr. Augustine said, adding that the government placed emphasis on the welfare of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-plan-to-revise-water-tariffs-says-minister/article35437570.ece
21 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||As pandemic rages, Nehru trophy boat race likely to be postponed||Under normal circumstances, about two dozen snakeboat (chundan vallam) teams, each comprising 100 plus oarsmen, would hit the tranquil waters of Vembanad Lake for intense training sessions during this time of the year. The practice sessions, a frenzied affair with hundreds of villagers and race boat buffs turning up on the banks of backwaters to cheer their teams, usually set the tone for the Nehru Trophy Boat Race (NTBR), celebrated as 'Kuttanad's Olympics on water', on the second Saturday of August every year. However, for the second year in a row, the sight of snakeboats cleaving through backwaters as they prepare for the ultimate race at Punnamada is missing. With COVID-19 cases remaining high, the 68th edition of the boat race is all set to be postponed. District Collector A. Alexander, who is also chairman of the Nehru Trophy Boat Race Society (NTBRS), says the situation is not conducive for conducting the race. Previous editions While the 2020 edition of the race was cancelled, the 2018 and 2019 editions were held on November 10 and August 31 respectively after postponements in view of heavy rain and floods. In 2019, the Nehru trophy was held as the first race of the maiden Champions Boat League (CBL). Like the NTBR, the fate of the second edition of the CBL remains uncertain. “There is a chance of the NTBR happening later this year, especially if the Tourism Department decides to conduct the CBL. At the same time, it will not be a surprise if the 2021 edition of the race is cancelled altogether, given the COVID-19 situation,” says an official of the NTBRS. On conducting the CBL, Krishna Teja, Director, Kerala Tourism, says it all depends on the pandemic. “If the situation comes under control, we will think about the CBL,” Mr. Teja says. Meanwhile, boat clubs have demanded authorities to consider organising the NTBR at a later date once the pandemic situation improves and after all rowers and those associated with the event are vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-pandemic-rages-nehru-trophy-boat-race-likely-to-be-postponed/article35437571.ece
21 July 2021||MYSURU,||Water level at KRS breaches 100-ft mark||The water level at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) across the Cauvery crossed 100-feet mark on Tuesday evening. The water level at 6 p.m. was 100.05 feet as against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 124.8 feet. The rate of inflow into the reservoir, located in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district, was at 12,581 cusecs, according to the Mandya district administration. However, the reservoir level is low when compared to that on the same day last year when it was 107.3 feet. Though the onset of the south-west monsoon was timely and the catchment region of the Cauvery received copious rain till the third week of June, the rain abated later on and the inflow into the dam depleted. It was only last week that the monsoon gathered vigour, augmenting the inflow into the reservoir. But the rainfall has been moderate since then and the inflow is also ebbing. The gross storage in the reservoir was 22.44 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) on Tuesday. The gross capacity of the reservoir is 49.45 tmcft and hence the current storage is only 45% of its actual capacity. The water level at the Kabini reservoir in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district was hovering around 2,280 feet as against the FRL of 2,284 feet. The rate of inflow on Tuesday morning was at 9,262 cusecs and the rate of outflow was pegged at 9,550 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-level-at-krs-breaches-100-ft-mark/article35437289.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Gulbarga varsity degree, PG exams from Aug. 2||The undergraduate and post-graduate examinations of Gulbarga University, which were postponed due to the second wave of COVID-19, will be held starting August 2, Vice-Chancellor of the university Dayanand Agsar said here on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons in the administrative building on the university premises, Dr. Agsar said that the examinations will be conducted as per the guidelines of the University Grants Commission and the State Higher Education Council. As many as 1.2 lakh undergraduate students and 12,000 post-graduate students from various institutions affiliated to Gulbarga University in four districts will take the examinations. The examinations will be conducted only for final semester students, while all intermediate semester students pursuing degree and post-graduation courses will be promoted without examinations, owing to the pandemic, Dr. Agsar said. The first and third-semester students will be promoted on the basis of internal evaluation and performance in the previous semester. Examinations will be held for the sixth semester degree students and fourth semester post-graduate students. The university will have vacation from July 21 to August 31 and complete the examination process for degree as well as post-graduate students. The results will be announced by August 15, he added. Replying to a query, Dr. Agsar said that the university has announced the timetable for the B.Ed examinations. As many as 9,200 B.Ed students from 52 institutions in four districts affiliated to the university will write the examinations in 26 exam centres from July 28. The B.Ed examinations will also be conducted as per the guidelines and norms of the UGC. Nearly 70% of students appearing for the examinations have received their first dose of vaccine. And, 90% of teachers also have received their first dose of vaccine. Students who have not taken vaccination and those who have tested positive for COVID-19 will be writing the examinations in isolated rooms. Dr. Agsar said that the next academic year of the university will start on October 1. Registrar Sharabasappa Koteppagol and Registrar (Evaluation) Sonar Nandappa were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gulbarga-varsity-degree-pg-exams-from-aug-2/article35437500.ece
21 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||DIG suspended for unauthorised foreign trips||The Assam government on Tuesday suspended a Deputy Inspector-General of Police for going on unauthorised foreign trips since 2011. A notification issued by the State’s Home and Political Affairs Department said Rounak Ali Hazarika, who joined the Assam Police Service cadre in 1992, had undertaken many foreign visits since 2011 without taking prior permission. “He has been placed under suspension with immediate effect for flouting the government guidelines and gross misconduct on several occasions,” a police spokesperson said. The notification barred Mr. Hazarika from leaving the Assam police headquarters without obtaining the permission of the Secretary, Assam Home and Political Affairs Department. His suspension was under relevant clauses of the All-India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dig-suspended-for-unauthorised-foreign-trips/article35437616.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru/ New Delhi,||Snooping in Karnataka before regime change||During the political turmoil in Karnataka in 2019, which ended in the collapse of the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government and the BJP coming to power, the phone numbers of key leaders of the coalition parties and their associates “were selected as possible targets for surveillance”, The Wire reported on Tuesday, as part of the global investigation “The Pegasus Project”. The phone numbers of then Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara, personal secretaries of then Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and a security personnel of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda were selected as possible targets, according to The Wire ’s  review of records of numbers that were of interest to the Indian client of Israel’s NSO Group. Since none of the phones has been forensically analysed, it is not conclusively proven that they were compromised with the Pegasus spyware, the report said. The numbers were selected, as per the report, around the time when 17 MLAs from the Congress and the JD(S) resigned from the Assembly and left the party, leading to the toppling of the government. Though the BJP has denied any role in engineering their resignations, all 17 disqualified legislators are today members of the saffron party, with 11 of them being members of the State Cabinet. The Congress alleged that the spyware was used to topple the government, and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/snooping-in-karnataka-before-regime-change/article35437234.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Two-thirds of Indians have antibodies’||Two-thirds of the country’s population aged above six have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, according to data released on Tuesday from a serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in June and July. Nearly 40 crore people, or a third of the population, are still vulnerable to the COVID-19 infection, the study showed. Presenting the results of the fourth national COVID-19 serosurvey, ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said while the survey offered a ray of hope, there was no room for complacency. No rural-urban divide “The survey noted that more than half of the children (6-17 years) were seropositive while seroprevalence was similar in rural and urban areas. It was also found that 85% of health care workers (HCWs) had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 while one-tenth of the HCWs were unvaccinated,” he said. The survey covered 28,975 adults and children aged 6-17 years, and 7,252 HCWs. It was conducted in the 70 districts across 21 States where the three earlier rounds were done.  “This national serosurvey is not a substitute for local (State/district) variations. State heterogeneity indicates the possibility of future waves of infection. We strongly suggest that societal, public, religious and political congregations be avoided, non-essential travel be discouraged and travel should be undertaken only if fully vaccinated,” the ICMR chief said. He added that the country had to work towards ensuring full vaccination of all healthcare workers while accelerating vaccination coverage among vulnerable population groups.  Responding to a question about the reopening of schools, Dr. Bhargava said it would be better if primary schools were opened first as children showed better tolerance against the virus. However, he added that it should be done only after ensuring that the entire staff associated with the re-opening was fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-thirds-of-indians-have-sars-cov-2-antibodies-shows-icmr-survey/article35437240.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Academy told to initiate process for including Tulu script in Unicode||Minister for Forest, Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali has said that the department has asked the Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy to take steps to include Tulu script developed by it with much concern in the Unicode mapping list. A release here said that the process of including Tulu script in the Unicode map will gain momentum with this move. Mr. Limbavali said that several rounds of discussions had taken place about framing a Tulu script in the last decade. The academy has now accepted the script prepared in consultation with experts in Tulu language and script. The government has approved a proposal to include the script in the Unicode map, he said. After the department requested the Central Institute of Indian Languages in Mysuru to examine the script and give its opinion, the institute formed a committee of language experts which discussed the proposal in detail and has recommended submitting the script to the Unicode Consortium. Following this recommendation, the department has asked the academy to go ahead with it, Mr. Limbavali said. Efforts to framing Tulu script will get a boost if the script comes to be used on digital platforms, print literature and publicity material. Mr. Limbavali said that he will be happy to be a part of the celebrations when Tulu language that was a part of the Tulu culture in the over nine centuries of administration in the history of the State will get included in the Unicode map. The government is on a constant endeavour to nurture and promote Tulu language and culture as done for other languages in the State, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/academy-told-to-initiate-process-for-including-tulu-script-in-unicode/article35437682.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,||NRI arrested for his wife’s murder in Brahmavar||The Brahmavar Police in Udupi district have arrested Ramakrishna Ganiga (42) on the charge of conspiring with others in the murder of his wife Vishala Ganiga (35) in her apartment in Kumaragodu, Brahmavar. Ramakrishna Ganiga, who is an NRI and a personal assistant to an NRI entrepreneur settled in Dubai, has come to perform the last rites of his wife who was found dead in suspicious circumstances in her flat on July 12. “We have found evidence indicating that he is the key person in the murder and hence, we arrested him,” Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan told The Hindu on Tuesday. He was produced before a jurisdictional court which granted his custody to the police till July 23. The police have apprehended a few more persons from outside the State who were directly involved in the murder and are bringing them to Udupi, he added. Vishala Ganiga was found strangled to death in her flat. Vishala Ganiga and her seven-year-old daughter Arvi Ganiga stayed with Ramakrishna Ganiga in Dubai. They both reached Brahmavar from Dubai on July 2 in connection with the partition of Ramakrishna Ganiga’s ancestral property. On July 12, Vishala Ganiga called her father Vasu Ganiga and said that she will go to his house in Gujjadi after visiting a bank. When his daughter did not come home, Vasu Ganiga went to the apartment and found her dead. The police registered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 449 (house trespass) and 392 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code. The police recovered two empty tea cups in the house that led them to suspect that persons known to the victim were involved in the murder. Four teams were formed to trace the perpetrators of the crime. After surveillance of mobile phones of Vishala Ganiga and Ramakrishna Ganiga, the police found that calls were made by Ramakrishna Ganiga to a few unknown numbers. This led them to two supari killers from Uttar Pradesh who had come to the house of Vishala Ganiga in Brahmavar in March and they had been introduced to her by her husband as his friends. The two were present in Vishala Ganiga’s house on the day of the murder, the police said and added that they were being brought to Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nri-arrested-for-his-wifes-murder-in-brahmavar/article35437684.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana seeks 50% share in Krishna waters||Telangana has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to share 50% of Krishna waters each on ad hoc basis to it and Andhra Pradesh for the current water year (2021-22) by giving priority to in-basin needs till finalisation of KWDT-II award as Telangana is still suffering distress due to insufficient water. Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation Department C. Muralidhar wrote a letter to KRMB Chairman M.P. Singh in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-seeks-50-share-in-krishna-waters/article35437845.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,||Magisterial inquiry held into death of guest worker||A magisterial inquiry was conducted into the death of a guest worker in the custody of the Karumathampatti police in Coimbatore district on Monday. Police sources said magistrate B. Vaishnavi from the Judicial Magistrate Court, Sulur, held the inquiry covering various aspects of the death of Satendra Prasad Bhuiya (44), a native of Malkera village of Dhanbad district in Jharkhand. The judicial officer inspected the police station, they said. According to the police, Bhuiya attempted a housebreak near Karumathampatti on Sunday night. People caught him and allegedly beat him up. Bhuiya was brought to the police station where he fainted around 7 a.m. He died at the government hospital at Somanur. His body was shifted to the mortuary of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The police said a case has been registered under Section 176 (inquiry by magistrate into cause of death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A senior police officer said the police did not ill-treat or assault the guest worker and the case under Section 176 of the CrPC was registered for a transparent investigation. Autopsy Sulur inspector S. Murugesan, who was tasked to investigate the death as an officer from another police station, said the body of the guest worker was autopsied on Tuesday in the presence of the magistrate. However, it was yet to be handed over to the kin of the deceased, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/magisterial-inquiry-held-into-death-of-guest-worker/article35437347.ece
21 July 2021||new delhi,||Manipur activist’s father seeks compensation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Manipur government two weeks to respond to a plea for compensation made by the father of activist Erendra Leichongbam, who was detained for two months under the NSA for his Facebook posts questioning the efficacy of cow dung and urine as a cure for COVID-19 in the context of the death of a BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-activists-father-seeks-compensation/article35437615.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Will not allow sale of VSP, say YSRCP MPs||The privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), which was established after a lot of sacrifices by the people, will not be allowed, Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana has said. On the call given by the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), party MPs from Andhra Pradesh displayed placards in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday and expressed their resentment on the decision of the NDA government on the strategic sale of VSP. Mr. Satyanarayana held a placard with the message “Vizag Steel Plant – Not for Sale” and raised slogans against the decision. He demanded that the decision should be revoked immediately, failing which they would go to any extent to save the VSP. The Speaker adjourned the House till 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vsp-is-not-for-sale-says-ysrcp-mp/article35437237.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana seeks 50% share in Krishna waters||Telangana has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to share 50% of Krishna waters each on ad hoc basis to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for the current water year by giving priority to in-basin needs till finalisation of KWDT-II award. Telangana is entitled for 70.8 ratio of Krishna waters against 29.2 for Andhra Pradesh, it told the KRMB in a letter on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-seeks-50-share-in-krishna-waters/article35437850.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC raps Kerala govt. for ‘sorry state of affairs’||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the Kerala government’s choice to buckle under pressure from traders to open up shops for Bakrid in high COVID-19 infection areas showed a sorry state of affairs and failure to protect the fundamental right to life and health. “To give in to pressure groups so that the citizenry of India is laid bare to a nationwide pandemic discloses a sorry state of affairs,” a Bench of Justices Rohinton Nariman and B.R. Gavai underscored. Citizens were free to bring to the notice of the court any “untoward spread of COVID-19” as a result of the relaxation of the restrictions notified by the government on July 17 due to Bakrid. Action would follow from the court, the Bench noted. The court said it was “extremely alarming” that the Kerala government could have been coerced to relax restrictions in the ‘D’ category areas, where the infection rate was the highest at 15%. “The relaxation in the category areas was wholly uncalled for,” it pointed out. The Bench dismissed Kerala’s affidavit, which “blithely” said the traders were in “misery” during the lockdown and hoped to revive their businesses during Bakrid. The court said to treasure goods over the lives of the citizenry during a pandemic showed a “sorry state of affairs”. It dismissed the government’s assurances that only customers who had taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine would be allowed into the shops “as far as possible”. “Homilies such as ‘as far as possible’ and assurances from traders without anything more do not inspire any confidence in the people of India or this court. We may only indicate that this affidavit discloses a sorry state of affairs and does not in any real manner safeguard the right to life and health guaranteed to all the citizens of India under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the court observed in a 11-page order. “The State government has given in to an association of traders [Vyapari Vyavasaayi Ekopana Samithi],” Justice Nariman observed. The court ordered the government to “give heed” to the right to life and restrictions on movement during the pandemic. It asked the State to comply with the court directions given in a case concerning Uttar Pradesh’s initial reluctance to stop the Kanwar Yatra. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for applicant P.K.D. Nambiar, said Kerala decided to relax despite hosting the “biggest” number of COVID-19 cases in the country. ‘Shocking’ “The COVID-19 cases in India is 30,000 only because of Kerala. The State allowed three days of relaxation of restrictions despite a test positivity rate of over 10%. The rate in U.P. is just .02%... Someone should be made accountable. You are basically unable to govern the State... This is shocking,” he argued. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar and advocate G. Prakash, for Kerala, countered that the government’s decision was based on the “situation on the ground”. Mr. Kumar said the relaxation was given for three days between July 18 and 20. “Anyway it is ending today,” the senior lawyer noted. But the court pointed to what happened on July 19. “In the ‘D’ category areas, all these shops selling textile, footwear , jewellery, etc were enabled to function on July 19 despite the stringent restrictions placed in these localities,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-raps-kerala-govt-for-sorry-state-of-affairs/article35437241.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS writes to KRMB, seeks 50% share in Krishna waters||The Telangana government has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to share 50% of Krishna waters each on ad hoc basis to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for the current water year (2021-22) by giving priority to in-basin needs till finalisation of KWDT-II award as Telangana is still suffering large distress due to insufficient water. Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation Department C. Muralidhar wrote a letter to In a letter to KRMB chairman M.P. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-writes-to-krmb-seeks-50-share-in-krishna-waters/article35437526.ece
21 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||No CM-Sidhu meeting for now||The infighting in Punjab Congress seems to be far from over as Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hardened his stand, saying he will not meet newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu till he “publicly apologises for his derogatory social media attacks against him”. Reports of Mr. Sidhu seeking time to meet Mr. Singh have been dismissed by Chief Minister’s media advisor Raveen Thukral. In a tweet he said, “Reports of@sherryontopseeking time to meet@capt_amarinderare totally false.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-cm-sidhu-meeting-for-now/article35437386.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Politicians’ recklessness gets Health officials’ goat||Pointing out that padayatras, rallies, and other political activities have increased in Telangana from the past few days, Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said that politicians and cadre did not follow COVID-19 precautions. He added that political parties have have the responsibility of securing people’s health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/politicians-recklessness-gets-health-officials-goat/article35437525.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Car pool||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/car-pool/article35437384.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,||Two girls nabbed for murder||The police have picked up two young mentally challenged girls for allegedly murdering their mother. K. Usha, 42, a former employee of Tamil Nadu Open University, was living in a house at Moogambikai Nagar with her two daughters Neena, 21, and Reena, 19, both graduates but reportedly mentally challenged. As the girls used to create ruckus, Usha, following complaints from the neighbours, moved to a house in Housing Board Colony in KTC Nagar on Palayamkottai outskirts in April last. When the neighbours heard altercation between the girls and their mother and Usha’s scream for help on Tuesday, they tried to open the main door of the house, which had been locked from inside. As their attempt failed, they alerted the police. After the police team, led by Inspector Balakrishnan, opened the main door forcibly, they found that Usha was lying in a pool of blood. Neena and Reena were reportedly sitting near the body of their mother and were engrossed in a discussion. While the girls were picked up for interrogation, the police sent the body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. The neighbours told the police that Usha’s daughters were ferocious for the past two days that might have led to her murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-girls-nabbed-for-murder/article35437827.ece
21 July 2021||Belagavi,||Boy goes to swim in farm pond, dies||A 14-year-old boy drowned in a farm pond in Shivalli village in Dharwad taluk on Tuesday. Basavaraj Gadigeppa Lakkannavar had gone to the farm of Tayappa Hadapad. He jumped into the farm pond to swim. But he drowned. Rural Police rushed to the spot and retrieved the body. A case was registered at the Rural Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boy-goes-to-swim-in-farm-pond-dies/article35437496.ece
21 July 2021||Belagavi,||Seers say Yediyurappa is a leader of all communities||Two prominent religious heads who have a large number of followers in the Veerashaiva Lingayat community came out in support of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. Murugha Mutt seer Sri Shivamurthy Sharanaru held a press conference in support of the senior BJP leader, in Chitradurga on Tuesday. “We are worried about reports that the BJP is planning to unseat Mr. Yediyurappa. We are here to express moral support to the Chief Minister,’’ he said. “He should be treated with dignity. He should not be insulted. If there are internal problems in the BJP, the party leadership should resolve them immediately,’’ the seer said. “Mr. Yediyurappa may belong to the Lingayat caste and religion. But he is a leader of all. He is a mass leader who treats everyone equally. He has worked for the development of people of all castes and religions equally. That is why it is important that he continue as the Chief Minister of the State,’’ the seer said at a hurriedly called media conference at his mutt. He repeatedly said that the seers had gathered to protect a good administrator and not a leader of the Lingayat community. “Mr. Yediyurappa is a grassroots level leader. He has built the party from the scratch. He should not be disturbed. We are here to support him and express solidarity with him. The party will suffer if he is removed,’’ the Murugha Mutt seer said. “All mutt heads will meet and decide the future course of action, in case he is removed,” he said. “That will be a decision of the team and not mine alone. However, there is already an opinion among some people that there might be an agitation if the Chief Minister is changed,’’ he said. “I will say it again. Mr. Yediyurappa will not lose anything if he is removed. But those who remove him will suffer losses. The party will suffer. I will clearly say this,’’ he said. “Mr. Yediyurappa is quite powerful and he can demonstrate his power if need be,’’ he said. About who he thought was another leader with the stature of Mr. Yediyurappa in the BJP, the seer said: “I have not studied about such things.” To a query about the possibility of the BJP replacing Mr. Yediyurappa with a Veerashaiva Lingayat leader, the seer quipped: “I don’t know about that either.’’ However, the seer went on to say: “Mr Yediyurappa is not an ordinary politician. He is a statesman. Such leaders are not created overnight. A leader should slowly emerge from among the people. And, then society should accept him. There may be some other leaders in the party who are capable of such things. But no one should rise by stepping on Mr. Yediyurappa. The party and its high command is welcome to develop its next leader. But Mr. Yediyurappa should not suffer inconvenience in that process.” To a question on Mr. Yediyurappa’s age, the seer said: “But his energy is more than that of a young man. Mr. Yediyurappa is the best leader we could have at such times. He is using his knowledge and experience, to handle the epidemic and the floods. He holds meetings every day. I think his style of functioning is so wonderful. He is bringing to the table his experience of his earlier three terms.” Sri Siddarameshwar Swami of Bovi Gurupeetha asked the BJP high command to think before taking a decision. Earlier, the BJP was seen as a party of the Brahmins. But now it is working for the welfare of all communities. Mr. Yediyurappa is responsible for the change in the image of the BJP. Sri Guru Mahant Swamy of Ilkal Mutt said that unseating Mr. Yediyurappa will be an insult to crores of people of the State. Sri Shantaveera Swami of Kunchatiga Peetha, Sri Shivabasava Swami of Athani, Sri Mallikarjun Swami of Sirsi, Sri Basavakiran Swami of Challakere, A.J. Paramashivayya of SJM Education Society and others spoke. As many as 16 other seers, including Madara Channayya Mutt seer Sri Basavamurthy Madara Channayya Swamy, were present at the press meet. Sri Prasanna Renuka Veerasomeshwar Shivacharya Swamiji of Rambhapuri Peetha, which is considered one of the five sacred Panchapeetha mutts, also expressed his support to Mr. Yediyurappa. He told journalists at his mutt in Bale Honnur that Mr. Yediyurappa is a senior and unquestioned leader of the Lingayat community. The community will feel bad if he is made to lose power. The feelings of the community will not be easily assuaged, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seers-say-yediyurappa-is-a-leader-of-all-communities/article35437498.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Dropping guard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dropping-guard/article35437847.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||5 Opposition parties skip PMO briefing||The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, the RJD, the CPI and the CPI(M) on Tuesday skipped the briefing for floor leaders of Parliament by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, organised by the Prime Minister’s Office, on the COVID-19 situation. The Opposition leaders met in the morning in the office of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to discuss the issue. The attendees included NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, TMC leader Derek O’ Brien, SP leader Ramgopal Yadav, RJD leader Manoj K. Jha and CPI leader Binoy Viswam, among others. The meeting was held to primarily organise a coordinated parliamentary strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-opposition-parties-skip-pmo-briefing/article35437242.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,||BJP Legislature Party meeting called off||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to have cancelled the BJP Legislature Party meeting scheduled for July 26, which is the day that marks the second anniversaryof his government. Speculation around leadership change was centred around his completion of two years at the helm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-legislature-party-meeting-called-off/article35437272.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU admission portal may be launched by weekend||Senior officials of Delhi University on Tuesday said the university is likely to launch its new admission portal before the registration process for postgraduate admissions begins on July 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-admission-portal-may-be-launched-by-weekend/article35437382.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manipur activist’s father seeks compensation||The Supreme Court has given the Manipur government two weeks to respond to a plea for compensation by the father of activist Erendra Leichongbam, who was detained under under the National Security Act for his Facebook posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-activists-father-seeks-compensation/article35437385.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manipur activist’s father seeks compensation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Manipur government two weeks to respond to a plea for compensation made by the father of activist Erendra Leichongbam, who was detained for two months under the National Security Act for his Facebook posts questioning the efficacy of cow dung as a cure for COVID-19 in the context of the death of a BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-activists-father-seeks-compensation/article35437661.ece
21 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Won’t meet till Sidhu apologises: Amarinder||The infighting in Punjab Congress seems to be far from over as Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hardened his stand, saying he will not meet the newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu unless he publicly apologises for his “personally derogatory social media attacks against him”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wont-meet-till-sidhu-apologises-amarinder/article35437662.ece
21 July 2021||Mumbai,||No snooping till I was CM, says Fadnavis||Facing allegations that the Maharashtra government too may have used the spyware Pegasus to snoop on political opponents, former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said the government did not avail of the services of the Israeli firm NSO till he was in the office. “The State government did not avail of the services of NSO till I was the Chief Minister,” he said at a press conference. Mr. Fadnavis, however, acknowledged that a team from the DGIPR went to Israel after the 2019 elections before the new government was formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-snooping-till-i-was-cm-says-fadnavis/article35437371.ece
21 July 2021||Pune,||CM performs ‘mahapuja’ at temple in Pandharpur||Amid strong discontentment shown by ‘warkari’ outfits and devotees over COVID-19 restrictions for the second consecutive year, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with his family, performed the annual ‘mahapuja’ at the Vitthal-Rukmini temple in Pandharpur in Solapur district on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’ on Tuesday. He prayed for an end to the pandemic and for the good health of all the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-performs-mahapuja-at-temple-in-pandharpur/article35437376.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Technician suspended for issuing false report||K. Panduranga, a junior lab technician attached to Kurgod Community Health Centre in Ballari, has been placed under suspension for issuing a COVID-19 positive report to a woman who died a natural death two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/technician-suspended-for-issuing-false-report/article35437501.ece
21 July 2021||BENGALURU,||CM reviews monsoon situation in 13 dists||With several districts receiving incessant rain in the past few days, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday reviewed the situation in 13 districts and asked the Deputy Commissioners and CEOs concerned to take precautionary and relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-reviews-monsoon-situation-in-13-dists/article35437502.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Four men killed in road accident in Kalaburagi||Four persons were killed on the spot and one severely injured when the vehicle they were travelling in rammed a tanker on the Bidar-Srirangapatna National Highway near Kotnoor Mutt on the outskirts of Kalaburagi in the early hours of Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-men-killed-in-road-accident-in-kalaburagi/article35437504.ece
21 July 2021||Kolkata,||Suvendu Adhikari claims access to MP’s calls||Amidst the Pegasus spyware row, BJP MLA and Leader of the Opposition in West Bengal Suvendu Adhikari has said he has details of telephone conversations between Trinamool Congress general secretary and MP Abhishek Banerjee and police officers. The police on Tuesday suo motu registered a case against Mr. Adhikari under many sections including the Official Secrets Act. In a video that surfaced on social media, Mr. Adhikari is seen making the remarks addressing party supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suvendu-adhikari-claims-access-to-mps-calls/article35437618.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru/Belagavi,||Lingayat seers rally behind Yediyurappa||Amid intense speculation about a possible leadership change in Karnataka and a day after Veerashaiva Mahasabha heads expressed support for B.S. Yediyurappa, seers from the community came out in the open to back the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lingayat-seers-rally-behind-yediyurappa/article35437716.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry says no deaths due to lack of oxygen reported||“No deaths due to the lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States and Union Territories,” the Health Ministry said in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday in response to a question on the acute shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bharati Pravin Pawar, Minister of State, Health and Family Welfare, in her response noted that the Central government had supported the States and undertaken a series of actions including provisioning medical oxygen, and other consumables to ensure clinical care of COVID-19 patients. The Minister also noted that the supply of medical oxygen to hospitals is determined by contractual arrangements between the hospital concerned and the medical oxygen supplier. “However, due to the unprecedented surge in demand of medical oxygen during the second wave — the demand in the country peaked to nearly 9,000 MT as compared to 3,095 MT during the first wave — the Central government had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution to the States,” she said. Liquid oxygen The Minister said the Centre enhanced liquid medical oxygen (LMO) production from 5,700 MT in August, 2020 to 9,690 MT in May, 2021. “States were provided with oxygen equipment such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators and pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants. A total of 4,02,517 oxygen cylinders have been procured/ are being procured and distributed to the States. Also, 1,222 PSA Oxygen generation plants have been sanctioned. Out of these, as on July 15, 2021, 237 plants have been commissioned. Apart from this, 295 PSA plants are being installed by different Ministries. States have also been asked to prepare State-level oxygen generation plants and with a view to increase the storage capacity of liquid medical oxygen in the States, under the emergency COVID Package-Part-II, 1,050 LMO tanks along with medical gas pipeline systems at a cost of Rs. 80 lakh each have been approved,” the Upper House was informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-ministry-says-no-deaths-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-reported/article35437177.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Counter charges on COVID-19 response and vaccination: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told BJP MPs on Tuesday that the COVID-19 pandemic was a humanitarian crisis and not a political one. He was addressing a meeting of the BJP’s parliamentary party on the second day of the monsoon session of Parliament. Monday was washed out by protests by the Opposition and Mr. Modi was not able to introduce his newly sworn-in Ministers to both Houses of Parliament. Referring to the Opposition protests and attacks on his government’s working on various issues, Mr. Modi said the Congress was not reconciled to being “out of power” and that despite its footprint shrinking and electoral defeat in States such as Assam, Kerala and Bengal, it was more “concerned” about the BJP rather than saving its own support among people. He asked the party MPs to effectively counter the allegations of the Opposition, especially about COVID-19 response and availability of vaccination. Briefing presspersons after the meeting, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said Mr. Modi expressed concern at the attitude of the Opposition, “especially the Congress”, which “still believes” that it had the right to be in power. “Prime Minister Modi also told the BJP MPs that the government was willing to discuss anything in both Houses of Parliament but the Opposition was showing a most irresponsible attitude,” Mr. Joshi said. The Prime Minister, sources said, also expressed concern that nearly 20% of frontline workers had not been vaccinated against COVID-19 despite their availability. Sources present at the meeting said that Mr. Modi urged the party MPs to ensure people on the ground when it came to preparations for a possible third wave of the pandemic. The lack of anticipation and medical resources during the second wave, causing high death rates, saw the government coming under fire from all quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/counter-charges-on-covid-19-response-and-vaccination-pm/article35437036.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pegasus: Oppn. seeks independent probe||Opposition parties on Tuesday again sought an independent investigation into the alleged use of Pegasus software for spying on Ministers, politicians and journalists, and answers from the Central government. The Congress tweeted, “We unequivocally demand the resignation of the Home Minister, Mr. Amit Shah. Upholding our democratic & constitutional values & principles is paramount for the safety & security of all our citizens...we cannot stress this enough. A FOREIGN SPYWARE meant only for GOVERNMENTS has hacked into our CITIZENS’ PHONES. There must be accountability.” Another tweet said, “If true, Modi govt’s use of the ‘Pegasus’ spyware is nothing short of a total abdication of protecting ‘national security’. Our national institutions have been infiltrated, the nation’s safety has been jeopardised.” Yet another tweet said, “Free & fair elections are the foundations of our vibrant democracy, and Modi govt has employed all means available to subvert them. Money power & muscle power, notwithstanding, BJP has resorted to the help of foreign entities to destroy our sovereignty.” The Prime Minister should also be under the purview of investigation, the Congress added. CPI(M)’s tweet The CPI(M)’s Twitter handle said: “The Modi Govt is using Foreign Military grade spyware to hack into its own Journalists, Opposition Leaders and constitutional authorities. It is effectively waging a war on our Democracy and Constitution.” Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav said on Twitter that listening to people’s personal talk by spying on the phone was a gross violation of the “right to privacy”. If the Bharatiya Janata Party was getting it done, then it was punishable and if the BJP government said that it was not aware of it, then it was its failure on the issue of national security. ‘Serious matter’ Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati tweeted that the dirty game of espionage and blackmail was not a new thing but breaching the privacy using very expensive equipment, spying on ministers, Opposition leaders, officials and journalists, etc. was a very serious matter. The Centre's clarifications, refutations and arguments had failed to convince the people. In the interest of the nation and the government, an independent and impartial investigation should be conducted at the earliest so that responsibility could be fixed, she said. The Press Club of India also expressed deep concern “over the latest ‘Snoopgate’ expose in which Pegasus spyware was reportedly used to ‘snoop’ on Indian journalists, activists, Ministers, Parliamentarians and members of judiciary”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-oppn-seeks-independent-probe/article35437050.ece
21 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Cong. to protest against snooping||The Congress workers in Rajasthan will lay siege to Raj Bhawan here on Thursday over the Pegasus snooping controversy and stage a massive demonstration. They will demand sacking of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and an inquiry by the Supreme Court into the matter. ‘Probe PM’s role’ They will submit a memorandum to Governor Kalraj Mishra with these demands. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said here on Tuesday that a probe also be held against Prime Minister Narendra Modi because the circumstantial evidence suggested that the snooping could not have been carried out without the concurrence of those sitting in the highest offices of power. “Those in the high echelons of power have committed an illegal and anti-national act. Their real character has been exposed by the Pegasus episode,” Mr. Dotasra said at a press conference here. He said even the BJP leaders, including former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, were spied on through the tapping of phones of their personal secretaries. “They have not spared anyone... They spied on their own leaders, while conspiring to completely finish the Opposition. The truth behind dropping some Ministers in the recent Union Cabinet reshuffle should also be exposed,” Mr. Dotasra said. Hitting back at the Congress and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Rajendra Rathore said the State government in a reply to a question by BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf in the House had admitted that it had tapped phones. “The government should first clarify whose phones were tapped. The CM’s OSD is the accused in an FIR registered with the Delhi police in connection with the phone tapping.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-protest-against-snooping/article35437388.ece
21 July 2021||Chennai,||Himachal Pradesh ‘excess deaths’ are twice the official toll||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Himachal Pradesh ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (from April 2020 to May 2021) was 6,081, which is 1.9 times the official reported figure of 3,127 COVID-19 deaths for the same period. This multiple is among the lowest for States for which excess deaths have been calculated. Interestingly, while the number of registered deaths peaked in May 2021 (7,267), excess deaths for 2021 were only 1.6 times the official tally unlike the months of April to December 2020 (corresponding to the first wave) when they were 2.8 times the official tally. In 2021, there were an estimated 3,543 excess deaths compared with the official tally of 2,205 (till May 2021). Between April and December 2020, there were an estimated 2,538 excess deaths compared with the 922 deaths related to COVID-19. The figures were arrived at from data on deaths registered month-wise in the online CRS from January 2018 to May 2021 in Himachal Pradesh and accessed by The Hindu . Not all excess deaths could be related to COVID-19, but a bulk of them will be, during the pandemic period. The online data showed that 40,133 and 40,970 deaths were registered in 2018 and 2019 respectively in the State in the CRS, which are close to 96% and 94% of the deaths reported by the Annual Report on Vital Statistics based on CRS-2019 for these years. The excess deaths were calculated as the difference between the registered deaths in the pandemic period and the average number of deaths registered in 2018 and 2019 for the same months. The excess deaths being a lower multiple in 2021 could either be a reflection of a lag in registration of deaths or a more accurate count of the dead due to COVID-19 and related factors. But the CRS-2019 report mentions that 92.1% of the death registrations are completed within 21 days of the occurrence in Himachal Pradesh. The report also estimates that around 86.4% of the total deaths in the State were registered. This suggests that the excess death count and therefore the multiple could go up a bit more if all deaths are accounted for in later years compared with previous ones. Nevertheless, even if it is a slight underestimate, the estimated undercount factor of 1.9 for the State is lower than that of Haryana (7.3) and Madhya Pradesh (23.8) in the north, Andhra Pradesh (17.9), Tamil Nadu (6.4 adjusted to 4.4 if CRS COVID-19 tally is considered) and Karnataka (4.3) in the south, and only higher than that of Kerala (0.42 based on reconciled COVID-19 tally) if the same baseline is considered (deaths registered in 2018 and 2019). ‘Deaths at home’ When asked about the discrepancy between the CRS data and the official COVID-19 death toll, Janak Raj, senior medical superintendent at Indira Gandhi Medical College in Shimla, told The Hindu that the discrepancy based on excess deaths could be because of the ‘non-hospital’ deaths (deaths at home). “People who died at homes could be the ones who denied that they had COVID-19, be it intentionally or unintentionally. Also, there was a negative publicity surrounding COVID-19 treatment at hospitals. Besides, social stigma associated with COVID-19 seems to be another reason that discouraged people to visit hospitals for treatment. There was a sense of fear that if one died of COVID-19, there would be a problem in cremation, besides people will not visit one’s home. There could be instances that with such fear in mind, some people who fell critically ill at home and didn’t visit hospitals for treatment and eventually died,” Dr. Raj said. “Majority of deaths had been within 24 hours of hospitalisation. Those patients, who managed to reach hospitals at an early stage, survived. It was mostly the critical patients who intentionally or unintentionally delayed visiting hospitals that succumbed to COVID-19,” he added. District figures A district-wise look at excess deaths in Himachal Pradesh showed that Kangra registered the highest estimated excess deaths of 2,647, which is 2.8 times the official COVID-19 tally of 933. Shimla registered 971 excess deaths, 1.7 times the official tally of 558. The estimated undercount factor was the highest at 3.23 in Solan district.  (Data compiled and aggregated by Pratap Vardhan. With inputs from Vikas Vasudeva in Chandigarh and graphics support from Vignesh Radhakrishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-pradesh-excess-deaths-are-twice-the-official-toll/article35437184.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 new vaccines in human trials stage||The Centre is funding the development of four vaccines, which are currently in various stages of human trials. One more vaccine is in a preclinical stage, Science Minister Jitendra Singh said in a written reply to Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The government has also funded clinical trial sites, animal challenge facilities (where viruses are tested on animals) and immunoassay laboratories, all of which were collectively allotted a budget of Rs. 900 crore for 12 months, the Minister said. The four vaccines, funded under Mission Covid Suraksha, are the DNA-based vaccine candidate by Cadila Healthcare, Ahmedabad, Gujarat; the protein sub-unit vaccine by Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad, Telangana; adenovirus intra-nasal vaccine by Bharat Biotech Ltd, Hyderabad, Telangana; and an mRNA vaccine by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Pune, Maharashtra. Cadila and Biological E vaccines are in Phase 3 trials, Bharat Biotech’s in Phase 2, and Gennova’s in Phase 2 trial. A fifth vaccine candidate, which was a “virus-like particle” by Genique Life Sciences, based out of Gurugram, Haryana was in “advanced preclinical stage,” the written statement by the Minister noted. Financial support under the Mission was being provided to public funded research institutes; State and Central public sector enterprises; public and private hospitals; industries and organisations. An amount of Rs. 710 crore has been committed till date to support these activities, the Minister said. At present, three vaccines — Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Russian vaccine Sputnik V — are being administered in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-new-vaccines-in-human-trials-stage/article35437179.ece
21 July 2021||Kolkata,||Suvendu claims access to MP’s calls||Amidst the Pegasus spyware row, BJP MLA and Leader of the Opposition in West Bengal Suvendu Adhikari has said he has details of telephone conversations between Trinamool Congress general secretary and MP Abhishek Banerjee and police officers. The West Bengal police on Tuesday suo motu registered a case against Mr. Adhikari under many sections including the Official Secrets Act. K. Amarnath, SP, Purba Medinipur, said the complaint against Mr. Adhikari was registered under sections of the Disaster Management Act for assembly during the pandemic and since he said he had recordings with police personnel, charges had been brought against him under Section 5 of the Official Secrets Act. Remarks at public meet In a video that surfaced on social media, Mr. Adhikari is seen making the remarks at a recent public gathering in Purba Medinipur district while addressing party supporters. “Those who call you from nephew’s [Mamata Banerjee’s] office, I have phone numbers, call records and everything. If you have State government, we have Central government,” Mr. Adhikari is heard saying. The remarks were directed at police officers, officers in charge of police stations and SPs. The BJP leader said once a CBI probe was ordered into the post-poll violence, the State government and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee would not be able save the officers. Pegasus controversy The remarks come at a time when there are reports of Mr. Banerjee’s name figuring in the list of potential or actual targets for spying by Israeli company NSO’s Pegasus spyware. Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the remarks by Mr. Adhikari make it clear that the BJP has a hand in snooping on the phone conversations of the leaders of the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suvendu-claims-access-to-mps-calls/article35437053.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Many States have unused vaccine doses: Mandaviya||Health and Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday told the Rajya Sabha that a lot more could have been done to handle the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and a lot more still needed to be done with regard to a potential third wave. Replying to a discussion on the COVID-19 situation, Mr. Mandaviya countered allegations by some MPs that the Centre was hiding the true data of the number of deaths, saying that the States were responsible for registering deaths. The Centre only compiled the data given by States, he said. Mr. Mandaviya was replying as Health Minister for the first time since the Cabinet reshuffle earlier this month which saw Harsh Vardhan dropped. Listing the efforts taken by the Centre to boost oxygen supply during the second wave, the Minister said oxygen transportation capacity had been boosted to 10,000 metric tonnes. “This is not a small feat. I admit there was still more to be done and we have to do a lot more in the coming days,” he said, while appealing to everyone to work together. On vaccinations, the Minister said there were many States that had 10-15 lakh vaccine doses lying unused, while their representatives in the House were asking the Centre to speed up the drive. He said the Centre informs States 15 days in advance of the vaccine availability, giving them time to plan their vaccination drives. He said it wouldn’t be appropriate to say that children would be more affected in the third wave. On the other hand, he said vaccine trials for children were ongoing. In response to a question from Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien, Mr. Mandaviya did not clarify what percentage of the population would be fully vaccinated by December 31, saying instead that the government’s effort would be to vaccinate every Indian as soon as possible. Oppn. raises queries Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge initiated the discussion on behalf of the Opposition. He said the pictures of bodies floating in the Ganga during the second wave had left an indelible impression. He also accused the government of severely under-reporting the number of casualties due to COVID. As per the official estimate a little over 5.5 lakh persons died due to the pandemic. Death toll “There are more than six lakh villages in India. Even if five persons died in each of these villages due to COVID, the total casualty figure will cross 30 lakh. Similarly there are more than 7,000 towns and 18 metropolitan cities. If the deaths are properly recorded the cumulative figure will far exceed the government’s estimates,” he said. The government’s declaration that it will vaccinate everyone by December is misplaced, Mr. Kharge said. “On Modiji’s appeal, people clapped, clanged utensils, lit diyas and confined themselves to their homes. What did he do in return? He failed in meeting all our expectations. Instead he sacked Dr. Harsh Vardhan, who is merely a scapegoat for PM Modi’s own failures,” Mr. Kharge said. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP Tiruchi Siva suggested that the modern vaccine manufacturing facility near Chennai lying unused be handed over to the State government to run. He said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had written to the Centre proposing the same two months ago. In his response, Mr. Mandaviya said the suggestion was being examined.  I admit there was still more to be done and we have to do a lot more in the coming days Mansukh Mandaviya Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-states-have-unused-vaccine-doses-mandaviya/article35437186.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC annuls parts of co-op amendment||In a major boost for federalism, the Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down parts of a Constitution amendment which shrank the exclusive authority of States over its cooperative societies. Part IXB, introduced in the Constitution through the 97th Amendment of 2012, dictated the terms for running cooperative societies. The provisions in the amendment, passed by Parliament without getting them ratified by State legislatures as required by the Constitution, went to the extent of determining the number of directors a society should have or their length of tenure and even the necessary expertise. In a majority judgment authored by Justice Nariman, the court held that cooperative societies come under the “exclusive legislative power” of State legislatures. The judgment may be significant in the background of fears voiced by the States whether the new Central Ministry of Cooperation would dis-empower them. The SC, however, said the Centre had power over multi-State cooperative societies. Part IX B, which consists of Articles 243ZH to 243ZT, has “significantly and substantially impacted” State legislatures’ “exclusive legislative power” over its cooperative sector under Entry 32 of the State List. In fact, the court pointed out how Article 243ZI makes it clear that a State may only make law on the incorporation, regulation and winding up of a society subject to the provisions of Part IXB of the 97th Constitution Amendment. “There can be no doubt that our Constitution has been described as quasi-federal in that, so far as legislative powers are concerned, though there is a tilt in favour of the Centre vis-à-vis the States given the federal supremacy principle outlined herein above, yet within their own sphere, the States have exclusive power to legislate on topics reserved exclusively to them,” Justice Nariman wrote in his 89-page majority opinion shared with Justice B.R. Gavai. “The 97th Amendment which inserts the chapter dealing with cooperative societies has not been so ratified by the States, though an amendment of the Constitution is the exercise of constituent power which differs from ordinary legislative power, such constituent power does not convert Parliament into an original constituent assembly. Parliament being the donee of a limited power may only exercise such power in accordance with both the procedural and substantive limitations contained in the Constitution of India,” Justice Nariman observed. However, the court did not strike down the portions of Part IXB of the Amendment concerning “Multi State Cooperative Societies” due to the lack of ratification. “When it comes to Multi State Co-operative Societies (MSCS) with objects not confined to one State, the legislative power would be that of the Union of India which is contained in Entry 44 List I (Union List)... It is declared that Part IXB of the Constitution is operative only insofar as it concerns multi-State cooperative societies both within the various States and in the Union Territories,” Justice Nariman said. In his dissent, Justice K.M. Joseph said the doctrine of severability would not operate to distinguish between single-State cooperatives and MSCS. The judge said the entire Part IXB should be struck down on the ground of absence of ratification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-annuls-parts-of-co-op-amendment/article35437034.ece
21 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab demands 40 lakh vaccine doses||Citing a current demand of more than 2 lakh COVID vaccine doses for the second dose alone, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded 40 lakh more doses from the Centre on urgent basis to inoculate the State’s eligible population. Review meeting The State was expecting 2.46 lakhs vaccines to arrive on Tuesday but the Chief Minister, during a COVID review virtual meeting, noted that the vaccine remains in short supply. The State has run out of Covishield and is left with only 3,500 Covaxin doses as of on July 19, he said Punjab has already vaccinated more than 90 lakh persons (nearly 37% of eligible population) and has been utilising the stock without any wastage, said the Chief Minister. While the first dose has been administered to 75 lakh people, 15 lakh had got the second dose too, he added. The Centre needs to arrange for immediate delivery to the State to meet the shortfall and enable inoculation of all those needing the second dose, while continuing with the vaccination of other eligible persons, he said. Pointing out that the doses being supplied to private hospitals were getting wasted as people preferred to go to government hospitals for free inoculation, Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the meeting that the State has sought diversion of the stocks from the private hospitals but had not received any response so far from the Centre. Sero survey of children The Punjab government on Tuesday said it will start a sero survey, especially focused on children in the age group of 6 to 17 ahead of a possible third wave. The survey will start this month. Sero surveys or sero prevalence studies are based on analysis of antibodies collected through blood samples. Capt. Amarinder said the outcome of the sentinel sero surveillance survey, aimed to assess the prevalence of the infection among those under 18, will be utilised to determine further localised restrictions as the State prepares for the third wave, according to a government statement. GIS-based surveillance and prevention tools will be used with an auto trigger mechanism for localised restrictions, he said. Dr K.K. Talwar, head of State’s expert committee on COVID-19, said in the first and second waves, 10% of those infected were under 18 and while there was no concrete data to support such a projection, the State was preparing to handle more cases of children in the third wave. The CM also ordered establishment of a paediatric unit in each district and one centre of excellence in paediatrics for the State.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-demands-40-lakh-vaccine-doses/article35437390.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC mulls over ‘punishment’ for parties facing contempt||Political parties facing contempt for defying a Supreme Court judgment to declare or publicise the criminal antecedents of their candidates before elections may run the risk of derecognition or a time-bound forfeiture of their election symbols. A Bench of Justices Rohinton Nariman and B.R. Gavai on Tuesday extensively heard the Election Commission of India (ECI) and amicus curiae and senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan on how to “punish” the political parties that had not fully complied with the February 13, 2020, judgment. The court has reserved the contempt case, which arose from the Bihar Assembly election, for orders. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M), which heads the LDF government in Kerala, and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a constituent of the ruling Maharashtra coalition, “unconditionally apologised” to the Supreme Court for not complying with the judgment. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for the ECI, submitted that the NCP fielded 26 candidates with criminal antecedents and the CPI(M) fielded four candidates with criminal pasts. Justice Nariman said, “We don't buy this ‘sorry’, our orders have to be followed.” Biggest defaulter Mr. Singh submitted that the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) was the biggest defaulter, with 103 candidates having criminal antecedents. The JD(U), which heads the Bihar government, fronted 56 candidates involved in criminal cases. “Despite bringing out criminal antecedents in the public domain, criminalisation of politics has gone up,” he pointed out. Mr. Vishwanathan submitted, “The idea is to evolve a deterrent on the parties.” Both Mr. Singh and Mr. Vishwanathan suggested the suspension of election symbols as a measure against parties propping up criminals as candidates. Mr. Vishwanathan drew the court’s attention to Rule 16A of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order of 1968, which empowers the ECI to either suspend or withdraw the recognition of political parties that violate lawful directions. He said the February 2020 judgment should not be made toothless by the parties. “Idea is to evolve a deterrent on the party,” he said. The amicus curiae suggested imposing a hefty financial penalty on the parties. ‘Not a symbolic Re. 1’ Senior advocate Harish Salve, also for the ECI, submitted in his turn during the hearing, “The change has to come from the heart of people. What we all want to see is that change should come to the system and it will come.” He said the financial penalty should, however, not be a “symbolic Re. 1”. He observed, “We should not have pictures taken of leaders smiling and handing over a coin.” Senior advocate P.V. Surendranath, for the CPI(M), urged the court to not take action, saying this court hearing itself was a deterrent enough. The party had apologised unconditionally to the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-mulls-over-punishment-for-parties-facing-contempt/article35437227.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. condemns extrajudicial surveillance of journalists||The Biden administration has condemned the harassment and ‘extrajudicial surveillance’ of journalists and others in reaction to reports published by a consortium of news websites that Israeli company NSO Group’s spyware, Pegasus, was used for illegal hacking and surveillance of individuals, including in India. “The United States condemns the harassment or extrajudicial surveillance of journalists, human rights activists, or other perceived regime critics,” a White House spokesperson said via email to The Hindu in response to a question on what U.S. President Joe Biden’s position on the issue was. Only on Monday U.S. President Joe Biden had said that China and Russia were “protecting” and “even accommodating” cyber hackers and their hacking. The news reports on Pegasus say that in addition to actually or potentially targeting journalists, leaders of the opposition in India, and others, a database of phone numbers that allegedly belonged to the NSO Group contained the numbers of two U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) officials in New Delhi and employees of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Tuesday’s statement from the White House spokesperson stopped short of naming Israel — where NSO Group is based. “Just as states have the duty to protect human rights, businesses have a responsibility to respect human rights, including by ensuring that their products or services are not being used by end-users to abuse fundamental freedoms,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-condemns-extrajudicial-surveillance-of-journalists/article35437171.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre seeks time to set ex gratia guidelines||The Centre has approached the Supreme Court to allow the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) more time to frame uniform guidelines for payment of ex gratia assistance to families of persons who died of COVID-19. The government has asked for a month more. A June 30 judgment of the Supreme Court had given the NDMA six weeks to submit its guidelines. The government said ‘accelerated’ formulation of guidelines would lead to “undesirable results”. The court said the work on the recommendations was at an advanced stage. The court had pulled up the NDMA, of which the Prime Minister is the ex officio chairperson, for failing in its duty to recommend the assistance. “The National Authority [NDMA] failed to perform its statutory duty… Ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life is part of minimum standards of relief which has to be provided to persons affected by disaster — in the present case COVID-19 pandemic,” the Supreme Court had observed in a 66-page judgment. The court however had left it to the ‘wisdom’ of the NDMA to fix the amount while considering the recommendations in the 15th Finance Commission Report and funds required for other reliefs and priorities, including COVID preparedness, mitigation, prevention and recovery. The court had refused a plea made by PIL petitioners, advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, to order an ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of the COVID dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-seeks-more-time-to-frame-ex-gratia-guidelines/article35437047.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SC raps Kerala govt. for ‘sorry state of affairs’||It dismissed the government’s assurances that only customers who had taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine would be allowed into the shops “as far as possible”. “Homilies such as ‘as far as possible’ and assurances from traders without anything more do not inspire any confidence in the people of India or this court. We may only indicate that this affidavit discloses a sorry state of affairs and does not in any real manner safeguard the right to life and health guaranteed to all the citizens of India under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the court observed in a 11-page order. “The State government has given in to an association of traders [Vyapari Vyavasaayi Ekopana Samithi],” Justice Nariman observed. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for applicant P.K.D. Nambiar, said Kerala decided to relax despite hosting the “biggest” number of COVID-19 cases in the country. “The COVID-19 cases in India is 30,000 only because of Kerala. The State allowed three days of relaxation of restrictions despite a test positivity rate of over 10%,” Mr. Singh argued. The court ordered the government to “give heed” to the right to life and restrictions on movement during the pandemic. It asked the State to comply with the court directions given in a case concerning Uttar Pradesh’s initial reluctance to stop the Kanwar Yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-raps-kerala-govt-for-sorry-state-of-affairs/article35437041.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SC mulls ‘punishment’ for political parties||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M), which heads the LDF government in Kerala, and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a constituent of the ruling Maharashtra coalition, “unconditionally apologised” to the Supreme Court for not complying with the judgment. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for the ECI, submitted that the NCP fielded 26 candidates with criminal antecedents and the CPI(M) fielded four candidates with criminal pasts. Justice Nariman said, “We don’t buy this ‘sorry’, our orders have to be followed.” Mr. Singh submitted that the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) was the biggest defaulter, with 103 candidates having criminal antecedents. The JD(U), which heads the Bihar government, fronted 56 candidates involved in criminal cases. “Despite bringing out criminal antecedents in the public domain, criminalisation of politics has gone up,” he pointed out. Mr. Vishwanathan submitted, “The idea is to evolve a deterrent on the parties.” Both Mr. Singh and Mr. Vishwanathan suggested the suspension of election symbols as a measure against parties propping up criminals as candidates. The amicus curiae suggested imposing a hefty financial penalty on the parties. Senior advocate P.V. Surendranath, for the CPI(M), urged the court to not take action, saying this court hearing itself was a deterrent enough. The party had apologised unconditionally to the court. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the NCP, requested the court to not invoke Rule 16A of the 1968 order. The BJP and the Indian National Congress said they had substantially complied with the judgment. The Supreme Court was hearing a contempt petition filed by a lawyer against Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and leaders of prominent political parties for not fully adhering to an top court decision against allowing “dreaded criminals” contest in the Bihar Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-mulls-punishment-for-political-parties/article35437042.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Snooping in Karnataka before regime change||Though the BJP has denied any role in engineering their resignations, all 17 disqualified legislators are today members of the saffron party, with 11 of them being members of the State Cabinet. The Congress alleged that the spyware was used to topple the government, and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter. The party also targeted former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi’s judgement that exempted 14 Congress MLAs and three JD(S) MLAs from following the whips of their respective parties. The leaders pointed out that the woman who had alleged sexual harassment by Justice Gogoi was also a target for hacking in April, as per The Wire report.  Press meet in Delhi Senior Congress leaders, including Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, held a press conference in Delhi to target the Central government over the latest revelations in the Pegasus snooping controversy. Mr. Kharge said the party would raise the issue in the House as the Pegasus spyware is being used not just to target individuals but also institutions. “They [Mr Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah] came to power through democratic means but are trying to install dictatorial regime,” he said. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy initially sought to play down the revelations as a “routine process” that he was “not bothered with.” However, taking to Twitter later, he said, “This is one of the means to bring down State governments and bring up new governments to protect the Union government.” Mr. Parameshwara, among those whose phones were targeted, tweeted, “Every time we believe the BJP-led Union government cannot go any lower, fresh proof arrives to show they can and will stoop to the lowest.” Sources said that Mr. Siddaramaiah, who does not hold a personal number, often used the number of his personal secretary Venkatesh which figures on the list. Mr. Venkatesh has been working with Mr. Siddaramaiah for over two decades. Mr. Kumaraswamy’s PS Satish’s number and Mr. Devegowda’s security personnel Manjunath Muddegowda’s numbers also figure on the list. 2019 probe Interestingly, the BJP-led State government had ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into alleged illegal phone tapping of political leaders, especially defectors who brought down the coalition government and their associates during H.D. Kumaraswamy’s tenure as Chief Minister. Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa had ordered the probe in August 2019, a month after coming to power. Recalling this, Mr. Kumaraswamy said in a tweet, “The Union government which had put me under surveillance finally accused me of phone tapping and conducted a CBI inquiry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/snooping-in-karnataka-before-regime-change/article35437030.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pandemic should not be a matter of politics: PM||The COVID-19 pandemic should not be a matter of politics and is a matter of concern for entire humanity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. Mankind has not seen such a pandemic in the last 100 years, Mr. Modi said while interacting with floor leaders of parties of both Houses of Parliament at a special briefing on the COVID-19 situation organised by the PMO. The Prime Minister stressed the need to properly plan the vaccination drives at the district level based on the advance availability indicated by the Central government to ensure no inconvenience to the people. He said it was a matter of concern that a significant number of healthcare and frontline workers were yet to get the vaccine even after six months since the drive commenced, and added that States need to be more proactive in this. “The Prime Minister spoke about the need to stay vigilant looking at the situation in various countries and noted that mutations make this disease very unpredictable, and hence we all need to stay together and fight this disease,” said a release issued by the Centre. The release added that a detailed presentation was given by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and he informed that as of date, only eight States have more than 10,000 cases with a majority of the caseload in Maharashtra and Kerala. “India had augmented its drug availability throughout the pandemic. The CDSCO permitted the increase in number of Remdesivir manufacturing sites from 22 in March to 62 in June which increased the production capacity from 38 to 122 lakh vials per month. Similarly, import of Liposomal Amphotericin was encouraged which saw the cumulative allocation rise from just 45,050 to 14.81 lakh,” said the release on the Health Ministry’s presentation.  It is a matter of concern that a significant number of healthcare and frontline workers are yet to get the vaccine Narendra ModiPrime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-should-not-be-a-matter-of-politics-pm/article35437223.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-thirds of Indians have antibodies: ICMR||It was conducted in the 70 districts across 21 States where the three earlier rounds were done. “This national serosurvey is not a substitute for local (State/district) variations. State heterogeneity indicates the possibility of future waves of infection. We strongly suggest that societal, public, religious and political congregations be avoided, non-essential travel be discouraged and travel should be undertaken only if fully vaccinated,” the ICMR chief said. He added that the country had to work towards ensuring full vaccination of all healthcare workers while accelerating vaccination coverage among vulnerable population groups. To a question on reopening of schools, Dr. Bhargava said it would be better if primary schools were opened first as children showed better tolerance against the virus. However, he added that it should be done only after ensuring that all the staff members were fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-thirds-of-indians-have-antibodies-icmr/article35437225.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Five Oppn. parties skip PMO briefing on COVID||The attendees included NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, TMC leader Derek O’Brien, SP leader Ramgopal Yadav, RJD leader Manoj K. Jha and CPI leader Binoy Viswam, among others. ‘Discussion in House’ Many of the members argued that any discussion on COVID-19 must be on the floor of the House in the presence of all members. Selective briefing for just the floor leaders when Parliament was in session was not acceptable. Within hours of the meeting, the government accepted the Opposition’s position and allowed the debate on COVID-19 in the Rajya Sabha. Following the discussion in the Rajya Sabha, many parties changed their stance — including the TMC, the NCP and the SP. CPI(M) Parliamentary Party leader Elamaram Kareem had written to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi opposing the selective briefing on Monday. AAP boycotts briefing Though the AAP did not attend the Opposition meeting, it also decided to boycott the Health Secretary’s briefing. In a tweet, the party’s Rajya Sabha MP said the government needs to settle the issues raised by the farmers. He said that when the whole country was suffering from COVID, the BJP was busy organising rallies, and it was now only doing lip service by organising this select briefing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-oppn-parties-skip-pmo-briefing-on-covid/article35437038.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anthony Blinken may visit India ‘very soon’||American Secretary of State Anthony Blinken is expected to make his first visit to India “very soon”, sources said, indicating that planning for the visit is under way for a meeting as early as next week. “The dates are still being finalised,” an official told The Hindu , confirming the visit, while another official said meetings were being scheduled in New Delhi at the “end of July”. Mr. Blinken’s visit is expected to prepare the way for the Quad summit and bilateral meetings between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joseph Biden due to be held in Washington later this year, and is also expected to discuss the emerging situation in Afghanistan, including Taliban advances after the U.S. troop pull-out with Indian officials. Mr. Blinken’s proposed visit, which is yet to be announced, could coincide with the 3-day visit of Afghanistan Army Chief Lt. Gen. Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai to Delhi. India and the U.S. have a wide array of bilateral relations to discuss and Mr. Biden has made it clear that the America’s Indo-Pacific strategy that includes India is an area of importance, particularly given increasing tensions between the U.S. and China. India and the U.S. have pending talks on a free trade agreement as well as India’s demand for a restoration of its GSP status for exports, that was rescinded by the previous Trump administration, and the two sides will discuss improving economic, defence, energy cooperation, as well as cooperation on countering COVID-19. The U.S.’s Quad initiative to produce a billion vaccines is based on Indian production. Indemnity issues for the U.S. vaccine manufacturers, which have held up supplies to India are still to be resolved, and are likely to come up during the talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-secretary-of-state-may-visit-india-next-week/article35437040.ece
21 July 2021||Mumbai,||No snooping till I was CM, says Fadnavis||Facing allegations that the Maharashtra government too may have used the spyware Pegasus to snoop on political opponents, former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said the government did not avail of the services of the Israeli firm NSO till he was in the office. “Maharashtra government did not avail services of the NSO till I was the Chief Minister,” he said, addressing a press conference. Mr. Fadnavis, however, acknowledged that a team from the DGIPR (the State government’s publicity department) went to Israel after the 2019 elections before the new government was formed. “But the trip was for agriculture development purposes,” he claimed. During the previous regime, the Congress had alleged that several opposition leaders were under surveillance. Questions have been raised as to whether proof was digitally planted against the human rights activists arrested in the Koregaon-Bhima case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-snooping-till-i-was-cm-says-fadnavis/article35437048.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||In 2019, IT House panel unsuccessfully tried to discuss Pegasus breach||In 2019, during a probe by the Standing Committee on Information Technology headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITy), according to sources, told the panel that 121 people were affected by the Pegasus spyware. The Kudankulam nuclear plant too had reported a cyber breach. The officials from the Department of Atomic Energy and the Kudankulam nuclear plant, the sources said, stated that the malware infection was only found in the administrative side of the plant’s operations. Officials of both MEITy and the Ministry of Home Affairs though neither confirmed nor denied the involvement of the government in snooping using the Pegasus spyware, which is sold by the Israeli technology firm NSO group. The government also did not clarify who these 121 individuals were or if they were contacted for a detailed probe into the issue. On November 20, 2019, when the Standing Committee wanted to discuss the issue, the BJP members vehemently opposed it. They argued that it was illegal and beyond the purview of the panel to discuss the issue. The discussion could begin only after the agenda was voted down upon. Only 25 of the panel’s 31 members attended the meeting, of which 12 voted against initiating a meeting, while 12 voted in favour. The final deciding vote was cast by Mr. Tharoor. Panel meets 17 persons In a subsequent meeting, the panel met 17 persons, who had come together under a common platform “Pegasus Targeted Persons”. They included human rights activist Bela Bhatia, Marxist Dalit author Anand Teltumbde, Jagdalpur Legal Aid group member Shalini Gera, Chhattisgarh base civil rights activist Alok Shukla and human rights activist Jagdish Meshram. The panel did not submit any report on the consultations. Judicial investigation Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Tharoor refused to comment on the deliberations. “Only governments have Pegasus. If our government has used it, then it is certainly illegal, the exceptions of national security and terrorism does not apply to Rahul Gandhi or Prashant Kishor. And if it is not our government’s work, then it is even more serious since it is a breach of our national security,” he stated. There had to be a judicial investigation into it, he added. In a tweet, he said, “If it turns out that it’s our govt & it’s authorised (to do it), GoI needs to give an explanation as the law only permits interception of communication for issues of national security, terrorism; otherwise, it’s illegal. Essential for govt to cooperate in a probe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-2019-it-house-panel-unsuccessfully-tried-to-discuss-pegasus-breach/article35437168.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The realised soul||The Upanishads state that the Supreme Brahman is the highest principle and to reach Brahman is the ultimate goal of all beings. But how is Brahman to be known or seen? How is one to search for Brahman? In this context, it is interesting to note that Adi Sankara shows that Brahman can be seen in the lotus of one’s heart through intense devotion and contemplation, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. Among the many epithets used by the acharya to propitiate Siva and Sakti in the hymn Sivananda Lahari , the term hridi punar bhavabhyam indicates the unique and repeated spiritual experiences of the devout souls who feel the presence of the Lord within their being. In the Katopanishad, Yama tells Nachiketas that the ‘Supreme Brahman, the primordial, effulgent Being and indwelling spirit, subtle, deep, and hidden in the lotus of the heart, is hard to know. But the wise, following the path of meditation, can know Him and thereby get freed from the pain and sorrow of samsara.’ The Taittiriya Upanishad says that Brahman cannot be seen by any human being. That is why the Lord grants Divya Chakshus (divine eyes) to Arjuna to enable him to behold His Vishwaroopa. Bhakti bhava in the devotee is the only way to evoke the presence of Brahman who is present within all beings without exception. Even in the most devout, it might happen as momentary flashes and very rarely too. But though fleeting, the experience lingers on, and, in due course, is the cause for the devotee to strive to make this illuminating experience permanent. The devotee is left overwhelmed with gratitude for this unique moment which was possible by His boundless compassion and grace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-realised-soul/article35437178.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two school boards for Vedic studies||An autonomous body under the Education Ministry is planning to set up two private school boards for Vedic studies blended with modern subjects, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Lok Sabha on Monday. In his response to a query from BJP member S. Muniswamy, the Minister noted that the Centre currently had only two school boards — the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the National Institute of Open Schooling. “However, Maharshi Sandipani Rashtriya Ved Vidya Pratisthan (MSRVVP), Ujjain, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, has given permission for a private board for blended education, including both Vedic studies and modern subjects,” said Mr. Pradhan. The MSRVVP “is also considering setting up another board for oral Vedic traditions with modern subjects.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-school-boards-for-vedic-studies/article35437037.ece
21 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam CM seeks ban on Amnesty||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said he would request the Centre to ban Amnesty International for its direct involvement in the Pegasus “conspiracy”. He said there was a lot of evidence against Amnesty in the past but the recent expose made it clear that the organisation could go to any extent to damage India’s democratic fabric. “Amnesty International is directly involved in the Pegasus conspiracy. Various Left-wing organisations throughout the world are a part of the conspiracy. I will request the government to immediately ban the organisation’s activities within India,” Dr. Sarma said. “We all know the role of Amnesty International and its credibility. It is all along encouraging Left-wing terrorism in India. It is working overnight to defame India. This is a well-designed international conspiracy to defame PM,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cm-seeks-ban-on-amnesty/article35437051.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE FAQs to help schools finalise results||The CBSE offices will function on July 21, though it is a gazetted holiday for Id, to support schools to meet the deadline of finalising Class 12 results by July 22, according to a letter from Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj. The CBSE has previously said the results will be declared by the end of the month. Mr. Bhardwaj said the CBSE is also developing FAQs, which will be provided by noon on Wednesday, in response to queries from the schools. In a letter sent to CBSE principals on Tuesday, Mr. Bhardwaj noted that the country would be celebrating Id on the following day. However, he also noted that the schools are busy preparing Class 10 and 12 results. As the board examinations were cancelled due to COVID this year, schools were asked to determine results via a formula using previous years’ marks as well as internal and practical scores. “For finalising the Class 12 result, the last date is 22.07.2021. It is informed that to meet the last date and to assist the schools, all the regional offices, CBSE and the Examination Department, CBSE HQ will be functioning from 10.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m.,” said the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-faqs-to-help-schools-finalise-results/article35437181.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Alarming situation in Kerala: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rapped the Kerala government over relaxations granted for Bakrid in areas with high COVID-19 positivity rate. The court said citizens were free to bring to the notice of the court any “untoward spread of COVID-19” as a result of the relaxation of the restrictions notified by the government on July 17 due to Bakrid. Action would follow from the court, a Bench of Justices Rohinton Nariman and B.R. Gavai said. The court said it was “extremely alarming” that the Kerala government could have been coerced to relax restrictions in the ‘D’ category areas, where the infection rate was the highest at 15%. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for applicant P.K.D. Nambiar, said Kerala decided to relax curbs despite hosting the “biggest” number of COVID-19 cases in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/alarming-situation-in-kerala-sc/article35437226.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Navy seeks bids to build submarines||The Defence Ministry on Tuesday issued the Request For Proposal (RFP) for construction of six advanced conventional submarines for the Navy  under Project-75I. The deal which has been delayed is the first under the strategic partnership model of the procurement procedure to make progress. “The RFP was issued to shortlisted Strategic Partners (SPs) or Indian applicant companies for the project viz, Mazagaon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL) and Larsen & Toubro (L&T),” the Defence Ministry said. The project cost is estimated upwards of Rs. 40,000 crore. The Indian SP partners have to respond to the RFP within 12 weeks. They are free to tie up with any of the five Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) that have been shortlisted earlier. The procurement process now gets under way and will take at least two years for the deal to be signed, a defence official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-seeks-bids-to-build-submarines/article35437031.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Activist’s father seeks compensation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Manipur government two weeks to respond to a plea for compensation made by the father of activist Erendra Leichongbam, who was detained for two months under the National Security Act (NSA) for his Facebook posts questioning the efficacy of cow dung and urine as a cure for COVID-19 in the context of the death of a BJP leader due to coronavirus. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah on Monday directed the State to “forthwith” release Mr. Leichongbam, saying he should not spend another night in prison. On Tuesday, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for Manipur, strove for quietus in the case. He said the activist was released immediately after the apex court order. “We have shown the gesture of immediately releasing him... Now let it be...” But Justice Chandrachud said “this was a serious matter” concerning personal liberty. “Somebody lost their liberty for over two months... It is a serious matter, Mr. Mehta,” he remarked. Mr. Mehta said the activist could have taken “legal recourse” and this petition was filed only after months. Advocate Shadan Farasat, appearing for Mr. Leichongbam’s father, L. Raghumani Singh, said the petition filed by his client had two prayers. First, to quash the May 17 detention order passed by the District Magistrate of Imphal West District against his son and, second, payment of compensation for his detention. “Then, we will have to justify the order of detention on merits,” Mr. Mehta said. On Monday, Mr. Farasat argued that the government was increasingly using preventive detention provisions in cases in which even ordinary penal sections did not apply. He submitted that the Facebook posts were criticism against the advocacy of cow dung and urine as a cure. The stringent NSA provisions have been slapped on the activist to control his free speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-activists-father-seeks-compensation/article35437032.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||Historians flag proposed revisions||Over 100 historians from India and abroad recently endorsed a letter to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education expressing concern over proposed changes to National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) history textbooks. A statement by Maya John of Delhi University, one of the signatories, said the historians submitted their response to the panel on July 15. Among the signatories were Romila Thapar, Mukul Kesavan and professors from Delhi University, Panjab University, University of Toronto and Jawaharlal Nehru University. “The historians expressed their dismay and penned numerous objections to the widely circulating allegations that the NCERT school history textbooks carry ‘unhistorical facts and distortions’,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/historians-flag-proposed-revisions/article35437043.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||TMC vows to stall Houses over snooping||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday said it would not let Parliament function till the government comes clean on the Pegasus snooping issue. According to media reports published so far, the phone numbers of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor figure on the list of numbers allegedly under surveillance by the spyware Pegasus. “This (Pegasus spyware) is a serious issue and the TMC will not compromise on it. We will not let either House run till this government comes clean on the charges of snooping and surveillance. The government has spent millions to hack into phones at a time when the country is dealing with a pandemic,” TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien said. The party held protests in both Houses of Parliament on the issue earlier in the day. IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had dismissed media reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the monsoon session were aimed at maligning Indian democracy. However, the TMC alleged that this was a false statement. TMC Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra said, “We are saying on record that the IT Minister lied on the floor of the House. We just want the PM, HM and the IT Minister to answer if India is a client of NSO (Israeli firm that makes the Pegasus spyware) or not? We have a list of questions for the government and we will not allow Parliament to run unless these questions are answered." The government needs to answer if any of its departments purchased Pegasus, the TMC said. It also needs to answer whether it is still being deployed for snooping at the government’s behest. Earlier in the day, at a meeting of like-minded opposition parties, the latest revelations made by the international media consortium were discussed. So far, it has been revealed that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two Ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersonscould have been targeted for hacking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-vows-to-stall-both-houses-over-snooping/article35437170.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||We will move privilege motion: Cong.||The Congress on Tuesday said it will move a privilege motion against the Minister of State for Health for misleading Parliament that no deaths were reported by any State or Union Territory specifically because of shortage of oxygen. “In every State we saw how many patients died due to lack of oxygen. We know. The Minister misled the House. We will move a privilege motion against that Minister,” Congress general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP K.C. Venugopal told reporters at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-move-privilege-motion-cong/article35437228.ece
30 July 2021||Mumbai,||Raj Kundra sent to police custody||A magistrate court in Mumbai on Tuesday sent Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, to police custody till July 23 for allegedly producing and circulating pornographic videos through social media. The Mumbai police said, “Through investigation it is clear that Mr. Kundra is involved in making nude and vulgar videos, uploading them on social media and earning money.” He was arrested by the Property Cell of the Mumbai Crime Branch on Monday in connection with a pornography racket busted in February. When the police raided a bungalow at Madh village in Malad on February 4, 2021, some young boys and girls were found filming and recording nude and vulgar videos and uploading them on various online platforms. Investigation revealed that these videos were going to be uploaded on a website and mobile app. A person named Umesh Kamat confessed that Mr. Kundra is involved in broadcasting such videos on apps and has also made WhatsApp groups to stay in contact with the app. A witness told the police that Mr. Kundra and his close aide Saurabh Kushwah established Arms Prime Media Private Limited on February 5, 2019, and the said company sold the app to a company named Kenrin Limited for $25,000. On December 11, 2019, Mr. Kundra resigned from the company. The police said, “Through investigation it is clear that Mr. Kundra is involved ... and earns money by establishing Arms Prime Media Private Limited which took over the app.” Mr. Kundra has been charged with 354 C (voyeurism), 292 (sale, etc. of obscene books,), 293 (sale, etc., of obscene objects to young person), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC along with relevant Sections of the Information Technology Act and the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act. Meanwhile, police arrested one Ryan Thorpe in connection with the case, an official said on Tuesday. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raj-kundra-sent-to-police-custody/article35437172.ece
21 July 2021||Srinagar,||Congregational prayers for Id banned in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration announced a series of restrictions including barring congregational prayers at traditional venues, closing of gardens and suspension of intra-Kashmir train services on Id-ul-Zuha, citing the risk of a third wave of infections. Further, only vaccinated individuals have been asked to carry out the ritual sacrifices. Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K. Pole has called for “a decentralised way of prayers” on the occasion. Officials in Bandipora, while barring large congregations, have decided to close down all parks and gardens on the occasion. The intra-Kashmir rail service will also remain suspended for two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congregational-prayers-for-id-banned-in-jk/article35437182.ece
21 July 2021||Bureau,TAMIL NADU||133 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths in Salem||Salem district on Tuesday reported 133 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths. According to the health officials, 83 cases were indigenous and 23 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Fifty patients had returned from Namakkal, Erode, and Chennai. Namakkal district reported 55 new cases, all indigenous. Erode district reported 129 new cases and four deaths. Krishnagiri recorded 23 cases and Dharmapuri 29 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/133-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-salem/article35437486.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC to plant one crore saplings||The Greater Chennai Corporation is set to launch a mass movement for tree plantation. One crore saplings are expected to be planted as part of the programme in the city, with 10 lakh saplings proposed to be planted in the first year. Residents’ welfare associations will play a major role in the drive. The civic body is planning to entrust the associations with the task of maintaining the trees in their neighbourhood. Officials propose to reward the associations that take care of the saplings for a certain period of time. A meeting of senior officials of the Forest Department and the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust was held on Tuesday in Ripon Buildings to chalk out a strategy to take up planting of saplings on vacant land along the Adyar, the Cooum, the Kosasthalaiyar, Buckingham Canal and other waterbodies. The saplings are expected to be brought from Rajamahendravaram, where a large number of nurseries are located along the banks of the Godavari. Saplings of native species will also be planted. As the space is inadequate for planting one crore saplings in the city, the civic body is planning to raise more Miyawaki forests. The Corporation will invite suggestions for implementing its programme. Riverfront development Meanwhile, the State government has permitted the Corporation to take over the riverine plantation work from the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust. The civic body is set to launch riverfront development and riverine plantation and ecorestoration of the Adyar shortly. The CRRT officials will hand over responsibility of implementing the work to the Corporation and other local bodies on the city outskirts. Work on tree planting along the Adyar is expected to be different from the ecorestoration of 358 acres of Adyar Creek.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-to-plant-one-crore-saplings/article35437312.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports 1,904 fresh cases, 48% of them from 7 districts||A total of 1,904 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday and 30 succumbed to the infection in Tamil Nadu. This took the overall tally of cases to 25,39,277 and toll to 33,782. Of the fresh cases, 48% continued to be reported from seven districts. The drop in the number of cases has been slow in many of the districts. In Coimbatore, 204 people tested positive, followed by Chennai with 141 cases. There were 133 cases in Salem, 129 in Erode, 111 in Chengalpattu, 106 in Tiruppur and 102 in Thanjavur. Chennai’s overall tally of cases stood at 5,36,493, followed by Coimbatore (2,27,283) and Chengalpattu (1,60,762). As many as 2,439 people were discharged after treatment. They included 328 people in Coimbatore, 208 in Erode and 152 in Thanjavur. The active cases stood at 26,717. Of the 30 persons who died, 26 had co-morbidities. Coimbatore recorded five deaths, while there were four deaths each in Erode and Tiruvannamalai. Chennai recorded three deaths that had occurred in May and June as the bulletin mentioned that these were deferred reconciled death reports received from Chennai related to earlier days. There were no fatalities in 22 districts.  As on Monday, eight districts, including Chennai and Madurai, had less than 1% positivity rate. Cuddalore and Thanjavur accounted for the highest positivity rate of 3.2 and 3.1 respectively. In the last 24 hours, 1,33,962 samples were tested. Two private laboratories were approved for testing — Bioline Laboratory and Humain Sri Sai Labs, Chennai. The State received 5,00,000 doses of Covishield on Tuesday. This was allotted and dispatched to all health unit districts based on population and high positivity rate. Chennai was allotted 36,500 doses, while Coimbatore was allocated 22,500 doses. The overall coverage so far stood at 1,83,56,631.  The drop in cases has been slow in many of the districts. In Coimbatore, 204 persons tested positive, followed by Chennai with 141 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reports-1904-fresh-cases-48-of-them-from-7-districts/article35437328.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Irulas of Nariyamputhur get patta||It was a day that residents of Nariyamputhur, an Irula settlement in Uthiramerur taluk, will not forget soon. As Kancheepuram Collector M. Aarthi presented them with pattas in their names, they laughed and cried at the same time: this is how an official described their state. Panchali, who lives with her husband, said she had no idea as to what was happening. “A group of officials suddenly descended upon our village and told us we will get homes. They spoke to each of us, asked about our families and put up a shamiana and presented the patta documents,” she said. Construction of houses The residents have now moved to an adjacent plot so that the Slum Clearance Board can construct individual homes for them. The foundation stone for the same has been laid. Ms. Aarthi said the district administration would carry out a survey of all the Irula habitations in Kancheepuram and draw up a comprehensive programme under which they would be provided housing and livelihood support. “Along with the houses, we will provide a cattle shed or goat pen since they are rearing goats. We have also told them that they can ask us for any assistance, including for the education of their children,” she said. DRDA Project Director P. Jeyasudha said the funds for the houses would be released by the Slum Clearance Board and construction would be carried out by the DRDA. The aim is to complete work before the monsoon, she added.  The Hindu had carried a story on their conditiona week ago following which several persons came forward with donations of rice, provisions and vegetables. The pattas for Vandivakkam are under process. Provisions donated Padmapriya Baskar, Sanitation First India, who was the first to provide them with provisions, said her NGO was willing to construct eco-san toilets for the villagers. A group of old students from Kilpauk Medical College Chennai Alumni Association have come forward to help the children with their education. Udhavum Karangal gave the residents of Vandivakkam provisions and rice. Similarly, a hotel owner, Kurinji selvan, too, provided them with cooked food and rice and provisions. T. Deepa, a member of the State Women’s Commission, said she would like to work along with the district administration to support the community. Samuel Pradeep Raja, secretary of Care Trust, said that slightly larger homes would be needed for these people since they were used to living as joint families. “If each house is around 400 sq ft, it would be helpful. Even recently, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian had announced in the city that Slum Clearance Board tenements would be double their usual size. The same principle can be applied here,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irulas-of-nariyamputhur-get-patta/article35437309.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Paddy coverage likely to reach 3.2 lakh hectares||Having achieved a higher paddy coverage so far this kuruvai cultivation season than in the previous year, the Agriculture Department hopes to touch the 3.2 lakh hectare-mark at the end of the season. About 2.83 lakh hectares has been covered so far, and nursery has been prepared for 1,305 hectares, including 805 hectares in the Cauvery delta region. According to the Department’s calculation, this will help to transplant the crop on 40,000 hectares. Eventually, the delta region is expected to account for 1.54 lakh hectares and the non-delta region 1.65 lakh hectares If the Department’s plan comes off, this year’s performance will be better than that of 2020, when the coverage was marginally more than three lakh hectares. However, it will be lower than what the State accomplished during 2011 (about 3.36 lakh hectares) and 2015 (approximately 3.24 lakh hectares). An important factor that has contributed to a greater coverage this time is the availability of water. As on July 20, the combined live storage of 15 major reservoirs in the State was around 104 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft), equivalent to 52% of the total capacity. Unlike in the previous years, water is released from many of the reservoirs even during the kuruvai cultivation season, a senior official points out. The moderate rainfall during the northeast monsoon of 2020 and unseasonal heavy rainfall in January this year led to a comfortable position in the groundwater table. Though the realisation of Tamil Nadu’s share of the Cauvery water so far this month was much lower than the stipulated quantity, the revival of southwest monsoon in the recent days has given a sense of hope to agriculturists and officials alike. The Kabini reservoir, according to information available here, is about 90% of its capacity, and Karnataka officials are expected to release much more in the days to come than what they did. Till July 15, the cumulative receipt of the Cauvery water for the month was 4.11 tmc ft against the prescribed 15.11, as assessed by the Central Water Commission at Biligundulu on the inter-State border. What the State realised between June 1 and July 15 was about 11.8 tmc ft, a shortfall of 12.5 tmc ft. One more reason for the optimism of the Agriculture Department is the DMK government’s decision to provide a kuruvai package of Rs. 61.09 crore to benefit over 2.07 lakh farmers in the delta region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-coverage-likely-to-reach-32-lakh-hectares/article35437335.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Major reservoirs spruced up||The city’s three major reservoirs are getting a facelift, ahead of the northeast monsoon as the Water Resources Department (WRD) has taken up monsoon preparedness work. Vegetation is being cleared near the main bund of the reservoirs in Red Hills, Chembarambakkam and Poondi. Maintenance work has been taken up on the shutters of the reservoirs. The shutters at Chembarambakkam reservoir sport a new look after getting a fresh coat of paint. Similarly, messages on environment conservation and paintings of the lake’s flora and fauna adorn the walls of the Red Hills reservoir. Several schoolchildren and volunteers of SWOTT (Social Work Team Trust) recently painted the messages, the officials said. Storage comfortable At present, the major reservoirs had a combined storage of nearly 65% of their capacity of 11,757 million cubic feet (mcft). The rainfall in the last few days had improved the storage by about 70-80 mcft. The facilities at Cholavaram and Thervoy Kandigai-Kannankottai would be used as buffer sources, the officials said. The officials said Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh flowing into the State’s border was mainly diverted to the Poondi reservoir to boost storage as the position was comfortable in the two other lakes, from where drinking water was supplied to the city. While the Red Hills lake had a storage of nearly 82% of its capacity, the Chembarambakkam lake had 72% of its storage capacity. Since July 1, Chennai had received 972 mcft of Krishna water. This led to a steady increase in storage. On average, about 722 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of Krishna water flows into the State’s border at the Kandaleru Poondi canal. The city’s major lakes largely contribute to the daily water supply. With the present storage, Chennai’s drinking water water supply can be sustained for six months. At present, nearly 853.39 million litres a day is being provided to the city and added areas, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-reservoirs-spruced-up/article35437305.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 44,000 vacancies in nutritious meal scheme, ICDS yet to be filled||Over 44,000 vacancies in various posts in the Nutritious Meal Scheme and in the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS) could impact the enrolment in anganwadis and in the supply of nutritious food to school students in the State. Though the schools remain closed due to COVID-19, the impact is likely to be felt when they reopen eventually. While the number vacancies in the Nutritious Meal Scheme, which has a sanctioned strength of over 1.28 lakh posts, is 27,000, in the anganwadis of the ICDS that has about 1.04 lakh posts, it is 17,000, a source told The Hindu . When schools reopen, little time would be left to fill over 44,000 posts at once. P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of the State Platform for Common School System — Tamil Nadu (SPCSS-TN), said the vacancies should be filled immediately. “We have closed schools only due to the pandemic. You cannot expect the pandemic to continue. The government should try to bring the children to school. ICDS provides not only meals but also ensures nutrition to children,” he said. Mr. Babu was also against distributing raw rice to students, as the entire family would consume the rice provided for the children on account of poverty or the non-availability of jobs. “How will you ensure that the particular child gets nutrition every day? Why can’t you allow the meal centres to function and allow children to eat food and then go home? All precautionary measures can be taken. They should not wait for the lockdown to end,” he felt. Nutritious meal organisers, cooks, their assistants, anganwadi workers, mini anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers are not paid the State government’s regular salary structure but are being granted a special time scale of pay. When contacted by The Hindu , a senior official confirmed the quantum of vacancies in these schemes. “The government is keen on filling these posts. We will direct the District Collectors to fill these posts at the earliest since they are the appointing authority in their respective districts.” Incidentally, the DMK, in its election manifesto, indicated its desire to strengthen the nutrition of school children. It had promised that milk would be provided to students in government and government-aided schools in the morning. An infant welfare scheme to improve the nutrition of malnourished infants and a Food Basket Scheme to provide nutritious foods to infants were also promised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-44000-vacancies-in-meal-scheme-icds/article35437345.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give preference to govt. school students in professional courses’||The Justice D. Murugesan Commission, constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to examine the socio-economic conditions of government school students, has recommended that they be given “preferential treatment” in admission to government quota seats in professional courses (other than medicine). The retired judge of the Delhi High Court submitted an 84-page report to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday in the presence of Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials. A source privy to the report told The Hindu, “The Commission has recommended preferential treatment to State government school students in professional courses... without affecting the reservation scheme in place.” It favoured earmarking a certain percentage of government quota seats at self-financing professional colleges for these students. “The report has presented the options available before the State government to implement its recommendations. One of the options is to go in for an executive order under Article 226 of the Constitution,” the source said. Low admission rate The report discussed how only about 2% of government school students were being admitted to Anna University and less than 10% to State-run engineering colleges. Their admission to other universities was only 5%-6%, and in the case of law colleges, it was further low, it pointed out. It studied data on these students provided by the Chief Educational Officers. The report also discussed how students from rural areas and the downtrodden sections were dependent on State-run schools and highlighted the need to improve them. It recommended measures to improve government schools by incorporating technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-preference-to-govt-school-students-in-professional-courses/article35437337.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC nixes case against use of Annadhanam funds to buy food for COVID-19 victims||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation petition filed by Hindu Dharma Parishad objecting to a decision taken by Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department on May 27 to use temple Annadhanam funds to purchase one lakh food packets to be distributed to the needy during the second wave of COVID-19. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy did not find anything wrong in a State instrumentality having decided to use temple funds for helping the needy. Given the havoc the pandemic had reeked, particularly in the course of the second surge, there could be little doubt about the need for those who can afford to reach out to others, they said. "As far as temples or other religious institutions are concerned, it is heartening to note they have come out to support the community at large," the first Division Bench noted. It added that the constitutional sense of morality supports the action taken by the instrumentality of the State. "If the petitioner finds it disagreeable, he has to survive with it. No interference is called for on the part of the court," the Bench observed and hoped that whatever be the religion to which the petitioner subscribes to, the same would not make him petty enough to file such cases in future. In an affidavit filed in support of the PIL petition, K.K. Ramesh, the managing trustee of Hindu Dharma Parishad, said the objective of the trust was "to stop conversion of Hindu people by flirt words and by money by other religions." It was involved in educating the Hindus about fundamental rights and receiving complaints on violation of their rights. Taking strong exception to a decision taken by HR&CE department to spend Rs. 2.51 crore from the Annadhanam funds for purchasing food packets as part of COVID-19 relief work, the litigant trust said the department could not take such a decision especially when all temples were closed due to the lockdown and many were facing financial crunch. "The second respondent (HR&CE department) failed to consider that the Tamil Nadu MLAs' monthly salary is more than Rs. 1.05 lakh. They may give one month salary for procurement of one lakh food packets. It will not be a burden to them. Getting money from Hindu temple Annadhanam central fund is not acceptable one," the affidavit read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-nixes-case-against-use-of-annadhanam-funds-to-buy-food-for-covid-19-victims/article35437495.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges PM not to proceed with Marine Fishermen Bill||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him against proceeding with the Indian Marine Fishermen Bill, 2021. He contended that its provisions were against the interests of fishermen and infringed upon the rights conferred on the States by the Constitution. “As the proposed Bill has many disturbing clauses, like criminalisation and imprisonment of fishermen, use of force against fishermen, levy of charges, levy of huge penalties etc., it has resulted in widespread protests and disquiet,” Mr. Stalin said, urging him not to move the Bill. After obtaining the views of the stakeholders on the Bill in its present form, a decision on moving a fresh Bill that addresses the concerns of the fishermen communities, may be taken, the Chief Minister suggested. A copy of the communication was shared with the media. Mr. Stalin contended that certain clauses of the Bill infringed upon the rights conferred on the States under the State List of the 7th Schedule of Constitution. It was of “grave concern” to Tamil Nadu, particularly the coastal districts of the State. While the Tamil Nadu government understood and appreciated the need to protect and preserve the marine ecosystem, it also considered that it was equally important that the livelihood and interests of the traditional fishermen were clearly protected, he underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-pm-not-to-proceed-with-marine-fishermen-bill/article35437330.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai University to become affiliating university, says Minister||Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi said on Tuesday that Annamalai University, a unitary institution, would be converted into an affiliating university. “The institution is functioning as a unitary university, and several people, including [IAS officer] Shiv Das Meena who was an administrator there, had opined that it should be made an affiliating university. Colleges in Villupuram, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi and Mayiladuthurai can be affiliated to Annamalai University,” he said. As for Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University, which was established in Villupuram earlier this year by the AIADMK government, Mr. Ponmudi said that besides the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor, the institution remained largely non-functional. “They started the university in a part of the campus of a girls school. No funds have been allocated and no registrar or faculty appointment or work has been carried out,” he said.  Mr. Ponmudi said bringing colleges and universities in the four districts, including Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University, under Annamalai University would financially and academically benefit the institutions. But he did not state whether Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University would be merged with Annamalai University or downgraded into a college and then affiliated to it because a university cannot be affiliated to another university. “Annamalai University is a renowned institution that has enough space and infrastructure. To develop it into an affiliating university will not be financially challenging,” he said. Incidentally, former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam has moved the Madras High Court for a direction to the State government to provide funds for the smooth functioning of Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University.  Annamalai University is a renowned institution that has enough space and infrastructure. To develop it into an affiliating university will not be financially challenging||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalai-university-to-become-an-affiliating-institution-ponmudi/article35437342.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco faces hurdles in installing transformers||Tangedco officials are facing hurdles in the installation of transformers as part of the work to shift overhead power cables underground in various areas of the city. The power utility had started work in the added areas of the city and suburbs, including Perambur, Avadi, Tambaram, Velachery and the Information Technology (IT) corridor, at a cost of Rs. 2,567 crore. Although delayed because of the lockdown, the Tangedco resumed work in several places but a new issue has cropped up: residents do not want new transformers in front of their houses. A senior official said Tangedco workers had been facing this issue at several places, where residents opposed the erection of transformers in front of their buildings. Safety, access to the house being blocked and aesthetics were cited as reasons. Some residents were not even allowing the workers to fix pillar boxes that do not occupy much space, he said. Though the roads belong to the local bodies and Tangedco had constraints when it came to putting up transformers and pillar boxes at places of its choice, the residents could take up the issue with the Consumer Grievance Redress Forum (CGRF), which was like an ombudsman for grievances relating to electricity. A senior official said in one case where a new transformer was proposed to be erected on MGR Street in Velachery, a resident complained to the police resulting in heated arguments and tension in the locality. Finally, senior officials pacified the property owners and a different spot was selected, he rued. A senior official of Tangedco said although the transformers and pillar boxes would ensure stable electricity supply, especially in localities affected by power fluctuation, residents threw hurdles in the work. Meanwhile, social activist V. Rama Rao has urged Tangedco to implement the project in Nanganallur and Palavanthangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-faces-hurdles-in-installing-transformers/article35437837.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 44,000 pregnant, 66,000 lactating women inoculated||COVID-19 vaccination of pregnant and lactating women is in progress throughout the State. So far, nearly 44,000 pregnant women and 66,000 lactating women have been inoculated. According to data from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 43,855 pregnant women received their COVID-19 vaccines up to July 18 in the State. Among them, 43,796 were administered their first dose and 59 women, who had received their first dose when they were not pregnant, received their due second dose after becoming pregnant. A total of 65,929 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to lactating mothers in the State. Among the 46 health unit districts, Villupuram had the highest coverage of pregnant women so far at 3,108 followed by Ariyalur with 3,070. The vaccination was slightly slow paced in Chennai, where 867 pregnant women were covered so far. The least coverage was in Chengalpattu and Ramanathapuram where 14 and 49 women were vaccinated respectively. As far as coverage of lactating women was considered, Coimbatore and Tiruppur vaccinated over 6,000 women each followed by Attur and Salem with a little over 4,000 women each. In Chennai, 2,680 women were vaccinated. In fact, when compared to a number of districts, the Nilgiris did considerably well in the vaccination coverage of both antenatal women (2,479) and lactating women (3,603). Good response T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said the response for COVID-19 vaccination was good among antenatal women and lactating mothers, and hoped that it would improve in the coming days. “We are trying to focus on antenatal women specifically,” he said. While he stressed on the vital role played by counselling in the vaccination of pregnant and lactating women, he said the government facilitates vaccination, and everyone has a role right from beneficiary, family, treating physician and community in improving vaccination coverage. A health official said that in rural areas, village health nurses (VHN) liaise closely with pregnant and lactating women as a result of which there was no reluctance to get vaccinated. “VHNs register pregnant women on the Pregnant and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation system and have a linelist. They follow this list, and mobilise antenatal women for vaccination at primary health centres. They similarly follow-up with lactating mothers,” he said. “We have the contact numbers of antenatal women in the area of our work. When we contact them for vaccination, most of them are willing to get vaccinated,” said an Accredited Social Health Activist.  Among the 46 health unit districts, Villupuram had the highest coverage of pregnant women so far at 3,108, followed by Ariyalur with 3,070||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-44000-pregnant-66000-lactating-women-inoculated/article35437339.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 survivor treated for thrombosis||Doctors at Gleneagles Global Health City (GGHC) hospital here successfully treated a 52-year-old woman who developed blood clots in the arteries on her right leg post recovery from COVID-19, thereby avoiding the possibility of having to amputate her leg. A release from the hospital said the woman, a diabetic who underwent treatment at a hospital in Pollachi for about two weeks after testing positive for COVID-19, developed pain in her right leg. When she was referred to the hospital after the pain increased, she lacked sensation and pulse on her leg and her toes had turned dark, indicating imminent onset of gangrene. Diagnosis revealed that she had developed thrombosis on the vessels supplying blood to her right leg. A team led by I. Rajkumar, senior consultant vascular surgeon at the hospital, surgically removed the clots through incisions in the right groin and behind the knee, the statement said. Warning signs Dr. Rajkumar said the timely intervention saved the woman’s limb. He said that there had been a significant spike in such cases due to COVID-19. The senior surgeon said it was important to treat such conditions at the earliest to prevent amputation of limbs. “Discolouration, leg pain and loss of sensation are the red flags that need immediate clinical intervention,” he added. Alok Khullar, CEO of the hospital, congratulated the team for the effective intervention, without which he said that the woman would have lost her leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-survivor-treated-for-thrombosis/article35437310.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth swaps woman’s ATM card, arrested||A youth was arrested on Tuesday on charges of cheating a woman of Rs. 1.99 lakh by swapping her debit card with another card at an ATM in North Beach police station limits. The police said P. Suganthi, 45, working in Chennai Collectorate, tried to withdraw cash from an ATM located between Rajaji Salai and Yerrabalu Chetti Street in the morning. Unable to carry out the transaction, she sought the help of a youth who was standing outside the kiosk. Pretending to help her, the youth checked the balance after getting her PIN. He surreptitiously swapped her card with another one. He told her that it was not possible to withdraw cash due to a technical fault. As she was in a hurry to reach her office, Ms. Suganthi did not notice that her card had been swapped. The youth withdrew Rs. 1 lakh using her card at another ATM and bought gold jewellery from a shop in Purasawalkam by swiping the card. Ms. Suganthi was shocked to receive SMS alerts about the transactions and lodged a complaint with the police. The police arrested Chandan Sahani, 28, of Bihar, and recovered Rs. 24,000 and 10 ATM cards from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-swaps-womans-atm-card-arrested/article35437318.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Opposition making a mountain out of a molehill on Pegasus’||The demand for a judicial inquiry into the Pegasus phone hacking issue is politically motivated and there has been no hacking or spying of anyone’s phone nor are there any conversations to prove such hacking, Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai claimed on Tuesday. Mr. Annamalai said a judicial inquiry could be ordered if there is any authenticity to the claims. “For everything, just for political gains, you want a judicial inquiry means there can be 20,000 such inquiries all the time in this country. If there’s any authenticity to these claims, there can be a judicial inquiry. There’s no basis for these allegations,” he said. According to him, the Opposition parties were making a mountain out of a molehill. He accused Amnesty International “of targeting India to defame the country and of leaking the data to the online portal that has been criticising the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country, many times without any proof”. He said just because a number was present in a database did not mean it was hacked into. Mr. Annamalai said the BJP welcomed Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s efforts to invite President Ram Nath Kovind for various functions, including the 75th Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-making-a-mountain-out-of-a-molehill-on-pegasus/article35437471.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure education loans are granted to students’||In the wake of reports citing a 39% fall in education loans extended by banks to students in Tamil Nadu, Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday urged the Central and State governments to ensure that banks granted education loans to students who have recently passed their Class XII exams. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss cited the Class XII examination results published on Monday and the expected publishing of the Class XII exam results for CBSE students in the next few days. He contended that students’ higher education largely depended on education loans from banks. “It is disappointing to note reports about banks hesitating to extend education loans, citing the economic slowdown due to COVID-19. Though it is true that the average income of parents have come down, it is not just to deny educational opportunities to the children,” Dr. Ramadoss contended. Tamil Nadu stood first among the big States in terms of the number of educational institutions and also in the enrolment of students in higher education, and granting of education loans by banks was one of the primary reasons behind the trend, Dr. Ramadoss pointed out. About 21.5% or Rs. 20,200 crore of the total Rs. 94,000 crore of education loans granted to students across the country was in Tamil Nadu, he said. When compared to 2019-20, the education loans granted during 2020-21 were fewer in Tamil Nadu. It was Rs. 2,420 crore during the last fiscal and fell to Rs. 1,478 crore this fiscal, a drop of 39%, he noted. “The figures show that about 40% have been denied higher education last year. If this continues, the education loans will fall further this year. More students will not be able to obtain loans and will thereby lose their higher education,” Dr. Ramadoss contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-education-loans-are-granted-to-students/article35437493.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for robbing elderly woman||Three persons, who posed as good samaritans and robbed an elderly woman of gold ornaments, were arrested on Tuesday in the Thiruvanmiyur police station limits. The police said Tamilarasi, 70, a resident of Nethaji Nagar, was sitting on a platform near the Thiruvanmiyur RTO office. Three men, who arrived by an autorickshaw, approached her, offering to give her free blankets. They took her to the autorickshaw and robbed her of ear and nose rings and her gold thaali . Based on her complaint, the police traced the accused and nabbed them. Their names were given as Dheena alias Kuthirai Dheena, 22, Sathya alias Balamurugan, 28, and Anwar, 36, of Besant Nagar. The police recovered the gold articles which were snatched from the elderly woman and also the autorickshaw that was used for committing the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-robbing-elderly-woman/article35437317.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pension Adalat held||A Pension Adalat was conducted on Tuesday through a webinar by the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation, Regional Offices, Chennai North and Chennai South, for the beneficiaries of EPS 1995. Twenty-one pensioners attended the webinar, which was conducted by Sudhir Kumar Jaiswal, Regional P.F. Commissioner-11 (Pension). All their grievances were resolved immediately, a press release from C. Amudha, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner-I, Regional Office, Chennai North said. P. Srinivasan, Assistant P.F. Commissioner (Pension), was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-adalat-held/article35437306.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Gold worth Rs. 40.35 lakh has been seized by the Chennai Air Customs at the airport. Chandru Sakthivel, 23, of Villuppuram, who arrived from Dubai and concealed 810 g gold paste, was arrested, the press release said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized/article35437307.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special team nabs gangster at gunpoint||Napoleon, 41, a gangster wanted in more than 20 cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion, was arrested at gunpoint by a special police team in Chennai. Led by the Deputy Commissioner (Washermenpet), the team arrested Napoleon, classified as one of the 10 most wanted rowdies in the city. The arrest was part of a crackdown ordered by Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal. Napoleon is an associate of wanted criminals, including ‘Kakka Thoppu’ Balaji and Sambav Senthil. He had been absconding for long and a couple of non-bailable warrants were pending against him. When the police surrounded him on East Coast Road, the gangster took to his heels and “fell down and broke his leg”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-team-nabs-gangster-at-gunpoint/article35437315.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS, Sasikala separately visit ailing party leader||The ailing chairperson of the AIADMK’s presidium and former Minister, E. Madhusudanan, remains under intensive care at Apollo Hospitals here, according to the party. On its Twitter handle, the party called upon people not to believe rumours regarding his health. Around 12.30 p.m., former Chief Minister and the party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami visited the hospital to enquire about the condition of Mr. Madhusudanan. He was immediately followed by the party’s former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala. Earlier, O. Panneerselvam, AIADMK coordinator, met the party presidium’s chairperson. On Monday, Mr. Palaniswami, while talking to reporters in Salem, accused Ms. Sasikala of spreading “lies deliberately” and reiterated that the party had “no relationship” with her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-sasikala-separately-visit-ailing-party-leader/article35437346.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Take steps to expand cultivable land’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a review meeting with officials of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department and told them to take steps to ensure that additional cultivation is made on 11.75 lakh hectares of land in the next 10 years so that the extent of cultivable lands is increased from 60% to 75%. ‘Maintain stocks’ Stocks of seeds and fertilizers should be maintained and properly distributed to the farmers, he said. To increase the cultivation of cotton and sunflower, the Chief Minister asked the department to ensure that proper equipment was available to the farmers. The State should be among the top cultivators in the country. Stating that Uzhavar Sandhais or farmer markets should continue to function well, Mr. Stalin said the department should look at opening new markets as well as effectively revive those that had stopped functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-expand-cultivable-land/article35437324.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State working on a Data Centre Policy||The State government will soon come out with a Tamil Nadu Data Centre Policy. Guidance Tamil Nadu, a government agency tasked with investment promotion, and the Departments of Industries and Information and Technology are working on the policy that will strengthen the ecosystem for data centre companies. At Investment Conclave 2021, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin signed memoranda of understanding with the Singapore-based CapitaLand and Web Werks involving Rs. 1,900 crore in investments. The two data centres will be set up at Ambattur. In the last two years, the State has signed memoranda of understanding with 9 companies for opening data centres on a proposed total investment of Rs. 16,927 crore and with the potential of creating more than 9,000 jobs. Guidance Tamil Nadu is in discussions with data centre companies across the world and other technology companies to launch operations in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-working-on-a-data-centre-policy/article35437329.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Camp to collect e-waste at Kasturba Nagar||Residents of the Kasturba Association, in partnership with the World Scrap Recycling Solutions, is organising a special camp for collecting all kinds of electronic waste. The special camp, which is part of an annual programme, will be conducted at the community hall on 2nd Main Road, Kasturba Nagar, Adyar, between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. on July 24 and 25. An office-bearer of the association said the drive was to complement the efforts of the Greater Chennai Corporation in collecting e-waste, including hazardous material, and handing it over to the empanelled recycler rather than sending it to the landfill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camp-to-collect-e-waste-at-kasturba-nagar/article35437314.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Make monthly reading of power charges’||Former Electricity Minister P. Thangamani on Tuesday demanded that the DMK government implement its electoral promise of carrying out monthly reading of electricity consumption for domestic consumers. In a statement, he referred to complaints of several consumers having been billed two or three times the ordinary amount as consumption charges, with another stipulation of having to pay the deposit amount accordingly. He found fault with the government for taking March 2019 as the reference period for making the payment towards power bills of 2021. He recalled that when COVID-19 came in the way of assessors carrying out readings, the then AIADMK regime decided that January 2020 would be the reference period. He added that for the last few days, people in southern districts such as Dindigul, Madurai and Tiruneveli had been experiencing disruptions in power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-monthly-reading-of-power-charges/article35437468.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Highways engineer to compensate for demolishing structure in violation of court order||An Assistant Divisional Engineer in the State Highways Department has come forward to pay a compensation of Rs. 50,000 for having demolished a temporary super structure, housing a hollow bricks manufacturing unit, at Mettur in Salem district despite a restraint order passed by the Madras High Court. While passing interim orders on a contempt of court petition filed against the engineer, Justices M. Duraiswamy and R. Hemalatha recorded her submission that the super structure was demolished by mistake on December 31, 2020 and she would pay the compensation within three days. The ADE, Kothai, said she went by the instructions issued by her superiors to demolish the structure though the court had on December 7 directed her to consider a representation made by the hollow bricks unit owner Kavitha and not to demolish the structure until the disposal of the representation. Now, realising that her act amounted to contempt of court, she agreed to make amends by compensating the litigant. The petitioner's counsel V. Elangovan too told the court that his client was willing to accept the compensation. Therefore, the judges adjourned the contempt plea to Friday for making the payment .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highways-engineer-to-compensate-for-demolishing-structure-in-violation-of-court-order/article35437477.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister Madhusudanan hospitalised||AIADMK presidium chairperson and former Minister E. Madhusudanan is in intensive care at the Apollo Hospitals on Greames Road in Chennai, the party said. The party called upon the people not to believe rumours regarding his health. Party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala visited the hospital separately to enquire about Mr. Madhusudanan’s condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madhusudanan-hospitalised/article35437469.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Japanese language course||The language school of the Indo-Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry has opened admissions for the Japanese language freshers course N5 — spoken and written Japanese. Classes will be held online on Sundays from 9 a.m. to noon from August 1. Candidates can call 24354779/48556140, emailindo-japan @ijcci.comor visitwww.ijcci.comfor details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/japanese-language-course/article35437313.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn.’s spending on vehicles back in focus||The money that the Coimbatore Corporation had spent on maintaining heavy vehicles is back in news, thanks to a State Information Commission order to the civic body. The Commission, on July 2, 2021, issued the order based on an appeal preferred by activist S.P. Thiyagarajan, who had sought from the Corporation the bills for the Rs. 53.96 crore it had spent between 2014-15 and 2017-18 on maintaining heavy vehicles. The Commission directed the Corporation to reply by furnishing bill copies to Mr. Thiyagarajan before July 21 and asked the latter to report to it if the civic body failed to do so. As of July 20, the activist said he had not heard from the Corporation. The information battle between the activist and the Corporation began on January 1, 2020 when he had under the Right to Information Act sought from the Assistant Commissioner-Accounts (ACA) the bill copies for the money spent in those four years. The ACA forwarded the RTI query to the assistant commissioners of the five zones saying he could not furnish the information as it was the zonal offices that maintained the accounts related to heavy vehicle maintenance. Of the five, three responded by providing the money spent and not the bill copies. The assistant commissioners of Central and West zones did not respond. This forced Mr. Thiyagarajan to file an appeal with the first appellate officer/Deputy Commissioner, who, after furnishing only the money spent in the two zones, said it was impossible to share the bill copies. The reason the Deputy Commissioner cited was that the volume of information was heavy, the collection of such information would hamper the day-to-day work and the demand for bill copies was aimed at disrupting the routine functions. This forced the activist-petitioner to move the Commission, the second appellate authority under the RTI Act. In his appeal of September 4, 2020, Mr. Thiyagarajan sought a direction to the Corporation to furnish the bill copies and levy penalty to the officers concerned for not sharing bill copies, furnishing wrong details, and attempting to prevaricate. He said it was unfortunate that the Commission, after a delay of 10 months, had only asked the Corporation to furnish bill copies and not punished the errant officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpns-spending-on-vehicles-back-in-focus/article35437352.ece
21 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Innovation challenge for COVID-19 vaccination||Coimbatore Corporation and StartupTN, the nodal agency to nurture startups in Tamil Nadu, have launched an open innovation challenge on “Crowd Management for COVID-19 Vaccination Drive.” Grace Lalrindiki Pachuau, Mission Director for StartupTN, said startups could submit the solutions for the challenge by July 25 onwww.startuptn.in Crowd regulation for COVID-19 vaccination was a major challenge for the civic body as people wanted to book slots in person at the vaccination spot or through different digital platforms. They also need the booking service available in Tamil. So, the solution should be an integrated system where those with digital literacy could book slots online, those who were not comfortable doing so could access the helpline number, and people could also walk in to a vaccination centre and take tokens. Since it took time to issue tokens manually, there were crowds sometimes. The token should be generated and mapped to an individual through any authentication method. It should also reduce the data entry work to generate COWIN certificate and eradicate manipulation of date for the second dose, she said. The challenge offers Rs. 2 lakh as prize money for winning entries and Amazon Web Services credits worth $ 5000. For details, contact: support@startuptn.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/innovation-challenge-for-covid-19-vaccination/article35437491.ece
21 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vanathi alleges diversion of vaccine doses to pvt. hospitals||Claiming that COVID-19 vaccine doses supplied by the Central government were being diverted to private hospitals in Coimbatore, BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan has urged the State government to look into it. “Our cadre have informed us that it is occurring in a few locations. We have asked for evidence,” she told mediapersons on Monday. Asserting that the Central government had allocated adequate vaccine doses for the district, she added that the State government must ensure that all vaccine doses reached the public. On the ‘Kongu Nadu’ controversy, Ms. Srinivasan said the BJP did not seek the bifurcation of the State. However, she added that the party might look into this issue in the future depending on how the State government managed to address the needs and aspirations of people in the western districts. The Central government would soon release the facts regarding the alleged snooping by the Pegasus spyware, she said. Ms. Srinivasan attended a condolence meeting in Coimbatore on Monday to mark the ninth death anniversary of former State general secretary of the BJP, ‘Auditor’ V. Ramesh, who was hacked to death on July 19, 2013 in Salem. She urged the State government to expedite the investigations in this murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanathi-alleges-diversion-of-vaccine-doses-to-pvt-hospitals/article35437353.ece
21 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Taxi aggregators not revising fares: drivers||Over a hundred taxi drivers staged a demonstration here on Tuesday accusing private taxi aggregators of not revising the trip fares though the drivers face financial hardships due to COVID-19-induced lockdown and fuel price hike. The drivers parked their cars on the Codissia Trade Fair Complex grounds as part of the demonstration. T. Soundararajan, a Coimbatore-based taxi owner who was one of the coordinators of the demonstration, told mediapersons the State government must fix the fares for taxis as the taxi aggregators had allegedly been taking nearly 43% of the fare for a given trip through taxes and commissions. The government must also consider operating the taxis themselves to support the drivers, he added. If no action was taken against the aggregators, the drivers would stage a protest across the State by returning their voter identity cards and ration cards to the respective District Collectors, Mr. Soundararajan said. On June 30, a section of taxi drivers uninstalled the mobile applications of the two popular taxi aggregators in protest demanding a hike in their share of the trip fares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taxi-aggregators-not-revising-fares-drivers/article35437355.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop demolition of ancient temples’||The ongoing drive to demolish ancient temples with rich history and legacy, in the name of removal of encroachments, will only result in people losing confidence in the State government, religious leaders said here on Tuesday. In Coimbatore city, three temples on the banks of Muthannankulam had been demolished. While one of the temples was 100 years old, the other one was 125 years old, they claimed. The plea has been placed by a federation of Hindu religious heads -- Perur Adhinam Shantalinga Marudhachala Adigalar, Siravai Adhinam Gowmara Mutt Kumaragurupara Swamigal, Manikanda Swamigal of Varahi Peetam and Sri Shivalingeshwara Swamigal of Kamatchipuri Adhinam. Worshipping gods and goddesses along the river and tank bunds was a Hindu tradition. Therefore, a temple should not be seen as an encroachment, they said. The State government could consult religious heads and look for ways to shift the temples. The heads would provide guidance adhering to Agama rules. However, the official machinery was demolishing Hindu temples indiscriminately, they alleged. Not only in Coimbatore, a 300-year-old Poo Mariamman Temple near Basin Bridge railway station in Chennai and a 200-year-old Deivamada Vazhavandthal temple in Ilandhiyendal of Madurai district were also razed, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-demolition-of-ancient-temples/article35437362.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State launches free vaccination with CSR funds at pvt. hospitals||Intensifying its efforts to vaccinate the maximum number of people against COVID-19, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday launched an initiative for free vaccination of members of the public through private hospitals using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds from private companies. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian launched the initiative in Coimbatore after a meeting with representatives of 117 private hospitals from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and Salem. He said various hospitals donated Rs. 61.45 lakh towards the initiative, and 7,878 doses of Covishield would be procured with the sum and administered free of cost through private hospitals soon. “Private institutions and industries supported the government enormously by procuring equipment for COVID-19 management and contributing towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Those who wish to support the free vaccination drive through private hospitals can inform the Collectors of their willingness,” Mr. Subramanian said. The Collectors would coordinate these vaccination drives. Details of the private company or institution that sponsored a drive would be publicised at the private hospital concerned. He said the government launched the drive because private hospitals were not using the vaccine doses allotted to them fully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-launches-free-vaccination-with-csr-funds-at-pvt-hospitals/article35437321.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||7,008 students admitted to Corporation schools||A total of 7,008 students have got admission to schools run by the Coimbatore Corporation in the 2021-22 academic year. A release from the civic body said it had admitted 3,207 students to higher secondary schools, 570 to high schools, 1,011 students to higher elementary and middle schools and 2,220 students to elementary schools. The schools had Tamil and English as medium of instruction and were equipped with smart boards, safe drinking water system, laboratories, computer labs and several such facilities, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7008-students-admitted-to-corporation-schools/article35437358.ece
21 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body looks at smart fleet management||The Commission’s direction to the Corporation comes at a time when the latter is looking at trimming expenditure. Sources engaged in the cost-cutting exercise said the money the civic body spent on fuel on heavy commercial vehicles and light commercial vehicles worked out to Rs. 25 crore a year. This was as per the 2018-19 financial statement. In the two years, the expenditure should have increased by 5% to 10%. The Corporation was thoroughly studying the vehicle movement, looking at GPS data of vehicles fitted with the devices and planning to fit GPS on vehicles without those. The Corporation was also thinking of improving the efficiency and utility of those vehicles. This was a comprehensive exercise, given the fact that the civic body need to cut cost and that too immediately as the financial position was fragile, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-looks-at-smart-fleet-management/article35437359.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five held for sexual assault||The All Women Police, Pollachi, on Tuesday arrested five persons on charges of sexually assaulting and impregnating a 14-year-old girl. The police said the girl, hailing from a village near Pollachi, was in love with her neighbour, a 16-year-old boy. They had physical relationship in the absence of the girl’s parents at her house and the boy had revealed this to his friends. The five other neighbours, including a relative of the girl, sexually assaulted her in January and February, after threatening her that they would disclose her affair with the 16-year-old boy. The incidents came to light when the girl complained of stomach pain and was taken to a hospital at Pollachi. The doctors found that the girl was pregnant. The girl told the police that she was sexually assaulted by a total of six persons, including two minor boys and her relative, on various occasions. The police arrested five persons -- the 16-year-old boy with whom she had an affair, a 17-year-old boy, and three others aged 19, 20 and 31 -- for offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. They were produced before the Special Court for POCSO Act cases on Tuesday. A sixth accused, aged 20, was yet to be arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-sexual-assault/article35437348.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Teak wood seized||The Forest Department seized 17 teak trees that were cut and transported from a private land near Coimbatore without obtaining proper permission from the Department. Environmental enthusiast K. Syed alerted the Department after he found that the axed trees were transported from Kovaipudur to Tiruchi Road in Coimbatore late on Monday. Madukkarai forest range officer Srinivasan said the trees were cut from the land belonging to a person at Kovaipudur. The officer said the owner did not know that permission was required for its felling and transportation. The Forest Department has registered a case against the land owner and the lorry driver under Section 35 of timber transport rule of Tamil Nadu Forest Act 1882, the officer said. Online District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said permission was required for transporting scheduled timber like teak. It could be applied through simple procedures online, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teak-wood-seized/article35437492.ece
21 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Western region attracts investments||The western districts are all set to see nearly Rs. 5,000 crore investment as five companies signed Memoranda of Understanding with the State government on Tuesday. According to a press release, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and Salem districts will see new investments in textiles, automobile components, renewable energy, and aerospace sectors.  JSW Renew Energy Two Limited, Srivaru Motors, Arthanari Loom Centre, Premier Fine Linen, and Arcv Holdings signed the agreements on Tuesday. Foundation laid Foundation was also laid for Ansell Sterile’s unit at SIPCOT, Perundurai, to make sterile gloves. And, Coral Manufacturing Works’ unit, set up at an investment of Rs. 200 crore, at Modakurichi in Erode district was inaugurated, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/western-region-attracts-investments/article35437363.ece
21 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Assault charge: case against 15 persons||The Race Course Police here have registered a case against 15 persons in connection with an alleged assault at the meeting of the Church of South India (CSI), Coimbatore diocese on Monday. The police said the case was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by M. Nesa Merlin (36), administrative committee member of CSI Coimbatore diocese, that he was assaulted at the meeting. Burglars strike at house Burglars broke into a house of a government employee near Sulur and took away Rs. 6 lakh and 5.5 sovereigns of jewellery. The Sulur police have formed a special team to arrest the burglars. The police said the burglars got into the house of Sreenivasan at G.K.S. Nagar sometime between 6 p.m. on Saturday and 8.40 p.m. on Sunday when the family members were off to Bhavani in Erode. The family returned around 8.40 p.m. on Sunday and found that the jewellery and cash were stolen. Sulur Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assault-charge-case-against-15-persons/article35437366.ece
21 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Work on drinking water project in Cuddalore gains momentum||Work on laying of pipelines for a Combined Water Supply Scheme (CWSS), with water from Mines II in Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited (NLCIL) as source, has gained momentum. In the past two months, about 20% of the total pipeline network of 900 km has been laid in Kurunjipadi and Vadalur in Cuddalore district. Once complete, about 625 rural habitations in Thittakudi, Pennadam, Mangalampettai, Vadalur, Kurunjipadi, Vriddhachalam, Mangalur and Nallur will receive piped water supply. The CWSS is being executed by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) with financial assistance from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) at a cost of Rs. 479 crore. According to a senior official of TWAD, the scheme is aimed at providing 55 litres of water every day to people in 625 rural habitations and 135 litres to people in six town panchayats — Thittakudi, Pennadam, Mangalampettai, Vadalur, Kurunjipadi and Gangaikondan. “The base year of the scheme is 2022, when it is intended to benefit 5.58 lakh people. The number of beneficiaries will increase to 6.68 lakh in 2037, and finally to 7.91 lakh in 2052. About 39.43 million litres a day (MLD) will be supplied in 2052,” he said. Under the scheme, water would be drawn from the mines in NLCIL and would be routed through pipelines to the water treatment plant at Kizhvalayamadevi, with a capacity of 31.26 MLD. Later, the treated water will be distributed through the pipeline network. A 22 lakh litres storage will be created at Kizhvalayamadevi while four booster stations will come up at Pudhukooraipettai, Kothattai, Kottaram and Avatti. Additionally, 176 overhead watertanks will be built for the project, which is expected to be completed by August 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-drinking-water-project-in-cuddalore-gains-momentum/article35437779.ece
21 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||85 test positive in Cuddalore||Cuddalore on Tuesday reported 85 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s tally to 59,676. The district recorded 57,943 recoveries and 840 active cases. Villupuram reported one death and 24 fresh cases, taking the total in the district to 43,442. The official death toll stood at 337. In Kallakurichi, 48 persons tested positive, taking the overall count to 25,891.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/85-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article35437771.ece
21 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Hero stone discovered near Harur||A Pallava era hero stone traced to the 7th century was discovered by a group of archaeology enthusiasts in Kookudapatty village near Harur. It is third the in the line of hero stones discovered in the same location and bearing the name of Eachuvaravaraman, a Pallava ruler. The hero stone was discovered by Yaakai Foundation, a local archaeology collective. The group of Arun Kumar, Sudhakar Nalliappan and Kumaravel Ramasamy were visiting Kookudapatty village, 10 km off Harur to document hero stones, when they found the hero stone kept for worship. Mr. Ramasamy told The Hindu the hero stone was found by a local family, while clearing an agricultural field. The stone was moved to be kept alongside two other hero stones that were discovered earlier in the village for worship. The hero stones were erected valorising the martyrdom of those men, who had fought to claim pastoral lands in the conflicts that arose between clans that contested over pastoral lands in the area, says Mr. Ramasamy. While the group spotted the hero stone around February, they had it vetted by R. Poongundran, retired Assistant Director of Archaeology well-versed in the study of hero stones across the State. The latest hero stone of Kookudapatty is of 120 cm height and 115 cm width. Written in Tamil Brahmi script, the hero stone speaks of the death of a lieutenant of one Vanaathiarasar, during a conflict and his death in the conflict. Two more hero stones were recovered from the same area, says Mr. Poongundran. An earlier hero stone bears the name “Paramthaayar, which literally would mean big family taking after the word “Param”. The name was that of a clan chief, or chief of a pastoral land nurtured along river banks, according to Mr. Poongundran. While all the three hero stones were attributed to the rule of Eachuvara Varman, the names in the hero stones is supposed to have been that of the local chiefs, who directly led the people, says Mr. Poongundran. The hero stones were found on the northern flank of the Kalvarayan hills, which is a pastoral area. They valorise the death of a leader to protect life and property and are direct historical documents of a people under a ruler. Yaakai Foundation comprising of 10 members had been documenting hero stones, rock arts and megalithic sites, especially in Kogu region, says Mr. Kumaravel. “We have so far documented over 1,000 hero stones and this region is particularly known for its hero stones. Dharmapuri has an exclusive museum for hero stones,” says Mr. Kumaravel, a science graduate who gravitated to archaeology after a diploma in archaeology and epigraphy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hero-stone-discovered-near-harur/article35437473.ece
21 July 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Explanation sought from teachers||The teachers of a panchayat union middle school at A. Kurumbapatti near Chinnalapatti in Dindigul district, who conducted classes for their students on July 16 in defiance of the government order to keeep the schools closed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, have been instructed to give an explanation, Education Department officials said here on Tuesday. District Education Officer P Thirunavukarasu had sought explanation from the teachers, an official said and added that all the schools have been informed through a circular to ensure that the campuses remained closed as per the order from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explanation-sought-from-teachers/article35437467.ece
21 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Permanent solution to pollution will be worked out: Minister||With textile processing units continuing to discharge untreated effluents into canals that enter River Cauvery, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy said a permanent solution would be found to the problem. Closing down polluting units was, however, not the solution. The Minister told mediapersons that while pollution in the Cauvery, Kalingarayan Canal and other canals affected the people, industries too should not be affected. Steps were being taken to implement projects that would solve the pollution issue, he said. After laying the foundation for new buildings that would be built at Rs. 32.39 crore at Nethaji Vegetable Market, he said a model vegetable market, which would be the biggest in the State, would be established here. District Collector H. Krishnanunni and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan were present. The Minister said the government’s move to establish a textile university in the district was held up owing to non-availability of land. He said encroachers of water bodies would be moved out only after ensuring alternative houses were available for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permanent-solution-to-pollution-will-be-worked-out-minister/article35437489.ece
21 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Six held for performing child marriage||Two persons who married a minor girl and four others who performed the wedding were arrested by the police here on Tuesday. On Monday, a newly-wed couple went to the All Women Police Station at Bhavani and sought protection from relatives who opposed the wedding. The bridegroom was identified as V. Ajith (21) of Kaveripatti in Salem district. The girl’s parents Appusamy (48) and Nagamani (34) of Bhavani in Erode arrived at the station. They told the police that their daughter was married to Kamaraj (34) of Mettur in Salem district seven months ago. They alleged that after Kamaraj and their daughter came to their house for the Aadi festival on July 16, Ajith had lured the girl into marrying him. District Child Protection Unit officials held inquiries. Based on a complaint, a case was registered under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The police arrested Ajith and Kamaraj for marrying the minor girl. Besides Appusamy and Nagamani, the police also arrested Kamaraj’s parents Vadivel and Govindammal for performing child marriage. Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress – 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-performing-child-marriage/article35437482.ece
21 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Helpline launched to report civic issues in Erode||The Erode Corporation on Tuesday launched a helpline number for the residents to lodge complaints related to civic issues. The civic body provides services such as drinking water supply, public sanitation, street lights, maintenance of roads and drainage channels to the residents and commercial establishments in the city. The new facility enables residents to take up civic issues with the Corporation round the clock, said the officials. They said the complaints received on the Whatsapp number 94890 92000 would be forwarded to the officials and steps would be taken to solve it immediately. The helpline was launched by Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-launched-to-report-civic-issues-in-erode/article35437487.ece
21 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||VAO held for graft||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Tuesday arrested the Village Administrative Officer of Vadugapatti A village in Arachalur police station limits for demanding bribe to issue patta. A 35-year-old woman of North Street, Vadugapatti, approached M. Vetrivel (30) for name change in patta. He had demanded Rs. 19,000 and received the same. However, he again demanded Rs. 10,000 for issuing patta. The woman alerted the DVAC. On Tuesday, a DVAC team nabbed Vetrivel. An inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vao-held-for-graft/article35437475.ece
21 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Flying squads to check for violations in buildings under construction||Flying squads will be formed to inspect constructions of new buildings at each stage, so that violation of the layout or building approval is identified and rectified at the initial stage, said S. Muthusamy, Minister for Housing and Urban Development, in Erode on Tuesday. The Minister told presspersons that at present only after the completion of works, officials inspected the building to check for violations and to issue the completion certificate. “Instead of doing so, flying squads will inspect the building at each stage to check for compliance and issue notices if violations found,” he said. “The Chief Minister has instructed that layout or building approval should be given within 45 working days and there should be no violations, ” he said. Minister Muthusamy added that steps were being taken to ensure that approval was given within the stipulated time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squads-to-check-for-violations-in-buildings-under-construction/article35437481.ece
21 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance redress meet||The monthly farmers’ grievance redress meeting will be held via video conferencing at 10.30 a.m. on July 23, said Collector H. Krishnanunni. A press release said that farmers and representatives of farmers’ associations can participate in the meeting at the Office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture in each taluks or from the Office of the Joint Director of Agriculture at Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-redress-meet/article35437478.ece
21 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water release in Kalingarayan Canal||The State government has announced the release of water from Bhavanisagar Dam into Kalingarayan Canal for the purpose of irrigation for 120 days starting July 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-release-in-kalingarayan-canal/article35437483.ece
21 July 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Minister promises dyeing park, airport||Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji on Tuesday said that steps would be taken to establish an integrated dyeing park in Karur. Speaking at a meeting of textile manufacturers and exporters at Textile Park here in the presence of Minister for Handlooms and Textile R. Gandhi, Mr. Balaji said textile owners had to depend on dyeing units in the neighbouring districts for the dyeing process. If the infrastructure was available in Karur, it would bring down the overhead cost of textile manufacturing to an extent. Hence, he would take up the demand of the textile manufactures on the need to set up an integrated dyeing park. Mr. Senthil Balaji said Karur had emerged as one of the highest foreign exchange earners to the country. Many traders, merchants and manufacturers had been visiting various countries for business trips. The DMK had promised establishment of an airport in Karur. Needed steps would be taken towards the end. Mr. Gandhi said Rs. 450 crore worth of textile was being exported to various countries from the Textile Park. It had given employment opportunities to 4,500 people. The DMK government would take all possible steps to boost textile and handlooms manufacturing. Beela Rajesh, Commissioner, Textile and Handlooms, T. Prabhu Shankar, Collector and senior officials took part in the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-promises-dyeing-park-airport/article35437437.ece
21 July 2021||KOODANKULAM,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen generator installed at GH||Speaker M. Appavu inaugurated the medical-grade oxygen generator in the Koodankulam Government Hospital, which is catering to the needs of people from more than 20 villages, on Tuesday. This is the first oxygen generator installed with the capacity of producing 500 litres a minute in the government hospitals in southern Tamil Nadu and has been sponsored by Larsen and Toubro India. Since L & T is involved in building Kudnakulam Nuclear Power Project’s reactors from 3 to 6, the construction major came forward to install the oxygen generator imported from Turkey and installed on an outlay of Rs. 1.50 crore. The oxygen generator will supply the life-saving gas to the 120 beds in the government hospital. “Following a sharp rise in demand for medical-grade oxygen, this project was conceived by the Collector. Till now, patients had to be rushed to the Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam in Nagercoil or Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Though the number of fresh COVID-19 cases has come down we’re gearing up to face the speculated ‘third wave,’ Mr. Appavu said. He said that adequate quantity of medicines and decent number of oxygen-supported beds were ready now. Collector V. Vishnu, Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, Sivakrishnamurthy, Site Director of KKNPP, Manohar Godbole, Project Director of KKNPP reactors 5 and 6 M.S. Suresh and senior officials of KKNPP and L & T and the doctors of Koodankulam Government Hospital were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-generator-installed-at-gh/article35437466.ece
21 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Six Cooperative spinning mills to be upgraded: Minister||Six cooperative spinning mills in the State will be revamped and upgraded at a cost of Rs. 12 crore, Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi said here on Tuesday. As a prelude to this, the spinning mills in six districts would be reviewed, he said. Among the cooperative spinning mills that are slated for upgrade are the Krishnagiri district Cooperative spinning mill, Uthangarai; Kanniyakumari district cooperative spinning mill, Aralvaimozhi; Thootukudi district Bharathi cooperative spinning mill, Ettayapuram; Theni Anna Cooperative Spinning mill; Pudukottai Cooperative Spinning mill, Aranthangi; and Ramanathapuram Cooperative Spinning mill. Earlier, the minister inspected the district cooperative spinning mill at Uthangarai and said the spinning mill was started during the Sixth Five Year Plan at a capital cost of Rs. 7.30 crore, and had 25,520 spindles. The spinning mill now had 26.21 acres as its property and currently operated with 20,160 spindles. In the intervening period since its inception, the spinning mill had seen an upgrade at a cost of Rs. 28.84 crore. The proposal to upgrade the spinning mills would enhance the productivity at the units and provide the necessary yarn for the government schemes, the minister said. Further, a well-functioning mill would ensure employment for the workers, he said. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy and Principal Secretary and Textile Commissioner Beela Rajesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-cooperative-spinning-mills-to-be-upgraded-minister/article35437368.ece
21 July 2021||KuDANKULAM,TAMIL NADU||Unemployed youth to get training||The Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project is all set to establish a world-class training facility for equipping the unemployed local youth possessing degrees or diplomas in engineering branches with employable skills. The trainees, including those who had given land for the upcoming nuclear park, thus getting moulded through rigorous training sessions will be recruited either by KKNPP or construction major Larsen and Toubro, hired for constructing the nuclear reactors of KKNPP Speaking to reporters at Any Vijay Township, the residential colony of the KKNPP workers and the Russian scientists at Chettikulam, after holding 90-minute-long discussion with Collector V. Vishnu and Site Director, KKNPP, Manohar Godbole on giving preference to the locals in recruitment for various positions of the KKNPP, Speaker M. Appavu said he was keen on creating at least 10,000 jobs a year in this region as the State Government was aiming to create 1 lakh new jobs a year. The KKNPP, which was operating 2 X 1,000 MWe reactors built on an outlay of Rs. 17,000 crore and constructing four more reactors with similar capacity at a cost of Rs. 89,000 crore, had come forward to provide them with skill development training to make unemployed local youths employable and industry-ready. At training facility According to this plan, the KKNPP would train the local youths with the educational qualification of Industrial Training Institute trades, engineering diplomas and engineering degrees in the state-of-the-art training facility. Each batch would have 200 trainees, who would undergo three-month-long training on cutting-edge technologies that would fetch them jobs in the construction sites including the construction of nuclear reactors of KKNPP by Larsen and Toubro. Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi and Site Director of KKNPP would identify the local trainees based on the applications received from the aspirants. Priority for locals The Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project was giving priority to the locals in the recruitment of the staff meant for ‘C’ and ‘D’ category jobs, especially for the land-losers, till 2011 as per the agreement reached earlier but was not honoured in the past ten years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unemployed-youth-to-get-training/article35437464.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take prompt action on ‘CM In Your Constituency’ petitions||Revenue officials must take prompt action on ‘Chief Minister In Your Constituency’ petitions received from the public, said Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran here on Tuesday. He was addressing the media persons, along with Finance Minister P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan, Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy and Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy, after chairing a meeting with the revenue officials of Madurai, Theni and Dindigul districts. Mr. Ramachandran said that 14,567 petitions were received under ‘Chief Minister In Your Constituency’ and the grievance redressed for 5,000 petitions. Officials had been instructed to redress the grievance related to Old Age Pension petitions also promptly. They have been instructed to expedite action on petitions seeking change of name of pattas. The Revenue Divisional Officers and Sub-Collectors must meet in their respective taluks every week to take up and solve the issues in these cases. The officials have also been instructed to expedite the process of removal of encroachments in government lands. “These lands will be used to carry out government projects," said Mr. Ramachandran. Government Orders will be issued to fill up vacancies and on promotions due in the revenue department, he said. When asked about the expansion of Madurai airport, Mr. Ramachandran said that files regarding land acquisition and budget allocation for expansion of Madurai airport will be signed by the Chief Minister in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-prompt-action-on-cm-in-your-constituency-petitions/article35437460.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hard work, determination helps her score high marks||T. S. Sridevi, who secured the highest mark in Class XII examinations among the Madurai Corporation school students, says that hard work and determination were the two key factors which helped her get the high marks. Sridevi, who studied in E Ve Ra Nagamayar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, had scored 574.71 out of 600. The COVID-19 pandemic had caused much confusion and anxiety among students as there was uncertainty over the preparation and conduct of the final examinations. “But, during these tough times, our teachers constantly motivated us to keep preparing for the examinations. For a few months, online classes were held. Even though the classes were not conducted after that, our teachers sent voice notes through WhatsApp, instructing us on how to prepare for the examinations,” she says. Headmistress R. Krishna Kumari says that Sridevi was among the top performers even when she wrote the Class X examinations. “She has been consistently performing well in all her examinations. She is also an obedient student,” she said. Sridevi said that the COVID-19 pandemic had caused financial constraints for her family as her father, who works in a private organisation, did not get his salaries on time. “During these times, I only focused on my goal and worked towards achieving it,” she said. Sridevi, who wants to pursue B.Com., has set her eyes on working in a public sector bank.  Our teachers sent voice notes through WhatsApp, instructing us on how to prepare for the examinations T. S. Sridevi Topper||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hard-work-determination-helps-her-score-high-marks/article35437677.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC orders CB-CID probe into illegal sand quarrying case||Taking into account that several government officials from departments like revenue, police, agriculture and mining facilitated illegal sand quarrying in Tirunelveli district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered a CB-CID probe into the case. It was hearing a batch of petitions that sought direction to the authorities to restrain Manuvel George, a resident of Kerala, from misusing the quarry licence that was granted to him. The petitioners alleged that he was involved in illegal sand theft. Manuvel George had been granted licence for storing and processing rough stone, m-sand, gravel and crusher dust in Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district. But, he had also indulged in illegal sand quarrying in the adjacent land including the Vandala Odai dam. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi took cognisance of the fact that with the connivance of the local revenue and police officials, Manuvel George had been transporting sand and exploiting it for commercial purposes. The State submitted that Tahsildar of Ambasamudram had inspected the site and the illegal activities were ascertained. Subsequently, the Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi inspected the site and levied a penalty to the tune of Rs. 9.5 crore. The registration certificate issued in favour of Manuvel George was cancelled and a criminal case was registered against him. It was said that government officials facilitated the accused in carrying out the illegal activities. The court took note of the fact that several transit passes that were issued by the Mines Department, with and without signatures, and hologram stickers were seized. A register that contained the details of amounts distributed to various officials were also seized. The judges directed the CB-CID to complete the investigation in the case as expeditiously as possible. The court observed that once a permission / licence was granted for quarrying, it is obligatory on the part of the authorities to put in a proper / effective monitoring mechanism. There must be regular inspection or surprise inspection to find out whether the conditions of the permission / licence were strictly complied with. The authorities should explore the possibility of installing CCTV cameras in all quarrying / storage sites that had the permission. A monitoring unit should be assigned at the Taluk, District and State Levels. If such actions were taken by the authorities, coupled with regular, periodical and surprise inspections, these kinds of illegal activities would have been abated, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-cb-cid-probe-into-illegal-sand-quarrying-case-in-tirunelveli/article35437434.ece
21 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Contractor waits for five years to get payment of Rs. 15 lakh||A civil contractor, who had constructed individual toilets for homes in Veppanthattai and V. Kalathur panchayats in Perambalur district, is waiting for settlement of dues amounting to Rs. 15 lakh from the State government for the past five years - despite a Madras High Court order to the government to make the payment within 12 weeks. The government had awarded the contract to Pitchai Pillai for constructing toilets at homes in the panchayat areas under a campaign to prevent open defecation in rural areas. The contractor had built 146 toilets in V. Kalathur panchayat between 2014 and 2016. Despite repeated reminders, he received payment of Rs. 3.97 lakh for 34 toilets only. He contacted the Block Development Officer to get the rest of the payment but to no avail. So, in April 2019, he moved the High Court which directed the government to make payment with 18% interest. In all, the government owed him Rs. 15 lakh. But, still, the money was not paid. The contractor, belonging to a scheduled caste community, had to sell his piece of land to pay the moneylenders since he borrowed money for interest. A Kathir, executive director of Evidence, a non-governmental organisation based in Madurai, said that this is a new kind of crime unleashed against the Dalits. It is atrocious on the part of the authorities. When the court had directed the government to make the payment, the officials did not comply with it. “We will file a contempt petition and pull up the officials,” he said. The State government should order a thorough probe into the non-issuance of payments due to contractors as very recently there were media reports alleging a mega scam behind such non-settlement of dues in Perambalur district during 2015-18, he charged and urged the new government to check the nexus between officials and politicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contractor-waits-for-five-years-to-get-payment-of-rs-15-lakh/article35437675.ece
21 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang murders man||A wordy altercation between a group of friends and a man at a TASMAC outlet near Sedapatti in Madurai district ended in murder. Police said on Tuesday that S. Muthuraja, 33, of Chinna Kattalai near Sedapatti was working as an engineer in Mumbai. He had come home on a 10-day holiday. On Monday evening, he had told his wife Muthumari that he would go out and be back in about an hour. About 7 p.m., she got information that her husband Muthuraja was lying in a pool of blood near her residence. She rushed to the spot with some of her relatives and found him unconscious. When he was taken to Usilampatti Government Hospital, doctors declared him as brought dead. Sedapatti police registered a case of murder. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Muthuraja had been to a TASMAC outlet in the locality and while buying a liquor bottle he had an altercation with some persons. After he left the place inebriated, the gang followed Muthuraja, assaulted him with knives and logs amd left him in an unconscious state. The police secured the five-member gang, which included a juvenile. The weapons they used were seized from them. The body was sent for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-murders-man/article35437454.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Last date extended for online admissions||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date to July 31 for online admissions for the July 2021 session of all its certificate, diploma, PG diploma, degree and PG degree programmes offered through distance learning mode. A press release from IGNOU said that interested candidates can visit the website of the IGNOU atwww.ignou.ac.infor online admissions, or contact the IGNOU Regional Centre in Madurai atrcmadurai@ignou.ac.inor contact 0452 2380775/ 2380733.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-date-extended-for-online-admissions/article35437673.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Key posts lying vacant’||Disposing of a petition that sought a direction to the State government to take steps to fill up the posts of Additional Superintendent and Social Workers in all central jails in the State, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the State to look into the matter. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the State to look into the issue and pass orders. The court disposed of the petition filed by K. R. Raja of Madurai. He said that the posts were lying vacant since 2018. The main function of Additional Superintendents was to check court orders with regard to admission and release of prisoners after verification and checking committal warrants. The Subordinate officers were carrying out these functions due to vacancy in the posts. The posts of Social Workers who offered counselling to prison inmates were also lying vacant, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/key-posts-lying-vacant/article35437458.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to earmark land for medical college dismissed||Dismissing a petition that sought a direction to the State government to reserve 11.11 acres of land adjacent to the Tenkasi Government Hospital for construction of Tenkasi Government Medical College, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took into account the fact that as on date there was no such proposal to establish a medical college in Tenkasi district. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi said that as on date there was no concrete proposal to establish a medical college in Tenkasi district. The court said that it was conscious of the fact that the State government cannot by itself take a decision to have a medical college. The judges said that it required approval of the National Medical Commission and various other authorities. The court dismissed the petition filed by K.S. Ganesan of Tenkasi. Earlier, a similar petition also was dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-earmark-land-for-medical-college-dismissed/article35437834.ece
21 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MSME Sulabh unit opened in bank||The Canara Bank here has opened MSME Sulabh unit at its West Perumal Maistry Street branch. District Industries Centre General Manager Ramalingam presided. The formation of MSME Sulabh would reduce the turnaround time in sanctioning of MSME proposals of Rs. 25 lakh and above. DGM K.S. Pradeep, Region Head Sujit Kumar Sahoo, AGM Sundararajan and Divisional Manager Sujit graced the occasion. Around 100 MSME customers attended the function and loan sanctions to the tune of Rs. 10 crore were given to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-sulabh-unit-opened-in-bank/article35437674.ece
21 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 130.05 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,717 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.29 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,335 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,007 mcft. Thekkadi recorded a rainfall of 1.2 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35437456.ece
21 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||ATM murder: SBI extends help to kin||State Bank of India has extended financial assistance of Rs. 3 lakh on compassionate grounds to the legal heirs of a resident of Koodur in Tiruvarur district who died while preventing a criminal gang from robbing its ATM a month ago. The victim, Tamizharasan, who raised an alarm after noticing the robbery, was stabbed to death by the gang members. At a function organised at State Bank of India’s Regional Business Office in Nagapattinam, Amit Verma, General Manager, SBI, Chennai Circle, handed over the cheque for the amount to the family members of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atm-murder-sbi-extends-help-to-kin/article35437435.ece
21 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||BJP MLA detained||The police arrested 61 BJP cadres including party MLA M.R. Gandhi when they staged demonstration in front of the Corporation office on Tuesday without police permission condemning the poor civic conditions prevailing across Nagercoil. They raised slogans against the pathetic condition of the roads demanding early completion of the protracted underground drainage work and other problems prevailing in the Corporation. They submitted a petition in the Corporation office before being detained. Later, they were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-mla-detained/article35437678.ece
21 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Two injured in elephant attack||A shopkeeper and his daughter sustained injuries in wild elephant attack near Maaraamalai on Tuesday. Sources in the Department of Forest said Manikandan, 39, of Vazhaiyaththuvayal, who is running a shop in Maaraamalai in the Western Ghats near Keeripaarai, was going on his bike to open the shop on Tuesday morning along with his 16-year-old daughter. When they were on their way to Maaraamalai, three elephants were standing on their way. When Mr. Manikandan stopped his bike, one of the elephants attacked his daughter with the trunk in which both of them fell on the ground. While Mr. Manikandan sustained fracture in his leg, his daughter screamed in fear and pain. As the farmers working in the nearby ranches made noise, the elephants moved away from the spot. The father and the daughter have been admitted to a private hospital in Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-injured-in-elephant-attack/article35437835.ece
21 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Valvil Ori Vizha cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic: Minister||Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan said the Valvil Ori Vizha held annually in Kolli Hills has been cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Mathiventhan told presspersons here on Tuesday that the festival had to be cancelled considering the possibilities of a third wave. A press release issued by the district administration on Monday said that the festival, which is generally held on August 2 and 3, has been cancelled this year due to the pandemic. On ensuring internet connectivity to students for online education, Mr.Mathiventhan said that land has been allotted to a private telecommunication firm for setting up towers at Karupancholai and works would begin soon. The Minister said that it had come to their notice that a few persons were instigating children to climb on overhead tanks and trees and he warned that it might turn disastrous. He added that severe action would be taken against such persons. The Minister said the district had received about 1,900 petitions under ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar’ scheme and action has been taken on 689 petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valvil-ori-vizha-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-minister/article35437490.ece
21 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active COVID-19 cases in U.T. drop below the 1,000 mark||Active COVID-19 cases dropped below the 1,000 mark as the Union Territory recorded 78 new cases against 128 recoveries on Tuesday. Puducherry also reported three deaths, taking the toll to 1,781. Puducherry reported two deaths and Karaikal one. The cumulative toll by region was Puducherry 1,417, Karaikal 224, Yanam 104 and Mahe 36. Puducherry reported 54 of the new cases, which were detected from 6,488 tests, followed by Karaikal (17), Yanam (2) and Mahe (5). The test positivity rate declined to a new low of 1.2%, case fatality rate to 1.49% and recovery rate to 97.69%. The active cases numbered 988, with 173 patients in hospitals and 815 in home isolation. The Union Territory reported an aggregate of 1,19,823 cases, against 1,17,054 recoveries. Of an estimated 14.37 lakh tests administered to date, over 12.27 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of people vaccinated in Puducherry was 6,46,111, including 37,697 healthcare workers, 22,950 frontline personnel and 4,56,421 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-covid-19-cases-in-ut-drop-below-the-1000-mark/article35437775.ece
21 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Youth should be ambassadors for vaccination, says L-G||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday appealed to the youth to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and become ambassadors in motivating others to follow suit. Addressing students of the Bharathidasan Government College for Women on the second day of the four-day integrated vaccination drive, she said, “Young people need to get inoculated and become vaccination ambassadors because hesitancy still persists.” She urged the youth to join Puducherry’s efforts at becoming a fully vaccinated Union Territory before Independence Day. Stating that there was no vaccine shortage in Puducherry unlike in other States, Ms. Soundararajan appealed to the people to come forward voluntarily as vaccination could not be made mandatory or compulsory in a democratic nation like India. “A vaccinated person becomes stronger in attaining protection from coronavirus,” she added. She said it was notable that Puducherry had been able to control COVID-19 cases through calibrated lockdown relaxations that also protected people’s livelihoods. The Madras High Court lauded the manner in which the pandemic had been controlled in the Union Territory, she said. According to the Lt. Governor, the government recently launched a special scheme to distribute kits to pregnant women, consisting of health mix powder, ghee produced by the Pondicherry Cooperative Milk Producers Federation (PONLAIT) and protein biscuits. Baby care kits, consisting of a baby dress, towels and toiletries, were also being distributed to lactating mothers. All those who were enrolled as beneficiaries of anganwadi schemes were getting these kits, Ms. Soundararajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-should-be-ambassadors-for-vaccination-says-l-g/article35437773.ece
21 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Educationist honoured by U.S.-India Educational Foundation||Sachidananda Mohanty, alumnus of the Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education and till recently, a member of the Auroville Foundation governing board, had his contributions to education highlighted at the 75th anniversary celebrations of the Fulbright Exchange Program of the United States-India Educational Foundation (USIEF). Prof. Mohanty, a former Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Odisha and recipient of several national and international awards, is a widely-published author and a former member of India’s Commission on Education to the UNESCO. Given citation The citation notes that Prof. Mohanty was a Fulbright Scholar/Professor to the U.S. in 1990 and 2004. His extensive research on the exchange programme was published as a book titled, In Search of Wonder: Understanding Cultural Exchange – Fulbright Program in India , in 1996, commemorating the 50th year anniversary of the programme. The USIEF (Fulbright Commission) was set up by an executive agreement between India and the U.S., jointly signed by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and then U.S. Ambassador Loy. P. Henderson on August 2, 1950, to promote mutual understanding through educational exchanges between the two nations. The programme itself was envisioned by American Senator J. William Fulbright in 1946 in the aftermath of the Second World War. “I am deeply humbled and honoured by this singular honour... I attribute this recognition, in large measure, to my cosmopolitan upbringing at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram School, exposure to the unique multicultural ethos of the town and the international ambience of Auroville,” Prof. Mohanty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educationist-honoured-by-us-india-educational-foundation/article35437777.ece
21 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New Director of Health appointed for Puducherry||G. Sriramulu, Chief of Government Pharmacy, has been promoted and posted as the Director of Health as the incumbent S. Mohan Kumar was reassigned to a non-administrative post, after reaching the age of 62 years. The change was ratified through an order from the Lieutenant Governor. It stated that Dr. Sriramulu would hold additional charge as Mission Director, Puducherry State Health Mission, in addition to the Director of Pharmacy, until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-director-of-health-appointed-for-puducherry/article35437774.ece
21 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Satellite town near Pudukottai to come up within six months||Tamil Nadu Housing Board Managing Director S.J. Chiru on Tuesday said instructions had been given to officials to complete the satellite town project at Mullur in Pudukottai panchayat union within six months. Speaking to reporters here after inspecting the works, Mr. Chiru said the satellite town would come up on 100 acres with 1,603 plots at a cost of Rs. 56.31 crore. Various facilities such as establishment of storm water drains, black topped roads, street lights, commercial complexes and parks would be created. Every plot would be provided with drinking water connection. A total of 339 plots, measuring 2,711 sq ft each, had been allocated for high income group. There would be 280 plots for medium income group (2,325 sq ft) and 218 plots for low income group (1,453 sq ft). A total number of 766 plots (431 sq ft) would be allocated for the economically backward. Mr. Chiru said instructions had been given to officials to complete the works within six months to benefit the people. TNHB was carrying out 108 works all over the State at a cost of Rs. 4,500 crore. He also inspected the pace of construction of a residential building with 15 houses by TNHB at a cost of Rs. 4.39 crore at Kamban Nagar in Pudukottai municipality. Collector Kavitha Ramu and TNHB officials accompanied Mr. Chiru during the inspection, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/satellite-town-near-pudukottai-to-come-up-within-six-months/article35437439.ece
21 July 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumber seized||Marine Police here seized sea cucumbers from a house in Big Bazaar Street in Devipattinam in Ramanathapuram district on Tuesday. Following a tip-off, they searched the house of Abdul and seized the sea cucumbers which were handed over to the Forest department authorities. In a similar raid at Veera Sangilimadam near Thondi, the Marine Police seized turmeric in seven bags, which were intended to be smuggled to Sri Lanka. Four persons - Kalandar Ali, 28, Kalandar Asik, 29, Kalandar Mydeen, 25, and Rahman, 27, - were arrested. The seized goods were handed over to the Customs authorities. Paramakudi A woman, Saranya, staged a dharna in front of the Muthalamman Temple in Paramakudi on Tuesday, demanding release of her 13-year-old son, who was kept captive by a moneylender. According to the police, her husband Ramesh had borrowed money from moneylenders on daily interest for running his jewellery business. He incurred heavy losses and could not repay the money with the little income. The moneylender had took his son and kept him captive so as to coerce him to pay the money. The police assured to take action, following which the woman left the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-cucumber-seized/article35437462.ece
21 July 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Cucumber seized||Special Correspondent   Officials from the Marine Police here seized sea cucumbers weighing about 500 kilograms from a dwelling here in Big Bazaar Street in Devipattinam in Ramanathapuram district on Tuesday. Police said that following a tip-off, they searched the house of Abdul and seized the sea cucumbers, which were handed over to the Forest department authorities for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cucumber-seized/article35437828.ece
21 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps taken to modernise Co-optex outlets’||Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi said that measures have been initiated to modernise Co-optex outlets and improve its business.   The Minister along with Principal Secretary Beela Rajesh inspected the Co-optex outlet here on Tuesday and interacted with the weavers. He said that the Co-optex Salem outlet was doing sales of Rs. 15 crore, but it has now reduced due to COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Gandhi said that a team has been formed to modernise the outlets and to adopt new business techniques and designs. Plans were on to introduce export quality organic varieties, including ready-made garments for children, that could be sold online. The Minister said that apart from setting up textile parks at eight places, a mega textile park would be established on 1,000 acres in Dharmapuri at Rs. 10,000 crore. The implementation of the project would generate jobs, he added. He claimed that the price of silk yarn had gone up due to fuel price hike and blamed the Central government for it. Mr.Gandhi distributed welfare schemes to the tune of Rs. 31.21 lakh to 66 beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-modernise-co-optex-outlets/article35437485.ece
21 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special trains from Yesvantpur to Kochuveli and Puducherry||Fully reserved special trains would be operated from Yesvantpur to Kochuveli and Puducherry, a release from the Salem Railway division said. According to a press release, Train no.07385 Yesvantpur – Kochuveli weekly AC special train will depart from Yesvantpur at 3.20 p.m on Thursdays( from July 22) and would reach Kochuveli at 6.50 a.m. the next day. Train no.07386 Kochuveli – Yesvantpur weekly AC special train will depart from Kochuveli at 12.50 p.m on Friday( from July 23) and would reach Yesvantpur at 4.30 p.m the next day. The train is composed of one AC first class, one AC 2-tier and 12 AC 3-tier coaches, the release said. Stoppage The train would stop at Krishnarajapuram, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrisur, Ernakulam Town, Kottayam, Chengannur and Kollam, a release said. Train no.07393 Yesvantpur – Puducherry weekly special train will depart from Yesvantpur at 20.45 p.m on Fridays (starting July 23) and would reach Puducherry at 7.15 a.m the next day.  Train no.07394 Puducherry – Yesvantpur weekly special train will depart from Puducherry at 22.30 p.m on Saturdays (starting July 24) and would reach Yesvantpur at 8.10 a.m the next day. The train is composed of one AC first class-cum-AC 2-tier, two AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, eight sleeper class and two general second class coaches. The train would stop at Banaswadi, Hosur, Dharmapuri, Salem, Chinna Salem, Vriddhachalam and Villupuram, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-from-yesvantpur-to-kochuveli-and-puducherry/article35437369.ece
21 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Lawyer booked for spreading rumours||The Cyber Crime Police have registered a case against a lawyer from Tiruchi for allegedly spreading fake news against the Salem Central Prison. According to the police, the lawyer in a Facebook post had said that a few prison inmates were being slow-poisoned and demanded the attention of the authorities. Complaint lodged Prison authorities lodged a complaint with the Salem cyber crime police for action against lawyer. Based on the complaint, cyber crime police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyer-booked-for-spreading-rumours/article35437480.ece
21 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Inflow to Mettur dam increases||The inflow to Mettur dam increased to over 16,000 cusecs on Tuesday. According to the Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam was 73.29ft against the total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 35,593 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 16,301 cusecs. The discharge from the dam was maintained at 12,000 cusecs. The outflow from the dam was increased from 5,000 cusecs to 12,000 cusecs from Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-to-mettur-dam-increases/article35437479.ece
21 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Civic body chief call for remittance of taxes||Thanjavur Corporation has incurred Rs. .1.50 crore every month as expense towards payment of salary to COVID-19 frontline workers. Disclosing this in a press release, Commissioner K. Saravanakumar called upon property tax assessees and other tax payers to the civic body to clear their dues totalling Rs. 43 crore with which the Corporation provides basic infrastructure facilities to residents. Urging the assessees to remit property tax and other taxes/charges for the first and second half-year payments for the year 2020-21 either at the tax collection counter at the civic body headquarters or at tax collections centres at Municipal Colony or Kullukulam, he said the taxes and other charges could also be paid throughhttps://tnurbanepay. tn. gov.inand requests for fresh property tax assessments or water or sewer connections could also be forwarded through the website .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-chief-call-for-remittance-of-taxes/article35437436.ece
21 July 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Crediting of sales proceeds begins||Crediting of sale proceeds for paddy procured at direct purchase centre in the bank accounts of the farmers in Thanjavur district began on Tuesday. Remittance of sale proceeds in bank accounts of farmers were withheld by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation from July 6 as funds had to be released by the State government. The exercise resumed after release of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crediting-of-sales-proceeds-begins/article35437441.ece
21 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on autorickshaw drivers||Over 3.35 lakh persons in the district have been vaccinated for COVID-19, Collector K. Senthil Raj has informed. During informal chat with the reporters after inaugurating the vaccination camp for autorickshaw drivers at BMC Matriculation Higher Secondary School premises in Millerpuram on Tuesday, he said people working in crowded places and those who were in touch with the people everyday for their livelihood were being vaccinated on priority basis by organising camps. After the Airports Authority of India staff, security personnel and the contract workers deployed in the Thoothukudi Airport were vaccinated recently since they had to serve the travelling public, the autorickshaw drivers were being vaccinated. Plans had been drawn to vaccinate all 18,000 fishermen in the district before July-end in the fishermen colonies. Similarly, newspaper boys, milkmen and others who were in touch with the public everyday were being vaccinated. “We are taking all these efforts to minimize the adverse impact of the anticipated third wave. Of the 14 lakh people above the age of 18 in the district, only 3.35 lakh persons have been vaccinated so far and hence the hitherto uncovered people should shield themselves against COVID-19 by taking the jab,” he said. Corporation Commissioner T. Charushree, Regional Transport Officer Vinayagam, City Health Officer Vidhya were present. A good number of autorickshaw drivers participated in this camp to get vaccinated against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-autorickshaw-drivers/article35437831.ece
21 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||4.90 tonnes of turmeric seized||The police have seized 4.90 tonnes of turmeric and seized a mini lorry even as the spice was about to be smuggled to Sri Lanka from Kaayalpattinam near Tiruchendur on Tuesday. Police said surveillance and patrolling along the Thoothukudi coastline had been intensified. Since a kg of turmeric reportedly fetches Rs. 5,000 due to sharp rise in demand, smuggling of the aromatic substance from Thoothukudi has increased manifold in the recent past. As the Sub-Inspector of Kulasekarapattinam Marine Police Veerapandian received information about the smuggling of turmeric from Kaayalpattinam, the team went to the coastal hamlet on Monday night. After parking their vehicle deep inside the village, the police personnel were deployed at different points to monitor movements of the smugglers. In the early hours, a mini lorry carrying the bags containing turmeric came to the Kaayalpattinam beach and the driver, who got down from the vehicle, signalled the persons in a fiber-glass boat anchored at a distance in the sea. When the boat reached the shores, the police team tried to trap them. However, they started the boat and managed to escape while the lorry driver Balamurugan of Tiruchendur was nabbed. The police also seized turmeric worth Rs. 7 lakh packed in 140 bags, each weighing about 35 kg. The seized turmeric, mini lorry and Balamurugan, were handed over to Department of Customs for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/490-tonnes-of-turmeric-seized/article35437836.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers flay Karnataka plea against T.N. river linking plan||With the Karnataka government moving the Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu’s Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar intra-State river linking project, farmers’ organisations in Pudukottai, the district which stands to benefit substantially from the project, are gearing up for a legal battle on the issue. “This is a 100-year-old dream project of farmers in Pudukottai and other drought prone districts. Karnataka has no reason to oppose the project as it envisages the diversion of only the surplus rain flows including from Bhavani, Noyyal, Amaravathi rivers and other rivers in Tamil Nadu. We are getting ready to implead ourselves in the case with the support of the Tamil Nadu Rivers Retrieval Movement (TNRRM) and Joint Action Council (JAC) of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Associations,” said G.S.Dhanapathy, a senior farmers’ representative of Pudukottai district and State general secretary, Farmers Forum of India. It is highly condemnable that Karnataka, which does not adhere to the Cauvery Tribunal’s verdict and release State’s due share of water as per the schedule, is now opposing this project. The Tamil Nadu government should go ahead with the project and oppose Karnataka’s legal challenge with full vigour, Mr. Dhanapathy said. “We are only asking for the surplus waters to fill our irrigation tanks and help augment the ground water table. After a long struggle, the previous government launched the project and all of us extended our support rising above political considerations. Karnataka has no justification to oppose the project. We are getting ready to face the legal challenge,” said S.Arockiasamy, secretary of Cauvery Surplus Water Project Committee, formed to lobby for the execution of the project about 40 years ago in Pudukottai. As a lower riparian State, Tamil Nadu has in no way infringed upon the rights of Karnataka through the project, contends D.Gurusamy, coordinator, TNRRM and JAC. “No case has been made out by Karnataka under Section 3 of the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act 1956. We are already in touch with a senior advocate of the Supreme Court to file the impleading petition,” he added. In February, then Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami laid the foundation for the first phase of the project – linking Cauvery with the South Vellar, a distance of about 118.45 km, at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,941 crore. To start with, tenders were awarded for digging a canal for a length of about 4.10 km from the Mayanur barrage in Karur district at an estimate of Rs. 171 crore and another 5.35 km stretch in Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts at an estimate of Rs. 160 crore and works were under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-flay-karnataka-plea-against-tn-river-linking-plan/article35437451.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Consumers cry foul over power bills||Domestic power consumers in Tiruchi are in a shock over high bills this cycle. After missing a cycle (once in two months), Tangedco has begun assessment of domestic and commercial power consumption in the city. A section of consumers complain of exorbitant charges levied by the corporation. Several consumers say the bill amount has almost doubled. The method followed by the assessors is vague and lacks clarity on whether the slab rate system has been followed and the benefits passed on to consumers while calculating consumption charges for the last two cycles. Many have paid their bills as per the methods suggested by Tangedco in May and July when the intense lockdown was in force. While some got to know the amount after sending a self-assessed meter reading to officials, others paid the charges of the same period of the previous year. However, they contend that the paid amount has not been taken into account while calculating the power consumption bills. “The bimonthly power consumption bill of my domestic connection hovers around Rs. 800. But, it has doubled this time. With almost nil income due to impact of lockdown, I do not know how to pay the exorbitant bill,” says P. Sivakumar, a resident of Srirangam. A trader in Thillai Nagar, who has a commercial connection for his home appliances showroom, says he has been asked to pay Rs. 73,000 as against the average bill amount of Rs. 40,000. “The showroom was locked for two months due to lockdown. But, we have received a huge bill.” A Tangedco official in Tiruchi says the corporation has been following a lenient approach in assessment and collection process due to lockdown restrictions. No consumer will be charged more than the actual power consumption. If consumers have complaints on assessment and adjustment of bills, they can approach the assistant engineers concerned for corrections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-cry-foul-over-power-bills/article35437841.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Customs inspector, 7 others held in gold smuggling case||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has arrested a Customs Inspector for his alleged involvement in gold smuggling at Tiruchi international airport. Four passengers and three ‘receivers’ have also been nabbed in the case. Acting on intelligence inputs, a DRI team intercepted four air passengers who landed here from Sharjah by an Air India Express flight on Sunday night. During inquiry, airport sources said, it was found that the passengers had concealed gold in paste form in their rectum and they were detained for questioning. The team also caught three alleged ‘receivers’ waiting outside the terminal and grilled them as well. The alleged involvement of Customs Inspector Dharmendra Singh came to light. The gold in paste form was sent for chemical processing, which yielded gold weighing 3.2 kg valued at Rs. 1.6 crore. The eight persons, including the Customs Inspector, were arrested and produced before the Judicial Magistrate court here and remanded in judicial custody. The smuggled gold was seized. Last month, the DRI in separate operations seized over 11 kg of gold from 10 passengers at the airport. Three years ago, the Anti-Corruption Branch of the Central Bureau of Investigation conducted a surprise check at Tiruchi airport acting on information that Customs officials were colluding with smugglers to evade duty. The ACB booked a case against six Customs officials including an Assistant Commissioner who allegedly received bribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customs-inspector-7-others-held-in-gold-smuggling-case/article35437843.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Queue complex at Samayapuram temple to open in September||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) plans to complete the queue complex — partially resembling a similar structure at Venkateswara Temple at Tirumala — at Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram by September. During weekends, holidays and festival days, the temple on the outskirts of the city receives 50,000 to one lakh devotees. It becomes a major issue for the temple management to regulate and control the surging devotees on auspicious days and peak hours. To address the issue, the temple administration began a project to construct a queue complex with waiting rooms, toilets and multimedia facility for the devotees in 2019. It allotted a sum of Rs. 13.8 crore for the project. As per the plan, the project will have two queues for darshan — free and paid. The queue complex has a built-up area of 22,000 sq ft. The queues, with entrance near Mariamman Mandapam and exit near the Rajagopuram, can accommodate 5,000 devotees at any time. Concrete benches have been provided at the waiting halls for devotees to take rest while waiting for their turn to have a darshan of Goddess Mariamman. Twelve toilets and eight urinals have been provided at various points for the use of the devotees. Provision has also been made to play audio and video about the history of the temple. P.K. Sekarbabu, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, who inspected the progress of ongoing works at the temple a few days ago, is believed to have instructed the officials to complete the works within two months. As per his instructions, pending works have been expedited. S. Kalyani, Joint Commissioner of the Temple, told The Hindu that the queue complex work had reached the final stage. Besides marble-laying and electrical works, painting had been started. It had been decided to complete all works within August or September. The queue complex would be thrown open to the public in September. She said construction of three cloakrooms, a parking lot and a restaurant were also part of the project. They have already been constructed. The parking lot would be able to accommodate 50 cars, 30 vans, 20 buses and 75 two-wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/queue-complex-at-samayapuram-temple-to-open-in-september/article35437443.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||311 new cases, three deaths in central region||The central districts on Tuesday registered 311 new cases of COVID-19 infection. Except for Thanjavur district, all other districts registered less than 100 cases. According to a medical bulletin issued by the Health and Family Welfare, Thanjavur recorded 102 cases followed by Tiruchi with 66 patients testing positive for the infection. The day’s count was 17 in Ariyalur, 13 in Karur and 20 in Mayiladuthurai. While 30 patients tested positive in Nagapattinam, it was 26 in Pudukottai and 13 in Perambalur. Tiruvarur district recorded 24 fresh cases of COVID-19. The virus claimed three more persons in central districts. While Tiruchi accounted for two deaths, one patient died in Pudukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/311-new-cases-three-deaths-in-central-region/article35437445.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps to be conducted today||Covishield doses will be administered at the following vaccination camps in Tiruchi city on Wednesday: Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Srirangam; and Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam, in Srirangam zone; Corporation High School, Ambikapuram; Corporation Elementary School, near Khajapettai Overhead Tank; and Corporation Elementary School, Bhagavathipuram, Tiruverumbur in Ariyamangalam zone; Infant Jesus Matric School, Edamalaipattipudur; Corporation High School, Mela Kalkandarkotai and Kalaiarangam Mahal in Golden Rock Zone; Corporation Elementary School, Thennur (Opposite to EB Office); and Corporation High School, Kaliamman Temple Street, Edamalaipattipdur in K.Abishekapuram zone. The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m. and tokens will be issued by medical officers from 8.30 a.m., a Corporation press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-to-be-conducted-today/article35437447.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 farmers detained in Tiruchi||Over 100 farmers owing allegiance to Desiya Thennindhiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam were detained here on Tuesday after they resorted to a road blockade opposing the construction of a dam at Mekedatu in Karnataka. The protest, led by its State president P. Ayyakannu, was held on Karur Bypass Road in the city, leading to traffic hold-up for about 30 minutes during the morning peak hour. Mr. Ayyakannu along with a group of farmers arrived in a procession from his house at Annamalai Nagar and squatted on the road and raised slogans in support of their demand. The protest lasted about 30 minutes. The farmers also demanded repeal of the three new farm laws. The agitation by the farmers, some of whom did not wear shirts, threw traffic out of gear on the busy Karur By Pass road leading to police intervention. A posse of police personnel evicted the farmers. Police sources said 112 farmers were taken into custody and shifted to a wedding hall in Woraiyur in the city.  Appeal to PM Mr. Ayyakannu, who had planned to visit New Delhi apparently to stage the agitation, in a memorandum to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged him not to accord permission to Karnataka to build the dam at Mekedatu as it would destroy the Cauvery delta in Tamil Nadu. The Sangam president also appealed to the Prime Minister to sanction funds for the Cauvery-Godavari river link project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-farmers-detained-in-tiruchi/article35437449.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Inmate of home for mentally ill reunited with family||Anbalayamam, a NGO, has begun reuniting inmates accommodated in Tiruchi Corporation's Home for Mentally Ill under National Urban Livelihoods Mission.There are about 15 mentally ill inmates in the home at Main Guard Gate that earlier functioned as the Centre for Homeless People. Last week, an inmate, Babu Rao, who was rescued by volunteers of Anbalayam on April 29 was re-united with his family. He recovered after being given psychiatric treatment and medication by G. Gopalakrishnan, psychiatrist, and Arudhra Gopalakrishnan, consultant psychiatrist at Sowmanasya Hospital and Institute of Psychiatry. Mr. Babu Rao was entrusted with his family members by Anbalayam in the presence of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Srirangam, Sundaramoorthy. T.K.S. Senthilkumar, Founder of Anbalayam, said the rescued patients were handed over to family members after adequate counselling. The inmates would be given skill training soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inmate-of-home-for-mentally-ill-reunited-with-family/article35437842.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Tuesday stood at 111.50 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 616.67 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs of water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 73.20 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 37 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35437833.ece
21 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Include left-out water bodies in Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme’||The Federation of Athikadavu-Avinashi Scheme Struggle Committee has written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin urging him to include water bodies that were left out in the first phase of the Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme. In the letter dated July 16, the Federation’s coordinator M.S. Sambath Kumar said the scheme would benefit Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts and was a long-pending demand of the residents of the three districts. The Public Works Department had carried out a survey on the water bodies that were left out in the scheme between Perundurai in Erode district and Annur in Coimbatore district, the letter said and urged the government to issue a government order to include these and allocate necessary funds at the earliest. The letter also urged the expedition of the scheme to ensure supply of water to Tiruppur district by the end of this year. Meanwhile, the Tiruppur district committee of the CPI(M)-affiliated Tamil Nadu Farmers Association passed a resolution on Tuesday demanding the inclusion of all the left-out water bodies in the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-left-out-water-bodies-in-athikadavu-avinashi-scheme/article35437364.ece
21 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sandalwood trees felled near Uthukuli||The Revenue Department and the Tiruppur District Police launched an investigation into the felling of two sandalwood trees near Uthukuli on Tuesday. Sources said three sandalwood trees were present on a poramboke land at Vellaigoundenpudur on Kunnathur Road within Uthukuli town panchayat limits. On Tuesday, residents found two of the trees cut and smuggled by miscreants and informed Uthukuli Village Administrative Officer S. Rathinakumar. He submitted a report to Uthukuli tahsildar R. Jagadishkumar and lodged a complaint at Uthukuli police station. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sandalwood-trees-felled-near-uthukuli/article35437365.ece
21 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||2,000 more farmers expected to adopt organic farming in the Nilgiris||The district administration expects 2,000 more farmers across the district to adopt organic farming practices over the course of the next year. According to Joint Director of Horticulture Sivasubramaniam Samraj, a total of 4,800 farmers in the district have adopted organic farming practices over the last two years. “This amounts to 1,600 hectares of farmland that is being cultivated without the use of pesticides. The Nilgiris is leading the way in terms of getting farmers to adopt safe-farming practices,” said Mr. Samraj, adding that they expected more than 2,000 hectares to be cultivated organically in the next year. The district administration and the Horticulture Department had assisted the farmers in getting scope certification from the Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department. “The certification is for farmers who have just taken up organic farming, known as first-year-conversion. To be certified completely organic takes anywhere between 3-4 years of continuous farming using only established organic farming methods,” said Mr. Samraj. The farmers had also been given financial incentives, while awareness rallies, seminars and training programmes were being organised to get more farmers involved, officials said. Social media pages had also been set up to reach out to more farmers. In the Nilgiris, around 6,000 hectares were under vegetable cultivation, alongside 55,000 hectares of tea. The officials expressed the hope to include tea estate owners in organic farming. “We are building the momentum among the farming community, many of whom are giving up using chemical fertilizers and are turning to eco-friendly alternatives. An integrated farming demonstration centre is coming up in Thummanatty, while vermicompost and organic growth promoters are being produced and distributed to farmers at a lesser cost,” said Mr. Samraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2000-more-farmers-expected-to-adopt-organic-farming-in-the-nilgiris/article35437350.ece
21 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ markets in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai reopen||Farmers are back in business as the district administrations of Vellore and Tiruvannamalai re-opened all farmers’ markets within their limits since Monday with strict guidelines to maintain COVID-19 safety protocols. The Uzhavar Santhai , as it is known, was shut in these districts for a-year-and-a-half due to the pandemic. Farmers cultivating melons, ladies finger, drumstick, brinjal, gourd and beans and green leafy vegetables sell their produce directly to consumers without any middlemen taking away a part of their income. Apart from vegetables, fruits and greens, tender coconuts are also being sold in the farmers’ markets between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. since Monday. The allotment of shops every day would be based on a first come, first serve basis, a pattern followed in the rest of the santhais in the State. Interestingly, farmers’ markets in the Fort Town were reopened only on Tuesday whereas neighbouring Tiruvannamalai did it a day earlier on Monday with safety steps in place, including spraying of disinfectants and installation of hand sanitisers at each of the outlets. “Reopening of farmers’ markets will help boost local economy and also provide income to the farmers. However, agriculture officials will monitor complete adherence to safety norms by farmers and visitors,” B. Murugesh, District Collector, Tiruvannamalai, told The Hindu . At present, the district has eight farmers’ markets, including in Tiruvannamalai town, Cheyyar, Arni, Chengam and Vandavasi. Every day, on average, 10 tonnes of vegetables and fruits arrive at these markets and at least 100 farmers benefit in each of them. In fact, the farmers’ market in Tiruvannamalai town generated a revenue of Rs. 10 lakh, selling 31 tonnes of perishable commodities daily since Monday. The Fort Town is no less a match for its neighbouring district as the two farmers’ markets in Vellore and Katpadi sold 30,000 kg of vegetables and fruits each on Tuesday. As a goodwill gesture, a physically challenged person has been allotted a permanent shop in the market in Fort Town by Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian based on a petition he gave during the grievance meeting on Monday. Free bus transport has also been arranged for farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-markets-in-vellore-tiruvannamalai-reopen/article35437840.ece
21 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Four tonnes of gutkha seized near Vellore, three held||Four tonnes of gutkha, worth Rs. 35.22 lakh, were seized by the Palikonda police near the toll plaza in Pallikonda, near Vellore, on Monday. According to the police, three persons — C. Gopal, 30, G. Raja, 25, and S. Kumar, 30, were arrested while three other suspects were absconding. A car and a container lorry were also seized from them. Based on a tip-off, a police team, led by Palikonda inspector Manonmani, conducted vehicle checks at the toll plaza. The police intercepted six persons in two vehicles. When questioned, they gave different versions of their place of origin. The police searched their vehicles and seized the gutkha. Vellore Superintendent of Police Selvakumar presented certificates of appreciation to the police team for their quick work, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-tonnes-of-gutkha-seized-near-vellore-three-held/article35437838.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 204 new cases, five deaths||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 204 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 2,648 active cases and 328 persons recovered. The Health Department on Tuesday said that five more persons died of the disease, taking the toll to 2,140. The district had a test positivity rate of 2.4 % on Monday when 8,540 samples were tested. Tiruppur district reported 106 new cases, taking the overall tally to 86,818. One person died, taking the district’s toll to 815. There were 1,596 active cases in the district and 126 patients were discharged on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 45 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 29,961. The toll increased from 172 to 173 in the district while 864 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-204-new-cases-five-deaths/article35437357.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘A $1 trillion economy is our aim’||General Electric has proposed to open a centre of excellence to enhance production of aircraft and aeronautical components for aerospace and defence industries through advanced manufacturing technologies. A memorandum of understanding was signed between General Electric Company and the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO). A deal was signed with JSW Renew Energy Two Limited for a 450 MW wind power generation project entailing around Rs. 3,000 crore in investments. Cryolor Asia Pacific Private Limited has signed a Rs. 70 crore deal for making bulk cryogenic storage tanks. The other key deals are Tata Consultancy Services’ Phase III project at SIPCOT IT Park, Siruseri, with an investment of Rs. 900 crore, and a facility to be opened by Srivaru Motors in Coimbatore for manufacture of electric vehicles on an investment of Rs. 1,000 crore. Mr. Stalin laid the foundation for nine projects with an investment commitment of Rs. 4,250 crore and potential jobs for 21,630 people. He also inaugurated five projects with an investment commitment of Rs. 7,117 crore and potential jobs for 6,798 people. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said the Chief Minister had ordered that each investor be guided and assisted at every stage. Investment target “The Chief Minister has set a target of Rs. 23 lakh crore in investments and over 46 lakh new jobs by 2030,” said Industries Secretary N. Muruganandan. Guidance Tamil Nadu entered into a memorandum of understanding with American Tamil Entrepreneurs Association to promote start-ups in innovation and research and development in Tamil Nadu. This digital accelerator programme sanctions grants to start-up projects. The government has sanctioned Rs. 5 crore for this programme. Around 75 applications were received, and 5 were selected for the grant. Mr. Stalin handed over the sanction orders to the firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-1-trillion-economy-is-our-aim/article35437323.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report titled ‘Very little money left for basic amenities’ that appeared on Page 3 of the Coimbatore City edition dated July 19, 2021, the population of Coimbatore City is 17 lakh and not 18 crore as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article35437361.ece
21 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man kills son, after a fight||The police arrested a farmer on the charge of killing his alcoholic son in Telgar Oni in Shivaganga Nagar in Dharwad on Monday. Fakirappa Hirekumbi (65) hacked his son Basavaraj Hirekumbi (36) to death using a rod. His neighbours, who heard the victim screaming, rushed him to the hospital but he was declared brought dead. The police said that Basavaraj Hirekumbi constantly created a menace in his family due to his alcoholism. He kept pestering his father daily, for money to buy liquor. He had beaten his wife badly last week. On the fateful night, he fought with his father. Unable to tolerate him any further, Fakirappa Hirekumbi killed his son, they said. A case has been registered at the Town Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-kills-son-after-a-fight/article35437510.ece
21 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Call to create awareness on environment||The former Minister and Congress MLA M.B. Patil, met in Vijayapura on Sunday, Chandrashekar Biradar, climate scientist in Egypt, and held discussions on various aspects related to environment protection. Dr. Biradar, who hails from Dhavalagi village in Vijayapura district, has been working on environment protection in Egypt and other countries. He is now on a visit to relatives in Vijayapura and other towns. Dr. Biradar felt that while 99% of the people in the world are destroying environment, only one per cent are trying to protect it. “If we create enough awareness to make at least 10% of the people protect environment, then there will be very significant changes,” he said. He said that he had led a movement to inspire youth to adopt food habits that are eco-friendly. “We can start some thing similar in Vijayapura,” he suggested. He praised the efforts of Mr. Patil and his associates in taking up a rejuvenation and afforestation programme at Bhootnal Lake. Mr. Patil said that the one crore saplings movement launched by BLDE and other institutions has helped create awareness among residents of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-to-create-awareness-on-environment/article35437514.ece
21 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||GIT bags Platinum status in survey||K.L.S. Gogte Institute of Technology has secured Platinum status in a survey jointly conducted by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The survey of industry-linked technical institutes across India was carried out recently to assess the current status of partnerships between educational institutions and industry. The survey was based on six basic parameters such as academic curriculum, teaching faculty, governance, infrastructure, placements and research and services and project and skill development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/git-bags-platinum-status-in-survey/article35437508.ece
21 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Guidelines for Id||The Belagavi district administration has issued COVID-19 guidelines for Bakrid scheduled for Wednesday. All Waqf committees should ensure that all safety protocols, including wearing of masks and social distancing, are practised. All mosques should accommodate only half the capacity of the prayer hall and hold prayers in batches, if necessary. All prayer committees should thermal scan attendees for symptoms such as fever. All should wash hands with sanitiser and soap. No hugging and handshakes are allowed. Persons aged above 65 and those less than 10 should pray at home. No animal sacrifice is allowed in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-for-id/article35437509.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High PU marks worry college heads and education experts||The sheer number of pre-university (PU) students who bagged full scores (2,239) and the overall performance of candidates has education experts and heads of degree colleges worried. Many were of the opinion that the PU results, which were announced on Tuesday, appear to be inflated. Heads of many private higher education institutions that The Hindu spoke to have decided to reject these scores. Most have already completed the admission process based on a candidate’s past performance, while others conducted their own admission tests. Rishikesh B.S., Associate Professor, Azim Premji University, suggested that universities should assess attributes for higher education rather than these marks. “Whatever formula used to calculate the marks, they are meaningless as learning has been suboptimal in the last two academic years,” he said. He added that the grading system would have been a better indicator for this academic year. However, a Vice-Chancellor of a State-run university said that they would use the II PU marks as they did not want the DPUE’s exercise to be futile. He did acknowledge the possibility of multiple candidates, all with the high scores, vying for a limited number of seats. “If some colleges see high demand with many applicants, we will ask them to immediately conduct a multiple choice question test to decide which students should get the seat,” he said. R. Snehal, Director of the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), said that the department has tried to provide students a fair assessment of what they could have achieved. “There could however be a slight variation in the marks as we have considered their SSLC and first PU scores,” she said. She also pointed out that many of these students who have got full marks have consistently done well in SSLC and first PU. Dakshina Kannda Most of the students who bagged 600/600, were from Dakshina Kannada. As many as 445 students from this district got full scores. In Bengaluru South, 303 students aced the examination with perfect scores, followed by Bengaluru North (261) Out of the 1,478 students with special needs who registered for the examination, 84 students bagged distinction, while 603 got first class and 459 got second class.  My performance in first PU and Class X was good and if the II PU examinations had been conducted, I would have bagged similar scores. However, I am glad that a decision was taken to not conduct the examination in the interest of our health. Rishikanth Chigrupaatii, Student of Deeksha CFL College   While I am happy with my scores, the idea of giving grace marks to everyone was not needed. As a result, all students with high scores got full marks Anirudh B.S., Student of Oxford Independent PU College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-pu-marks-worry-college-heads-and-education-experts/article35437283.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-Aasthi to be extended to all wards in core zones||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) pilot project to digitise property documents has been implemented successfully in three wards. The civic body is set to extend the E-Aasthi project to all the wards in the three core zones – South, East and West. The aim of the project, taken up first in Shantalanagar, Neelasandra and Shanthinagar wards in the East zone, is to sanitise revenue records, bring in transparency and accountability, apart from stamping out illegal transactions and cutting out middlemen. Confirming the development, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Revenue) S. Basavaraj told The Hindu that by August 15, the project will be rolled out in the remaining 41 wards in the East zone. It would take another month to implement it in the remaining 56 wards in the South and West zone. The civic body is in the process of procuring a software licence from a multi-national company for the project. “The E-Aasthi software was initially developed by the National Informatics Centre for all urban local bodies. It was later customised for BBMP with help from Directorate of Municipal Administration and State Data Centre. The licence is essential to extend the project to the 100 wards in the core zones,” he explained. With the implementation of the new system, updating different property transactions, such as sale, inheritance, partition, gift, will, land acquisition, khata amalgamation/ bifurcation can be done easily, without having to visit the BBMP offices. While the earlier khata certificates and extract had 18 kinds of information, the new khatas will have 46 kinds of information, apart from digital signatures and be DigiLocker enabled. Mr. Basavaraj said that since it is an end-to-end app, the E-Aasthi system was linked to not only property tax records under GIS-enabled Property Tax Information System (GEPTIS), but also to the Kaveri system of the Department of Stamps and Registration. The new system is a win-win for citizens and BBMP, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-aasthi-to-be-extended-to-all-wards-in-core-zones/article35437276.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only IAS officers can be appointed as Special DCs for Bengaluru Urban: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to appoint only the officers belonging to the IAS cadre to the two posts of the Special Deputy Commissioners for Bengaluru Urban district while terming the appointment of two KAS officers to these posts in 2019 contrary to a notification issued in 2014. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar passed the order while disposing of a PIL petition filed by Vasudeva Reddy, a city-based advocate. The petitioner had questioned the Government Order of November 28, 2019, posting two KAS officers, K.M. Jagadish and Basavaraj as Special DC-1 and Special DC-2 respectively. The Bench noted that the Government Order of October 10, 2014 very clearly specifies creation of two posts of Special DC-1 and Special DC-2 in addition to the post of Deputy Commissioner for Bengaluru Urban district besides specifying that the two posts would of IAS cadre. Also, the Bench noted that the 2014 notification specified that the two special DCs would discharge duties assigned to them independently and not as sub-ordinate to the DC. The government, the Bench said, had bifurcated the duties by entrusting the Special DC-1 the responsibilities of Bengaluru north sub-division and the Special DC-2 with the responsibilities of Bengaluru south sub-division. They were empowered to discharge quasi-judicial functions under specified provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, the Inam Abolition Act, the Right to Information Act, 2005, the rehabilitation of displaced persons, etc, which were not entrusted to the DC. During the hearing, the government itself pointed out that Regional Commissioner, Bengaluru Division, had on October 2019 brought to the notice of the Additional Chief Secretary that only officers of the IAS cadre could be appointed as per the Government Order and earlier decision of the High Court. The Bench directed the government to appoint officers of the IAS cadre with these posts within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-ias-officers-can-be-appointed-as-special-dcs-for-bengaluru-urban-hc/article35437288.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siblings die in wall collapse caused by rains||Heavy rains on Monday night claimed two lives, a brother and his sister, from Binnamangala, nearly 35 kms from Bengaluru city. The siblings were killed while they were sleeping when a compound wall of a neighbouring plot collapsed over their shed late Monday night, said the police. The deceased have been identified as Venugopal, 22, who worked as an accountant at a garments factory in Nelamangala, and his sister Kavya, 19, a second year B.Com student. “The duo had lost their parents and were living by themselves,” police said. Venugopal’s friend Sampreeth, 23, who was with them at the time, suffered severe injuries and is being treated at a private hospital in Nelamangala. His condition is said to be critical. Venugopal and Kavya lived in an asbestos sheet roofed shed on an empty plot of land. The shed was abutting the 10 feet plus high compound wall of the adjacent plot, built using cement bricks. On Monday night, due to heavy rains, the compound wall collapsed onto the shed. The shed caved in killing them on the spot. The Nelamangala police have now registered a case against Binnamangala Krishnappa, the owner of the plot of land whose compound wall collapsed. He was detained and questioned on Tuesday. “Both the compound wall and the shed seem to have been built with no proper foundation and this will be part of the probe,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siblings-die-in-wall-collapse-caused-by-rains/article35437277.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bengaluru tops office leasing across key cities’||Bengaluru continued to lead office space leasing among top six cities, recording absorption of 4.1 mn. sq.ft. during the first half of 2021 and accounted for approximately 37% of the overall leasing activity in the country which stood at 10.9 mn. sq.ft., said realty advisory firm Savills India. The micromarket of Outer Ring Road (ORR) accounted for one third of the city-wide share and was followed by the secondary business district and eastern peripheral micromarket, primarily Whitefield and Brookefield, it said on Tuesday. Both the micromarkets contributed around 25% of the leasing activity in the city. In fact, East Bengaluru - Brookefield, Whitefield and eastern part of ORR - accounted for more than half of the city-wide absorption in the first half of the year. In the first half of the calendar 2021, large sized deals continued to drive realty in the city. As usual, IT sector continued to account for the majority share of demand for office space in the city. Engineering & manufacturing sectors contributed 13% towards the overall leasing activity. However, co-working segment’s sectoral share of 15% in 2020 fell to 2% in H1 2021, said Savills India study. Impact of 2nd wave However, a quarterly report by property portal 99acres.com, stated the city’s real estate market was not immune to the second wave of COVID-19. While realty came to a standstill during this period, micro-markets in Whitefield and Electronic City remained popular among potential homebuyers. In a press release, Maneesh Upadhyaya, Chief Business Officer, 99acres.com, said the months of April and May recorded a ‘dip in numbers unheard of’. “Responses on 99acres went down by over 25% in April-June 2021 against the previous quarter. Owner listings, too, saw a 5% degrowth as the seller community echoed the uncertain and grim market sentiment,” he said. The period from April-June 2021 saw demand for ready homes, especially re-sales, as potential buyers were worried about delays in construction of ongoing projects due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-tops-office-leasing-across-key-cities/article35437273.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. withdraws order on electronic media||Under pressure, the State government has withdrawn its earlier order barring the movement of electronic media crew and equipment on the corridors of the Vidhana Soudha. The decision by the State government to restrict the movement of electronic media personnel had come under attack. Even during the 14-month JD(S)-Congress coalition regime headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy, movement of journalists on the corridors of the Vidhana Soudha was sought to be restricted. That move too was withdrawn later. Earlier, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri had banned the electronic media from covering the proceedings of the legislature session by preventing cameras from coming inside. He, however, allowed reporters of the electronic media to cover the proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-withdraws-order-on-electronic-media/article35437290.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM reviews monsoon situation in 13 districts||With several districts receiving incessant rain in the past few days, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday reviewed the situation in 13 districts and asked the Deputy Commissioners and CEOs concerned to take precautionary and relief measures. During a virtual interaction with officials of Kodagu, Ballari, Hassan, Udupi, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Koppal, and Belagavi districts, he asked them to utilise the funds available in the district treasury accounts for undertaking relief for flood-hit people. The Chief Minister also instructed officials to form special teams to undertake rescue measures in landslip areas and villages located near rivers. The officials were told to shift people to safer places from areas likely to witness landslips. On crop loss owing to floods, Mr. Yediyurappa instructed the officials to conduct a survey immediately for providing compensation to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-reviews-monsoon-situation-in-13-districts/article35437296.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mango processing unit||The first horticultural crop processing cluster of the State, including a mango processing unit, will be set up in Ramanagaram district on a PPP model, with an estimated investment of Rs. 500 crore, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Tuesday. Out of the 40 acres of land identified in Bhairapattana, 15 acres will be used for the project in the first phase. The mango unit is to be established on about four acres and the Union government has been asked to provide Rs. 10 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-processing-unit/article35437297.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Water adalat tomorrow||The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold water adalat on Thursday (July 22) from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. to address the grievances related to water billing, delay in providing supply and sanitary connections, delay in converting domestic to non-domestic connections and other related issues. According to a BWSSB release, the adalat will be held at the following sub divisions: South Village 2, South East 5; West Village-1, South West 4, East Village 3, East Village 1, North West 5, North East 3, and North 1 sub divisions. For any problems regarding the water supply, consumers can contact helpline number 1916 or WhatsApp on 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat-tomorrow/article35437274.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Centre has released 23% of funds for schemes in Q1’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday reviewed the progress of 11 major Centrally sponsored schemes (CSSs) in Karnataka and said the Centre has released 23% of the allocated funds in the first quarter of the current financial year. A total of Rs. 38,078 crore has been allocated for the implementation of various Centrally sponsored schemes. The Union government’s share is Rs. 17,536 crore, of which Rs. 4,074 crore (23%) had been released to the State till June-end. In 2020-21, the Union government had set aside Rs. 18,715 crore for CSSs, but the actual release was Rs. 16,320 crore, constituting 87% of the total allocation. Mr. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting on CSSs with Ministers and senior officials of various departments. He said the allocation to Karnataka has been increased from Rs. 9,600 crore in 2014-15 to Rs. 17,536 crore in 2021-22. He instructed officials to take steps for a time-bound implementation of schemes such as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, Jal Jeevan Mission, midday meal, National Health Mission, National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Fund, and Pradhan Mantri Awaz Yojana. Noting the irregularities in some of the CSSs, the Chief Minister asked Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar to hold meetings with the heads of the departments concerned. He also directed officials to submit completion certificates to the departments concerned to avail funds on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-has-released-23-of-funds-for-schemes-in-q1/article35437293.ece
21 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ministers who switched from other parties anxious||Speculation about change in leadership in the BJP in Karnataka has caused concern among Ministers who came from other parties as a group to help the party form the government in the State. As many as 16 MLAs quit their Assembly membership and joined the BJP to cause the fall of the JD(S)-Congress government and helped the formation of the BJP government led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in 2019. Of them, 12 were inducted into the cabinet. Among them, Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi had to quit following allegations of him seeking sexual favours from a woman in return for a government job. Meeting It is learnt that these Ministers met in Bengaluru on Monday night. While there is no clarity on if and when Mr. Yediyurappa will be removed from the top post and on who is likely to succeed him, the Ministers are learnt to have decided to maintain a united front. Among the Ministers who reportedly attended the meeting were B.C. Patil and S.T. Somashekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministers-who-switched-from-other-parties-anxious/article35437294.ece
21 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||BESCOM has scheduled for erection of auto reclosers in Veerasandra limits. Power supply will be hit on July 22 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at 66/11 KV Jigani MUSS: F-03 Charbuja, and F-05: Madapattana, Jigani Double Road, Seethanayakanahalli, APC Circle, Haragadde and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article35437278.ece
21 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||They make treacherous treks in the rain in search of facilities||Rathnamma, 56, a resident of Tagti in Bhanukuli Gram Panchayat of Sagar taluk fell ill last week. Family members and neighbours felt she should be taken to a hospital as there was fear of the COVID-19 pandemic. With no option to take her by vehicle, her family members ferried her for more than 3 km on their shoulders in a makeshift stretcher. Ms. Rathnamma’s husband Narayana and neighbours Ravi, Beerappa and Nagappa carried her up to Kanuru, crossing the hilly terrain and braving the rain. She is undergoing treatment at Sagar. “This is nothing new for us. It has been the situation during the rainy season for decades,” said Kalyan Kumar, a farmer who lives in Halmi, a neighbouring village. Whenever someone falls sick suddenly in this village of 15 houses, the relatives carry the patient to Kanur, from where they can get access to vehicles. “The path is also narrow and slippery. We somehow manage to take vehicles on the path during summer, but it is impossible in the rainy season,” he said. The nearest primary school is at Kadakodi, around 2.5 km from Tagti. The schoolchildren have to get there by walk. There are many such villages with no roads, power supply, and Internet connectivity in Sagar taluk. Their repeated demands for basic facilities have not yielded the desired results, because of objections raised by the Forest Department. “Most of these villages fall under the wildlife area, where the Forest Department has control. Recently, a contractor had bagged the work to provide electricity to Tagti and neighbouring villages. The forest officials did not allow the contractor to erect poles,” said Satyanarayana G.T., former president of Tumari Gram Panchayat. The people in these villages go incommunicado for months during the rainy season. A majority of them are farmers, who grow paddy and areca. They have to carry their yield on their shoulders for long distances to sell them. “The people in these villages cannot be contacted either by road or telephone. Forget the phone network, there has been no electricity supply all these years. I don’t know how many more years these people have to go through this,” said Somaraj of Huliballi, who works as a TV mechanic.  The path is also narrow and slippery. We manage to take vehicles on the path during summer, but it is impossible in the rainy season. This is nothing new. It has been the situation during the rainy season for decades Kalyan Kumar,a resident of Halmi village||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/they-make-treacherous-treks-in-the-rain-in-search-of-facilities/article35437292.ece
21 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MPs urged to help coffee growers||Karnataka Growers’ Federation office-bearers, on Sunday, met Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje and other Parliament members and appealed to them to come to the rescue of coffee growers, who were facing many problems. KGF President H.T. Mohan Kumar and organising secretary K.K. Vishwanath met Ms. Shobha Karandlaje, Bharatiya Kisan Sangha president Basave Gowda, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, Bengaluru South MP Tejaswi Surya and others. The office-bearers demanded that the loans borrowed for coffee cultivation should be kept out of the ambit of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. In recent years coffee growers were facing cases under the Act. They also demanded that the government provide loans for the growers at low interest rates and restructure current loans. They urged the government to keep farm loans out of the CIBIL score. The KGF office-bearers also met officers of the Commerce Ministry and Finance Ministry in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mps-urged-to-help-coffee-growers/article35437513.ece
21 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||118 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 118 fresh cases of COVID-19 and three more deaths due to the infection on Tuesday. With that, the number of cases reported in the district increased to 1,05,530 and the death toll rose to 1,251. As of Tuesday, 1,433 people are under treatment. Among them, 51 are in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases, five are from Alur taluk, 16 from Arkalgud, 12 from Arsikere, 16 from Belur, 19 from Channarayapatna, 38 from Hassan taluk, nine from Holenarsipur and three from Sakleshpur taluk. Shivamogga district reported 45 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 21 are from Shivamogga taluk, 13 from Bhadravati, six from Thirthahalli, three from Sagar, one from Hosanagar and one from out of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/118-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article35437720.ece
21 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Dacoity: Four held||The Chikkamagaluru police have arrested four persons, including a native of Jharkhand, allegedly involved in multiple dacoities reported in different places, and recovered two pistols, live bullets and valuables from them. The Mudigere police arrested them in the early hours on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dacoity-four-held/article35437699.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Technician suspended for issuing false report for COVID-19 positive||K. Panduranga, a junior lab technician attached to Kurgod Community Health Centre in Ballari, has been placed under suspension for issuing a COVID-19 positive report to a woman who died a natural death two months ago. It is learnt that Panduranga, on Saturday, issued a COVID-19 positive report for H. Shankramma, a native of Kyadigehal village, who died of natural causes on May 19, 2021. As per information provided by District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan H.L., a probe that was conducted on Monday in the presence of District Vigilance Officer, Taluk Health and Family Welfare Officer, Kurgod Taluk COVID-19 Nodal Officer and microbiologist of the lab and an analysis of COVID-19 Sample Collection Management System for Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR test data revealed that Panduranga had, on Saturday, created an SRFID using his own number and generated a false test report showing that Shankramma had tested positive for COVID-19. The officer added that the accused created the SRFID and generated the false test report between 12.15 p.m. and 12.30 p.m. on Saturday, though he was not on swab testing duty. Upon finding substantial evidence, a complaint was then lodged at Kurgod Police Station. The police filed a First Information Report against Panduranga under Indian Penal Code Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating) and 477 A (falsification of accounts) at about 7 p.m. on Monday. Dr. Janardhan, exercising his powers conferred under Rule 10(1) of the Karnataka Civil Service (Classification Control & Appeal) Rules 1957, placed the accused under suspension the same day. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Janardhan said that the involvement of the family members of the deceased Shankramma is also suspected in the case. “The government has recently announced a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to families that have lost their members to COVID-19 and the fraud committed by Panduranga is clearly for getting compensation. In the initial investigation, it is learnt that the family members of the deceased are also involved in the crime. As, when our officers contacted the mobile number recorded against Shankramma for swab test, the family members, who were unaware of the caller, said that Shankramma died a natural death a week ago. Our probe revealed that she died a natural death two months ago,” Dr. Janardhan said.  As per information provided by District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan H.L., a probe that was conducted on Monday and an analysis of COVID-19 Sample Collection Management System for Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR test data revealed that Panduranga had, on Saturday, created an SRFID using his own number and generated a false test report showing that Shankramma had tested positive for COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/technician-suspended-for-issuing-false-report-for-covid-19-positive/article35437511.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar sets up Child Protection Task Force||Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. has formed a Child Protection Task Force under his chairmanship to address issues that have emerged due to COVID-19 and convened the task force’s first meeting recently to convey to the members their responsibilities. As per data provided by the Department of Women and Child Development during the meeting, the district has 125 children who have lost either of their parents and six children who have lost both their parents to the pandemic. Besides, there are 506 children who have lost either of their parents and 10 children who have lost both their parents to non-COVID-19 reasons, including health issues and accidents. “In total, there are 647 children in the district who have lost either of their parents or both their parents. Of them, only 102 have sought State assistance and we have provided the information of these children on Bal Swaraj portal for further action,” Deputy Director of Women and Child Development Department Ravindra Ratnakar, who is also member-secretary of the district Child Protection Task Force, told the meeting. In his response, Mr. Ramachandran told the officers concerned to initiate immediate action to rehabilitate the children. “The departments of Women and Child Development, Social Welfare and Health should work in proper coordination to ensure the rehabilitation of children affected by COVID-19. The helplines — 1098 and 14499 — should be popularised among children so that they can voluntarily seek help they need from the administration. These numbers should be displayed in all possible places where children visit, including anganwadis, public health facilities and schools,” Mr. Ramachandran said. He also directed the officers to take steps to pay monthly relief of Rs. 3,000 to every child that had lost both its parents to COVID-19 under the Bal Seva Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-sets-up-child-protection-task-force/article35437507.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four killed in road accident in Kalaburagi||Four persons were killed on the spot and one severely injured when the vehicle they were travelling in rammed a tanker on the Bidar-Srirangapatna National Highway near Kotnoor Mutt on the outskirts of Kalaburagi in the early hours of Tuesday. The police gave the names of three of the dead as Ullas (26), Rahul (25) and Khasim (26). They are yet to establish the identity of the other dead. All four were residents of Kalaburagi. The injured passenger is undergoing treatment in a private hospital. The incident occurred when they were on their way to Kalaburagi from Jewargi and the tanker was bound for Jewargi. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-killed-in-road-accident-in-kalaburagi/article35437512.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Campaign planned||The Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU), the Karnataka Prantha Raita Sangha (KPRS) and the All India Agriculture Workers Union (AIAWU) will launch on July 25 a fortnight-long State-wide campaign to highlight the failure of the BJP-led Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-planned/article35437505.ece
21 July 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Successive State governments have ignored Kalyana Karnataka’||Alleging that the successive State governments have neglected Kalyana Karnataka, members of the Kalyana Karnataka Janapara Sangharsh Samiti (KKJSS) said that the governments have done little to remove regional imbalances under the provisions of Article 371(J) of the Constitution. Samiti president Laxman Dasti, chairing a meeting of the core committee members in Kalaburagi on Sunday, said that the UPA-II government has accorded special status to Kalyana Karnataka to remove the regional imbalances in the State as per recommendations of the D.M.Nanjundappa Committee report, but the successive governments have failed to eradicate backwardness of the region. Mr. Dasti urged the representatives from the six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka to focus on the development and called for political will to overcome regional imbalances. Mr. Dasti expressed displeasure over the Centre’s decision to drop all major projects from Kalaburagi district, this shows the neglect and injustice meted out to the Kalyana Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/successive-state-governments-have-ignored-kalyana-karnataka/article35437515.ece
21 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Implement Bala Seva Yojana, officials told||Bidar Deputy Commissioner R. Ramachandran has directed officials to ensure the effective implementation of the Bala Seva Yojana by extending financial assistance to children orphaned during COVID-19. Chairing a meeting here on Monday, he instructed officials to directly deposit financial assistance of Rs. 3,000 a month for children who lost their parents to COVID-19. Deputy Director, Women and Child Welfare Department, Ravindra Ratnakar said that 125 children in the district have lost either their father or mother to COVID-19 and six children have lost both their parents. As many as 506 children have lost either their father or mother due to cardiac arrest, cancer and other health issues and 10 children have lost both their parents due to co-morbidities, he added. Mr. Ramachandran asked the Women and Child Welfare Department and the Health Department officials to display child helpline 1098 on all anganwadi buildings and also to display the free counselling number 14499 at all taluk hospital and health centres across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/implement-bala-seva-yojana-officials-told/article35437516.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Continue to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour’||The Dakshina Kannada administration on Tuesday said that the enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour will continue in the district with certain exemptions announced by the State government, including restricting night curfew to between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. In his guidelines issued under the Natural Disaster Management Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure, Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate K.V. Rajendra said that because of the strict enforcement of the guidelines so far in the district, the number of COVID-19 positive cases has come down. Cinemas, multiplexes, theatres and convention halls may function with 50% of their capacity subject to following COVID-19 standard operating procedure issued by the departments concerned. Similarly, colleges under the Department of Higher Education are allowed to hold classes from July 26 subject to their adherence to guidelines. Only those students and staff who are administered with at least one dose of vaccine can attend colleges. Physical attendance of students in classes is voluntary, he said. Similar is the case with higher technical education and vocational courses. Orders issued with respect to people reaching the State from Kerala and Maharashtra will continue to be enforced. They are expected to carry COVID-19 negative certificate not older than 72 hours or a certificate for having received at least one dose of vaccine. Dr. Rajendra said that the guidelines issued by the State government with respect to celebrations of Bakrid and animal slaughtering should be followed strictly. People may go to masjids subject to their adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, and within 50% capacity of such buildings. Slaughter banned Meanwhile, the Mangaluru City Corporation has banned animal slaughter in public places during Bakrid celebrations or any other festival or congregation due to COVID-19. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the ban will apply to roads, hospital premises, educational institutions, playgrounds, masjids and other religious places, parks and any other public place. Stringent action will be taken against those found indulging in animal slaughter in public places, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/continue-to-follow-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour/article35437692.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Full marks for 149 from Udupi, 441 from Dakshina Kannada||As many as 441 of the 32,342 who have passed the II PU examination from Dakshina Kannada have secured the full 600 marks, while 149 of the 15,213 students from Udupi district have secured full marks. In terms of number of students who have secured full marks, Dakshina Kannada district stands first, while Udupi district stands fourth in the State. With the raging pandemic, the government decided to cancel II PU examination and pass all regular students and repeaters. The II PU marks were computed by giving 45% weightage to marks scored in SSLC examination and 45% weightage to marks scored in I PU. As much as 5% grace marks were added to the marks scored in I PU. As much as 10 marks were added as internal assessment for each subject. Of the 32,342 students who passed in Dakshina Kannada, 31,299 were freshers while 1,043 were repeaters. While 21,999 students were from urban areas, 10,343 were from rural areas. The highest of 14,942 students were from the Commerce stream, followed by 13,229 from Science stream and 4,171 from the Arts stream. Of the 15,213 students who passed from Udupi district, 14,763 were freshers and 450 repeaters. As many as 7,325 students were from urban areas, while 7,888 were from rural areas. There were 8,043 students from the Commerce stream, 5,473 from Science stream and 1,697 from the Arts stream. Dakshina Kannada In-charge Deputy Director of Pre University Department Mariet Mascarenhas said that students who have scored good marks in SSLC and I PU have been given the full 600 marks in II PU. “I am glad to see more such students from Dakshina Kannada,” she said. Udupi In-charge Deputy Director of Pre University Department Maruti said that ranking of districts in terms of students scoring 600 marks does not matter much when all II PU students have passed. Students who are not happy with formula for marks allocation can opt for writing the II PU examination which will commence on August 19, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/full-marks-for-149-from-udupi-441-from-dakshina-kannada/article35437695.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MESCOM says it was KPTCL estimate||Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) on Tuesday said that the estimate for Rs. 15 crore for levelling land for the construction of a power substation at Siddakatte in Bantwal taluk was prepared by Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL) and not MESCOM. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari and Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Monday ordered third-party verification of the estimate saying that MESCOM had prepared the estimate for the substation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mescom-says-it-was-kptcl-estimate/article35437691.ece
21 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||NSUI protests ‘anti-student’ policies||Members of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) held a demonstration highlighting several issues being faced by students and the public and protested against the policies of the State and the Union governments on Tuesday at Manipal. Addressing members at Tiger Circle, NSUI Udupi district president Sourabh Ballal said students were being fleeced in the name of online classes. Several people have lost jobs, many businessmen have lost their businesses, and almost everyone was in distress. In such a situation, educational institutions had been demanding payment of full fee, he rued. If students, who were administered the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, could attend college classes, what was the need for the second dose, he wondered. The government should bring out the statistics of students vaccination, Mr. Ballal said. Stating that the Union government did not have any concern towards students, he cautioned that the student community that had been cooperating with the governments may not continue to do so if the anti-student policies were continued. Criticising the fare hike by private bus operators, Mr. Ballal said the operators should have asked the government to reimburse their costs instead of passing on the burden to the common man. The members demanded concession in college fee, starting classes only after students were administered both doses of the vaccine, and free student passes for students on KSRTC buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nsui-protests-anti-student-policies/article35437517.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Oscar Fernandes in hospital||The former Union Minister Oscar Fernandes was on Monday admitted to a private hospital here. He is in intensive care unit. Mr. Fernandes is a member of the Rajya Sabha representing the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oscar-fernandes-in-hospital/article35437696.ece
21 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress distances from Shamanur and M B Patil’s statements||Distancing himself from the statements of senior Congress leaders Shamanur Shivashankarappa and M.B. Patil in support of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, State Congress working president Saleem Ahmed on Tuesday said their statements were not that of the party. “Mr. Shivashankarappa has issued the statement in his capacity as the president of the All-India Veerashiva Mahasabha, while Mr. Patil has said in his personal capacity. Their statements are not of the Congress,” he said.  On Monday, Mr. Shivashankarappa, Congress MLA from Davangere South, met Mr. Yediyurappa and said the Veerashaiva community was firmly behind him. Any effort to dislodge him would not go well with the community.  Mr. Ahmed said the State BJP leaders were fighting among themselves to retain power. They are not focused on handling the pandemic and other pressing issues concerning the State. “Mr. Yediyurappa has lost confidence of his partymen. The BJP government will be dissolved and Congress will come back to power in the ensuing Assembly elections,” he said. Mr. Ahmed said Randeep Surjewala, the All-India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, will visit Mangaluru on July 23 during his six-day tour of Karnataka. The visit was to strengthen the party organisation and prepare the cadre for the forthcoming elections to urban local bodies and by-elections to Hangal and Sindhagi Assembly constituencies. Mr. Surjewala will arrive in Bengaluru on July 22 and hold a meeting with party activists. He will hold similar meeting in Mangaluru on July 23 with MLAs, MPs, former elected representatives, and other partymen from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Shivamogga districts. On July 24, he will go to Tumakuru where he will meet partymen from Tumakury, Kolar, Chickballapur, Chitradurga, and Davangere. He will have a meeting in Haveri on July 29 with Haveri and Vijayapura district representatives and with those from Belagavi, Dharward, and six other districts in Hubballi on July 29. His tour will conclude with meeting with party representatives in Mysuru on July 30. State party president D.K. Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will accompany him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-distances-from-shamanur-and-m-b-patils-statements/article35437518.ece
21 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Signature campaign launched to save heritage buildings in Mysuru||Heritage activists in the city have launched a signature campaign to save Devaraja Market and Lansdowne Building which have been marked for demolition though the issue is before the court. The activists of Belaku organisation took the lead in conducting the campaign and it was inaugurated by heritage expert N.S. Rangaraju, member, District Heritage Committee and convenor of INTACH, Mysuru. The campaign was launched in front of the Lansdowne Building and people of Mysuru have been urged to lend their signature in a bid to build up pressure on the authorities and help save the heritage buildings. The campaign will continue for at least 10 days before the activists decide their next course of action. Prof. Rangaraju said the initiative follows the recent announcement by the Minister for Urban Development Byrathi Basavaraj that both the buildings were not in a position to be conserved. The Minister had also stated that the demolition and rebuilding of the Devaraja Market and Lansdowne Building would cost around Rs. 145 crore. Prof. Rangaraju said there is a stay against the demolition by the High Court and yet the Minister has gone on record to state that the buildings would be demolished, which amounts to contempt of court. He also questioned the need for spending Rs. 145 crore for new buildings when the government is strapped for funds and is battling the pandemic. “Instead both the structures can be conserved at a fraction of the cost and will serve the needs of the city for a few more years,’’ he added. The activists have also taken exception to the remarks of Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar who said that he would go ahead with the ropeway to Chamundi Hills despite the opposition of the environmentalists. The Minister had remarked that on completion of the project the environmentalists themselves would be convinced of its benefits. Prof. Rangaraju said not only should the Tourism Department seek permission from the Forest Department, it should also seek clearance from the heritage committee as Chamundi Temple and its precincts is a heritage zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/signature-campaign-launched-to-save-heritage-buildings-in-mysuru/article35437724.ece
21 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu is ready to tackle floods, DC tells Chief Minister||Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Tuesday said the rain intensity so far this year in Kodagu was moderate when compared to the last three seasons. Kodagu has recorded 744.7 mm rainfall in June and so far in July this year. In the same period in 2018, the district had received 2,219.7 mm. In 2019 and 2020, 856.4 mm and 849 mm was recorded. She was speaking during the video conference with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who discussed with the deputy commissioners of 12 districts that witnessed heavy rains recently the preparedness to tackle floods. One person died and as many as 30 houses suffered damage during heavy rains reported on July 14 and 15 in Kodagu. Two houses were completely damaged. She said 70 areas in Kodagu have been identified as “flood-prone” and the departments, including PWD, Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation and National Highways Authority of India have taken adequate precautionary measures to tackle the rain situation. NDRF, SDRF, Fire Services and the police are working as a team to handle rescue operations, she added. Relief centres As many as 85 relief centeres had been established for temporary housing of the rain-affected. “The district administration is fully prepared to counter the floods and landslides,” she said, during the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-is-ready-to-tackle-floods-dc/article35437700.ece
21 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Wife, boyfriend held for man’s murder||The Bannur police have solved the case of murder of a 50-year-old man at Hunasagalli village in T. Narsipur taluk in Mysuru with the arrest of his wife and her boyfriend. The Bannur police, which took up the investigation of Venkataraju’s death in October 2020 as a case of unnatural death after receiving a complaint from the victim’s brother Ravindra, registered a murder case after receiving a post-mortem report recently suggesting intentional murder. Confession When the victim’s wife Uma was subjected to interrogation, she allegedly confessed to killing her husband with the assistance of a neighbour, Avinash, with whom she reportedly had an illicit relationship. Briefing reporters, Superintendent of Mysuru district R. Chethan said inquiries had also revealed that there was wide age difference between Venkataraju and Uma, who hailed from Ballekere village of Srirangapatna. Police said Uma and Venkataraju had been married for about 10 years and had an eight-year-old girl and a six-year-old boy. But, the couple used to have differences and Venkataraju had not visited his in-laws’ house for a long time. However, on October 9, Uma asked Venkataraju to come to her grandmother’s house in Hunasagalli. After Venkataraju visited Hunasagalli, Uma’s brother called Venkataraju’s brother and informed him that he had collapsed and later died following which Ravindra lodged a police complaint. Uma is believed to have hatched a conspiracy with Avinash to kill Venkataraju fearing a threat to their relationship from him. Uma served Venkataraju coffee with sleeping tablets before hitting his private parts and smothering him to death with the assistance of Avinash. Both Uma and Avinash have been arrested, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wife-boyfriend-held-for-mans-murder/article35437719.ece
21 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sumalatha seeks probe by Central agencies into illegal mining||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh met Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi in New Delhi on Tuesday seeking a probe by Central agencies into illegal mining in the vicinity of the Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS) dam. Contending that illegal mining activity was being carried out with the complicity of elected representatives and officials, Ms. Sumalatha urged Mr. Shekhawat to direct a central agency, such as the CBI, to investigate alleged illegal mining in the vicinity of KRS. In a memorandum to Mr. Shekhawat, the Mandya MP pointed out that the Supreme Court had made observations regarding structural damage to KRS reservoir on account of use of heavy explosives and blasting within a radius of 20 kilometres of the dam. Despite the apex court’s observations, Ms. Sumalatha contended that “rampant, uninterrupted and illegal mining, involving heavy explosives and blasting, is being carried out”. Apart from the threat to KRS reservoir from the blasting and the consequential tremors, she sought to draw the Union Minister’s attention to air and water pollution, besides the environmental hazards to human habitation that include breathing difficulties and repeated miscarriages. She referred to the damage to dwellings, collapse of structures and the shattering of window panes of houses in the villages in the vicinity of places where mining is being carried out illegally. Threats She claimed that several farmers had threatened to commit suicide after receiving threats from elected representatives and officials when they approached the authorities to complain about illegal mining. Ms. Sumalatha drew the attention of Mr. Joshi to evasion of royalty and penalty to the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) for the minerals that were being excavated illegally. She estimated the evasion to be in excess of Rs. 2,000 crore. “It appears that the defaulters are being protected by political office-holders and other public officials in the area,” she said in a memorandum presented to Mr. Joshi while making out a case for a ‘fact-finding drone survey’ to unearth the illegal mining and its effects. The MP urged Mr. Joshi to direct the authorities concerned to initiate prompt audit and collection of outstanding taxes, penalties and other dues from the mining industry in and around Mandya while taking steps to halt illegal mining in vulnerable areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sumalatha-seeks-probe-by-central-agencies-into-illegal-mining/article35437726.ece
21 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA layouts may get Kabini water soon||As part of its ambitious plan of supplying drinking water to all the layouts coming under its jurisdiction, the Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has proposed to augment water supply from the present 60 MLD to 180 MLD from Bidaragod jackwell. In this connection, the MUDA engineers have been asked to prepare an action plan with technical details in the next two days so that it can be pursued with the State government. Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj and Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who were in Mysuru recently, had directedMUDA to work out a plan for supplying drinking water to all the MUDA layouts and the layouts approved by it. Accordingly, MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev, accompanied by the members of MUDA, the Commissioner and the engineers, visited Bidaragod from where Kabini water is drawn for supplying to some areas of Mysuru. Officials from the Mysuru City Corporation, the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the KPTCL and the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) had also accompanied the MUDA team during the inspection. The delegation also visited Kembalu village where a water treatment plant had been established. At Bidaragod, the officials observed that the project can be upgraded for supplying 180 MLD from the present 60 MLD. The 120 MLD water can be used for supplying water to the layouts of MUDA and those approved by it in Mysuru. Mr. Rajeev said the work on enhancing the supply would be completed in the next one year. The KUWSSB engineers said 180 MLD water can be drawn from Kabini if more heavy-duty pumps were installed at the Bidaragod jackwell as well at the water treatment plant from where water is pumped to different parts of the city. The Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board (KUWSSB) said the total capacity of Kabini drinking water scheme is 180 MLD of which only the first phase of 60 MLD has been implemented. The CESC engineers had accompanied the MUDA team since the project required additional power for the additional pumps that are necessary for increasing the supply to 180 MLD from the project. Only additional pumps and electricity (from 11 kv to 66 kv) were required to upgrade the supply. There is no need for laying of additional pipelines, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-layouts-may-get-kabini-water-soon/article35437722.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,KARNATAKA||No leadership tussle in Karnataka: Surjewala||Amid reports of a leadership tussle in the Karnataka Congress, former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday met former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief D.K. Shivakumar. However, the party downplayed the differences between the two leaders and said it would fight the 2023 Assembly elections with unity. Party general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Surjewala told reporters at a press conference that those who would lead the party in the elections were seated on the dais, pointing to Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, and working president Dhruvanarayan. Mr. Surjewala said the day the Congress wins over 150 Assembly seats, the party’s legislators would decide who would lead the party. He said the Congress party would be projected and both Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar were “clear on that”. “The BJP is now caught in its own game of deception and defection in Karnataka. Their lies, untruths, corruption, malgovernance, and maladministration has now been exposed,” Mr. Sujewala said. “We are concerned about the people of Karnataka... In order to ensure that the party takes this up unitedly, Rahul ji had long deliberations with Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar. Let me assure you that the Congress party is united and there is no difference of leadership.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-leadership-tussle-in-karnataka-surjewala/article35437287.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||II PU exam: 2,239 students get 600/600||R. Snehal, Director of the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), acknowledged that the high scores could be the result of the ‘grace marks’. As the examination was cancelled on account of the pandemic, all students have been promoted this year. They were graded based on their SSLC and first year pre-university marks, which were given 45% weightage each. Internal assessments accounted for the remaining 10%. In addition to this, students have been given 5% grace marks on their first PU scores. The DPUE in a press release stated that students — both freshers and repeaters — who are not satisfied with their marks can appear for the examination that has been tentatively scheduled from August 19 to September 3. Mr. Kumar said that those who are not satisfied with their results can approach the officials and register for the examination by July 30. With all students being declared as pass, there was also a corresponding increase in the number of candidates who secured distinction, and first and second class, when compared with the 2019–20 academic year when only 4.17 lakh students wrote the examination. However, the percentage of students who secured distinction this year has dropped when compared with the previous year. In the 2020 PU examination, 17% of the candidates secured a distinction, compared with 14% this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-exam-2239-students-get-600600/article35437286.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Academy told to initiate process to include Tulu in Unicode||Mr. Limbavali said that he will be happy to be a part of the celebrations when Tulu language that was a part of the Tulu culture in the over nine centuries of administration in the history of the State will get included in the Unicode map. The government is on a constant endeavour to nurture and promote Tulu language and culture as done for other languages in the State, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academy-told-to-initiate-process-to-include-tulu-in-unicode/article35437693.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tapta Mudradharana||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tapta-mudradharana/article35437698.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Re-exam format to be like that of past years||Students who are not satisfied with their scores and wish to appear for the examination scheduled from August 20 - September 3 along with private candidates can do so by sending their documents to the principals of their schools. R. Snehal, Director of the Department of Pre-University Education said the format will be similar to what was conducted in the past years. However, candidates who wish to write the examinations will have to surrender the scores they have obtained.  762 candidates didn’t pay fees The Department of Pre-University Education has found that 762 students who were enrolled for second PU classes, did not register for the examination and pay the fees. To give these students another chance, the DPUE has announced that they can sit for the examination when it is conducted in August-September. More boys bag distinction More boys secured distinction than girls. As many as 60,085 out of the 3,31,359 boys who had registered for the PU were awarded distinctions. Only 35,543 out of the 3,35,138 girls who registered got similar scores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/re-exam-format-to-be-like-that-of-past-years/article35437284.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||762 didn’t pay fees||The Department of Pre-University Education has found that 762 students who were enrolled for second PU classes, did not register for the examination and pay the fees. To give these students another chance, the DPUE has announced that they can sit for the examination when it is conducted in August-September.   More boys secured distinction than girls. As many as 60,085 out of the 3,31,359 boys who had registered for the PU were awarded distinctions. Only 35,543 out of the 3,35,138 girls who registered got similar scores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/762-didnt-pay-fees/article35437279.ece
21 July 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Tamil Nadu reports 1,904 fresh cases||A total of 1,904 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday and 30 succumbed to the infection in Tamil Nadu. This took the overall tally of cases to 25,39,277 and toll to 33,782. Of the fresh cases, 48% continued to be reported from seven districts. The drop in the number of cases has been slow in many of the districts. In Coimbatore, 204 people tested positive, followed by Chennai with 141 cases. Chennai’s overall tally of cases stood at 5,36,493, followed by Coimbatore (2,27,283)  Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph again pointed north on Tuesday, with the State reporting 16,848 new cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) which hit 11.08% on Monday, rose a little, touching 11.91%. Karnataka reported 1,464 new cases and 29 deaths on Tuesday, taking total infections to 28,86,702 and the toll to 36,226. Bengaluru Urban topped the list of cases, with 352 infections. The total number of active cases in the state was 26,256. The TPR for the day stood at 1.29%. Out of 29 deaths, five were from Bengaluru Urban, and Dakshina Kannada, while Hassan and Mysuru had three each, and Haveri, Kolar, Mandya and Tumakuru two each. 24 dead in A.P. COVID-19 claimed 24 lives in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday and 2,498 new infections were reported. The death toll edged up to 13,178 and the cumulative tally to 19,44,222. The number of active cases went up to 23,843. The daily TPR was 2.83%. There was a slight drop in new cases in Telangana on Tuesday with 657 people testing positive. The State’s tally went up to 6,38,030. The death toll was 3,766 with two more patients succumbing to the virus.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, bureaus & PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tamil-nadu-reports-1904-fresh-cases/article35437824.ece
21 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Bus owner commits suicide in Wayanad||A 48-year-old bus owner allegedly committed suicide owing to financial distress at Perumbadikkunnu, near Ambalavayal, in the district on Monday night. The police identified the deceased as P.C. Raja Mani of Palancherry . He was found critical in a hut at a coffee plantation near his house on Sunday morning after consuming poison, sources said. After consuming poison, he called his friends over the phone and informed them that he was in a severe financial crisis since he could not operate his bus for the past 18 months due to the COVID-19 situation. Though he was shifted to a hospital at Meppadi, he died on Monday night. His relatives said he had borrowed nearly Rs. 8 lakh for repairing his bus and farming. Raja Mani is survived by his wife, Subhadra, and two children. Disha suicide prevention helpline can be reached at 1056, 0471 2552056. Operators blame govt. The Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation has blamed government apathy towards the public transport sector as the reason for the alleged suicide of the bus operator. It demanded a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of the deceased bus operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-owner-commits-suicide-in-wayanad/article35437657.ece
21 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||COVID norms thrown to wind as children crowd sports stadium||Despite the warning that the third wave of COVID-19 may affect a large section of children, the zonal selections organised by the Kerala State Sports Council at Jawahar Municipal Sports Stadium saw a large number of children from the districts of Kannur and Kasaragod crowding the place on Tuesday. The overwhelming crowd at the one-day selection trial violated the COVID-19 norms, as those participating flooded the stadium and did not maintain proper physical distancing or wear masks all through the day. However, they attended the selection trials after producing the certificate of antigen testing performed within 24 hours. Incidentally, the selection trials were conducted when the government had given no permission for sports and games activities that involves any contact. As per the order issued on July 6, only indoor sports and gym are allowed. Apparently, the sports council organised the selection for 19 disciples in sports and games. Despite such large turn-out at the ground, the police and district administration turned a blind eye to the event. No police were deputed and not even a sectoral magistrate was present at the spot to ensure that the COVID norms were followed. According to the organisers, 400 children, who came from various parts of Kasaragod and Kannur districts participated in the selection. The organisers claimed that they had received a special permission to carry out the selection process after they submitted a request to the Chief Minister's Office and to the Sports Minister. Shinith Patiyam, secretary, Kannur District Sports Council, said the selections were going to be conducted in other places and also for sports schools in the coming days. The selections were unavoidable as the admissions to schools and colleges had to be completed. If the trials were not conducted, their academic year and achievement in sports would be lost, he said. ‘Permission not granted’ When contacted, the district administration said that no permission had been granted to carry out the selection trials. Additional District Magistrate K.K. Divakaran said that the government had allowed only indoor sports and gyms in the A and B category areas. The District Disaster Management Authority too received no such requests or applications to conduct selection trials at the stadium, clarified Deputy Collector Jayakumar. Kannur Corporation Mayor T.O. Mohanan said the ground was allotted based on the letter submitted by the District Sports Council. District Police Chief R. Ilango said they had just then got the intimation about the sports selections. Anxious parents, who came from various places of the two districts with their children, besides being concerned about health and safety, were surprised about selection trials that were limited to just one day. Questions were raised how children would be able to travel due to COVID-19 lockdown. Those unable to reach the venue may have lost an opportunity to attend the selections, they said. The selections were to pick athletes for the District Sports Academies, School Sports Academies, Elite Scheme and Operation Olympia projects operating in various districts under the Kerala State Sports Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-norms-thrown-to-wind-as-children-crowd-sports-stadium/article35437578.ece
21 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Facility for storage of vegetables soon: Minister||Local Self-Government and Excise Minister M.V. Govindan on Tuesday said that long-term refrigeration and storage of vegetables would be started in collaboration with local bodies. Keragram project He was speaking at the inauguration of the Keragram project and the urban roadside agricultural market jointly implemented by the Department of Agricultural Development and Farmers Welfare and the Taliparamba Municipality. The Keragram project is being implemented by the government to overcome the crisis in the coconut farming sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facility-for-storage-of-vegetables-soon-minister/article35437576.ece
21 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Man held for allegedly beating his wife to death||A 25-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly beating his wife to death in Kasaragod. The deceased has been identified as Sumitha, 23, a resident of Kasaragod. According to the police, the incident happened around 11 p.m. on Monday when Anil Kumar, in an inebriated condition, attacked the woman following a quarrel between them. He suspected her of having a relationship with a person in the neighbourhood, said the police. The couple have a two-year-old child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested/article35437595.ece
21 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||4 municipalities yet to achieve progress in waste management||Four municipalities in Ernakulam — Koothattukulam, Thrikkakara, Muvattupuzha and Thripunitura — have failed to achieve the targeted 50% coverage in household collection of solid waste, set by the Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) in April. The widening gaps in the solid waste management scenario became evident after the department carried out its second round of assessment last week. A comprehensive evaluation in April had found that 24 grama panchayats and one municipality were yet to start door-to-door collection of waste. Interestingly, Koothattukulam municipality and Paingottur grama panchayat have made no progress in realising the goal since April, according to the latest assessment by the department. The household collection of waste has improved in Piravom, Kalamassery and Angamaly municipalities, which were found lagging behind in the assessment held in April. These local bodies could increase the household coverage to 50%. However, 24 grama panchayats among the erring 38 local bodies failed to achieve the 50% target set in April. Only 14 grama panchayats were able to achieve the 50% target. The grama panchayats that initiated door-to-door collection included Nellikuzhi, Keerampara, Pothanikad, Pallarimangalam, Parakadavu, Ayavana, Kaloorkad and Puthenvelikkara. The overall pace in achieving the target coverage was found to be not moving in the expected rate in most of the grama panchayats and the municipalities. Twenty grama panchayats and seven municipalities, which had achieved 50% household coverage in April, were directed to increase it to 80%. But only five of the panchayats and two municipalities could achieve the target of 80% by July. Forty-five grama panchayats were told to increase the collection of waste from 50% of the commercial establishments and institutions. Only 12 panchayats could achieve the target. Majority of the municipalities were yet to achieve the desired compliance in the doorstep collection of waste from commercial establishments and institutions. Six grama panchayats had not formed the Harithakarma Sena for doorstep collection of waste in April. Paingottur and Kizhakkambalam grama panchayats along with Koothattukulam municipality continue to figure in the latest list of local bodies that have not yet formed the voluntary group. The department has asked the Health Standing Committee of the Koothattukulam municipality to ensure the formation of the group before July 31. The secretaries of the local bodies that are yet to launch the Harithakarma Sena have been given one month to form it and report compliance. Those found failing in achieving the target will face action, according to the directives issued at the evaluation meeting held on July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-municipalities-yet-to-achieve-progress-in-waste-management/article35437608.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Public opinion diverts course of probe: HC||Observing that when public opinion influences an investigation, its very course gets diverted with “exasperating results”, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has acquitted two non-tribal persons arraigned as accused in a case relating to the rape and murder of a tribal woman following public protests. In 2005 Acquitting the accused, Mani and Rajan from Agali in Palakkad, in the case registered in 2005, the Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice Ziyad Rahman A.A. observed that the tribal woman was murdered and the suspect was her confidant from the same community. “However, the community rose in arms against the implication of their own member and the police removed him from the array of suspects and proceeded against the two other suspects from a different community with a higher caste status, alleging offences not only under the Indian Penal Code but also under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989,” the court observed. The prosecutor submitted that the entire case of the prosecution was built on the evidence of Jungan, who “surrendered” at a police station claiming that he had murdered her. Initially, he was one of the suspects but nothing had come out in the investigation to arraign him as an accused. Over a decade ago The court observed that there was nothing to connect the accused to the crime other than the testimony of Jungan, “whom we suspect, as being interested in either saving himself or covering up the actual facts. The incident happened more than a decade and a half ago and that alone inhibits us from ordering a further investigation.”  The High Court observes that there is nothing to connect the accused to the crime other than a testimony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-opinion-diverts-probe-course-hc/article35437603.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSIDC plans COVID vaccine unit||The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), celebrating its 60th anniversary, is in talks with both government agencies and potential knowledge partners for setting up a ‘fill and finish’ facility for COVID-19 vaccine and, later, a full-fledged vaccine manufacturing facility at its Life Sciences Park in Thiruvananthapuram. M.G. Rajamanickam, managing director, KSIDC, said on Tuesday that the initial facility would involve a small investment though the second phase could see investments to the tune of Rs. 300 crore to Rs. 400 crore. The government agency is in talks with potential partners for investments after the State government constituted a working committee on vaccine production. The proposal for the vaccine production unit is part of the KSIDC’s efforts to turn Kerala into a major medical and health-care destination. The government agency, established in 1961, is already in the midst of setting up a medical instruments’ production unit in collaboration with the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology in Thiruvananthapuram. The Sree Chitra institute, knowledge partner in the project, and the KSIDC are 50:50 partners in the Rs. 250-crore project. The project, expected to be on stream by December 2022, will manufacture medical instruments that can be supplied at affordable prices to health institutions, he said. Cherthala food park The mega food park in Cherthala, Alappuzha, was expected to be inaugurated in September. Work on the project was over and space in the food park, which can house 58 units, has been in much demand from processors. Some units have already started functioning there, though the facility is yet to be officially inaugurated. For the Rs. 300-crore facility, the Union government has provided a grant of Rs. 50 crore. Mr. Rajamanickam said in a statement that one of KSIDC’s recent achievements had been the launch of K-SWIFT in February 2019. The Kerala Single Window Interface for Fast and Transparent Clearance is an online single window mechanism, integrated with 21 departments and government agencies. It is equipped to process 79 licences/permits to enable entrepreneurs obtain permits and clearances. More than 11,000 units, with investment of over Rs. 2,300 crore, have utilised the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksidc-plans-covid-vaccine-unit/article35437648.ece
21 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Many women unaware of dowry law||Despite the intense debate surrounding dowry and victims it claimed in recent times, a survey found 896 women in the district to be ignorant about the fact that dowry remains prohibited by law in the country. The shocking finding during the week-long survey by Snehitha, its gender help desk and local gender resource centre, seems to have spurred the district Kudumbashree Mission into a mass awareness campaign not just against dowry but domestic violence in general. Among other things, members will be educated about the prevalence of the Dowry Prohibition Act. “A poster designing contest, Dowry - a social evil, is being held to help the new generation take a firm stance against the malaise. Though the ignorance about dowry was aired by 896 individuals, we will reach out to all the respective neighbourhood groups (NHGs) in their entirety and mount an awareness campaign against dowry both through our online platforms and printed materials,” said Shine T. Money, district programme manager (gender), Kudumbashree. Domestic violence The survey held among 44,653 persons last week also saw 439 participants opening up on the domestic violence they have endured. The identity of the participants were not sought in the survey to enable them to respond fearlessly without being identified. However, the community development society and the NHG of Kudumbashree they belonged to is known, a reason why the entire NHG is targeted in the awareness campaign rather than individuals. “We plan to launch a mass video campaign against dowry and domestic violence, generating 505 local videos by engaging influential persons from the community in each area. The videos will be given wide publicity over our social media platforms to reach beyond Kudumbashree circles,” said Mr. Money. The campaign will be spearheaded by Kudumbashree gender help desk with the help of community counsellors. Starting Tuesday, efforts will be made to identify specific problems faced by domestic violence victims, help them find solutions, and extend counselling or legal assistance as may be needed. Drug hotspots The participants have also identified 2,843 drug hotspots in the district. “We will compile a panchayat-wide database in the next couple of days and hand it over to social justice and excise departments,” said Mr. Money.  Efforts will be made to identify specific problems faced by domestic violence victims, help them find solutions, and extend counselling||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-women-unaware-of-dowry-law-finds-survey/article35437609.ece
21 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A ray of hope for farmers amid pandemic||Lockdowns to contain COVID-19 have given crisis-hit farmers in Ernakulam a new market. Small-time farmers in urban and rural areas in the district now reach out to customers by delivering vegetables and fruits on their doorstep through weekly mobile markets. Residents’ associations are notified about the arrival of the market in their area with fruits and vegetables. Residents can then make purchases within a time of about two hours. “Lockdowns were a big challenge to farmers who faced immense difficulty in selling their produce ranging from tomatoes and green chillies to pineapple and dragon fruit,” said Pradeep Subhash from Edappally, who is part of the implementation committee for the weekly sale of locally produced fruits and vegetables in Kalamassery municipality. He said the initiative came under the Kalamassery municipal Krishi Bhavan under a State government project to reach out to residents in urban areas. The rural-urban linkage will benefit farmers and residents alike, said an official of the Agriculture Department. “While farmers are able to sell produce without the help of middlemen, buyers are getting fresh products on their doorstep,” he said. Happy occasion The launch of the weekly street vending unit and a mobile unit was a happy occasion for small-time farmers like Saidu, who has taken about seven acres on lease from the Cochin University of Science and Technology for cultivating vegetables and fruits. He said the initiative by the Agriculture Department would give a ray of hope for struggling young farmers. Department sources said the plan was to reach residents’ associations every week with fresh produce. “As of now, 60 residents’ associations in Kalamassery are linked to the programme,” said Mr. Subhash.  While farmers are able to sell their produce without the help of middlemen, buyers are getting fresh products Agriculture Department official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-ray-of-hope-for-farmers-amid-pandemic/article35437602.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala’s first transgender radio jockey found dead||Anannyah Kumari Alex, Kerala’s first transwoman radio jockey, was found hanging in her apartment at Edappally on Tuesday around 6.30 p.m. The 28-year-old transwoman is suspected to have taken her life while her partner had gone out. The victim was in the news recently after she alleged medical negligence in the sex reassignment surgery that led to complications. The issue was widely discussed on various social media platforms and mobilisation of resources was under way for a re-surgery. The person had also created history as the first transgender to contest in the Assembly election when she took on the Indian Union Muslim League stalwart P. K. Kunhalikutty at Vengara in Malappuram as the Democratic Social Justice Party candidate in the Assembly election held earlier this year. IFFK volunteer "None who had known her could believe that she took such an extreme step. She talked to me a couple of days ago and she was her usual self," said Sruthi Sithara, a transwoman and a close friend. They were among the four transpeople to be enlisted as volunteers after being put through an audition in the Kochi edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala held in February.  In the fest It was the first time transgenders were enlisted in the organisation of the fest. "This is indeed a show of inclusiveness for which I am grateful but then I was chosen for my abilities and not for my gender. Even in the face of many rejections, I never lost hope and this acceptance at a marquee event like IFFK will hopefully open more doors, which were shut on my face in the past,” Ms. Alex had told The Hindu at that time. Post-mortem The body has been moved to the Kalamassery Government Medical College. A post-mortem will be conducted here on Wednesday. The Kalamassery police have registered a case of unnatural death. Suicide prevention helpline number: 0484-2540530.  The 28-year-old transwoman is suspected to have taken her life while her partner had gone out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralas-first-transgender-radio-jockey-found-dead/article35437579.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tiger moth kit: HC seeks views of govt.||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the State government to inform the court whether there was any impediment in granting permission to a scientist to collect discarded blood samples of fever patients from various public health centres, regional public health laboratories, and district hospitals for developing a diagnostic kit to identify tiger moth disease. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar passed the the order on a petition filed by Wills Janardhanan, project coordinator, SIDBI Innovation and Incubation Centre, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. According to him, he had approached the State government on several occasions for permission and assistance to collect discarded blood samples of fever patients. However, he did not receive any concrete answer. A high incidence of fever epidemics was associated with massive outbreaks of tiger moth adult populations during monsoon season in the State . He pointed out that there was an urgency to collect the samples, as the petitioner had to submit a final clinically validated prototype for detecting tiger moth toxins in three months to the funding agency. Unless a decision was taken within a specified time, it would have irreparable setbacks to the research and development of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiger-moth-kit-hc-seeks-views-of-govt/article35437599.ece
21 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Was arrested without proof, Fouzia tells HC||Fouzia Hassan, the Maldivian woman who was acquitted in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, has informed the Kerala High Court that she and her friend, Mariam Rasheeda, were arrested in the case without credible evidence and that two former police officers, S. Vijayan and Thambi S. Durgadutt, had set the law in motion in violation of the Official Secrets Act. The submission was made on Tuesday when opposing the anticipatory bail pleas of the two former officers in a case registered by the CBI in connection with the conspiracy to frame former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan.  Ms. Hassan said in a statement filed through her counsel that the then Special Branch Inspector S. Vijayan and the then Station House Officer Thampi S. Durgadutt did not have any authority to register the case without the sanction of the Centre government under Section 13(3) of the Official Secrets Act. ‘ Besides, only the Central government or the ISRO had the power to file a complaint in a case under the Act. A serious conspiracy was hatched by the two former police officers and former Special Investigation Team chief Siby Mathews for facilitating political mileage and pillorying the then State and Central governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/was-arrested-without-proof-fouzia-tells-hc/article35437611.ece
21 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 1,901 fresh infections||As many as 1,901 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. Nearly 1,837 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 55 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 10.52%. The regions in which positive cases were higher than 30 included Elankunnapuzha (44), Thrikkakara (44), Vadakkekara (43), Pallipuram (41), Keezhmad (38), Kothamangalam (38), Thripunitura (35), Palluruthy (33), Malayatoor-Neeleswaram (33), Chendamangalam (32), Maradu (32), Chellanam (31) and Rayamangalam (31). Around 15,672 persons in the district are under treatment after testing positive, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-reports-1901-fresh-infections/article35437605.ece
21 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CPI not to renew Jayasankar’s membership||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has decided not to renew the membership of lawyer and social media activist A Jayasankar, paving the way for his ouster from the organisation. The decision was taken at a general body meeting of the High Court lawyers unit on Monday. The decision not to renew the membership was taken after reviewing the contributions and activities of the lawyer during the past one year. Mr. Jayasankar had been continuously making public statements against the CPI and the Left Democratic Front, which had put the party and the front in poor light. When contacted, Mr. Jayasankar refused to comment on the developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-not-to-renew-jayasankars-membership/article35437600.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE schools caution against hasty reopening||The National Council of CBSE Schools has urged the Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan not to consider school reopening in the physical mode till all the teachers and non-teaching staff members were fully vaccinated. Provision sought  A provision for ensuring the vaccination of teachers and non-teaching staff has to be initiated on an urgent basis. The data based on the vaccination status of the teaching/non-teaching staff may be collected from across the country to ensure 100% vaccination before reopening, Indira Rajan, secretary-general of the council, said in the letter to the Education Minister. Shift system Any plans to have a shift system in conducting offline classes would not be practical, especially in rural and tribal areas, considering the security aspects and issues in reaching the schools, it said. The council said that any decision on school reopening should take into account the pandemic situation in each State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-schools-caution-against-hasty-reopening/article35437604.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chacko seeks probe by CJI into snooping charge||A probe led by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court should be carried out on the charges of snooping on journalists, politicians, ministers, judges, and others using the Pegasus spyware, P.C. Chacko, State president of the Nationalist Congress Party, said on Tuesday. The snooping controversy was the latest example in the surveillance regime of the fascist government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Centre. This incident had proved that the government would go to any extent against his opponents, he said. Mr. Chacko refuted the stance taken by the government that it had nothing to do with the present controversy. Only a detailed investigation would bring the truth to the fore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chacko-seeks-probe-by-cji-into-snooping-charge/article35437606.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Supplementary charges filed in Maoist case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the Pantheerankavu Maoist case. It was filed against Vijith Vijayan before the Special Court for NIA Cases, Ernakulam. Arrested in January The agency has invoked the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act against the accused. He was arrested by the NIA on January 21. The case was originally registered on November 1, 2019 at the Pantheerankavu police station, Kozhikode City, against Allan Shuaib, Thaha Fasal and C.P. Usman for their alleged role in furthering the activities of the CPI (Maoist), a proscribed organisation. The NIA, which took over the case, had earlier filed the chargesheet against three accused on May 27, 2020. The investigations, according to the NIA, revealed that Vijith was an active member of the CPI (Maoist) and was part of the publication division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplementary-charges-filed-in-maoist-case/article35437646.ece
21 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,556 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,556 new cases of COVID-19 and 726 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,549 patients contracted the virus through contact, the other infected include three NRIs, one person from another State and three health workers. The test positivity rate in Kollam was 10.13% on Tuesday, when 15,354 persons were tested. At present the district has 28,842 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 18,31,429. While 2,419 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 3,00,110 primary and 18,509 secondary contacts of the cases. In Kottayam, new cases continued to rise notwithstanding the containment measures initiated by the authorities. In the district, 1,101 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 1,088 persons, including three health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) also stood on the higher side at 12.17%. With 121 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Erattupetta which recorded 41 cases. As many as 525 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 5,492. Meanwhile, 27,311 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Alappuzha logged 905 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 8.97%. Of the new cases, 895 contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of eight others remains unidentified. Two health workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 905 cases include 85 reported from Alappuzha, 52 from Mararikulam South, 37 from Arattupuzha, 30 from Mannanchery, 28 each from Cherthala and Cherthala South, 22 each from Kadakkarappally and Thekkekara, 21 from Perumbalam, and 20 from Thanneermukkom. Meanwhile, 604 people who were undergoing treatment for disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 9,492. 517 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 517 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Of these, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.1%. With 29 cases, Enadhimangalam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 23 cases. The disease claimed six more lives in the district. With 307 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,597 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1556-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article35437637.ece
21 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Prizes for essay contest winners||District Development Commissioner Asif K. Yusef handed over the prizes for the winners of the essay writing competition organised by District Information Office as part of Reading Week observance recently. Competitions were held for student in three categories — upper primary, high school and higher secondary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prizes-for-essay-contest-winners/article35437634.ece
21 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Intercollegiate webinar||The Sree Naryana College of Technology, Vadakkevila, organised an intercollegiate webinar on SAAC: Context and Content as part of SYNERGY 2021, a series conducted by the internal quality assurance cell of the college. Kerala State Higher Education Council Vice Chairman Rajan Gurukkal inaugurated the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intercollegiate-webinar/article35437635.ece
21 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber plantations to be classified as per landslip risks||he chaotic scenes of rubber trees toppled over in a heavy gush of mud and water, a common occurrence along the foothills of the Western Ghats during monsoon, may soon be a thing of the past, thanks to a novel initiative by the Rubber Board. With a view to minimising the impact of landslips on the natural rubber plantations, the Rubber Board is all set to unveil a portal classifying the rubber plantations across the State based on their susceptibility to landslips. Agri practices The classification, according to officials, will help the agency recommend adoption of suitable agricultural practices and cultural operations to each plantation, based on its vulnerability. K.N. Raghavan, Executive Director, Rubber Board, said the delineation of plantations into low, medium and high landslip risk zones was done using satellite-derived maps of rubber plantations and the district-wise landslip susceptibility zones developed by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority. “Multiple databases like topographical maps, remote sensing data, ground truth and geo-technical investigations have been integrated into this mapping,” he said. Occupying more than 22% of the gross cropped area of the State, rubber plantations are mostly grown on the undulating and sloping terrains on the foothills of Western Ghats that are increasingly becoming vulnerable to landslips. After Nilambur landslip Triggered by heavy rainfall, the hilly regions of the State witnessed at least two massive landslips in the last few years. The proposal to classify the plantations into zones was taken up in the aftermath of a massive landslip in Nilambur during the 2019 floods. While landslip is a natural disaster that cannot be predicted with any degree of absolute certainty, science-based precautions can empower local communities to remain vigilant, reducing the risk of occurrence of a landslip and its impact on people and property.  Triggered by heavy rainfall, the hilly regions of the State witnessed at least two massive landslips in the last few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-board-set-to-classify-plantations/article35437638.ece
21 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||N. Ram named Chair Professor at MGU||N. Ram, journalist and Director, THG Publishing Private Limited, The Hindu Group's publishing company, has been appointed Chair Professor of the Benjamin Bailey Chair at Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam. The newly instituted chair, which will be operational from August this year, is a joint initiative by the university and CMS College, Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/n-ram-named-chair-professor-at-mgu/article35437649.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Plus Two woes of Malabar schools continue||Kannur district recorded the highest pass percentage of 99.85 and Malappuram district had the highest number of students with ‘A’ plus in all subjects (7,838) when Class X results were declared recently. But many who cleared the exam from the Malabar region may not get a chance for higher studies this year too. All the districts in the region have a shortage of seats in Plus One and vocational higher secondary courses as well as in Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) and polytechnic institutes. In Malappuram According to the data published by Malabar Education Movement, a non-governmental organisation, Malappuram district has a shortage of 28,804 seats. Though 75,554 students cleared the SSLC exams this year, only 46,750 seats are available for higher studies there. As many as 38,518 students are eligible to pursue higher studies in Palakkad, but only 28,823 seats are available. The data for other districts are as follows: Kozhikode 44,430, and 34,917; Kannur 11,518, and 9,714; Wayanad 34,481, and 29,811, and Kasaragod 19,287, and 15,935. Thrissur district too is short of 830 seats. However, all the districts in south and central Kerala have excess seats available with Pathanamthitta topping the chart. As many as 10,341 students cleared the exams this year there and 16,471 seats are available for higher studies. ‘Disparity for long’ A functionary of a teachers’ organisation from Kozhikode said the disparity had been there for long. He claimed that the number of students in each batch in higher secondary schools in Malabar was higher too compared with southern and central districts. If the schools in northern districts have 60 or more students in each class, those in other parts of the State have 30-35 students only, he said. “The government announced five ITIs last year, but only one was set aside for Malappuram. The highest number of students who joined the open school system last time was from there too,” said a government school teacher, who did not wish to be named. The NGO has sought transfer of excess seats from the southern districts to Malabar to sort out the problem. P.V. Muhammed Kutty, general convener of the movement, also urged the government to upgrade at least 20 government high schools in Malappuram district and allocate more Plus Two batches in other schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-two-woes-of-malabar-schools-continue/article35437585.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||ABC Centre in Kozhikode clocks 7,000 sterilisations||The Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre of the Kozhikode Corporation, set up in 2019, has sterilised 7,000 stray dogs so far. The number could have been 8,000 or more if not for the constant shutdowns due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “In the last two years, we had to shut down the centre completely at least four times. All our 13 staff members were infected at least once and four of them were infected twice,” said V. Sreeshma, the Corporation’s Veterinary Officer, who is also the coordinator of the ABC project. When the ABC Centre-cum-Veterinary Hospital began functioning at Poolakkadavu on the outskirts of the city about two years ago, there was public opposition to the practice of releasing sterilised dogs back in the neighbourhood from where they were captured. In the first four months, the centre crossed the mark of 1,000 sterilisations. However, complaints from the public have not stopped. “We get at least a dozen calls a day from the public, asking us to pick up street dogs from their neighbourhood. We can pick up only around 20 dogs at a time and after sterilisation and rabies vaccination they are let out in the same neighbourhood, which in effect does not reduce the stray dog population in that particular neighbourhood immediately,” said Dr. Sreeshma, adding that it took at least five years to see the effects of the ABC project. A survey conducted by the Kozhikode Corporation with the help of the National Service Scheme in 2018 identified 13,500 dogs in the city. “The centre was opened a year after the survey and the number of street dogs in the city must have multiplied in the meantime. I estimate there are around 20,000 street dogs in the city at present, which may take another couple of years to cover,” said Dr. Sreeshma.  We get at least a dozen calls a day from the public, asking us to pick up dogs from their neighbourhood. We can pick up only around 20 dogs at a time V. Sreeshma Veterinary Officer, Kozhikode Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abc-centre-in-kozhikode-clocks-7000-sterilisations/article35437584.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel for welfare of prisoners sought||The National Service Scheme volunteers of St.Xaviers’ Arts and Science College in Kozhikode, have appealed to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the National Human Rights Commission to form a commission to protect the rights of prisoners in the country. Fr. Swamy’s death The petition comes in the backdrop of the recent death of Fr.Stan Swamy, a Jesuit priest, who was imprisoned and allegedly denied medical aid after he was arrested on charges of sedition. The petition said that the rights of prisoners were rarely taken into consideration, not just in India but most of the world countries. While it did not ask to free or grant bail to the prisoners, the focus was on providing them basic facilities, emergency medical aid and legal assistance. The students said the courts and the government must ensure that these rights were protected. “Who is responsible for the years spent in jail, of someone wrongly accused and later found innocent? There are several innocent people who are wrongly accused and had to spent years in jail. Those who have no friends or relatives to fight their case may spend their whole life in jail without any legal assistance. Sometimes, the punishment weighs much heavier than the crime committed. It is seen that people who oppose the government decisions are often branded anti-nationals and are subject to imprisonment”, the petition signed by 40 students says. The students have approached the Supreme Court and National Human Rights Commission with the demand for a commission. This NSS unit had forwarded a similar petition seeking release of prisoners aged 80 years and above in March 2021, to several world leaders. The memorandum prepared in Sanskrit, Hebrew, German, and Arabic besides Malayalam, English, and Hindi, and signed by 50 student volunteers was forwarded to the President and the Prime Minister of India, the National Human Rights Commission, the Kerala State Human Rights Commission, the Supreme Court of India, the High Court of Kerala and the Chairman of the University Grants Commission. State rights panel The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has found merit in their demand. However, since the commission did not have the power to make a decision on this matter, it directed the Chief Secretary of the State on July 10, 2021, to make a decision and submit a report on it to the commission within two weeks.  It is seen that people who oppose the government decisions are often branded anti-nationals and are subject to imprisonment Students’ petition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-for-welfare-of-prisoners-sought/article35437581.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity all set for admissions||The University of Calicut is preparing to open registrations for single-window admissions to undergraduate courses a week after the announcement of Class XII results and those to postgraduate courses a week after declaration of results of undergraduate courses. A release from the Directorate of Admission on Tuesday said the details on registration procedures for admissions to undergraduate courses in over 300 affiliated colleges and university approved study centres were available at cuonline.ac.in. The students have been asked to go through the guidelines and details about courses and colleges before starting registration. There is a separate section for unaided colleges and self-financing courses. The students have been asked to go through reservation policies as well. Contact 0494 2660600, 2407016, 2407017 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-all-set-for-admissions/article35437586.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic scare has not deterred pigeon flyers||A few sets of eyes follow a pigeon as it flies around the coastal village of Nainamvalappu in Kozhikode. It has flown 11 hours non-stop without a break. The owner gets to bask in pride as if his offspring has done well in a test. “This sport is only about the competitive spirit among pigeon breeders. Nothing comes off it other than the pleasure of being on top,” says Shanoob N.V., an executive member of the Calicut Pigeon Association. May-August period is when pigeon flyers across the State get themselves busy in competitions. This is the best time for pigeon flying as the atmospheric temperature is not too warm to tire the pigeons off. Though rain may slow down the birds, it does not harm them. “Last year we did not have any tournament because of the COVID-19 pandemic. But this year we found the courage to organise some,” Shanoob says. 250 teams There are over 250 pigeon teams in northern Kerala and they participate in eight to nine tournaments a year. “Some tournaments are local while some are State level,” says Shanoob. Unlike other competitions, competitors need not be at one location to be part of a pigeon tourney. Umpires travel to places where the teams are located, as pigeons are allowed to fly in familiar environs. The flying starts at 5.59 a.m. and ends by 7.30 p.m. Most birds will not be able to complete the 13 hours. The longer the bird stays in the air, higher the points. The owner has to identify the bird every 20 minutes and if he cannot spot the bird for more than 45 minutes, he will be out of the contest. Shanoob has been breeding pigeons for the past 15 years and has been in the tournament circuit for the last 10 years. He owns around 100 pigeons only two of which are fit for competitions. “So much has changed over the years. Pigeons that cost Rs. 50-60 then now cost Rs. 200-300. The ones used in competitions costs between Rs. 1500 and Rs. 2000”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-no-bar-for-pigeon-flyers/article35437573.ece
21 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Follow COVID protocol for Bakrid celebrations’||District Medical Officer V. Jayasree has called for Bakrid celebrations in line with the pandemic protocol in Kozhikode district which continued to report over 1,000 fresh COVID-19 cases almost every day. Dr. Jayasree said in a release on Tuesday that crowding should be avoided at any cost. Only 40 people should be present for prayers in mosques. Shaking hands and embracing should be avoided as a precautionary measure. All the mosques should provide hand sanitisers or soaps. House visits and meeting of relatives should be postponed. Unnecessary travel too should be avoided. Meanwhile, the relaxations in restrictions in force since July 18 ended on Tuesday in the district. Lockdown-like curbs will come back in local bodies with a test positivity rate (TPR) between 10% and 15% and triple lockdown in those with a TPR above 15%. The government is likely to review the restrictions from Wednesday and the revised guidelines could come into effect from Thursday. The district reported 1,689 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, of which 1,671 were due to local transmission of the infection. The source of 15 others was not known. As many as 12,592 samples were tested and the TPR is 13.72%. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 310 locally acquired infections, Koyilandy 57, Olavanna 54, Payyoli 47, Kunnamangalam 45, Chelannur 44, Vadakara 43, and Chathamangalam 41. A total of 1,493 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 17,922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-covid-protocol-for-bakrid-celebrations/article35437592.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Curbs at Corpn. office||The entry of public to the Kozhikode Corporation office has been restricted to two hours between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. It is applicable to offices of the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and Standing Committee Chairpersons too. Day-to-day work However, the restriction is not applicable to day-to-day activities at the Janasevana Kendram such as tax payment, remittance of licence fee, applications for social security pensions, and other applications pertaining to the corporation, besides building permit applications and applications for change of ownership, the Corporation Secretary said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-at-corpn-office/article35437591.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Amitabh Kant to release book on start-ups||Amitabh Kant, Chief Executive Officer of NITI Aayog, will on Friday release the book Shifting Orbits: Decoding the Trajectory of the Indian Start-up Ecosystem , co-edited by Joffi Thomas, professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K). The virtual book launch is being organised by Innovation, Venturing and Entrepreneurship in India Network (iVEIN), a consortium of leading IIMs and IITs. According to a press release, Shifting Orbits chronicles the spectacular rise of the start-up landscape in India in four different sections. The book release will be followed by a keynote address by Mr. Kant and a presentation on key insights. The event also includes a panel discussion on ‘The evolving start-up landscape’, in which the NITI Aayog CEO and Kris Gopalakrishnan, Co-Founder, Infosys, will participate. Mr. Thomas has co-edited the book with three other faculty members, Srivardhini K.Jha (IIM, Bangalore), Rohan Chinchwadkar (IIT, Bombay) and Thillai Rajan (IIT, Madras).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amitabh-kant-to-release-book-on-start-ups/article35437582.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||K.K. Rema receives letter threatening to kill her son||Less than a month after former Home Minister and Congress leader Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan received an anonymous letter threatening to eliminate his entire family, Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) legislator K.K. Rema has received a similar letter at her office in Vadakara here threatening to finish off her son in the way her husband and CPI (M) dissident leader T.P. Chandrasekharan was killed in May 2012. Based on a complaint filed by RMPI State secretary N. Venu, the Kozhikode Rural police have registered a case under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot ) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kk-rema-receives-letter-threatening-to-kill-her-son/article35437660.ece
21 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Low-key celebrations this time too at Aranmula||The Thiruvonathoni procession in Aranmula will witness restricted celebrations for the second year in a row with the authorities on Tuesday deciding to limit the number of participants to 40. A decision to conduct the rituals, including the Thiruvonathoni procession, Uthrattathi boat race and the Ashtamirohini Vallasadya, with limited number of participants was taken at a meeting convened by Health Minister Veena George. The Minister said all participants should have received at least one dose of vaccine and undergone RT-PCR test prior to attending the ritual. Three ‘palliyodams’ (snake-boats) will accompany the Thiruvonathoni during its 10-hour journey. The rowers will not be permitted to go ashore. The snake-boats, representing the three zones of palliyoda committees, will be permitted to take on board a maximum of 40 persons. The snake-boats attending the event will be selected by draw of lots at the Parthasarathy temple on July 26. The boat race will be held symbolically with just three snake-boats. None of these events will be open to the public. On Vallasadya A decision on holding the Vallasadya will be made later as per the COVID-19 situation. The Thiruvonathoni, which leaves the Kattoor Mahavishnu temple on August 20, will be accorded a reception at Aranmula on August 21.The Uthruttathi boat race will be on August 25. The Collector has given permission to hold the elections to the Palliyoda Seva Sangham committee on August 1 in strict adherence with the COVID-19 norms..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-key-celebrations-this-time-too-at-aranmula/article35437628.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NTC employees stare at an uncertain future||Jobs of hundreds of employees at the National Textile Corporation’s Vijayamohonini mills as well as four other mills in the State are at stake as raw materials are yet to be supplied. Though the mills were re-opened on March 31 this year, after a year of remaining shuttered due to COVID-19, these were closed again on June 15. The management has now informed that the apprentice workers who enjoy the same benefits as permanent workers will no longer receive their salary from June. Odd jobs for survival Even when the mill reopened temporarily, the contract workers were not asked to return to work. Many of them, who have worked in the mills for decades, survive now doing odd jobs. “The NTC has not taken any efforts to supply raw materials(cotton and polyester) to the mill continuously. The management informed all the workers on June 15 that they need not come to the mill and that they will get only half of the remuneration during the period, due to shortage of raw material. We have been receiving only a percentage of our salaries since the outbreak of the pandemic. Now, we haven’t received the salary of June at all,” says M.T. Antony, Secretary, Trivandrum Textile Workers' Union (CITU) The 23 spinning mills of the NTC, under the Union Textile Ministry, remained closed over a year since March 2020, with no steps taken to make them functional even after the Centre gave nod for factories and industries to open in May. The Corporation has maintained that the mills will function once the large pile of unsold yarn stock is sold off. Post the lockdown last year, the salary was first cut by 25%, by 40% the next month and by 60% in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ntc-employees-stare-at-an-uncertain-future/article35437804.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leaders pay last respects to Fr. Stan Swamy||Leaders cutting across party and religious lines paid their last respects to Jesuit priest Fr. Stan Swamy whose ashes were brought to the State capital for the public to pay homage on Tuesday. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said Fr. Swamy’s death left a question mark on the collective conscience of the world’s largest democracy. His tragic end called for introspection among each citizen. Calling the priest, who worked for uplifting marginalised sections, a victim of State-sponsored terror, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said he upheld strong moral values and never succumbed to the pressure exerted by his critics. Transport Minister Antony Raju, who reminisced about his interactions with the tribal rights activist during a class he had led for student leaders in the 1970s, called him a martyr who struggled to restore Constitutional rights back to the people. Archbishop Soosa Pakiam M. of the Latin archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram called for an end to human rights violations that have claimed many lives in the country. He also voiced his opposition towards the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) that had been increasingly used to quell dissent and suppress critics for vested interests. “The critics of such martyrs might feel they can be silenced by locking them up. But their ideals and thoughts will never die. They will instil spirit among many more to continue their struggles,” he said. Spiritual leader Sandeepananda Giri, a vocal critic of Sangh Parivar outfits, accused the administrative dispensation of toeing a dangerous trend of framing false cases against its critics to brand them as enemies of the State. Dissent was being suppressed and fundamental rights curtailed in the process, he said.  Ashes received Earlier, the ashes of Fr. Swamy, who died after spending eight months in custody in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, were received by Mayor Arya Rajendran from Auxiliary Bishop Christudas Rajappan at the Palayam Martyrs’ Square. The ashes, which were brought after similar commemorations organised by the Fr. Stan Swamy Solidarity Samithi in Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kochi, was taken in procession to Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leaders-pay-last-respects-to-stan-swamy-in-capital/article35437632.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||16,848 fresh cases in State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph again showed an increase on Tuesday, reporting 16,848 new cases when testing over the past 24 hours increased to 1,41,431samples. The test positivity rate (TPR) that hit 11.08% on Monday was 11.91% on Tuesday. The State’s active case pool again showed an increase at 1,26,398 on Tuesday with 12,052 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 15,512, with the State adding 104 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of deaths on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,049. The total number of patients continues to remain steady around 25,000, as it has been since weeks, and was 24,752 on Tuesday. Total ICU admissions in the Stateon Tuesday again went up slightly to 1,919, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also went up to 716. Malappuram tops Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,752, followed by Thrissur 1,929, Ernakulam 1,901, Kozhikode 1,689, Kollam 1,556, Palakkad 1,237, Kottayam 1,101, Thiruvananthapuram 1,055, Alappuzha 905, Kannur 873, Kasaragod 643, Pathanamthitta 517, Wayanad 450, and Idukki 240.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16848-fresh-cases-in-state/article35437653.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pregnant women shy away from taking shots||Vaccine hesitancy appears to be preventing at least some pregnant women in the State from receiving COVID-19 vaccine. The Health Department launched COVID-19 vaccination for pregnant women under a special campaign, Mathrukavacham, last week. Though there has generally been a good response and 39,822 pregnant women have received the vaccine so far, some pregnant women have been refusing to accept the doses, the Health Department has found. Higher risk Health Minister Veena George recently said here that all pregnant women in the State should get vaccinated against COVID-19 a soon as possible since they were at the risk of developing serious complications if they contracted the disease. During the second wave, COVID-19 resulted in an increase in Caesarean section births, pre-term births and serious complications in pregnant women, while 40 or more mothers-to-be died of complications from the disease, the Minister pointed out. Doctors’ counselling Ms. George appealed to all pregnant women to get themselves inoculated for their own safety as well as that of their unborn children. All gynaecologists and obstetricians in public and private hospitals have been asked to counsel pregnant women on the importance of vaccination. As pregnant women would have to visit hospitals for antenatal appointments, it was likely that they would come into contact with many persons in hospitals. Hence, it was safer for pregnant women to be vaccinated. Even if they contract COVID after inoculation, it would be much safer than contracting the disease unvaccinated, she said. Special arrangements The Mathrukavacham campaign was launched so that ASHAs can register all pregnant women for vaccination in the CoWin portal at the ward level. Special arrangements have been made at all vaccination centres so that pregnant women do not come into contact with the crowd. Women above 35, those who are obese or have comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension are at the risk of developing serious illness from COVID-19. They can opt for Covishield or Covaxin. Though vaccination can be taken at any point during gestation, the earlier the better. Lactating mothers can also receive COVID-19 vaccine.  Health Minister Veena George recently said that all pregnant women should get vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/some-pregnant-women-wary-of-taking-covid-vaccine/article35437580.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Offline First Bell classes for Lakshadweep||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) will provide offline version of its First Bell 2.0 digital classes to students in the Lakshadweep region who follow the Kerala syllabus. This follows a request from the Directorate of Education, Lakshadweep, to KITE to provide the digital content offline to students in Lakshadweep who face major issues with regard to Internet connectivity and even DTH channel availability. The Lakshadweep Education Officer had visited the KITE State office here to underscore the plea. It has now been decided to support the students on the islands by providing downloaded versions of digital content of pre-primary to Class XII students on a monthly basis. KITE Chief Executive Officer K. Anvar Sadath said the classes would be downloaded class-wise for a month on pen drive or DVDs and provided to the students there through the Kochi office of the Directorate of Education, Lakshadweep. The initiative would directly benefit 6,420 students in 43 schools located on 10 islands of Lakshadweep, a KITE statement said. During the initial phase of the High-Tech School project in the State, KITE had provided 10-day specific ICT training for 60 teachers from Lakshadweep. “Even though more advanced training for these teachers was planned last year, it did not materialise owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. KITE has been providing necessary support to Lakshadweep’s Department of Education for setting up High-Tech classrooms on request,” Mr. Sadath said.  The students in the island to be supported by providing downloaded versions of digital content||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/offline-classes-for-lakshadweep-students/article35437587.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC seeks probe against KMSC officials||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSC) to launch a departmental inquiry against officials whose names appear in a report of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) in connection with lapses in withholding supply of certain batches of medicines. Acting on a petition, the commission, comprising member K. Byjunath, said recently that disciplinary action should be taken against the KMSC employees if they were found guilty of the charges. On a plea by the petitioner, the SHRC had in 2019 directed the Health Secretary to take steps for conducting a Vigilance probe and prosecution of KMSC officials responsible for not taking timely action in withholding supply of certain batches of medicines declared ‘Not of standard quality’ despite a Department of Drugs Control report. The department had conducted quality tests on medicines supplied to medical colleges and other government hospitals during 2013-14. Merit in claim The commission had earlier ordered an inquiry by the investigating officer under it. The inquiry had revealed that the petitioner’s claims had merit. The Director of the VACB, Thiruvananthapuram, through his enquiry official – the South Zone police inspector – had submitted a preliminary probe report to the commission last month, following which the commission was convinced of the lapses on the part of certain officials in discharging their duties. It also found lack of coordination and professionalism on the part of the KMSC, Government Drug Testing Laboratory, Directorate of Medical Education, the Directorate of Health Services and allied institutions involved in the supply and distribution of medicines throughout the State. It directed the Health Secretary to devise a mechanism for coordination and ensure instant communication among the stakeholders involved in the distribution of medicines. Conventional communication modes should be replaced by emails and other instant messaging options so that information on withheld medicines could be conveyed to all hospitals quickly, it said. Modernising facilities The panel directed the Health Secretary and the Director of Health Services to take steps to modernise facilities at the KMSC, such as increasing the capacity of warehouses and enhancing in-house testing facilities, for expediting quality checks on medicines. It also called for a monitoring mechanism to review the supply and distribution of medicines in a scientific manner, including immediate withdrawal and destruction of medicines categorised as ‘Not of standard quality.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-directs-probe-against-kmsc-officials/article35437639.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New plan will destroy school campus: study||Tree Walk, a citizens’ forum for conserving the tree wealth and green spaces of the the city, and Studio Commune, an architects’ group, recently studied the green spaces at Government High School, Chala, and the possible ecological, hydrological, social and health impacts of a proposed building project on the campus. The plan to build the State office of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, will result in fragmentation of the campus, the green lung of the crowded Chala area, says their report ‘Need-based assessment of the Chala Government High School with a alternative plan for space utilisation.’ Five institutions function on the campus - the high school, lower primary school, anganwadi, Students Police Cadet office, and the district office of the Samagra Shiksha (SSK). The four-storeyed State office of the Samagra Shiksha will occupy 3,500 sq m of built-up area. Initially, a request to cut eight trees was submitted to the Social Forestry Department and the Tree Committee. The request was not completely agreed upon. It is understood that trenches will have to be dug to hold the gigantic structure on this unstable ground. Later, permission was given to fell four teak trees, the report says. Alternative sites A detailed survey of alternative spaces near the school campus was done. Two sites with plain stable ground were identified and there will be no need to destroy a green campus. The campus has huge rain trees and over 35 species of plants and trees, and 48 species of birds, and 35 species of butterflies, as per a 2014 survey. It also plays a crucial role in holding excess water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-plan-will-destroy-school-campus-study/article35437806.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor, Chief Minister extend Id greetings||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has greeted the people of the State on the occasion of Id-ul-Azha. “May the festivity of Id, which glorifies sacrifice and eternal faith in the Almighty, inspire us to remain united through love, compassion and mutual support, both in our daily lives and in our continuous fight against COVID-19.” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the occasion highlighted the spirit of sacrifice, harmony and brotherhood. He exhorted believers to observe Bakrid adhering to the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-chief-minister-extend-id-greetings/article35437630.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solution at Muthalapozhi will be found: Minister||A permanent solution will be found to the capsize of fishing boats in the Muthalapozhi and Perumathura areas, Minister for Fisheries Saji Cherian has said. He was addressing mediapersons after visiting Muthalapozhi and Perumathura on Tuesday. The Minister said the Harbour Engineering Department and the Adani Group, tasked with constructing the Vizhinjam port, had conducted a joint inspection to determine if sand accumulation at Muthalapozhi was causing the accidents. On its basis, it had been decided to remove sand up to a depth of 5 m at Muthalapozhi and 3 m at Perumathura. The work would begin after September 15. Mr Cherian said that only after receiving a study report on increasing the length of the breakwater at Muthalapozhi would work on it begin in January. A decision on constructing a sea wall at Karampilly would be taken soon, he said. The Minister also listened to the grievances of fishermen at the Muthalapozhi harbour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solution-at-muthalapozhi-will-be-found-minister/article35437811.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district logs 1,055 new cases, 451 recoveries||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload appeared to rise yet again, registering 1,055 fresh cases on Tuesday. With 451 patients recovering from the disease, the number of active cases stood at 9,661. The increasing test positivity rate (TPR) of 8.6% should come as a worry for the district. While 976 of the new cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection, the source is unknown in the case of the others. Four health-care workers were among those who tested positive on the day. The district administration has currently placed 32,069 people in quarantine. The death toll rose to 3,111 in the district, with 13 more deaths attributed to COVID-19. Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa declared Pulimoodu junction, CSI Church junction, Chanthamukku junction and Paruthukuzhy junction in Muttathara ward in the Corporation as micro-containment zones. Anakudy ward in Vamanapuram grama panchayat and Kamukinkuzhi ward in Pulimath panchayat were declared containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-logs-1055-new-cases-451-recoveries/article35437814.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 arrested for burglaries||The City police arrested two habitual offenders in connection with various cases of burglary and theft reported recently. The shadow police named Theevetti Babu, alias Babu (62) of Uliyanad in Kollam district and Abdul Rafooq (24) of Kaliyikkavila. The arrests were recorded by the Poojappura police. The duo was caught during an investigation in the burglary at the house of retired Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Sreekumar near Anwar Gardens in Poojappura on July 9. Aware that the family were travelling, the duo purportedly broke through the house door and stole items, including gold ornaments and electronic appliances, worth nearly Rs. 4 lakh. Upon interrogation, the two allegedly confessed to having stolen a scooter from the office of the Health Inspector in the Manacaud circle of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and cash amounting to Rs. 2 lakh from a house in Thiruvambady in Alappuzha. They have been remanded in judicial custody.  Duo confesses to committing other crimes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-arrested-for-burglaries/article35437815.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for defrauding woman||The Medical College police arrested two persons accused of defrauding a woman of Rs. 21 lakh after mortgaging her property. The accused have been identified as Premchand (34) of Thozhukal in Neyyattinkara and Anil Kumar (23) of Kattakada. Posed as KSFE agents In the case that dates back to 2017, the duo purportedly posed as agents of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) before the complainant, Mini, of Akkulam, and offered to get a home loan sanctioned for her. The duo also convinced her to hand over the documents of her property for the purpose. Victim moves court Using the documents, they allegedly managed to obtain Rs. 21 lakh from the KSFE’s Medical College branch by mortgaging the property. Realising her folly, the victim moved the court in 2019, following which the Medical College police registered a case and launched an enquiry. The two accused have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-defrauding-woman/article35437817.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New ICG commander calls on Chief Minister||Commandant Sreekumar G., who recently assumed office as Station Commander of the Indian Coast Guard Station (ICG), Vizhinjam, called on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Revenue Minister K. Rajan and Chief Secretary V.P. Joy here on Tuesday. During the discussions, he highlighted the issues related to infrastructure development for the ICG in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-icg-commander-calls-on-chief-minister/article35437820.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sankaranarayana Pillai passes away||Former Minister K.Sankaranarayana Pillai passed away here on Tuesday following a heart attack. He was 76. He breathed his last at his residence in Nedumangad, near here. Mr. Pillai was the Transport Minister in the Cabinet headed by E.K. Nayanar from 1987 to 1991. He was elected to the Assembly in 1982 and 1987 from the Thiruvananthapuram East constituency, representing the Congress (S). He later left the Congress (S) and went on to form the Kerala Vikas Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sankaranarayana-pillai-passes-away/article35437656.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Order on organ transplant||Administrative officers in government medical colleges will henceforth act as the nominees of Principal Secretary (Health) in the district-level authorisation committees for organ transplant in the State. The district-level authorisation committee for transplant usually meets in respective district medical colleges. Though a senior official from the Secretariat usually appears in person at the meeting of the committee as the representative of the Health Department, travelling during the COVID-19 pandemic had made this difficult. The government issued orders regarding the same in order to avoid any delays in authorising organ transplants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-organ-transplant/article35437809.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Zika: one more case confirmed||One more case of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection was confirmed in the capital on Tuesday, with a 49-year-old woman from Uchakkada, Kulathoor, testing positive for the virus . So far, 38 lab-confirmed cases of ZIKV infection have been reported from the State, all from the capital district. Eight active cases Only eight cases are active cases, while the rest have since recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-zika-case-confirmed/article35437633.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Danish will be remembered forever: writer||Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui will be remembered forever through the struggles for secularism. It is when religion is used for political power that the Taliban and the RSS are created, said writer and Purogamana Kalasahithya Sangham (Pukasa) general secretary Asokan Charuvil. He was speaking at ‘I shoot for the common man,’ an event in remembrance of Siddiqui.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/danish-will-be-remembered-forever-writer/article35437805.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Session on research in Germany||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) will conduct an online interactive session on research and fellowship opportunities for faculty members in Germany at 3 p.m. on July 22. The session will be Jointly organised by the university’s Industry Attachment Cell and the Consulate General of Germany in Bengaluru. The progamme is aimed at creating awareness of opportunities offered by the German government and universities in Germany for Indian faculty members. Vice Chancellor of KTU Rajasree M.S. will inaugurate the session. Registration Consul General Achim Burkart will deliver the special address. Other speakers include Sadiq A., Dean (Academics) at KTU, and Manjula Shekar, Science Advisor at German Consulate in Benguluru. Those interested can register at https://tinyurl.com/ktu-germany. The session will be live-streamed onhttps:// www.facebook.com/ apjaktu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-session-on-research-opportunities-in-germany/article35437629.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SC rebuke slap on LDF’s face: Minister||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Supreme Court’s rebuke of Bakrid relaxations in the State was a slap on the face of the LDF government. He alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had sacrificed public health at the altar of political expediency. He had bowed to pressure from communal forces, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sc-rebuke-slap-on-ldfs-face-minister/article35437810.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for chain snatching||The Vizhinjam police arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly snatching the gold necklace of a child months ago. The accused was identified as Sreerag of Chenkal. He is accused of being part of a three-member gang that stole the necklace weighing one sovereign from the child who was playing in January. The group claimed to be salesmen and frequented neighbourhoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-chain-snatching/article35437816.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Faculty development programme||The Department of Commerce, Kerala University, will organise a faculty development programme based on the topic ‘Basic Applied Financial Econometrics and Business Analytics for Research’ from August 2 to 6. Pro-Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar will inaugurate the programme. The sessions are organised under the ATAL scheme of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/faculty-development-programme/article35437818.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly session begins tomorrow||Speaker M. B. Rajesh said here on Tuesday that the second session of the 15th Kerala Assembly would commence on July 22. The session was postponed for a day in view of Bakrid on July 21. The House will focus on the voting on demand for grants in the 2021-22 State Budget. It will consider reports tabled by Subject Committees. The Assembly will meet for 20 days. Four days have been set apart for private business. The House will consider private member’s Bills during those designated days. The Assembly has also set aside two days for debate and voting on supplementary demand for grants. It will also consider two financial Bills and find extra time for the discussion and vote. The Business Advisory Committee will meet and work out the modalities. The Assembly will complete its business and adjourn sine die on August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-session-begins-tomorrow/article35437655.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘All students will get chance for higher studies’||All students who have passed the SSLC examination will get an opportunity for higher studies, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the Aksharacheppu scheme in Panavoor grama panchayat recently. He also released the education calendar for the current academic year. The Minister said the government would prioritise children’s education and make all arrangements for online education. Aksharachepppu is a digital education scheme being implemented by the Panavoor grama panchayat as part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission by including it in the annual Plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-will-get-chance-for-higher-studies-says-minister/article35437594.ece
21 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU students on vaccine priority list||The students of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) have been been notified on the priority group for COVID-19 vaccination. The recent decision of the government came on the basis of a request submitted by the university officials to the Health Department. Around 1.25 lakh students pursue various undergraduate and postgraduate courses and research programmes in 145 affiliated colleges. KTU has set a target of facilitating at least one vaccine dose for each student before the end of the current semester’s examinations. The registration for vaccination should be done onwww.covid19.kerala.gov.inthrough the heads of various departments in each institution. Further details are available on the KTU website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-students-on-vaccine-priority-list/article35437593.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC to be told of 340 vacancies||As many as 340 vacancies in the Revenue, Survey and Housing Departments will be reported to the Public Service Commission (PSC) as per a special order issued by the government. Revenue Minister K. Rajan had directed the newly- established Revenue Secretariat to initiate appropriate measures to assess the number of vacancies and carry out appointment to the posts. Staff promotion A press note quoting the Minister said that the Department had taken steps to create vacancies by promoting employees to the posts of tahsildar, deputy tahsildar/ head clerk, revenue inspector and senior clerk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/340-vacancies-to-be-reported-to-psc/article35437640.ece
21 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Cumulative cases cross three lakh in Thrissur||The number of COVID-19 patients in Thrissur district, where the first case was reported in the country in January, 2020, has crossed 3 lakh. As many as 1,929 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday while 1,479 people have been recovered from the pandemic. The current test positivity rate (TPR) in the district is 15.34%. There are 9,431 active cases in the district. So far 3,01,827 people tested positive for the pandemic while 2,90,629 people recovered. As many as 1,908 people, including 10 health workers, were infected through contact on Tuesday. COVID at medical college As many students were tested positive and many others were sent into quarantine, they will be given the opportunity to appear for examination later. The Kerala University of Health Sciences conducted examinations on Tuesday. 53 students In all, 53 students were tested positive on Monday. However, the hostels didn’t close as examinations were going on. Process to disinfect the hostels is going on. Apart from medical college students, employees of Indian Coffee House, functioning on the medical college campus, doctors, PG students, patients, and by-standers, too have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cumulative-cases-cross-three-lakh-in-thrissur/article35437764.ece
21 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CPI(M) to take firm action in loan scam||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) will not protect its members on the committee of Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank, near Irinjalakuda, if they are found guilty in the loan scam, party district secretary M.M. Varghese has said. “There is no place for those who commit fraud in the party. If they are found guilty they will be expelled from the party,” said Mr. Varghese here on Tuesday. A loan scam of over Rs. 100 crore was reported at the bank, controlled by the CPI(M), on Monday. The police have registered a case against six persons, including the secretary of the bank. The secretary is under suspension. An audit of the Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies found that loans were sanctioned on property pledged by local customers without their knowledge. It is alleged that the CPI(M) knew about the scam much before. It is reported that the CPI(M) district committee, which received complaints, had appointed a two-member commission with former MP P.K. Biju and district secretariat member P.K. Shajan as members for inquiry. It found irregularities and recommended an inquiry against the committee members. The report was submitted two months ago. The report demanded action against the bank officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-take-firm-action-in-loan-scam/article35437651.ece
21 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Job racket in Thrissur||Around 40 people have been allegedly cheated of Rs. 1 crore by offering jobs in Hong Kong. Thrissur City Police Commissioner on Tuesday received a complaint from job aspirants against one Satheesh of Aalppara. John of Vilangannur and his wife gave Rs. 2 lakh in June, 2020 for jobs in Hong Kong. Many others too have been cheated by the group. People were promised jobs at Hong Kong International Terminal as chef, supervisor, and mechanic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-racket-in-thrissur/article35437650.ece
21 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Tomyas award to M.T. Vasudevan Nair||Writer M.T. Vasudevan Nair will be presented with the Tomyas award instituted by the Tomyas Advertising in the name of freedom fighter and journalist V.A. Keshavan Nair. The award carries a purse of Rs. 2 lakh and a citation. The award will be presented by Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala managing trustee P.M. Varier at a function to be held at M.T. Vasudevan Nair’s residence in Kozhikode on August 2, according to a press release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tomyas-award-to-mt-vasudevan-nair/article35437765.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Loud ‘no’ to snooping||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loud-no-to-snooping/article35437589.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raging protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raging-protest/article35437598.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Air of festivity in city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-of-festivity-in-city/article35437575.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In high spirits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-high-spirits/article35437826.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Working in the rain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/working-in-the-rain/article35437768.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking the jab||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-the-jab/article35437770.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In high spirits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-high-spirits/article35437808.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Paying homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paying-homage/article35437822.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spyware row||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spyware-row/article35437659.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In high spirits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-high-spirits/article35437642.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For right to work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-right-to-work/article35437645.ece
21 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Check multiple applications for house sites: Collector||All the applications seeking house sites should be verified by the Village Revenue Officers and the tahsildars under the supervision of the Revenue Divisional Officers so as to check the misuse of the government’s flagship programme, District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan said on Tuesday, and warned of civil and criminal action against them for dereliction of duty. Reviewing the progress of land acquisition for several projects and welfare schemes in the district and disposal of the applications under the “house sites within 90 days” scheme here, the Collector said that it was one of the four high-priority schemes of the government, and the officers must make efforts to ensure that “all the genuinely eligible people” received the benefit. “This is not a scheme to distribute the wealth of the government to all and sundry. It is a scheme to support the poor to fulfil their dream of having a shelter of their own. But many people are submitting two to three applications from the same house by splitting the ration card or rice card, which should be checked,” she said. Criminal action warned “No officer should succumb to pressures and accept or pass the applications for house sites, unless they are genuine. Otherwise, they should be prepared for criminal action,” Joint Collector Nishant Kumar said at the meeting. He asked the officers to identify suitable land packets in their areas, and start negotiating with the owners if land acquisition was essential. “The need for land for infrastructure projects must also be kept in mind and a land bank created as soon as possible so that no industry or investment goes out of the district,” the Collector said while reviewing the progress of widening the National Highways and the Anantapur-Amaravati Expressway projects with the Revenue and R&B (NH Division) officials. Penukonda Sub-Collector M. Naveen, RDOs of Kadiri, Anantapur, Dharmavaram and Kalyandurg, and District Revenue Officer B. Gayathri Devi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/check-multiple-applications-for-house-sites-collector/article35437735.ece
21 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not allow passengers on buses without masks: official||Not adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines such as maintaining physical distancing, not wearing a mask and not washing hands frequently had led to the increase in cases during the first and second waves of the pandemic, said Joint Collector A. Siri. Speaking at the inaugural of a three-day awareness drive at the bus-stand here on Tuesday, Dr. Siri advised the drivers and conductors to allow only those who have their masks on. The vaccination for all people above 18 years will begin very soon on a massive scale, she added. APSRTC Anantapur Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said that 2,597 of nearly 3,000 RTC employees in the district (above 45 years of age) had been fully vaccinated and the rest would be covered soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-allow-passengers-on-buses-without-masks-official/article35437734.ece
21 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB traps lineman||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Tuesday trapped a junior lineman of the APSPDCL at Cherlopalli village in Gooty mandal of the district while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 12,500. According to ACB officials, a farmer Akula Sreenivasulu had approached S. Rangaraju on June 16 to get the power lines re-connected to his agriculture field. The lineman allegedly demanded Rs. 14,000 for the job and agreed to accept Rs. 12,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-traps-lineman/article35437737.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM cancels BJP Legislature Party meeting scheduled on July 26||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to have cancelled the BJP Legislature Party meeting scheduled for July 26, which is the day that marks the second anniversary of his government. Speculation around leadership change was centred around his completion of two years at the helm. However, party legislators will still be meeting, but on July 25 for a dinner to be hosted by the Chief Minister in Bengaluru. “But it is only a dinner and not legislature party meeting,” a BJP leader said. While no official reason has been cited for turning the BJPLP meeting into just a dinner, political circles are interpreting this as an effort to pre-empt further speculation and theories that have projected July 26 as D-Day when some crucial decisions or announcement on leadership change/resignation is expected to be made. Not holding a legislature party meeting on that day would at least slow down or dilute the speculation that something major is going to happen, said sources close to the Chief Minister. In fact, his Political Secretary M. P. Renukacharya had, on Sunday, claimed that it was only a dinner meeting and not a legislature party meeting at all. The Chief Minister, soon after his Delhi visit, had announced the legislature party meeting. Expectation was that clarity would emerge on the leadership issue during the meeting, and this got further strengthened with an audio clip surfacing, allegedly of party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel hinting at a change of guard. Now, the cancellation of the legislature party meeting is being seen as a counter strategy by the Chief Minister’s camp to put off any immediate possibility of him having to step down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-cancels-bjp-legislature-party-meeting-scheduled-on-july-26/article35437230.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru/Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lingayat seers rally behind Yediyurappa||Amid intense speculation about a possible leadership change in Karnataka and a day after Veerashaiva Mahasabha heads expressed support for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, seers from the community came out in the open to back the Chief Minister and warned that they would hold a meeting to decide their future course of action if he is removed from the top post. While Shivamurthy Muruga Swami of Muruga Mutt held a press conference along with about 20 seers from several other mutts in Chitradurga to express solidarity with Mr. Yediyurappa, another set of over 20 seers, led by Dingaleshwara seer, met the Chief Minister at his official residence to demonstrate their backing. Prasanna Renuka Veerasomeshwar Shivacharya Swami of Rambhapuri Peetha has also expressed his support for the veteran leader. The delegation of seers that met the Chief Minister warned that a group of about 500 seers would come together to hold a meeting and chalk out the next course of action if the BJP high command went ahead with the reported plans to replace Mr. Yediyurappa. Moral support The Muruga Mutt seer said at Chitradurga, “We are worried about reports that the BJP is planning to unseat Yediyurappa. We are here to express moral support to the Chief Minister... He should be treated with dignity. If there are internal problems in the BJP, the party leadership should resolve them immediately.” He argued that while Mr. Yediyurappa may belong to the Lingayat caste and religion, he was a leader for all. “He is a mass leader who treats everyone equally. He has worked for the development of people of all castes and religions equally,” the seer said, at a hurriedly called media conference at his mutt. “Yediyurappa will not lose anything if he is removed. But those who remove him will suffer losses. The party will suffer.” On future meeting of mutt heads, he said, “That will be a decision of the team and not mine alone. However, there is already an opinion among some people that there might be an agitation if the CM is changed.” To a question on Mr. Yediyurappa’s age, the seer said the Chief Minister’s energy was more than that of a young man. He added that Mr. Yediyurappa was using his knowledge and experience to handle the panddemic and the floods. Non-Lingayat seers Siddarameshwara Swami of Bovi Guru Peetha (a non-Lingayat/Veerashiva mutt of the Bovi community) asked the BJP high command to think before taking any decision. “Earlier, the BJP was seen as a party of the Brahmins. But now it is working for the welfare of all communities. Yediyurappa is responsible for the change in the image of the BJP,” he said. Sixteen other seers, including Madara Channayya Mutt seer Sri Basavamurthy Madara Channayya Swami, were present at the press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lingayat-seers-rally-behind-yediyurappa/article35437193.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana writes to KRMB, seeks 50% share in Krishna waters||Telangana government has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to share 50% of Krishna waters each on ad hoc basis to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for the current water year (2021-22) by giving priority to in-basin needs till finalisation of KWDT-II award as Telangana is still suffering large distress due to insufficient water. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the river board M.P. Singh, Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation Department C. Muralidhar stated that based on the parameters such as catchment area, cultivable area, drought-prone area and population Telangana is entitled for 70.8 ratio of Krishna waters against 29.2 for AP. He mentioned that Telangana has put the demand of 771 tmc ft allocation for its in-basin drought-prone areas before the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal or Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-II. He also recalled that both KWDT-I and KWDT-II have emphasised that priority shall be given to in-basin areas before allowing water to meet needs of outside basin areas and the adjudication by KWDT-II in the matter was in progress. “However, till KWDT-II finalises its award, Telangana has been asking for sharing of water in the ratio of 50:50 out of the water of the water available in Krishna river for 2021-22,” Mr. Muralidhar wrote and pointed out that A.P. has large unapproved and unauthorised diversion capability of 4.7 tmc ft a day from Srisailam and 300 tmc ft of storage capacity in Penna and other basins where it can store such diverted water from Krishna. On the other hand, Telangana has only 0.28 tmc ft diversion capability a day. Stating that functions of KRMB include regulation of supply of water from the common projects to successor States of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh having regard to tribunal awards and inter-State agreements already made by erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, the Telangana ENC said as the tribunal awards did not make project-wise (specific) allocation or prepared any operation protocol for common projects, an understanding would be practical to share water on ad hoc ratio year-on-year basis, pending finalisation of KWDT-II award. In the 12th board meeting of KRMB, it was agreed to share water in the ratio of 34:66 by Telangana:AP for one year excluding utilisation under minor irrigation, diversion of Godavari waters from Pattiseema project and evaporation losses for 2020-21. Telangana ENC has reminded the Krishna River Management Board Chairman that Telangana government has been continuously addressing KRMB and Ministry of Jal Shakti to restrain Andhra Pradesh from diverting Krishna water to outside the basin and give priority to the in-basis requirements. The Telangana ENC’s letter to KRMB assumes significance as it comes days after Centre’s issuance of gazette notifying the purview of the river board, effective from October 14. During the second Apex Council meeting held in October last, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao registered strong objection on A.P.’s diversion of Krishna water to outside the basin while the basin areas in Telangana are parched and craving for water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-writes-to-krmb-seeks-50-share-in-krishna-waters/article35437520.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS government revises market value of lands||Market values of different categories of lands are set for upward revision from July 22. The State government said the Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps had informed the government that exercise was taken up and completed by various committees instituted under the Telangana Revision of Market Value Guidelines Rules 1998 for revision of market values. The IG Registration and Stamps had requested the government to fix a date for implementation of new market values. Accordingly, the government had given permission for revision of market values and the revised rates would be applicable on and from July 22, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said in the orders issued on Tuesday. The IG Registration and Stamps had been directed to take necessary further action into the matter. Cabinet meeting The development follows a decision of the State Cabinet which met last week where it considered the proposal of the Registration and Stamps department which proposed revision in the registration charges as well as market values of lands. The registration charges as well as market values had remained constant in Telangana since its formation while other States including neighbouring Andhra Pradesh revised them several times. Andhra Pradesh for instance effected revision for more than five times in the last seven years taking the total registration charges to 7.5%. The Cabinet sub-committee on Resource Mobilisation constituted under the chairmanship of Finance Minister T. Harish Rao recommended a hike of 1.5% in the registration values from 6% to 7.5% after studying the matter and a report was submitted to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in this direction. The government had accordingly revised the stamp duty rates to 7.5% from the existing 6% and all registrations that would take place on or after July 22 would be as per new rates even if the slots had been booked and payments made earlier. In cases where payments had already been made for registrations and slots booked for July 22 and thereafter, a module “additional payments for slots already booked” has been made available in Dharani for making additional payments. The differential amounts could be paid and transactions carried out on the slotted day in such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/market-values-of-lands-revised-in-telangana/article35437551.ece
21 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s Menaka after Renuka’s demise at Bonalu procession||After a year’s break, a new elephant will lead the Bonalu procession in the city to be celebrated over the next few days. The elephant Menaka from Raichur will lead the Bonalu celebrations at the Akkanna Madanna Temple, but the event is likely to be a tame affair due to COVID-19 protocol. “The committee has decided to follow COVID-19 protocol and darshan will be with social distancing and only masked devotees will be allowed darshan ,” said G. Niranjan of Akkanna Madanna Temple Bonalu Celebrations Committee. On July 13, the Endowments Department secured a No Objection Certificate from the Chief Conservator of Forests to bring the elephant from Veerabhadra Shiva Math in Matamari-Gabbar near Raichur in Karnataka to Hyderabad. The elephant will be used for all the three Bonalu processions at the Mahankali Temple in Secunderabad, the Nalla Pochamma Temple in Karwan, and the Akkanna Madanna Temple in Hari Bowli. According to the organisers, they are doing away with special attractions like folk dances, flame throwers and group performances. “It will be a simple procession with Matha Ghatam on elephant with a horse rider carrying a flag,” said Mr. Niranjan. In June, the 83-year-old elephant Rani passed away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-menaka-after-renukas-demise-at-bonalu-procession/article35437195.ece
21 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCST seeks report on Polavaram R&R package||The National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) has directed the Secretary, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary, and East Godavari Collector to submit a report on the rehabilitation of the Polavaram project affected families from V.R.Puram and Kunavaram mandals in Chintoor Agency. Responding to a complaint filed by former Rampachodavaram MLA Seetamsetti Venkateswara Rao, the NCST has set a deadline of 15 days to receive the response from the respondents, detailing the rehabilitation exercise. In his complaint, Mr. Venkateswara Rao alleged that the authorities concerned had prepared to forcibly rehabilitate the project evacuees without settling the Resettlement and Rehabilitation package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncst-seeks-report-on-polavaram-rr-package/article35437753.ece
21 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varsity gets AICTE nod for management, MCA courses||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has approved Adikavi Nannaya University’s MSN Campus here to offer MCA and management courses for the academic year 2021-22.  In a letter to the Registrar, AICTE member-secretary Rajive Kumar said, “The MSN Campus has been approved to offer PG courses for the academic year 2021-22.” Each course has 66 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varsity-gets-aicte-nod-for-management-mca-courses/article35437784.ece
21 July 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase upper age limit for govt. jobs: Sharmila||Reiterating her demand for filling 1.91 lakh vacancies in government departments in the State forthwith, YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP) president Y S Sharmila demanded that the State government increase the maximum age limit for government jobs to help unemployed youth, who crossed the stipulated upper age limit, waiting for job notifications for long. Thousands of unemployed youngsters had crossed the prescribed upper age limit for government jobs due to the inordinate delay on the part of the TRS government in releasing job notifications for filling the vacancies in the last seven years, she charged, alleging that the unemployment rate in the State had increased four times under the present dispensation. She was speaking minutes before concluding her daylong deeksha held in Penuballi mandal headquarters town to highlight the issue of educated unemployment on Tuesday evening. Before sitting 0n the deeksha, Ms Sharmila visited Gangadevipadu village in the mandal. She consoled the bereaved family members of S Nageshwara Rao, who allegedly committed suicide on a local farm a week ago. She became emotional while interacting with the grieving parents, brother and sister of the deceased at the latter’s house in the village. While expressing sympathy with the bereaved family members, she tried to instil confidence in them and promised all support to help them cope with difficult times. Speaking at the deeksha in Penuballi, Ms Sharmila hit out at the TRS dispensation accusing it of showing "callous indifference" to the plight of unemployed youth and "suicides" of several jobless youth in the recent past in the State. The persons at the helm were taking care of their own welfare leaving the unemployed youth in the lurch, she charged. She said the YSRTP would spearhead its ongoing movement by organising deeksha every week on Tuesday to highlight the issues of unemployed youth till the job notifications were issued and all vacancies filled. “How can persons at the helm make absurd suggestions to the educated unemployed youth to work as hamalis,” she asked, alleging that such remarks were intended to dilute the power of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-upper-age-limit-for-govt-jobs-sharmila/article35437203.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Was arrested without proof, Fouzia tells HC||Fouzia Hassan, the Maldivian woman who was acquitted in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, has informed the Kerala High Court that she and her friend, Mariam Rasheeda, were arrested in the case without credible evidence and that two former police officers, S. Vijayan and Thambi S. Durgadutt, had set the law in motion in violation of the Official Secrets Act. The submission was made on Tuesday when opposing the anticipatory bail pleas of the two former officers in a case registered by the CBI in connection with the conspiracy to frame former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in the espionage case. Ms. Hassan said in a statement filed through her counsel that the then Special Branch Inspector S. Vijayan and the then Station House Officer Thampi S. Durgadutt did not have any authority to register the case without the sanction of the Centre government under Section 13(3) of the Official Secrets Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/was-arrested-without-proof-fouzia-tells-hc/article35437198.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aisha not cooperating with probe: Lakshadweep administration||The Lakshadweep administration on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that Aisha Sultana, film-maker and an accused in a sedition case, had refused to give certain documents sought by the Kavaratti police and that she had deleted her mobile chats after the registration of the case. The submission was made in a statement filed by the administration in response to Ms. Sultana’s petition seeking to quash the case against her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aisha-not-cooperating-with-probe-lakshadweep-administration/article35437197.ece
21 July 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in newborns left at ‘Ammathottil’||Since its inception in 2009 till March 2020, the Ammathottil in Kollam had welcomed 25 newborns. But in the past one year, the facility, under the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare, saw a sharp rise in new arrivals, with 15 babies landing in the cradle. According to officials, there has been a spike in child surrenders as well and the Women & Child Development Department is planning to carry out a study to find the reasons. “There can be an array of factors contributing to it, ranging from loss of livelihood to lack of access to contraceptives. The pandemic might have robbed some parents of the means to take care of another child. Also, there has been a surge in the number of sexual abuse cases involving minors,” says an official. By leaving the baby in Ammathottil, the parental rights are relinquished within a stipulated time frame and the council never tries to track them. “Mostly, unwed and underage mothers leave their babies in Ammathottil. But of late, many parents have been getting in touch with us, anonymously. Recently, a family travelled from Chennai to leave their baby in one of our cradles.” COVID-19 and lockdown can be factors triggering child abandonment, he says, as a higher number of children have been surrendered by parents since the outbreak. Electronic cradles Many parents still abandon infants in very unsafe places as they think that is the only way to maintain anonymity. KSCCW officials say they are planning to install more electronic cradles across the State and launch a campaign to spread awareness. “Our priority is the safety and welfare of the babies. Ammathottil is a better option when compared to abandoning babies on roadsides and garbage dumps or raising them under all sorts of risks. These babies under the care of the State are adopted by families across the globe. COVID-19 has not affected our adoption proceedings so far. The rise in number may also indicate the parents’ trust in our system that guarantees a good future to the babies,” says J.S. Shiju Khan, KSCCW general secretary.  The Women & Child Development Department is planning a study to find the reasons for the rise   Women & Child Development Department plans a study to find the reasons Officials say pandemic’s consequences could be a factor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-babies-left-at-ammathottil/article35437200.ece
21 July 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flight curbs stretch nerves of Kerala’s workers in the Gulf||With flight restrictions owing to the lockdown, thousands of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) in the Gulf sector are finding themselves in dire straits, unable to fly home for holidays or vacations for more than two years. Residents in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) are already on a long break in connection with Id-ul-Azha that started on Monday. This also meant that with a two-day weekend, many will get a six-day break. “Many have thought the travel restrictions will be lifted, but the administration decided to suspend the outgoing passenger traffic from India that actually began on April 24,” says A.K.Sameer, a resident of Fujairah City. However, from June 23, the UAE had relaxed its entry permit of Indian residency visa holders to return to their jobs and families. This was a follow-up to the exemptions given to UAE nationals, golden residency visa holders, and diplomats who comply with the revised COVID-19 protocol. Mohammed Hashim, an NRI in Dubai, says one of the most serious problems facing the expatriates which they might not be knowing is they are depressed in this pandemic situation. “Even people with medical problems cannot visit their parents. Also families cannot send medicine from back home as cost for medicine here is umpteen times higher than in India,” he says.  Self-imposed exile Possibly, Mr. Hashim says the fear of job loss has forced hundreds of Keralites to go into a self-imposed exile. Some have either postponed their house-warming dates or let their families move into their dream houses. Returning home means they will no longer be able to support their families and dependents or secure a livelihood in the pandemic-ravaged economy in the State. The last time M.R. Rajesh, a resident of Abu Dhabi, visited his mother was two years ago. “I desperately wanted to be back home last April to shift my mother, wife and daughter to our new home. Even now I had to defer plans. Perhaps I shall wait till the pandemic is over,” he says. Like the holidays last time, families stranded in the Gulf also celebrate the Id-ul-Azha holidays with trips with their families and friends. Visiting houses of friends and planning dinners together are common in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations.  Residents in the UAE are already on a long break in connection with Id-ul-Azha that started on Monday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flight-curbs-stretch-nerves-of-keralas-workers-in-the-gulf/article35437191.ece
21 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||8.5 kg ganja, liquor seized in Kurnool||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau reportedly confiscated 8.53 kg of ganja and 48 bottles of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) during a routine check of vehicles at the Panchalingala check post on National Highway No.44 here on Tuesday. The team found ganja sealed in two packets on an APSRTC bus proceeding from Hyderabad to Dharmavaram and arrested one person identified as Ashmath Khan, 30, hailing from Bangarpet in Kolar district of Karnataka. The case has been handed over to the Kurnool Taluk Urban police for investigation. In another case, the sleuths seized 48 bottles of NDPL. The police seized the car and arrested B. Pavan Kumar, 39, K. Raghavendra, 42, and K. Muralidhar, 51.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/85-kg-ganja-liquor-seized-in-kurnool/article35437736.ece
21 July 2021||NAGAYALANKA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two drown in Krishna||Two persons drowned in the Krishna at Sri Rama Padakshetram in Krishna district. The victims were identified as P. Venkata Pavan Kumar (26) of Guntur district, and M. Durga Prasad (25), of West Godavari district. The victims were working for a pharma company. Pavan bought a new car recently and the duo came for a joyride to Nagayalanka. They went to take bath and drowned in the river. A case has been registered. Pavan was married six months ago, while Durga Prasad was a bachelor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-drown-in-krishna/article35437246.ece
21 July 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Bring back children to school, ITDA officials told||Director of Tribal Welfare Department P. Ranjit Basha on Tuesday directed the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) authorities to ensure enrolment of the ‘Out of School Children’ (OSC) in schools. Addressing officials, Mr. Ranjit Basha said that the rate of OSC among the tribal children was high across the State. “The State government is planning to set up exclusive schools for differently-challenged students. Each mandal will have one school, in which the children will be provided physiotherapy and audio therapy,” said Mr. Ranjit Basha. The Director claimed that several minor forest products have great demand in the market and their potential is being tapped through value addition at Van Dhan Centres. ITDA authorities have been told to clear the grievances pertaining to the land distributed under the ST & Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (RoFR) Act, 2006. ITDA Project Officer Mr. Praveen Adithya and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-back-children-to-school-itda-officials-told/article35437783.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases, test positivity rise again in Kerala||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph again pointed north on Tuesday, with the State reporting 16,848 new cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) which hit 11.08% on Monday, rose a little, touching 11.91%. Active cases showed an increase at 1,26,398. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stood at 15,512, with 104 recent deaths being added to the official list. The number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals continued to remain steady at around 25,000 and was 24,752 on Tuesday. ICU admissions in both public and private hospitals again went up slightly to 1,919, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also went up to 716. The cumulative case burden stood at 31,87,716 cases. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 2,752, Thrissur 1,929, Ernakulam 1,901, Kozhikode 1,689, Kollam 1,556, Palakkad 1,237, Kottayam 1,101, Thiruvananthapuram 1,055, Alappuzha 905, Kannur 873, Kasaragod 643, Pathanamthitta 517, Wayanad 450 and Idukki 240 cases. Karnataka reported 1,464 new cases and 29 deaths on Tuesday, taking total infections to 28,86,702 and the toll to 36,226. Bengaluru Urban topped the list of cases, with 352 infections. The total number of active cases in the state was 26,256. The TPR for the day stood at 1.29%. Out of 29 deaths, five were from Bengaluru Urban, and Dakshina Kannada, while Hassan and Mysuru had three each, and Haveri, Kolar, Mandya and Tumakuru two each. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada added 200, Mysuru 117 and Hassan 108. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,22,807, followed by Mysuru 1,71,392 and Tumakuru 1,17,086. There was a slight drop in new cases in Telangana on Tuesday with 657 people testing positive. The State’s tally went up to 6,38,030. There were 74 infections in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, followed by 58 in Khammam, 45 each in Karimnagar and Pedapalli, 43 each in Warangal Urban and Mancherial, and 42 in Suryapet. The death toll was 3,766 with two more patients succumbing to the virus. As of Tuesday evening, there were 9,787 cases. In Tamil Nadu, a total of 1,904 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday and 30 succumbed to the infection. This took the overall tally of cases to 25,39,277 and toll to 33,782. Of the fresh cases, 48% continued to be reported from seven districts. The drop in the number of cases has been slow in many of the districts. In Coimbatore, 204 persons tested positive, followed by Chennai with 141 cases. There were 133 cases in Salem, 129 in Erode, 111 in Chengalpattu, 106 in Tiruppur and 102 in Thanjavur. Chennai’s overall tally of cases stood at 5,36,493, followed by Coimbatore (2,27,283) and Chengalpattu (1,60,762). Of the 30 persons who died, 26 had co-morbidities. Coimbatore recorded five deaths, while there were four deaths each in Erode and Tiruvannamalai. Chennai recorded three deaths that had occurred in May and June as the bulletin mentioned that these were deferred reconciled death reports received from Chennai related to earlier days.  (With inputs from Chennai, Hyderabad, bureaus & PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-test-positivity-rise-again-in-kerala/article35437188.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Saseendran in eye of another storm||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran appeared to have put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in a spot ahead of the second session of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly scheduled to commence on Thursday. A mobile phone voice clip that purportedly portrayed the Minister attempting to shield a party aide from scrutiny in a sexual harassment case went viral on mainstream media. Recent campaign The scandal has provided ammunition to the Opposition’s argument that ‘Sthree Paksham’, the LDF government’s recent campaign against dowry, gender injustice and misogyny, was a pretence. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Mr. Saseendran had used the heft of his office to coerce a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) worker to prevail on his daughter to withdraw the sexual harassment complaint she had filed against a State-level party leader. Mr. Satheesan said the victim had stated that Mr. Saseendran had stuck a menacing tone with her parent. The Minister appeared to know the details of the case registered at Kundara police station in Kollam district. Mr. Satheesan said the Minister had misused his office to afford government protection to a sex offender. Mr. Saseendran had urged the NCP worker to settle the case amicably, he alleged. ‘Morally untenable’ The Minister’s continuation in the Cabinet was morally untenable. Mr. Satheesan said political propriety demanded that Mr. Saseendran resign forthwith. Mr. Saseendran has denied the current allegation. He said he had merely intervened to settle a dispute between two NCP workers. Mr. Saseendran said he was not aware of the true nature of the complaint and did not know it was a case of sexual harassment. The NCP State leadership has hinted that it would investigate the episode. Another scandal As Transport Minister in the previous LDF government, Mr. Saseendran had taken a lot of stick from the public in 2017 for allegedly getting embroiled in a salacious telephonic conversation with a woman who posed as a reporter for a fledgeling television channel. The channel later aired the conversation, unleashing a political storm that swept Mr. Saseendran out of office. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan later reinstated Mr. Saseendran after the police concluded that he was “the victim of a sting operation launched by the channel to gain relevance and viewership”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-accused-of-shielding-sex-offender/article35437202.ece
21 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to develop complaint tracking application||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) will develop a complaint tracking application for the benefit of devotees availing accommodation at Tirumala, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said. He added that the application would enable TTD to have a first hand information with regard to the services provided to pilgrims, plug deficiencies(if any) and usher in more transparency in the functioning of the system. Presiding over a meeting at Gokulam Rest House, Mr. Dharma Reddy urged the officials of Information Technology (IT) to design the application in such a way that it helps the devotees register their complaints and suggestions with regard to facilities provided and maintenance of hygiene at cottages and guest houses. An exclusive number will be allotted for the purpose which shall be sticker pasted at all the cottages. As and when a complaint is sent to the allotted number by way of an SMS, it gets uploaded on to the complaint tracking system for the redressal of the same. He also reviewed issues concerned with the devotees gaining entry into the temple through the Supatham Marg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-will-develop-complaint-tracking-application-says-addl-eo/article35437738.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiruchanur police seize cattle from a Kerala-bound truck||The Tiruchanur police have seized a truck load of buffaloes and bulls near Indiramma housing colony at Daminedu on the outskirts of the temple city on Tuesday. The truck was learnt to be proceeding from Chilakaluripeta in Guntur district to an undisclosed location in Kerala. Police suspect the truck to be delivered to the consignee ahead of the Bakrid festival. Against the norm to transport six animals, as many as thirty two bulls and nineteen buffaloes were found in the truck. No certification The police shifted the animals to Padmavathi Goshala Sadan in Tiruchanur, where they will be sheltered. “Shifting of animals is explicitly allowed only under special conditions and their transportation requires the Collector’s permission even between districts. However, these animals were being moved without proper certification,” says A.V. Krishna Rao, Secretary of Sri Radha Govinda Goraksha Samithi, who runs the Goshala. The animals were stuffed in a cargo vehicle with their limbs and horns tied with ropes. “As the animals were being transported in an inhuman condition, they will undergo a medical test on Wednesday morning,” added Mr. Krishna Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiruchanur-police-seize-cattle-from-a-kerala-bound-truck/article35437744.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Extended research for Ayurvedic medicine need of the hour’||NTR University of Health Sciences (NTRUHS) Vice-Chancellor P. Shyam Prasad has called extended research the need of the hour in Ayurvedic medicine, which has to be taken up in an effective manner for the benefit of humanity. Addressing a get-together session at the TTD-run Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic College here on Tuesday, Mr. Prasad said there was an immense scope for research and development in the field of Ayurvedic medicine. “The teachers should encourage the students to take up research as well as hone their communication skills in interacting with patients. NTR university will extend full cooperation to the college in its research pursuits,” he said. Calling for utmost care and precautions on the impending dangers of the third wave of COVID-19, he urged the Ayurvedic doctors to pursue research on vaccine and bring out medicines to curtail its dangers. SVAC Principal P. Muralikrishna recalled how the college, ever since its inception in 1982, had produced several giants in the field of Ayurveda who had spread across the globe. Mr. Prasad went around the hospital and college, interacted with students and faculty members and enquired about the production of Ayurvedic drugs and the response to the ‘Panchakarma’ system of medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extended-research-for-ayurvedic-medicine-need-of-the-hour/article35437742.ece
21 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Author gives sale proceeds of his book to TTD||Venkata Vinod Parimi, a Singapore-based businessman turned author, has not only documented his divine experiences with the Lord Balaji in the form of a book, but has also filled the Lord’s coffers by contributing the sale proceeds to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). Mr. Vinod Parimi had originally written the Telugu version ‘Daivamtho na Anubhavalu’ and brought out the English translation ‘Divine experiences’, a compilation of his encounters with divinity, to ensure global reach. The book was released virtually and the first set of copies was presented to the TTD officials and priests on Tuesday. The book is available on Amazon. Mr. Parimi on Tuesday presented a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh to the TTD-run Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshana Trust. Mr. Vinod Parimi used to visit Tirumala every month from Singapore in the past, but COVID-19 distanced him from the shrine, he rued. In a virtual interview to The Hindu , he said the 35 mystic experiences faced with the divine force had been captured and presented as short stories. “I will not say I directly saw God, but I could feel Him in the form of several persons I had met in difficult circumstances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/author-gives-sale-proceeds-of-his-book-to-ttd/article35437740.ece
21 July 2021||VAKULURU (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||A tribal doctor’s tireless trek to treat patients||Deep inside Maoist territory along the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB), a doctor from the Bagata tribe, Korra Bhagavan, makes the arduous trek across the forests with unfailing regularity, come rain or shine. His mission? Ensure that tribals living in the most remote, inaccessible villages get medical treatment in their hour of need. Having migrated from Araku Valley many years ago, Mr. Bhavagan has been practicing Ayurveda for the past decade or so. He was trained by his guru Vantada Suggu and is known for his traditional medicinal knowledge. He lives in Godugu Maamidi village in Koyyuru mandal in the Visakha Agency, which shares a border with Maredumill forests in East Godavari Agency. On July 13, this correspondent met Mr. Bhagavan while the latter was on his way to a patient’s house at Chetlavada, a Konda Reddy tribe’s hill in the Maredumilli forests. “Last night, I treated a man at Vakuluru Kotha Veedi village and stayed there till morning to observe the patient’s recovery. Today, I am on my way to attend to a patient on another hill which is 5 km away, to be reached only by foot,” Mr. Bhagavan told The Hindu . Appointments “Those in need of medical treatment meet me wherever I attend patients. On getting to know that I will be in a particular place to attend to a patient, people come from surrounding villages and line up to meet me. I never deny treatment to any tribal patient despite the absence of any transportation facility,” Mr. Bhagavan said. In his 40s, he does not use a mobile phone as network towers have not been installed in the hilly terrain due to the presence of Maoists “I travel by autorickshaw for some distance to reach any village. However, a major portion of the area is accessible only by foot. I sometimes walk as far as 10 km in order to attend to a patient,” Mr. Bhagavan said. He covers the Konda Reddy tribe that lives in the hills within the 10 km stretch of forest cover in the five villages of Chetlavada, Poojaripaka, Pandirikota, Etukuru, and Kuduru, on the Maredumilli-Gurtedu road in the East Godavari Agency in the AOB region. Payment system “I attempt my best to diagnose and treat minor health complications including stomach pain and fevers. I prescribe only a few Ayurvedic medicines,” said Mr. Bhagavan, who himself goes to the forest to collect the herbs and roots with medicinal value. Immediate payment for the treatment is not mandatory. The patients are allowed to pay even after the harvest of crops. The maximum fee is Rs. 500 that is charged for a full day of treatment including the night stay to observe the post-treatment condition of the patient. “I am on call round the year ,” said Mr. Bhagavan, who also earns a livelihood from the cultivation of food crops and turmeric. He is fluent in Telugu and Odia. In many cases, the allopathic doctors choose not to attend to patients in the hills, fearing scrutiny by intelligence officials and LWE groups. The tribal doctor carries two bags on his shoulder, one containing two pairs of clothes, Ragi malt drink, and a bunch of beedi leaves, and a wide range of medicines in the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-tribal-doctors-tireless-trek-to-treat-patients/article35437749.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents cautioned on predicted third wave||Officials of the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) Schools organised an awareness programme for parents and teachers on protection of children from a predicted third wave of COVID-19. NCLP’s Krishna district unit project director (PD) D. Anjaneya Reddy cautioned parents and elders in the families on the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic. Participating in the drive at an NCLP School in Jakkampudi YSR Colony, being run by P. Ravindra Babu, on Tuesday, the PD asked the staff to keep the classrooms and the premises clean, undertake sanitisation regularly and arrange caution boards on COVID-19. Mr. Anjaneya Reddy asked parents not to go out unnecessarily, wear masks, gloves and face shields, sanitise their hands frequently and drink hot water to keep the virus at bay. “Persons suffering from fever and cold should stay away from children, and take all measures to prevent the spread of the virus within their family and consult a doctor immediately,” the NCLP PD said. Mr. Anjaneya Reddy and the staff distributed provisions and masks, sponsored by an NGO, Krupa Foundation, to the students’ parents on the occasion. Mr. Ravindra Babu asked the parents to get vaccinated, avoid journeys, and not to send their children outside and monitor their health regularly. NCLP coordinator B. Prasanna said parents should avoid mass gatherings, follow a healthy diet, and keep phone numbers of doctors handy in case of emergencies, and enlighten children on dos and dont’s to protect from COVID-19. When the parents asked about reopening of the NCLP Schools, Mr. Anjaneya Reddy said that classes will be conducted as per the directions of the government. Awareness on the COVID-19 third wave will be conducted for parents in all NCLP Schools in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-cautioned-on-predicted-third-wave/article35437248.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All districts report fewer than 500 new COVID-19 cases||COVID-19 claimed 24 lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. During the same period, 2,498 new infections were reported across the State. The death toll reached 13,178 with a mortality rate of 0.68% and the cumulative tally increased to  19,44,222. The recovery rate remains at 98.10% with a total of 19,07,201 recoveries including 2,201 recoveries in the past day. The number of active cases slightly increased to 23,843. Positivity rate The daily positivity rate of the 88,149 samples tested in the past day was 2.83% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.37 crore was 8.19%. Chittoor reported five deaths while Prakasam reported four and Nellore and West Godavari reported three each. Anantapur, East Godavari and Guntur reported two deaths each and Krishna, Kurnool and Kadapa reported one death each. Three districts reported no death in the past day. All the districts reported less than 500 new infections each, as East Godavari reported 481 infections in the past day. It was followed by Prakasam (336), West Godavari (326), Krishna (263), Chittoor (245), Nellore (233), Guntur (181), Visakhapatnam (191), Anantapur (73), Kadapa (68), Srikakulam (56), Vizianagaram (56) and Kurnool (24). More than one-third of the State's active cases were in East Godavari (4,421) and Prakasam (3,044), while Kadapa, Srikakulam, Anantapur, Vizianagaram and Kurnool districts together have only 10.7% active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,73,914), Chittoor (2,27,593), West Godavari (1,67,812), Guntur (1,66,412), Anantapur (1,55,687), Visakhapatnam (1,51,257), Nellore (1,31,874), Prakasam (1,27,125), Kurnool (1,22,926), Srikakulam (1,20,035), Kadapa (1,09,244), Krishna (1,06,289) and Vizianagaram (81,159).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-districts-report-fewer-than-500-new-covid-19-cases/article35437752.ece
21 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua farmers sign up to sell produce through e-Santa||Many aquaculture farmers in the State are planning to update the details of their produce online and market their stocks through e-Santa, an electronic marketplace to export marine products. e-Santa is a platform to connect aqua farmers and buyers across the country, to avoid middlemen. Producers and exporters who registered with Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) can trade online on the platform. “Online marketing, e-Santa (shandy), will be very helpful for the farmers. The system will provide direct connectivity to farmers and exporters and the producer will get a good price, depending upon the quality of the produce,” said MPEDA Chairman K.S. Srinivas. Many fish, shrimp and crab farmers were suffering losses due to lack of knowledge on marketing facilities and are getting deceived by middlemen. MPEDA and National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA) officials were helping farmers make use of e-Santa, Mr. Srinivas said. Farmer will enter crop particulars, expected quantity, pictures of the pond and shrimp, expected harvesting date, lab reports certifying the quality of the produce and other details on the portal. Buyers will then contact the farmers and negotiate with them directly, list the price details and make 25% online payment after the deal is struck, said NaCSA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) K. Shanmuka Rao.  The producer will get the entire payment within three working days after the stocks are handed over to the exporter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aqua-farmers-in-state-sign-up-to-sell-produce-through-e-santa/article35437189.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert sounded on flying drones in red zones||The Police Department has sounded an alert in the State on flying drones in the prohibited areas and issued instructions to the officers to keep a strict vigil in the red zones to prevent any eventuality. “Operating drones in prohibited areas such as airports, temples, territorial waters and other highly secured areas is prohibited. In wake of the drone attacks in Jammu and Kashmir, an alert has been sounded to avoid the misuse of drones,” said a senior police officer. The police are studying on the Draft Drone Rules, 2021, released for public consultation by the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Unmanned Aircraft System (USA) Rules, 2021. Drone policy “The police are examining the recent UAS Rules laid down by the Ministry of Civil Aviation for operating drones. A drone policy will be prepared for in the State. We are planning to write to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to specify the revised rules pertaining to flying drones, licence for pilots for the safety and security of the people,” Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang told The Hindu on Tuesday. He said that the police were collecting the details of the number of drones, its owners, operators, licensed pilots and mapping the red, green and orange zones. Drones are being used for surveillance on anti-naxal operations, red sander smuggling, ganja cultivation, bandobust during elections, protests, identify strangers during ‘jataras and utsavams’, VIP security, covering marriage functions and processions. Some farmers are using drones for spraying pesticides and for taking photographs. “We have micro, nano and small drones. The Centre has issued new rules for flying drones. We are waiting for the new guidelines. A wing of the Intelligence Department is looking after drone operations,” a police officer said. Safety management system Even as the operators have licence and obtains permission to operate drones, they have to follow certain rules and specify the purpose of the use. Operators should follow a safety management system as a standard practice for ensuring safe operation, said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-sounded-on-flying-drones-in-red-zones/article35437250.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Efforts on to bring Android tech within students’ reach’||Adviser to the Government on Skill Development Challa Madhusudhan Reddy on Tuesday said the State, in partnership with Google, was trying to bring the Android technology within the students’ reach. Speaking after inaugurating an online Faculty Development Programme on ‘Kotlin’ programming language, Mr. Reddy said faculty of engineering colleges across the State were being given training in Google Android development app using ‘Kotlin’. He further said that the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) has planned to take up many more collaborative projects with Google in future, and the faculty and students must utilise these opportunities. Corporations’ Executive Director D.V. Rama Koti Reddy said that there was good demand in the market for apps developed from Google Android technology. Chief General Manager (Technical) Ravi Gujjala, Google Developer Relations Programme Manager Karthik Padmanabhan, Google Training Programme Manager Lalith Singh, Community Manager Harsh Dattani and others participated in the programme. Faculty from 145 different engineering colleges from across the State participated in the orientation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/efforts-on-to-bring-android-tech-within-students-reach/article35437756.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will develop sports complexes to encourage rural talent: Minister||Minister for Tourism and Sports Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said proposals for development of 15 sports complexes in Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode in the State had been sent for approval of the government. Addressing a review meeting on various projects proposed to be implemented and the ones in progress, the Minister said works for construction of at least three sports centres in three different regions of the State would be launched in the first phase immediately after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy approves the proposal. The Minister said that as part of the decision to encourage sports at all levels, the government is trying to focus on development of infrastructure facilities. Under the Centrally-sponsored Khel India scheme, sports complexes were being developed in Visakhapatnam, Kadapa and East Godavari among a few other districts. The idea was to encourage people with talent in different sports in rural areas and help them hone their skills, he said. Mr. Rao said similar to last year when YSR Kreeda Puraskarams worth Rs. 4.5 crore were given to rural sportspersons in the State, this year too proposals were sent for government approval. Pointing to the 2% sports quota in government jobs, he said the Collectors had been asked to furnish the list of vacant posts under sports quota, which would be filled at the earliest. The Minister said four tourism circuits were being developed in Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Rayalaseema districts with an aim to attract tourists . Talakona, Horsley Hills and Tirupati areas would be developed under the Rayalaseema circuit, Bhavani Island, Kanaka Durga temple and Buddhist centres would be groomed under Krishna-Guntur circuit while under Godavari tourist circuit, areas like Annavaram and Dindi would get a facelift. He said these tourist circuits would be popularised through an app designed for the purpose. Besides, five-star hotels would be developed in all the 13 districts across the State, he added. He said activities related to youth would be taken up in August if there was no third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-develop-sports-complexes-to-encourage-rural-talent-minister/article35437760.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Works worth Rs. 4.08 cr. inaugurated in city||Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu and MLC Md. Karimunnisa inaugurated road works worth Rs. 4.08 crore in his constituency on Tuesday. Mr. Vishnu said that the city regained its glory after the YSRCP government released over Rs. 600 crore for several development works. On the property tax hike, Mr. Vishnu said that Andhra Pradesh has the lowest property tax compared to other States and said the new regime would not burden the poor and middle-class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/works-worth-rs-408-cr-inaugurated-in-city/article35437252.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||68 lakh saplings will be planted this year: Minister||Pursuing the dream of ‘Green Andhra Pradesh’, the State government has chalked out plans to plant 68 lakh saplings along the roads in a stretch of 17,000 km. As of now, the target is to plant 68 lakh saplings. It can be taken up to 1 crore, said Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy. The Minister inaugurated a workshop on ‘Jagananna Pacha thoranam’ here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the mass plantation drive would be taken up under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). Every year, plantation drive is taken up in a big way during the rainy season. But, the survival of the palnts has not been encouraging. The survival of the saplings is equally important, he said. Plant protection “As per the amendments made to the Panchayat Raj Act, 83% of the plants should be protected by sarpanches. Unlike in the past, the government will supply tree guards to protect the plants. Officials from top three districts which achieve the best results will be felicitated in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy. The job to protect the plants can be entrusted to unemployed youth. The government would pay Rs. 5 per plant. If they protect 400 plants, they could earn Rs. 2,000 a month. A campaign can be taken up involving the youth, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/68-lakh-saplings-will-be-planted-this-year-minister/article35437755.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor meets Chief Minister||Mayor Rayana Bhagya Lakshmi on Tuesday met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and sought the allocation of more funds for the development of the city. Ms. Bhagya Lakshmi informed the Chief Minister that due to technical issues some people were unable to receive the benefits of Amma Vodi and pension scheme. She requested him to look into the issues and get them resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-meets-chief-minister/article35437251.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT signs MoU with MKCI||To help its faculty and students to find access to opportunities to conduct collaborative research in science and technology, the VIT-AP management on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Mitsui Kinzoku Components India Pvt. Limited (MKCI) and the School of Advanced Sciences. Speaking on the occasion, university Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said as part of the understanding a series of training drives, faculty development programmes, workshops and conferences would be jointly organised wherein industry professionals would share their knowledge with the students. Managing Director, MKCI, Shimada Masakazu, said the collaboration would bring the industry and the academia together and students could carry out joint research projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-signs-mou-with-mkci/article35437253.ece
21 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to nurture students as entrepreneurs||The State government, in collaboration with Global Alliance of Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME), has set out to inculcate entrepreneurial traits in students. Inaugurating an entrepreneurship training programme for students of Classes 9 to 12 in government schools, Education Minister A. Suresh said the programmes would encourage students to recognise entrepreneurial opportunities around them. ““We want to see the students as creative individuals, motivated self-starters and eager to learn new things ,” he said. The project would continue for three years. In the first phase, students from Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) and high schools would learn the ropes of entrepreneurship. In the second phase, all KGBVs and more high schools would be covered while in the third phase, all high schools in the State would be covered. A 10-day pilot programme would be implemented by GAME consortium, the Samagra Shiksha wing of the Department of School Education and SCERT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-nurture-students-as-entrepreneurs/article35437758.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Key elements missing in draft plan, say resident welfare associations||Appreciating certain aspects of the draft master plan of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), the members of Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS) alleged that certain key elements were missing. Participating in a webinar here on Monday, they said the plan was comprehensive and covered new grounds like SDG (sustainable development goals), but certain aspects at basic zonal and ward-level were ignored. The members who participated in the webinar include Uday Shirname, Sohan Hatangadi, K.S.R. Murthy, Manjula Boyna and others. The members of the APFERWAS, which has about 150 resident welfare associations (RWAs) in its fold, said that they should be included in the deliberations on the master plan, as they have a fairly better understanding of the microlevel civic issues being faced by the communities in all the six zones of the city. They said that several points in the plan looked promising but did not lead to adequate supporting data and sometimes leading to dead ends. They wondered whether the plan was designed with two scenarios, with and without the executive capital. Members said that some roads in earlier plans had not been shown in the new plan. Further, several natural drains that flow through the city had not been shown in the map, they added. The members also decided to ask the VMRDA to give a presentation with the help of larger map for better understanding, They said they would also ask the VMRDA to extend the date for submission of suggestions and objections till September 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/key-elements-missing-in-draft-plan-say-resident-welfare-associations/article35437866.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kuneru accident: Vijaya Sai seeks release of NIA report||Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the release of the NIA report on the major accident near Kuneru Railway Station, to punish the guilty and to do justice to those who had died in the accident. A total of 42 poor passengers had died on the spot and around 70 others were injured in the accident involving train no. 18448 Hirakhand Express from Jagdalpur to Bhubaneswar at 11.30 p.m. on January 21, 2017. Mr. Reddy said that it was reported that the then DRM had influenced the investigation through the then Union Minister of Civil Aviation P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. He alleged that Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) was managed by Mr. Ashok as the CRS was under his direct control. He also alleged that the then railway officials had spent lakhs of rupees to ‘manage the accident’, which was reportedly caused by neglect of the track. ‘No naxal involvement’ Mr. Reddy also drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the reports that the then DRM with the support of the then State government managed the CB-CID and misguided the NIA team. He also alleged that before sunrise on January 22, 2017, a team of contract labour was arranged and the rails were tampered in order to shift the blame on the naxalites/extremists though the accident had occurred near the operating cabin. In response to the allegation made by the then Divisional Administration on naxalites, the DGP of Odisha and SP of Rayagada gave a statement ruling out naxal involvement as there was round-the-clock monitoring and movement of railway operations staff close to the accident spot. The report from the Forensic Science Lab (FSL) had also declared that there was no naxalite/extremist involvement. Mr. Reddy noted that the deceased passengers were mostly from tribal and downtrodden families from North Andhra and Odisha. He urged the Prime Minister to arrange for release of the NIA report or to constitute an Apex Level Committee for thorough investigation and to punish those, whose negligence was responsible for the accident, based on facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kuneru-accident-vijaya-sai-seeks-release-of-nia-report/article35437853.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU professor to study reverse migration of tribal migrant labour||Senior Professor from the Anthropology Department, Andhra University, P.D. Satyapal, will study the reverse migration of tribal migrant labour, post onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. “After March 25, 2020, when the nation-wide lockdown was declared to break the chain of spread of the virus, we have seen a huge return flow of migrants, who were desperate to return to their native homes. Among the migrants, was a sizeable population of tribals, especially from the forested areas of Visakhapatnam, Viziangaram, Srikakulam and East and West Godavari districts,” said Prof. Satyapal. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs, along with its counterpart in the State government, has decided to study the pattern of reverse migration of tribals, their present status and what can be done to give them a sustainable living in their native areas. According to Prof. Satyapal, most of the tribal labourers, including many from primitive tribes and PVTG (particularly vulnerable tribal groups) such as the Bondos, Pengus and Konda Doras, have been working in the plain areas, especially in the construction sector and hazardous industries. “Many of these people have gone back to their roots and as per the project outlines, we will be visiting all the tribal villages located under the nine ITDAs in the State,” he said. Apart from enumeration, which will also act as a tribal census, the survey will also deal with the types of tribes inhabiting each village, their lifestyle and culture. This will also help a few tribes such as Didoyis who inhabit the Rangabayalu area and Pengus in Laxmipuram in Visakha Agency, and Parangis, get their much delayed recognition, as scheduled tribes. “This issue has been pending since Independence,” he said. The study would also include, why the tribes, who are normally rooted to nature and their surroundings had migrated. This will give experts a clear understanding whether it was a ‘Distress migration’, which indicates that the system has failed to give them the environment for sustainable living, said Prof. Satyapal. The impact of technology on migrants and cultural erosion if any due to migration, will also be studied. The study would also aid to comprehend subtle issues such as human trafficking, he said. This is a prestigious project for the AU and Prof. Satyapal was picked for his expertise on tribal anthropology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-professor-to-study-reverse-migration-of-tribal-migrant-labour/article35437258.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unauthorised shops partially demolished in One Town||Officials from the Town Planning wing of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) partially demolished 17 shops, which were reportedly constructed encroaching roads near a school building in Woodyard street, Ward 39 in One Town in the city. Tension prevailed as the shopkeepers along with their family members stopped the GVMC officials. Visakhapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar reached the spot and joined the protestors. Raising slogans against the officials, the protestors and the MLA staged a sit-in before the earthmovers and stopped the demolition activity for more than an hour. Raju, one of the shopkeepers, said that he has been dependant on the shop for the last 15 years and the demolition will affect him and his family members. He said that around 80 to 100 people are dependant on these shops and the GVMC is demolishing them without providing any alternative. Mr. Ganesh Kumar said that the 20 odd families have been residing in One Town and earning their livelihood through these shops since the last 25 years. He questioned how can the GVMC officials demolish the constructions without serving any kind of notice. He demanded that the civic body officials provide alternative space to the shopkeepers before demolishing their establishments.  ‘Anti-social activities’ The GVMC officials said that they had received complaints against the shops. They said that Ward No. 39 Corporator Mohammed Sadiq had complained to the GVMC that anti-social activities were taking place near the shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unauthorised-shops-partially-demolished-in-one-town/article35437863.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job calendar: Jana Sena activists stage protest||Following a call given by Jana Sena Party(JSP) president K. Pawan Kalyan, a large number of members from the party staged a protest against the job calendar released by the State government, near the District Employment Exchange Office at Kancharapalem here on Tuesday. Tension prevailed as the JSP members were detained and shifted to the Kancharapalem police station, when they were trying to enter the office and submit a representation to the officer concerned. JSP Political Affairs Committee member Kona Thatha Rao alleged that the police were illegally arresting the party activists and student union members. The JSP members raised slogans and staged a protest at the police station. Later, a few party members were allowed to submit representation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-calendar-jana-sena-activists-stage-protest/article35437860.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make padayatra a success, steel workers urged||The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee has called upon steel workers to make the padayatra on July 25 and the picketing of the Administrative Office Building of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on July 29, a success. This was decided at a meeting was organised by the committee at the LMMM Park on Tuesday. Co-convener Gandham Venkata Rao presided. The meeting thanked the MPs for opposing the privatisation of the VSP in Parliament. A padayatra would be taken out from Kurmannapalem to the Rehabilitation (RH) Colony on July 25. Bids would be opened on July 29 for appointment of a Legal Adviser to take the decision on ‘strategic sale of VSP’ forward. The meeting decided to picket the AOB building of the VSP on that day. Committee co-convener K. Satyanarayana Rao, members J. Simhachalam, Sampurnam, Boddu Pydiraju, Ganapathi Reddy, Radhakrishna, Dali Naidu, D. Suresh Babu, Varasala Srinivasa Rao and Sanyasi Rao were among those attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-padayatra-a-success-steel-workers-urged/article35437859.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two special trains to be augmented with one additional AC coach each||The railways have decided to permanently augment train 02727/28 Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam special train (Godavari Express) and 03351/52 Dhanbad-Alappuzha-Dhanbad special with one AC-3 tier coach each to meet the needs of passengers. Train No. 02727/02728 Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam special train ( earlier as 12727/12728 Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam Godavari Express) will be permanently augmented with one AC-3 tier coach, leaving Hyderabad from August 1 and leaving Visakhapatnam, with effect from August 2. The revised composition will be: one AC 1st class coach, one AC 2 tier coach, five AC three tier coaches, 10 Sleeper Class coaches, two General Second class coaches and one luggage-cum-brake van apart from one parcel van and two generator motor coaches, according to a statement issued by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi of Waltair Division. Train no. 03351/03352 Dhanbad – Alappuzha – Dhanbad special (earlier 13351/13352 Dhanbad – Alappuzha - Dhanbad Express) will be permanently augmented with one AC 3 tier coach, leaving Dhanbad with effect from August 1 and leaving Alappuzha with effect from August 4. The revised composition will be: one AC 2 tier coach, three AC 3 tier coaches, 12 Sleeper Class coaches, four General Second Class coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Cancellation In order to facilitate safety-related modernisation works in Alamanda-Korukonda section over Waltair Division, the following trains are cancelled: Train no. 08047 Howrah-Vasco da gama special train, leaving Howrah on July 20 is cancelled. Train no. 02543 Howrah-Chennai Central, leaving Howrah on July 20 is cancelled and 07015 Bhubaneswar-Secunderabad special train, leaving Bhubaneswar on July 20, is cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-special-trains-to-be-augmented-with-one-additional-ac-coach-each/article35437851.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 held, 193 kg ganja seized||The district police arrested a person, while he was allegedly transporting about 193 kg ganja at Golugonda in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. According to police, around seven persons were allegedly transporting the ganja in bags in an auto-rickshaw and two motorcycles. The accused, all from the Agency areas, were trying to shift the ganja to Tuni in East Godavari district, where some unidentified persons were supposed to collect it. Noticing the vehicle checks near Golugonda, six of the accused allegedly fled from the spot. Three policemen who were at the checkpost nabbed one of the accused after a chase. Manhunt has been launched for other six persons. The Golugonda police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-held-193-kg-ganja-seized/article35437856.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple killed in road accident near Boyapalem||A couple died after a lorry reportedly hit them from behind on NH-16 near Boyapalem area under Anandapuram police station limits here in the city on Tuesday. According to police, R Surya Rao (50), a resident of Poorna Market, had gone to Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district along with his wife R. Satyavathi (45) to attend a function on his two-wheeler. When the couple was returning from Bhogapuram, a speeding lorry reportedly hit their two-wheeler near Boyapalem junction. The duo died on the spot with severe injuries. The bodies were shifted for post-mortem. Anandapuram police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-killed-in-road-accident-near-boyapalem/article35437857.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 179 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 179 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,51,769. As many as 168 persons undergoing treatment for the virus recovered during the same period. This takes the number of recoveries to 1,48,652. The bulletin released by the Health Department officials stated that no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-179-new-cases/article35437861.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB sleuths inspect Tahsildar offices||Officials from the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted surprise checks at six Tahsildar offices in Visakhapatnam Urban and Rural limits on Tuesday. They organised the checks right from 12 p.m. at Atchutapuram, Pendurthi, Anandapuram, Padmanabham and two other Tahsildar offices. Two weeks ago, the ACB officials had trapped two officials from the Tahsildar office at Chodavaram while demanding and accepting bribe of Rs. 4.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-sleuths-inspect-tahsildar-offices/article35437854.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Around 24,000 saplings planted||A massive plantation drive ‘Greenland plantation’ taken up by the Agro Forestry collective of the RINL was inaugurated by Mr. Krishnaiah CGM (Safety and Environment) of the Visakhapatnam (VSP), here on Tuesday. The sapling selection was done keeping in view the pollution control and ecological diversity parameters. In the programme, around 24,000 miscellaneous saplings were planted in 24 hectares near Kanithi Balancing Reservoir (KBR) 1 and 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/around-24000-saplings-planted/article35437858.ece
21 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Malls will be fined if people found moving without masks’||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana warned that fines ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 would be imposed against the managements of shopping malls, cinema theatres, commercial establishments and shopping complexes if people are found moving on the premises without masks. She asked the officials to form teams and conduct inspections in the establishments. She said that the managements should ensure the customers/people are allowed only after wearing masks. She was speaking during a video conference with officials here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/malls-will-be-fined-if-people-found-moving-without-masks/article35437864.ece
21 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land Ceiling Act not applicable to MANSAS Trust: TDP leader||Telugu Desam Party MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish and Vizianagaram parliamentary party president Kimidi Nagarjuna on Tuesday said that the government should play the role of custodian and protect the properties and educational institutions of the MANSAS Trust instead of causing disturbances in its smooth functioning. Addressing the media here, Mr. Jagadish said that Land Ceiling Act would be applicable only for individuals and not to the Trust. “The MANSAS Trust was formed in 1958, much before the Land Ceiling Acts and other reforms came into being. The YSRCP leaders who are targeting MANSAS Trust chairperson P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju should know the facts first,” he added. The YSRCP leaders should have told the Andhra Padesh High Court their view points when the issue had come up for hearing, Mr. Jagadish said. White Paper sought Meanehile, Lok Satta Party State Executive Committee president Bhisetti Babji urged the government to release a White Paper on the MANSAS issue in view of the agitation of the employees of 12 educational institutions under the Trust. In a release, he said the employees were being paid paltry salaries. He said that successive executive officers and others were also responsible for the current state of affairs as they had not concentrated on auditing and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-ceiling-act-not-applicable-to-mansas-trust-tdp-leader/article35437745.ece
21 July 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will strive to promote GCC products, says Sobha||New chairperson of the Andhra Pradesh Girijan Cooperative Corporation Sobha Swati Rani on Tuesday said she would give priority to provide marketing facility for the tribal products. She met S. Kota MLA K. Srinivasa Rao and YSRCP district coordinator M. Srinivasa Rao, and thanked them for extending their cooperation in getting the post. She told the media that she would strive to meet the expectations of the Chief Minister in promoting the GCC products at the national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-strive-to-promote-gcc-products-says-sobha/article35437787.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jolly time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jolly-time/article35437747.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auspicious occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auspicious-occasion/article35437868.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hopes turn to ashes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hopes-turn-to-ashes/article35437255.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety protocol||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-protocol/article35437762.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. denies procedural irregularities in land auctions||Seeking to quell the controversy raked up about the recent auction of lands by HMDA and TSIIC at Kokapet and Khanamet respectively, the government has issued a clarification on Tuesday refuting all the charges of procedural irregularities, and threatened the “maligners” with legal action. The online auction was conducted by MSTC Ltd., a public sector unit, hence there is no scope for manipulation, the statement issued by the Information & Public Relations department said. The up-set price was kept at a reasonable level of Rs. 25 crore per acre in order to present a level playing field for intended bidders and not to create entry barrier. This was intended for maximum participation and with the thought that entry bid price shouldn’t get restrictive to the interested parties. The bidders were allowed to quote in multiples of Rs. 20 lakh above the up-set price, and the last quote remained live for eight minutes. The bids were finalised only when no further quotes came within eight minutes after the final quote. Several factors such as location and size of the plot, access to road, road width, Vaasthu compliance and other physical features determine the final price for any plot, on the principle of ‘Market Discovery’. As such, the final price can never be the same for various plots. Swiss Challenge method, which involves allowing an initial bidder to match the best of bids invited for a project, is not a way forward to carry out such open bids, as it is impossible to set the floor in advance in the absence of market discovered price. Moreover, the method in such open-bid based auctions becomes restrictive by nature by curbing competition, the clarification claimed. HMDA and TSIIC did their best to reach out to the maximum number of potential clients through a paper advertisement campaign, it said. An agency was hired to reach out to the clients through emails and direct communication. The Indian High Commissions and embassies located in various countries and also the Ministry of External Affairs was roped in to send the copy of e-auction notification and brochures to various missions overseas. A record number of 80 interested firms participated in the pre-bid meeting due to all these efforts, the note said. In order to ensure maximum participation, the eligibility criteria was kept as open as possible subject to certain basic minimum conditions. In order to maintain transparency, each participant was given an exclusive log-in which cannot be accessed by others. It is not possible even for the auctioning agencies to know the details of bidders at any point during the bid process, hence any apprehension about someone trying to influence the bid is totally unfounded, the note affirmed. Calling the allegations about restricted competition as aimed at maligning the process and the reputation of State and Central government agencies, the statement threatened legal defamation over them if they continue further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-denies-procedural-irregularities-in-land-auctions/article35437542.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Gatherings sans precautions led to virus spread in some pockets’||Congregation of people at functions or other occasions without paying heed to COVID-appropriate behaviour has led to spread of coronavirus in clusters. This was one of the findings of a high-level team of Health department which examined the reasons for continued prevalence of the virus in some pockets of the State. A high-level team headed by Principal Secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi visited some pockets of nine districts — Nagarjunasagar, Miryalaguda and Nakrekal in Nalgonda, Suryapet, Dornakal in Mahabubabad, Huzurabad in Karimnagar, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Godavarikhani, Sircilla, and Warangal. They visited the localities in second week of July and submitted a report to the State Cabinet. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, who mentioned the findings from the visit on Tuesday, said the coronavirus prevalence was restricted to only a few villages and not to entire districts. If the prevalence there is not addressed, the virus could spread to neighbouring villages or districts there by leading to third wave, Dr Ramesh Reddy said. Superintendents of hospitals where COVID-19 patients are admitted were asked to map villages and mandals of the patients concerned to know if there is surge in cases in any locality. The senior official said that taking precautionary measures to arrest and address the virus spread in some of the pockets can delay the third wave by some more months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gatherings-sans-precautions-led-to-virus-spread-in-some-pockets/article35437529.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No one can stop welfare schemes: Eatala||Former health minister Eatala Rajendra appealed to people of his constituency not to fall for the canards being spread by ruling TRS leaders about halting pensions and other welfare schemes if he was elected in the Huzurabad byelection on Tuesday. “Who are they to threaten to stop the welfare schemes? Are they giving from their pocket? I will fight to see the pensions and other schemes are implemented without fail. In fact, we will enhance them if the BJP is elected to power,” he said, on the second day of his Praja Deevena Yatra. He once again targetted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and questioned him why he went back on his promise to have a Dalit CM and why he removed another Dalit from the deputy CM post. “There has been no progress in issuing new pensions, ration cards, two-bedroom houses or stipend to unemployed but he has been launching new schemes to cheat the Dalits yet again,” charged the BJP leader. Dalit Bandhu was meant to defeat him but he welcomed it and wanted the scheme to be taken up across the State in all constituencies along with farmers’ loan waiver scheme. “TRS Ministers and MLAs distributing money should implement these welfare scheme promises in their respective areas first. They can spend any amount of money but Telangana people won’t let their self-respect be purchased,” he said. Alleging that Finance Minister T. Harish Rao was in the forefront in luring his supporters, he warned that the former too would meet the same fate like him as Mr. Rao “will not spare him”. Leaders and activists who took part in the statehood agitation had been thrown aside while those who were in the other parties then had now become ring leaders in TRS leading the charge against him, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-one-can-stop-welfare-schemes/article35437564.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. eyes 12,000 crore revenue||The State government has finally effected upward revision of market values of lands after an elaborate exercise lasting a few weeks. The decision follows significant appreciation of land values in the urban areas, Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority jurisdiction in particular. The new irrigation projects brought with them vast area under ayacut, thereby leading to considerable increase of values of agricultural lands. The exercise follows reports that there was huge variation in the land prices fixed by the government and the actual market value. As a result, registration of properties was being recorded as per government value, but the actual value of the registered property was much higher thereby impacting the government’s revenues. According to the revision, the lowest value for agricultural land has been fixed at Rs. 75,000 per acre. For agricultural lands, the existing values had been enhanced by 50% in lower range, 40% in the mid range and 30% in the higher range. For open plots, the lowest value hitherto was Rs. 100 a sq.yd and this has now been revised to Rs. 200. The basic values of open plots for the purpose of registration had been revised by 50% in lower range, 40% in mid range and 30% in the higher range. The existing value for flats/apartments was Rs. 800 per cent sq.ft and this has now been revised to Rs. 1,000 a sq.ft. The increase in case of flats/apartments had been fixed at 20% in the lower range and 30% in the higher ranges. The government said the guidelines market value also known as basic value for registration was last revised in 2013. The guidelines had been revised ever since to stabilize and augment growth in various sectors in the nascent years of State formation since 2014. Elaborate exercise The government, however, carried out an elaborate and detailed exercise for revision of the basic value and this had been done in accordance with the Telangana Revision of Market Value Guidelines Rules. The government said the stamp duty rates in the State were among the lowest in the country as compared to neighbouring States like Tamil Nadu (11%), Kerala (10%) and AP (7.5%) which were much higher. The revised market values and stamp duty rates would be effective from July 22 and all registrations that would take place on or after July 22 would be as per new rates even if slots had been booked and payments made earlier. The revision follows the government’s decision to fix an ambitious target of Rs. 12,000 crore through registration and stamps duties this year. The target for last year (2020-21) was Rs. 10,000 crore which, however, could not be achieved in view of the COVID-19 and the enactment of new revenue acts which brought the process to a grinding halt for more than two months. ‘No surprise’ Senior officials said the revision of market values of land and increase of stamp duty would make enable the department to achieve target of Rs. 12,000 crore. It would not be surprising if the department exceeds the target during the current year going by the significant rise in the demand especially in the areas abutting the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-eyes-12000-crore-revenue-for-2021-22/article35437552.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First MRSAM missile out for delivery to IAF||The first missile of the first firing unit of Medium Range Surface to Air Missile (MRSAM) for delivery to Indian Air Force was flagged off by BDL director general (missiles & strategic systems) M.S.R. Prasad at the Kanchanbagh unit here on Tuesday. MRSAM  is a high-response, quick-reaction, vertically-launched supersonic missile designed to neutralise enemy aerial threats — missiles, aircraft, guided bombs and helicopters. It is used by army, navy and air force as different variants and the missile has a range up to 70 km. Chairman and managing director of BDL Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retired) stated that MRSAM is one of the best examples of joint development of a weapon system. The navy order has been completed and now both army and air force programme are moving simultaneously. The missile system can provide point and area defence against various aerial targets including fighter aircraft, subsonic and supersonic cruise missiles. It is powered by indigenously developed dual-pulse rocket motor and dual control system to impart required manoeuvrability at the terminal phase, he said, in a press release. It has been designed with active radio frequency seeker to identify, track, engage and destroy the target with high kill probability. BDL is a manufacturer and supplier of guided missiles, underwater weapons, air-borne products and allied defence equipment for armed forces. “We are also aiming to expand its footprints in the international market by offering air to air missiles, anti-tank guided missiles, underwater weapons and counter measure systems in addition to Akash missiles to friendly countries,” said the CMD. Mr Prasad, a distinguished scientist and a director on the BDL board, was felicitated on the occasion for his contribution to the firm’s progress as he will be superannuating this month. Director, Research Centre Imarat (RCI) B.H.V.S. Narayana Murthy and other senior officials of DRDO and BDL were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-mrsam-missile-out-for-delivery-to-iaf/article35437531.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Himayatsagar gates lifted to let out surplus water||Three flood gates of the Himayatsagar reservoir in Gandipet have been lifted to let the surplus water into the Musi river on Tuesday, and an alert has been sounded by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) to residents of areas abutting the river. The reservoir has reached almost the full tank level of 1,763.5 feet, and with heavy inflow of floodwater from upper catchment area, the officials have decided to lift the three of the 17 gates up by one foot. Managing Director of the Board M. Dana Kishore said residents of low-lying areas have been shifted to safer locations as a precautionary measure. The Board officials are monitoring the situation on both sides of the river, he said, and requested people to refrain from venturing near the river. Keeping in view the rain alert issued by the Meteorology Department for the coming to days, he issued necessary directions to the collectors of Hyderabad, Medchal and Ranga Reddy districts, besides Revenue, GHMC and Police department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/himayatsagar-gates-lifted-to-let-out-surplus-water/article35437546.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pandemic second wave may continue for 2-3 more months||The ongoing second wave of COVID-19 is estimated to continue for two to three more months, said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, adding that infections by Delta variant of coronavirus will continue to spread among susceptible population — people who have not been exposed to the infection yet or those who are not vaccinated. At a press conference here on Tuesday, the emphasis was on taking precautions such as wearing masks, observing physical distancing and practising hand hygiene, especially for people participating in festivals, weddings and other functions, or visiting entertainment spaces. Along with Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, Dr Srinivasa Rao explained the difference between the first and second waves of the pandemic. The latter said that while Alpha variant was prevalent during the first wave, Delta, the more infectious variant, spread widely in the second wave. They also mentioned the number of cases detected during the two waves. The first wave started in the State last March, peaked in August, and started to peter out around November. The daily caseload fell to less than 200 by end of February. Signs of the second wave were observed in March this year and the peak came around the third week of April to the first week of May, and started to decline in June. Currently, around 700 infections are detected in a day. Occupancy of hospital beds in the State has been static is the past 20-25 days. Apart from bed occupancy, oxygen consumption by patients too is tracked to know if there is any spurt in the cases. When asked, Dr Ramesh Reddy said neither the oxygen bed occupancy nor oxygen consumption has increased in the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-wave-may-continue-for-another-2-3-months/article35437527.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genome surveillance in north east begins||The newly-established Centre for Infectious Diseases at the CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology, Jorhat (NEIST), Assam, has been equipped with state-of-the art genome sequencing facility to lead the genome surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 for the country’s north east region. “We have just started genome sequencing of 600 samples this month, and this will be increased to 1,000 next month. We have the capacity to take up 1,500 samples a month for real-time surveillance to understand the spread, transmission, fatality dynamics of COVID, response to vaccines and for identifying mutations,” said director Narahari Sastry. “We are now receiving samples from all north east states; otherwise genome sequencing was being done in a sporadic manner. In fact, INSACOG or Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium database had only 0.71% samples sequenced from this region indicating under-representation and critical dearth of genome surveillance, The government included us in this critical exercise realising the possibility of a third wave,” he said, in an exclusive interaction. The director hails from the city and has been associated with CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) as senior scientist for many years before this assignment. NEIST is the lead lab from among the three in the north east in the current 28-lab INSACOG, the multi-agency network established for large scale genomic sequencing, analysis and for correlating epidemiological trends with genomic variants. The other two north east labs are DBT-Institute of Bioresources and Sustainable Development in Imphal and ICMR-Regional Medical Reseach Centre, Dibrugarh. NEIST has also established an ICMR-authorised lab for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis by RT-PCR with BSL-2+ facility with capacity to analyse 3,000 to 6,000 samples per day. Till now, it has conducted about 41,000 tests. The north east states are Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Sikkim with the first four showing a high infection rate as they constitute 76.93% of the population, covering 48.80% of surface area. “Strict surveillance is vital as the region shares 99% of boundary as international borders with Myanmar, China, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh, and there is frequent movement of migratory groups from different parts of the country,” he explained. CSIR-NEIST is also contributing to ‘Pan India Serological’ study program by CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrated Biology and in monitoring seroprevalence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 under a longitudinal cohort from this region as part of the CSIR-Phenome India project, added the director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-genome-surveillance-in-north-east-region-begins/article35437532.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Take measures against illegal animal slaughtering: HC||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court had directed Home Secretary and Director General of Police (DGP) to ensure illegal killing of animals was stopped and act tough against persons violating animal laws for slaughtering of animals during Bakrid festival. The judge passed a slew of directions on Monday, after hearing interim applications relating to a writ petition filed by Gau Gyan Foundation seeking enforcement of provisions of different Animal Welfare Laws. Justice K. Lakshman, in his order, recalled that a division bench of the HC had earlier in two separate PIL petitions instructed the State and Central governments to ensure no cattle should be allowed for transportation without a fitness certificate issued by a competent authority. Slaughter houses The cattle included, bulls, bullocks, cows, buffalos, steers, heifers and calves, the HC order issued on March 12, 2019 said. It also directed the Union and State governments to close down all unlicensed and illegally run slaughter houses and cold storages in the State. A veterinary Inspector or a doctor should be posted at each slaughter house to ensure provisions of AP Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act-1977 were complied with, the directions stated. The Home Secretary, DGP, Commissioners of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police along with GHMC were respondents in those petitions. Hence, it was their bounden duty to adhere to the HC division bench direction in those matters, Justice K. Lakshman observed. The judge, in his direction in the plea by Gau Gyan Foundation, directed the Home Secretary and the DGP to implement directions issued by Animal Welfare Board of India on this June 25. He instructed the authorities to take all precautionary measures to enforce the Animal Welfare Laws. The judge specifically instructed Inspector of Shadnagar police station of Cyberabad police commisisonerate to immediately issue a First Information Report based on a complaint lodged by Gau Gyan Foundation on this June 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-act-against-illegal-animal-slaughtering/article35437539.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prices of sheep shoot up ahead of Bakrid||Those buying animals for the annual ritual sacrifice have to shell out larger sums of money with traders increasing prices between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 6,000 per sheep, ahead of Eid-ul-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid. The festival is being celebrated on Wednesday. A night before Bakrid, a large number of people were seen trying to strike a bargain with traders at the seasonal sheep markets in Mehdipatnam, Toli Chowki, Balapur, and Jiaguda, among others areas. These areas witnessed heavy activity with cattle arriving from several parts of Telangana, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. “Traders have been claiming that the increase in diesel prices have hit them and thus, there is a spike in prices. But increasing the price by Rs. 2,000 or Rs. 3,000 per sheep seems strange as they bring large number of animals into the city, and the increase in transportation cost evens out to a large extent. I bought a pair from the Balapur market for Rs. 22,000. This is around Rs. 4,000 more than what I had paid last year for sheep of approximately similar size,” said S.A. Raheem, a resident of Saidabad. Mohammed Abdul Rafey, a businessman and resident of Noor Khan Bazaar, said he visited the Balapur, Jiaguda and Mehdipatnam markets over the last two days. The prices in all these markets, he said, are approximately the same. He too observed that prices this year are higher.However, some others opted to buy sheep smaller in size. For instance, Syed Zain, a techie, said he bought a sheep which traders claimed would yield between 7 kg and 9 kg of meat, for Rs. 7,200. Meanwhile, the officials of Telangana State Waqf Board, in conjunction with legislators and police, said that they have made adequate arrangements for the Eid prayers at all eidgahs. Mosques across the city too were seen making preparations on Tuesday night for worshippers scheduled to arrive in on Wednesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prices-of-sheep-shoot-up-ahead-of-bakrid/article35437549.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 6,000 cr. for 2nd phase sheep distribution||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed officials to work out modalities for launching the second phase of sheep distribution programme soon and said the government would allocate a huge amount of Rs. 6,000 crore for the second phase. The first phase which was taken up at a cost of Rs. 5,000 crore yielded good results and the government had therefore decided to allot Rs. 6,000 crore for the second phase. This would take the total allocation for the programme, an important component of government’s efforts to empower Backward Classes who were into hereditary professions, to Rs. 11,000 crore. The Chief Minister directed the Finance department to take steps to keep necessary funds ready for the launch of the second phase of sheep distribution for Golla and Kuruma communities. The sheep units (20+1) would remain the same for the second phase too and each unit would be priced at Rs. 1.75 lakh. The price would be applicable to 14,000 eligible candidates who already paid the amounts in the form of DDs. Telangana had become number one in terms of sheep population in the country surpassing Rajasthan which was hitherto topping the list, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Rao announced the decision during a detailed review meeting held on Tuesday. He said the State was dependent on hereditary professions with BCs constituting the majority of those engaged in them. The government was committed to empowerment of BCs and several plans had been prepared in this direction. Continuous efforts by the government ensured that these professions were put back on track and there was qualitative change in the lives of BCs since the formation of the State. He said these professions and artisans who were dependent on them were destroyed in the erstwhile united State where they were neglected resulting in the collapse of the rural economy. This was because of the fact that the rulers of the united AP failed to understand the speciality and diversity of trades of artisans. Handloom sector which was the next largest after agriculture suffered during the erstwhile United State resulting in starvation and suicides by weavers. The sector was however revived after the formation of Telangana and it was returning to normalcy with the government’s commitment and Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s administrative skills. Recognising this aspect, the government had started its journey with Mission Kakatiya and improved irrigation and drinking water facilities. At the same time, intense efforts were made to revive the professions that were destroyed. The sheep distribution for Golla Kuruma and Yadav communities and distribution of fish to Mudiraj community had registered significant results so far. At the same time, the State government was implementing innovative schemes for toddy tappers, Nayi Brahmins, washermen and others to enable them to progress. The government was also taking several steps for development of bestha, gangaputra and other communities engaged in fish culture and the fish wealth was growing by the day in the State. Dependence on import of fish from other States had come down significantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-6000-cr-for-second-phase-of-sheep-distribution/article35437554.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal drop in State’s daily caseload||There was a slight drop in new COVID-19 cases in Telangana on Tuesday with 657 persons testing positive for the infection even as a little over 1.04 lakh samples were put to test. Results of 1,071 persons were awaited. Usually, around 1.1 lakh samples are examined in a day and 700-odd cases are detected. With the new cases, the State’s tally has reached 6,38,030. The highest of 74 infections were recorded in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, followed by 58 in Khammam, 45 each in Karimnagar and Pedapalli, 43 each in Warangal Urban and Mancherial, and 42 in Suryapet. The lowest of two cases each were detected in Adilabad and Narayanpet districts. Vikarabad and Nirmal reported three infections each. The death toll stands at 3,766 with two more patients succumbing to the virus. This is the lowest number of deaths in a day since April this year. As of Tuesday evening, there were 9,787 cases. Since March 2 last year, more than 2.07 crore samples have been put to test in the State. Of those infected, as many as 6,24,477 persons have recovered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marginal-drop-in-states-daily-caseload/article35437528.ece
21 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Extend Dalit Bandhu to entire State: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has asked the government to extend Dalit Bandhu scheme to the entire State ran than just Huzurabad or else it would be construed as a scheme just for elections. At a press conference here, he said the government should implement the scheme across the State and confine it to Huzurabad in the name of pilot project. Mr. Vikramarka expressed serious concern over the unlawful hacking of telephones using the Pegasus software and said this was an attack on democracy and infringement on the rights of people. The software was sold only to the government according to the technology vendor NSO Group. “So who in the government is using this to hack phones,” he asked. If the phone of a leader like Rahul Gandhi and nine members of his team are hacked one can understand the gravity of the situation, he said and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah answer to the nation. He said judiciary, election commission officials and journalists apart from political leaders on the radar of this software. This reflected how privacy of everyone was in danger. At a separate press conference, former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajnarsimha and AICC Programmes Implementation Committee Chairman A. Maheshwar Reddy said the Telangana government wanted to wipe out the opposition misusing power. They said the data of not just prominent people but even the common man was being compromised using the software bought from Israel. He said Congress leaders would march to Raj Bhavan on July 22 against hacking the phones of Rahul Gandhi and others in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/extend-dalit-bandhu-to-entire-state/article35437555.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another step towards boosting rural tourism||The Union Ministry of Tourism has formulated a ‘Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for Development of Rural Tourism in India’, an initiative towards Atmanirbhar Bharat. Driven by the spirit of ‘Vocal for Local’, rural tourism can contribute significantly to the mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat. In order to make the document more comprehensive, theMinistry has invited feedback/ comments/ suggestionsfrom all the State governments/Union Territories. A rural circuit has been identified as one of the thematic circuits under ‘Swadesh Darshan Scheme’ for development aimed at leveraging tourism as a force multiplier for revitalising the rural economy and for giving both domestic and international tourist a glimpse of the rural aspects of the country, said Union Minister of Tourism G. Kishan Reddy in a written reply in the Lok Sabha, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-step-towards-boosting-rural-tourism/article35437796.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man awarded life imprisonment||A 25-year-old man on Tuesday was awarded life imprisonment by a local court for kidnapping, sexually assaulting and murdering a minor boy. According to Rachakonda police, the accused is Omer Bin Hassan, a daily wage earner, and resident of New Huda Colony in Balapur. Police said that the accused saw the 7-year-old victim on May 8, 2019 in a neighbourhood. He offered the victim chocolates and took him to a plot of land which had boundary walls. He then committed the offence. When the victim raised an alarm, he threw him to the ground several times, which led to his death. Balapur police then registered an FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act, and began investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/life-sentence-for-raping-and-killing-boy/article35437543.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shining roads in VIP areas not enough: HC||Expressing dissatisfaction over the condition of roads in Hyderabad, Telangana High Court on Tuesday said it was “not enough to have shining roads in localities where MPs and MLAs live”. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the government should also take care of the areas where poor people reside. Hearing a taken-up PIL petition on road conditions, the bench sought to know whether the government was concerned with pot-holed roads becoming death traps for common public. It directed the government to file a detailed affidavit on conditions of roads in different parts of Hyderabad. The bench took up a story on an elderly couple repairing damaged roads with their own money as PIL plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shining-roads-in-vip-areas-not-enough-hc/article35437547.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another distinction for cancer surgeon||Padmashri awardee P. Raghu Ram, an OBE and founding director of KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases, has achieved the rare distinction of being conferred with Honorary Fellowship of the Association of Surgeons of Great Britain & Ireland (ASGBI), an organisation that represents the surgical fraternity in United Kingdom and Ireland. ASGBI president Neil Welch bestowed the honour upon Dr Raghu Ram during the 100th centenary annual general body meeting of the association, which was held virtually on Tuesday. Addressing the meeting, Mr Welch said, “Raghu Ram is the first surgeon of Indian origin to have this honour conferred on him and we are delighted to welcome him as Honorary Fellow of ASGBI.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-distinction-for-cancer-surgeon/article35437530.ece
21 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kaushik Reddy to join TRS today||Former Congress leader Padi Kaushik Reddy has said he will join the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the presence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday. At a press conference here, he claimed he was joining the TRS as TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy had not shown any interest in Huzurabad bypoll. At the same time he was attracted by the schemes of the TRS government. Mr. Kaushik Reddy also accused former Minister and BJP likely candidate in Huzurabad of ignoring the interests of the constituency for his personal growth. “Mr. Rajender is raking up self-respect issue only after the government started investigation into his land deals,” he said adding that BJP would not win in Huzurabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kaushik-reddy-to-join-trs-today/article35437556.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Correction||This is with reference to the story ‘What happened to alternate SCB roads?, BJP asks State Govt.' published on Page 3 of Telangana/Hyderabad edition on July 19. The kicker or the strapline should read - ‘No meeting was held between Army officials and State officials in the last 6 years’ and not as was published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article35437540.ece
21 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||New Collector takes charge||V P Gautham, a 2014-batch IAS officer, on Tuesday took charge as 49th Collector of Khammam district, succeeding R V Karnan, a 2012-batch IAS officer, who has been transferred and posted as Collector of Karimnagar district in a minor reshuffle of IAS officers effected by the State government on Monday night. Mr Gautham and Mr Karnan assumed office as new Collectors at the Collectorates in Khammam and Karimnagar towns respectively on Tuesday morning. Prior to the new posting, Mr Gautham served as Collector of Mahabubabad district. Mr Gautham had also served as Project Officer of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in the past. During his tenure at the helm of the ITDA, Mr Gautham had taken a slew of initiatives to provide wholesome quality food to a little over 20,000 students of as many as 82 tribal welfare residential educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-collector-takes-charge/article35437802.ece
21 July 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Body of leopard found in tank||Officials of the forest department retrieved the body of a leopard at a tank surrounded by rocks at Khajapur village in Chinnashankarampet mandal on Tuesday. According to District Forest Officer Gnaneswar, some locals cattle grazers reported finding of the body of the leopard and forest officials rushed to the spot and took the body out from the tank. It was stated that the leopard was about eight years old and no injuries were found on the body. The officials sent the body to test whether the animal died of corona.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-leopard-found-in-tank/article35437557.ece
21 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nakrekal legislator ‘not a Dalita Bandhu’: TVV||Leaders of the Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika on Tuesday alleged that reserved constituency Nakrekal legislator Ch. Lingaiah was “not a Dalita Bandhu”. Lapses on part of the district administration, consequent to the alleged rape and murder of a minor Dalit girl, also suggest that Dalits issues are not addressed keenly, they said. According to TVV’s Pandula Saidulu and Madiga Reservation Porata Samiti’s Bakaram Srinivas, “Nakrekal (SC) legislator Lingaiah not calling on the family of the Dalit minor victim, even a week after the incident on July 13, in his constituency, is pitiable. He is not a Dalita Bandhu.” Apart from the police’s fresh inquiry, following pressure from the civil society for registering the crime as a suicide, the District Collector, RDO, Tahsildar or any leader of the government neither condemned the incident, they said. “This shows that the government and its functionaries have not been humanely towards Dalits,” they said, commenting on the proposed objectives of the Dalit Empowerment Scheme. Along with Kula Vivaksha Porata Samithi, leaders of TVV and MRPS demanded the government to take strict action against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nakrekal-legislator-not-a-dalita-bandhu-tvv/article35437798.ece
21 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Skill development will offer employment’||Additional Collector Rajarshi Shah said that free skill development would offer employment. Participating in the Advisory Committee meeting of State Bank Rural Self- Employment Training Institute (SBRSETI) held here on Tuesday, Mr Rajarshi Shah said that more youth should be encouraged to undergo training so that they could get better revenue sources. SBI Regional Manager Kalyan said they would be extending loans to those who completed training at the institute. Institute Director V. Rajendra Prasad said that they had extended training to 315 persons last year and this year the target was fixed as 600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/skill-development-will-offer-employment/article35437561.ece
21 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Kondapochammasagar oustees yet to get registered houses||B. Malla Reddy, 70, was a resident of Bahilampur village in Mulugu mandal. His land and house were acquired by the government for the construction of Kondapochamma reservoir. Over a year ago, he, along with other oustees, was forced to vacate the village and shift to the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Tunki Bollaram, where he was allotted a house. Power bills About 1,200 houses were constructed here for the oustees of three villages and one tanda – Mamidyala, Bahilampur, Thanedarpally and Thanedarpally tanda. But, these houses were not registered to them since the time they came. Not only that, even the power bills were being issued in the name of the ‘R&R Administrator’ but served and collected from those residing in these houses. Similar is the case with the oustees of Kothchaguttapally, submerged under the Annapurna reservoir at Siddipet district. More than 115 families were accommodated at the double bedroom houses constructed at Lingareddypally, more than a year ago. For them, the power bills were being issued in the name of the ‘District Panchayat Officer’ but bill amount was being collected from those who are consuming power. On paper only “Houses are not registered for us yet. The allotment is only on bond paper without any house number. The houses were handed over to the community or caste elders and allotted among them without any issues. That is why power bills are not being issued in our names,” said an oustee on condition of anonymity. Same was the situation in all the R&R Colonies – Lingareddypally (oustees of Kothchaguttapally), Mutrajpally (oustees of Mallannasagar) and Tunki Bollaram (Kondapochamma Sagar). “Neither the houses nor plots are registered for us, and we don’t know the reason. We may have to vacate these houses any time, in case officials force us to do, as we are not the legal owners yet,” B. Venkataram Reddy, an oustee from Bahilampur presently staying at the 2 BHK house at Mulugu, said. A revenue officer, who did not want to be quoted, agreed that houses were not registered in the name of the oustees so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kondapochammasagar-oustees-yet-to-get-registered-houses/article35437800.ece
21 July 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Govt. will be forced to scrap farm laws’||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) president Om Prakash Chautala on Tuesday visited two farmer protest sites and said the stir will force the government to scrap the “black farm laws” and the people will change the dispensation that brought in these legislations. The former Haryana Chief Minister said this fight is not only of farmers and labourers. “It is the fight of the whole nation, and the eyes of the whole world are on this farmers’ agitation.” Visit to protest sites Mr. Chautala (86) had said he would visit protest sites to extend his support to the farmers and on Tuesday, he went to Palwal in Haryana and Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. The INLD has extended support to the farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. His son and senior party leader Abhay Singh Chautala had earlier resigned as MLA from the Haryana Assembly in their support. Several farmers have been protesting against the farm laws at Palwal and Ghazipur for months. Addressing a farmers’ gathering in Palwal, Mr. Chautala said, “If farmers are happy, then the country is prosperous, if they are not happy, the nation cannot progress...It is because of wrong policies of the BJP government that lives of people in different sections of society, including farmers, have become difficult. This government wants to make pro-corporate policies.” He said the stir against the farm laws is going strong as it has countrywide support and the agitation will force the government to “scrap the farm laws”. “This government which brought these legislations will also be changed by the people..,” he said, adding that his party is standing in support of the farmers. Mr. Chautala said all his life, former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal struggled to ensure that farmers, weaker sections and other common people get their due. “We want to realise the dreams of late Chaudhary Devi Lal. All his life he struggled for one thing — that hard working farmers and the common man should be happy,” he said. ‘BJP misrule’ The INLD president also attacked the BJP-led dispensations at the Centre and in Haryana, claiming that they had made tall promises at the time of elections, “but when they came to power they did just the opposite”. “In a democratic set up, people elect their government whose responsibility is to work towards the people’s welfare. However, today various sections are fed up with their misrule,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-will-be-forced-to-scrap-farm-laws/article35437426.ece
21 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Water harvesting structures to be studied in Rajasthan||The water harvesting structures in the villages of Rajasthan, including ponds, anicuts, check dams, ‘johads’ and ‘nadis’, will be studied to find out their contribution to the increase in groundwater level. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has given instructions for starting the water catchment development works after the monsoon season is over. Progress reviewed The water harvesting structures were mostly constructed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). While reviewing the progress of works related to watershed development and land conservation, Mr. Gehlot said here that the schemes in these sectors would be monitored at the State level. “Despite the famine and drought situations arising several times in the past in Rajasthan, the water availability has increased in the areas with low rainfall following the construction of water harvesting structures,” Mr. Gehlot said. The Chief Minister asked the officials to approve water catchment development works under the Rajiv Gandhi Jal Sanchay Yojana on priority, while pointing out that the scheme was aimed at increasing the groundwater level and preparing water harvesting structures. 4,000 villages covered The scheme, which was launched in the State in August 2019, lays emphasis on retaining the water in the agricultural fields. Over 4,000 villages have been covered in the scheme’s first phase after the identification of 247 lakh hectare land where the water catchment works could be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/water-harvesting-structures-to-be-studied-in-rajasthan/article35437428.ece
21 July 2021||Kolkata,||University of Calcutta exams rescheduled||The University of Calcutta on Tuesday rescheduled the final semester exams for undergraduate students following protests by students, teachers and many principals. As per the original schedule, the exams for the honours course were to be held on July 29 and 30 and for general course from July 29 to August 2, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and again from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. According to a notice issued on Tuesday evening, the honours exams will now be spread across four days, from July 29 to August 1, with only one examination to be held per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/university-of-calcutta-exams-rescheduled/article35437427.ece
21 July 2021||Mumbai,||Barge P305 tragedy: kin of deceased stage protest||Demanding compensation and justice, families of 86 people, who lost their lives after barge P305 and tugboat, Varaprada, sank during Cyclone Tauktae, staged a protest on Monday outside the office of Afcons Infrastructure, which was providing its services to the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Limited. “That was not an accident. The company was well aware of the incoming cyclone but did not take any precaution to safeguard its employees. Neither ONGC nor Afcons has offered compensation to the families of the deceased,” Manoj Yadav, general secretary, Forward Semen’s Union of India (FSUI), said. Mr. Yadav said that ONGC offered Rs. 2 lakh as cash relief while Afcons was depositing Rs. 5 lakh in the accounts of a few family members. A letter submitted by the FSUI to Afcons has demanded a lifetime pension to the dependents of the deceased workers which should not be less than Rs. 30,000 per month. “An initial instalment of not less than Rs. 10 lakh should be paid to each survivor,” the letter said. Mr. Yadav said , “We have given three days to the company and in case of no response, we are ready to fight a legal battle other than intensifying our agitation.” An Afcons spokesperson said the company was committed to honouring its promised compensation to the families of the Brave Nature’s Victims (BNVs). “The compensation process is nearing completion of statutory requirements. We have already disbursed Rs. 5 lakh to each BNV family as an immediate financial support.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/barge-p305-tragedy-kin-of-deceased-stage-protest/article35437624.ece
21 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to start home vaccination from Aug. 1||The Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that home vaccination would be offered to the bedridden in Mumbai from August 1. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said, “The Union government did not rise to the occasion. However, the State government has risen to the occasion and today there is some light at the end of the tunnel.” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the court that the State has come up with a draft policy for home vaccination. Counsel for BMC Anil Sakhare informed the court that 3,505 people had registered for home vaccination till July 26. “We had planned to start the drive in Pune but now we will start it in Mumbai on the basis of the response received.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-to-start-home-vaccination-from-aug-1/article35437626.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||Districts reserve 80% of Covishield stock||With the city facing shortage of Covishield vaccine, several districts in Delhi have reserved 80% of their Covishield stock for people who have to get the second dose, as per government sources. The Delhi government is also considering reserving its Covishield stock only for those getting a second dose. “Till now, the government had given flexibility to the districts to decide what percentage of Covishield should be kept for second dose. Many districts increased it to 80%,” a Delhi government source said. “But now the government will make it more rigid for all districts and the government is thinking to reserve the complete Covishield stock or 80% of the stock only for second dose for all districts,” the source said. The government is considering the move as a large number of people above 18 years will be soon eligible for the second dose. The development was confirmed by another source too, but the Delhi government is yet to officially announce anything on the issue. In June, the Delhi government had reserved Covaxin only for people in the 18-44 age group getting their second dose, due to a shortage of the vaccine.  The COVID-19 vaccination drive was opened for people above 18 years of age on May 1 across the country and the second dose of thousands of people who took the first dose of Covishield in Delhi will be due this month. Delhi has been facing a shortage of Covishield vaccine for about 10 days and the current stock of COVID-19 vaccines in the city will last for less than one day, as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The city faced a similar situation on most days of last week and Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said on July 12 that 500 vaccination centres had to be closed due to vaccine shortage. Now also many centres are shut due to the vaccine shortage, mainly of Covishield, as per officials. 25,986 doses Only 25,986 doses of vaccines were administered in the city on Monday as per the bulletin, which is far less than the 1,29,054 doses administered on July 13.      The city continued to see a downward trend in new COVID-19 cases with only 44 fresh cases reported over 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,35,609, according to a health bulletin. There were five deaths in a single day, pushing the toll to 25,035. Meanwhile, Kolhapur Road Market, which is a part of Kamla Nagar Market, was directed to close for two days for not following COVID-19 rules, according to an official order issued on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/districts-reserve-80-of-covishield-stock/article35437416.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Congress for joint House panel probe into Pegasus row||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday organised a protest outside the BJP headquaters and demanded a joint parliamentary committee probe into the reported use of Pegasus spyware against journalists and politicians. It also demanded the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah and alleged that he was guilty of treason and compromised national security. The protesters were stopped by the Delhi police from reaching the BJP headquarters. Anti-democratic activity Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar alleged that the BJP government had indulged in this illegal and anti-democratic activity due to their insecurity and authoritarianism as they feared that Rahul Gandhi’s widening popularity and the erosion of people’s faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be dangerous for them. He added that the fact that Pegasus spyware is only sold to governments and to no one else, points fingers at Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah about their collusion in using this spy software against political opponents, Union Ministers, security forces, judiciary, journalists and other prominent persons, and it was an inexcusable breach of national security. ‘Dejected Opposition’ The BJP, meanwhile, alleged that a “dejected and desperate Opposition” was indulging in “fabricated allegations” regarding the Pegasus leaks. West Delhi BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh sought to dismiss the alleged snooping row as “rubbish, concocted and baseless”. “The matter of fact is that the Opposition cannot digest the rising popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the welfare policies his government has initiated for the overall development of the country,” he alleged. The MP said as many as 17 pro-farmer, pro-youth, pro-backwards’ and development related Bills were slated to be discussed and passed in the current monsoon session. The Bills, he said, sought to benefit “practically all sections of society” and the Congress and other parties did not want this to happen. “The Opposition did not allow the PM to introduce his new Ministers in the House shows they have scant regard for the upliftment of the poor, SCs, women and others who have been given due representation in the new Cabinet,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-congress-for-joint-house-panel-probe-into-pegasus-row/article35437408.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Emotional well-being of students affected’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that the emotional well-being and education of students have been affected due to the absence of physical classes. The two-week long parent teacher meetings would find solutions to the problems related to online classes and the social-emotional and mental well-being of the students will be resolved, he asserted. After meeting parents, Mr. Sisodia said the Delhi government is working on many levels to make children emotionally strong. “In order to keep children away from depression and stress during the COVID period, teachers are taking mindfulness practice sessions through online classes under the Happiness Curriculum. Along with this, members of the School Management Committee (SMC) are constantly connected with the parents of the children on phone and are working with the school to meet the educational needs of children,” he said. He added that at the PTMs, teachers are teaching parents new parenting tricks, which will help with online learning and mitigate their stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/emotional-well-being-of-students-affected/article35437421.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||Bidhuri seeks changes in draft city master plan||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday met DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain seeking amendments in the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD)-2041. Mr. Bidhuri said he sought the inclusion of 150 colonies from the Yamuna O zone to the F zone so their existing residents can get ownership rights in the future. “These colonies should be shifted from O zone to F zone so that these people could get ownership rights in the long run. In addition to this, these colonies will also get all the civic amenities and a layout plan can only be formulated for these colonies after they are removed from O zone which will ensure passing of housing plans,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “This will put a halt to unauthorised construction and address the issue of corruption. In addition to this, the in-situ rehabilitation scheme should also be put in place on fast-track basis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bidhuri-seeks-changes-in-draft-city-master-plan/article35437411.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT raps Haryana over failure to maintain green norms||Stating that the there appeared to be serious lapses on part of the Haryana government in performing constitutional obligation of providing a clean environment, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has observed that the “failure of the administration and neglect of responsibility is enough for destruction.” The observations came when a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel was hearing a plea which alleged that authorities had failed to maintain environmental norms in handling the Bandhwari landfill site in Gurugram. The tribunal constituted a three-member committee comprising officials of the Central Pollution Control Board, State Pollution Control Board and the Gurugram District Magistrate. Remedial measures “We are of the view that effective remedial measures, including effective monitoring mechanism is required in view of seriousness of the situation. A welfare state can hardly be oblivious to its constitutional obligation to the citizens for protection of public health, particularly when failure to prevent outbreak of diseases results in mass destruction of human lives,” the Bench observed. Observing that effectiveness of monitoring mechanisms need to be looked into, the NGT said, “We hope such failure will be remedied if the State has any concern for safety of its citizens and the rule of law. The erring officers need to be made accountable for such continuing failure.” The green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Poonam Yadav who contended that steps taken in a waste management project, undertaken in 2017, was inadequate and the waste was being burnt resulting in air pollution, which resulted in adverse effects on residents as well as flora and fauna at the Asola Bhati Wildlife Sanctuary. The Bench has also directed the Haryana Chief Secretary to take steps against erring officers for failure to remedy the situation. Illegal liquor vends Meanwhile, the Delhi Forest Department has written to the Haryana administration, asking it to identify and act against liquor vends operating illegally in the eco-sensitive zone near the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. An official said smugglers bring down small portions of the sanctuary’s boundary wall and use a shortcut to deliver liquor from Haryana to Delhi on foot or on motorbikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ngt-raps-haryana-over-failure-to-maintain-green-norms/article35437412.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||Taxi operators complain of late fee charge||City taxi operators on Tuesday alleged they were being charged late fees at Transport offices in spite of the Central government orders directing the contrary. The Delhi Taxi, Tourist Transporters & Tour Operators Association called on Transport Commissioner Ashish Kundra over the issue in addition to other problems they were facing. “Our businesses have been severely affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we are being charged substantial amounts as late fee for one thing or another despite the Central government orders that no such fee is to be charged till September this year,” association president Sanjay Samrat alleged. Mr. Samrat said the association also apprised the Transport Commissioner about issues related to the renewal of All India permits and problems related to speed governors being faced by owners of foreign vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/taxi-operators-complain-of-late-fee-charge/article35437414.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt. response on e-tender plea||The Delhi High Court Tuesday termed as “half baked” the criteria fixed by the Delhi government for grant of licences of retail vends of liquor here through electronic bids. The court was hearing a plea challenging its e-tender notice, prescribing the procedure to be followed for inviting zone-wise electronic bids for grant of 32 licences of retail vends of liquor in the national capital “You cannot leave everything to uncertainty. If you expect a person to enter into an agreement, he should know what he was getting into,” observed a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh. “It is a totally arbitrary exercise,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-e-tender-plea/article35437419.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jamia holds condolence meeting for Siddiqui||Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Tuesday organised a condolence meeting for its alumnus Danish Siddiqui, who lost his life in the line of duty while reporting the clashes between the Afghan security forces and the Taliban on July16. He was buried at the JMI graveyard on Sunday. Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar described Siddiqui as a“real-life hero” and a “creator of iconic images” and said that the university must always remember him with a smile as tears must never be shed over martyrs. She said that the university would organise an exhibition of his work and other activities so that students can take inspiration from it. Shohini Ghosh, Officiating Director of A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre, JMI said that the alumni of MCRC, including many who had never met him, had written to express their grief, solidarity and acute sense of kinship and in Siddiqui, they saw the courage, passion and moral fibre that the founders of MCRC wanted their students to have.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jamia-holds-condolence-meeting-for-siddiqui/article35437420.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man gets shot at accidentally by friend||A 30-year-old man was injured when his friend accidentally fired a gun in Anand Vihar, the police said. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said a gunshot injury was reported from Dr. Hedgewar Hospital at 1.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The victim was identified as Hariom from Maujpur. The victim said the incident happened when he was drinking with his friends — Paras, Sameer, Vipin, Neeraj and Gopal in a hotel. He told the police that Paras had a pistol in his possession and was playing with it. Suddenly, a bullet was fired from the pistol, and it hit the victim. Probe is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-gets-shot-at-accidentally-by-friend/article35437424.ece
21 July 2021||new delhi,||‘Centre doing a cover-up on oxygen shortage’||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said there was an “actual shortage of oxygen during the second wave’s peak” and that the Centre has been “running a cover-up since the very start of the pandemic”. “It is because of their flawed policy that the country had to endure an oxygen crisis. The Delhi government wanted to set up 'Death Audit Committee' to assign responsibility, but the Centre did not let us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-doing-a-cover-up-on-oxygen-shortage/article35437417.ece
21 July 2021||Pune,||CM performs ‘mahapuja’ at temple in Pandharpur||Amid strong discontentment shown by ‘warkari’ outfits and devotees over COVID-19 restrictions for the second consecutive year, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with his family, performed the annual ‘mahapuja’ (worship) at the Vitthal-Rukmini temple in Pandharpur in Solapur district on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’ early on Tuesday. He prayed for an end to the pandemic and for the good health of all the people of Maharashtra. On Monday afternoon, Mr. Thackeray, along with wife, Rashmi, and son, Shiv Sena MLA Aaditya Thackeray, drove down from rain-hit Mumbai and reached the temple town of Pandharpur. As per custom, the Thackeray family performed the ‘Mahapuja’ at 2.15 a.m. on Tuesday, said officials. Expressing regret that the pandemic had compelled the administration to disallow devotees at the Vitthal-Rukmini temple, Mr. Thackeray said: “Let the social estrangement brought about by the pandemic be bridged… ‘Warkaris ’ are thirsting for a sight of Pandharpur again. I pray to Lord Vitthal that the temple town resounds once more with an ocean of devotees.” Each year, lakhs of ‘warkaris’ (devotees) converge from various parts of the State on foot at the temple carrying ‘palkhis’ (palanquins) bearing the ‘padukas’ or footprints of saints Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram. However, with the State government forced to keep restrictions in place , the ban on the pilgrimage on foot has sparked disgruntlement among heads of ‘warkari’ outfits and ordinary devotees. They have questioned the logic behind the government’s prohibition of the annual pilgrimage on foot, stating that similar restrictions seldom neither applied to political gatherings nor liquor shops, which continue to see the most disorderly public congregations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-performs-mahapuja-at-temple-in-pandharpur/article35437625.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Prepping for festivities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/prepping-for-festivities/article35437423.ece
21 July 2021||Kabul,||Rockets target Kabul presidential palace||At least three rockets hit near the presidential palace on Tuesday shortly before Afghan President Ashraf Ghani was to give an address to mark the major Muslim holiday of Id al-Adha. There were no injuries and the rockets landed outside the heavily fortified palace grounds, said Mirwais Stanikzai, spokesman for the interior minister. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the attack on its Amaq news channel. Police quickly fanned out across the area. One car that was parked on a nearby street was completely destroyed; the police said that it had been used as a launching pad for the rockets. The palace is located in the middle of a so-called Green Zone that is fortified with giant cement blast walls and barbed wire, and streets near the palace have long been closed off. The barrage came as the U.S. and NATO complete their final withdrawal from Afghanistan. Many Afghans are worried whether their war-ravaged country will fall deeper into chaos and violence as foreign forces withdraw and the Taliban gain more territory on the ground, having captured several districts and key border crossings with neighboring countries over the past weeks. The withdrawal is more than 95% complete and the final U.S. soldier will be gone by August 31, President Joe Biden said in an address earlier this month. “This Id has been named after Afghan forces to honour their sacrifices and courage, especially in the last three months,” Mr. Ghani said in his address to the nation following morning prayers. “The Taliban have no intention and willingness for peace” Mr. Ghani said. “We have proven that we have the intention, the willingness and have sacrificed for peace.” However, Afghan forces have complained about being left without reinforcements and supplies, often running low on food as the Taliban advanced. In many instances, Afghan troops surrendered rather than fight. Washington’s watchdog monitoring U.S. spending in Afghanistan reported that troops are deeply demoralised and corruption is rampant. After their pullout, the U.S. and NATO are committed to spending $4 billion annually on Afghan forces until 2024, the majority of that money coming from Washington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rockets-target-kabul-presidential-palace/article35437022.ece
21 July 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Vaccination is top priority in north and east’||The Sri Lankan government will give top priority to COVID-19 vaccination and livelihood support in the Tamil-majority North and East of the island nation, according to an official tasked with overseeing the efforts. Nearly 60,000 people across the Northern Province — Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Mannar, Mullaitivu and Vavuniya — and about 74,000 people in the Eastern Province —Trincomalee, Batticaloa and Ampara — have received both doses of the vaccine, according to Geethanath Cassilingham, coordinating secretary to Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. “We should be able to fully vaccinate everyone over 30 years of age very soon,” said Mr. Cassilingham, who is also the Resettlement Facilitator for the North and East. Locals are hoping for wide vaccine coverage in the region so they can return to their jobs. There is some vaccine hesitancy in the community, according to Sureshkumar Ushanandini, president of a Kilinochchi-based organisation of women who are sole bread winners in their families. “We need credible information on the vaccines, like who should avoid them, and what symptoms to look for in case of a reaction. The government could use its network of midwives to take this message to the community effectively.” The vaccination drive, however, cannot by itself turn the tide of economic distress, unless the government redoubles its efforts towards resettlement and livelihood revival, residents said. Although the pandemic has severely impacted the national economy and livelihoods across the country, families living in the North and East are worse off, as they were already struggling to put the devastating effects of a long civil war behind them. Studies have found that a quarter of those households are headed by women. Economic hardships Survivors of the war have repeatedly blamed the former Mahinda Rajapaksa administration [2005-2015] for their persisting economic hardships. While officials point to “an estimated $1 billion” post-war investment on infrastructure in the area, people’s lives hardly show a corresponding improvement. In fact, most families in the northern and eastern districts resorted to predatory microfinance loans to survive during the last decade, getting entangled in a stifling web of debt. If housing needs in the area have increased, retrieving land remains a challenge as owners return to their former plots, held by the military until recently. After successive governments’ efforts, some 3,500 families who were internally displaced remain to be resettled, data shared by an official source showed. While military-held land has been returned to the people in many areas, at least a few thousand acres of state and private land, including some six school buildings in Jaffna, are still with the tri-forces, according to the data. “We are working with all stakeholders to ensure housing needs are met swiftly, and people are provided with land,” Mr. Cassilingham said. Additionally, building “strong livelihoods” in the agriculture and fisheries sectors is a “key priority”, he added. Land is being fiercely contested in the region, according to N. Vethanayahan, a former top bureaucrat, who has served as Government Agent [corresponds to the district collector in India] in all four northern districts. “People’s lands, including agricultural lands, in many areas have been gazetted as forest lands now. They should be re-gazetted and returned to the people, who are the rightful owners of those lands,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vaccination-top-priority-in-north-and-east/article35437027.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India is welcome to join China-South Asia grouping’||India can join the China-led South Asian initiative for COVID-19 vaccines and poverty alleviation too if it so desires, said Bangladesh Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen, denying that a six-nation grouping launched earlier this month was meant to exclude India. The creation of the China-South Asian Countries Emergency Supplies Reserve, and a Poverty Alleviation and Cooperative Development Centre set up in China on July 8, the outcome of a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of China, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka in April, had raised eyebrows in New Delhi, as it appeared to leave out only India, Bhutan and the Maldives. In dire need of vaccines “The Chinese approached us at a time we were in dire need of vaccines,” Mr. Momen told The Hindu in an interaction on the sidelines of the connectivity conference in Tashkent last week, explaining that India’s decision to suspend vaccine exports, including to Bangladesh, who had contracted and made advance payments for 5 million doses of Covishield per month, had become a “big issue” in the country, particularly as many had taken the first dose of the vaccine and had no access to the second. Mr. Momen said that after Bangladesh requested vaccines from China, Foreign Minister Wang Yi decided to convene the six-nation China-South Asia meeting, where he suggested setting up a poverty alleviation centre to deal with economic issues arising in South Asia due to COVID, an e-commerce economic cooperation forum and an emergency storage facility for vaccines. “We asked, how about India, and the Chinese [government] said this forum is open to India and India is welcome. In fact, even at the Foreign Minister’s meeting which included Pakistan, they said India would be welcome to join,” Mr. Momen said, stressing that the issues involved in the forum are common to all South Asian countries battling COVID and its impact on GDPs in the region.  Aggression on LAC The Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to a question on whether India had been invited to the forum or would consider joining the China-South Asia centre, now being established in the Southern Chinese city of Chongqing, in the future. However, given continuing tensions over Chinese aggression at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, and New Delhi’s firm stand that other bilateral relations cannot move ahead without a resolution of the boundary stand-off, it is understood that India would be unlikely to consider a new grouping involving China, especially one that could be seen to dilute its role in the SAARC region. The absence of India from the grouping as well as from a series of consultations on COVID relief between the Chinese Vice Foreign Minister and different combinations of all SAARC member countries (other than India and Bhutan) led some experts to suggest this was meant to be a “Minus India” initiative. India is the only country of all eight SAARC nations that has not requested or accepted Chinese COVID vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-is-welcome-to-join-china-south-asia-grouping/article35437029.ece
21 July 2021||Lima,||Pedro Castillo declared Peru’s next President||Leftist school teacher Pedro Castillo was proclaimed Peru’s President-elect Monday, six weeks after a polarising vote of which the results were delayed by claims of electoral fraud from his right-wing rival, Keiko Fujimori. The 51-year-old trade unionist’s victory leaves Ms. Fujimori facing an imminent corruption trial. “On behalf of my family I would like to salute the electoral authorities... and also to salute the political parties that have taken part in this democratic celebration,” Mr. Castillo told supporters gathered at the headquarters of his Peru Libre (Free Peru) party in Lima. “Dear compatriots, I bring here an open heart for each and every one of you,” he declared from the balcony after Jorge Luis Salas, head of the JNE elections jury, announced his victory in a brief virtual ceremony. In a gesture to Ms. Fujimori, 46, the President-elect urged her to help “take the country forward” and said he held “no resentment” despite the many attacks he had fielded in recent weeks. A crowd of hundreds that had spent weeks outside the JNE headquarters to support Mr. Castillo broke out in celebration at the news. “Finally, we have a President,” said Rosa Huaman, a 27-year-old supporter among the chanting crowd. The JNE validated the vote count by the ONPE elections body, which had given Mr. Castillo 50.12% of the ballots cast, some 44,000 more than Ms. Fujimori — most of whose objections the jury dismissed. Ms. Fujimori had pledged earlier Monday to recognise the result “because it is required by the law and the constitution that I have sworn to defend.” She had claimed fraud despite observers from the Organization of American States, the United States and European Union declaring the vote free and fair, and her backers had called for fresh elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pedro-castillo-declared-perus-next-president/article35437018.ece
21 July 2021||VAN HORN,||‘Best day ever’: Jeff Bezos blasts into space on own rocket||Jeff Bezos blasted into space on Tuesday on his rocket company’s first flight with people on board, becoming the second billionaire in just over a week to ride his own spacecraft. The Amazon founder was accompanied by a hand-picked group: his brother, an 18-year-old from the Netherlands and an 82-year-old aviation pioneer from Texas — the youngest and oldest to ever fly in space. “Best day ever!” Mr. Bezos said when the capsule touched down on the desert floor at the end of the 10-minute flight. New Shepard Named after America’s first astronaut, Blue Origin’s New Shepard rocket soared from remote West Texas on the 52nd anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing, a date chosen by Mr. Bezos for its historical significance. He held fast to it, even as Virgin Galactic’s Richard Branson pushed up his own flight from New Mexico in the race for space tourist dollars and beat him to space by nine days. Unlike Mr. Branson’s piloted rocket plane, Mr. Bezos’ capsule was completely automated and required no official staff on board for the up-and-down flight. Blue Origin reached an altitude of about 106 km, more than 16 km higher than Branson’s July 11 ride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/best-day-ever-jeff-bezos-blasts-into-space-on-own-rocket/article35437024.ece
21 July 2021||Paris,||French President among potential spyware targets||Phone numbers used by French President Emmanuel Macron and top members of his government are among the potential targets for the Pegasus spyware supplied to several governments, the NGO that leaked the list of numbers said Tuesday. “If this fact is established, it’s obviously very serious,” a spokesman for the President’s office said. Moroccan King Mohammed VI’s phone is also on the list of numbers of people identified as potential targets by Morocco’s intelligence services, French radio reported on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-president-among-potential-spyware-targets/article35437222.ece
21 July 2021||BAMAKO,||AF-Mali-President-Violence||Mali’s interim President Assimi Goita said he was unharmed after a man tried to stab him on Tuesday at the Grand Mosque in the capital amid celebrations for the Muslim holiday of sacrifice, Eid al-Adha. Mr. Goita’s security team quickly took him away, and two men were arrested, witnesses said. Mr. Goita, a special forces Colonel who staged two coups within nine months, said, “It was an isolated incident that was brought under control.”AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/af-mali-president-violence/article35437221.ece
21 July 2021||Baghdad,||Iraq reels as 36 killed in IS suicide blast on eve of Eid festival||Iraq was in mourning on Tuesday as at least 36 people were killed when a bomb ripped through a crowded Baghdad market in what the Islamic State group’s jihadists claimed was a suicide attack. The blast on Monday evening, one of the deadliest in years, killed mostly women and children on the eve of Id al-Adha. It sparked revulsion and renewed fears about the reach of the IS, which lost its last territory in Iraq after a gruelling campaign that ended in late 2017.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iraq-reels-as-36-killed-in-is-suicide-blast-on-eve-of-eid-festival/article35437020.ece
21 July 2021||Bamako,||Mali leader ‘safe and sound’ after attacked by armed men||An official at Mali’s presidency said on Tuesday that interim leader Assimi Goita was “safe and sound” after armed men attacked him during a religious ceremony in the capital Bamako. The official added that Mr. Goita had arrived at the military camp of Kati.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mali-leader-safe-and-sound-after-attacked-by-armed-men/article35437016.ece
21 July 2021||PARIS,||EU--France-Spyware||The Paris prosecutor’s office is investigating the suspected use of spyware made by Israel-based NSO Group to target journalists, human rights activists and political dissidents. The prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Tuesday that it opened an investigation into a raft of potential charges.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-france-spyware/article35437025.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Pegasus is India’s Watergate moment||“If this government ever became a tyranny, if a dictator ever took charge in this country, the technological capacity that the intelligence community has given the government could enable it to impose total tyranny, and there would be no way to fight back because the most careful effort to combine together in resistance to the government, no matter how privately it was done, is within the reach of the government to know. Such is the capability of this technology.” Those words of Sen. Frank Church, who led one of two committees on intelligence and surveillance reform established in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal, are just as relevant in India today given the revelations of extensive surveillance — it is unclear by whom, but signs point to the Indian government — by the use of spyware on people’s phones. While there is much to be said about the international regulation of the unaccountable sale of spyware by shadowy entities such as the NSO Group, it is equally, if not more important to ensure that surveillance in India is made accountable. Go easy on the salt My former colleague, Sunil Abraham, often likens surveillance to salt. A small amount of surveillance is necessary for the health of the body politic, just as salt is for the body; in excess, both are dangerous. While one cannot enjoy the liberties provided under the Constitution without national security, we must equally remember that national security is not meaningful if it comes at the cost of the very liberties such security is supposed to allow us to enjoy. Excessive and unaccountable surveillance imperils privacy, freedom of thought, of speech, and has a chilling effect on people’s behaviour, while shattering the bedrock of the rule of law upon which a constitutional liberal democracy is built. The government claims all its surveillance is authorised and justified. But then, the question arises: where are the prosecutions for terrorism, organised crime, espionage, etc., based on evidence from such surveillance? Who is ensuring that the surveillance is necessary and proportionate? Indeed, on the contrary, there are numerous examples of surveillance powers being misused for personal and political gain, and to harass opponents. Earlier examples In 2012 in Himachal Pradesh, the new government raided police agencies and recovered over a lakh phone conversations of over a thousand people, mainly political members, and many senior police officials, including the Director General of Police (DGP), who is legally responsible for conducting phone taps in the State. In 2013, India’s current Home Minister was embroiled in a controversy dubbed “Snoopgate”, with phone recordings alleged to be of him speaking to the head of an anti-terrorism unit to conduct covert surveillance on a young architect and her family members without any legal basis. The Gujarat government admitted the surveillance, including phone tapping, but claimed it was done on the basis of a request made to the Chief Minister by the woman’s father. Yet, no order signed by the State’s Home Secretary — a legal necessity for a phone tap — was ever produced, and the Gujarat High Court shut down an inquiry into “Snoopgate” upon the request of the architect and her father, on the shocking basis that it “did not involve public interest”. In 2009, the United Progressive Alliance government swore in an affidavit in the Supreme Court that the CBDT had placed Niira Radia, a well-connected PR professional, under surveillance due to fears of her being a foreign spy. Yet, while they kept her under surveillance for 300 days, they did not prosecute her for espionage. Non-state actors such as the Essar group, have also been shown to engage in illegal surveillance. K.K. Paul, then the Governor of Meghalaya, noted complaints by telecom operators that private individuals were misusing police contacts to tap phone calls of “opponents in trade or estranged spouses”. There are dozens of such examples of unlawful surveillance which seem to be for political and personal gain, and have nothing to do with national security or organised crime. Yet, there are few examples of people being held legally accountable for unlawful surveillance. The laws Currently, the laws authorising interception and monitoring of communications are Section 92 of the CrPC (for call records, etc), Rule 419A of the Telegraph Rules, and the rules under Sections 69 and 69B of the IT Act. Indeed, it is unclear when the Telegraph Act applies and when the IT Act applies. A limited number of agencies are provided powers to intercept and monitor. In 2014, the Ministry of Home Affairs told Parliament that nine central agencies and the DGPs of all States and Delhi were empowered to conduct interception under the Indian Telegraph Act. In 2018, nine central agencies and one State agency were authorised to conduct intercepts under Section 69 of the IT Act. Yet, the Intelligence Organisations Act, which restricts the civil liberties of intelligence agency employees, only lists four agencies, while the RTI Act lists 22 agencies as “intelligence and security organisations established by the central government” that are exempt from the RTI Act. Thus, it is unclear which entities count as intelligence and security agencies. Further, a surveillance alphabet soup exists, with programmes such as CMS, TCIS, NETRA, CCTNS, and so on, none of which has been authorised by any statute, and thus fall short of the 2017 K.S. Puttaswamy judgment, which made it clear that any invasion of privacy could only be justified if it satisfied three tests: first, the restriction must be by law; second, it must be necessary (only if other means are not available) and proportionate (only as much as needed); and third, it must promote a legitimate state interest (e.g., national security). In 2010, then Vice-President Hamid Ansari called for a legislative basis for India’s agencies, and the creation of a standing committee of Parliament on intelligence to ensure that they remain accountable and respectful of civil liberties. In 2011, the Cabinet Secretary in a note on surveillance held that the Central Board of Direct Taxes having interception powers was a continuing violation of a 1975 Supreme Court judgment on the Telegraph Act. That same year, parliamentarian Manish Tewari introduced a private member’s Bill to bring intelligence agencies under a legislative framework. That Bill soon lapsed. In 2013, the Ministry of Defence-funded think-tank, the Institute for Defence and Strategic Analysis, published a report, “A Case for Intelligence Reforms in India”, a core recommendation of which was: “the intelligence agencies in India must be provided a legal framework for their existence and functioning; their functioning must be under Parliamentary oversight and scrutiny”. In 2018, the Srikrishna Committee on data protection noted that post the K.S. Puttaswamy judgment, most of India’s intelligence agencies are “potentially unconstitutional”, since they are not constituted under a statute passed by Parliament — the National Intelligence Agency being an exception. In its 2019 election manifesto, the Indian National Congress — in what to my knowledge was a first for a national political party — called for parliamentary oversight of intelligence agencies. Post-Watergate reforms The legacy of the Church Committee can be seen in the fact that the Snowden revelations in 2013 did not uncover any spying on Opposition politicians, journalists, judges, and human rights defenders for partisan political ends. What was shocking about the Snowden revelations was the extent of NSA’s surveillance, the overreach of the powers provided under the PATRIOT Act, as well as the lack of sufficient checks and balances provided by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The Snowden revelations led to meaningful reform of that court, and controversial domestic surveillance provisions of the PATRIOT Act expired in 2020. We need such reforms in India, which are aimed at professionalising intelligence gathering, bringing intelligence agencies under parliamentary oversight, making them non-partisan, and ensuring that civil liberties and rule of law are protected. This is India’s Watergate moment, and the Supreme Court and Parliament should seize it. Pranesh Prakash was a co-founder of the Centre for Internet and Society, and is an affiliated fellow at Yale Law School’s Information Society Project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pegasus-is-indias-watergate-moment/article35437005.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s equity market bubble may burst soon||Even as the real economy returns to the doldrums after being hit by the second wave of COVID-19 infections, the continuing bull run in India’s equity market in the April-June quarter has baffled many observers. After breaching the 41,000-mark between December 2019 and February 2020, the benchmark BSE Sensex had nosedived to below 28,000 in March-April 2020, following the nationwide lockdown. Although India’s stringent lockdown could not prevent the COVID-19 pandemic from doing considerable damage, the equity market posted a sharp V-shaped recovery in 2020-21. The Sensex surged beyond 50,000 in February 2021 and is currently closing on the 53,000 level. Why is there an equity bubble? This equity market exuberance at a time of severe socio-economic distress has prodded the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s annual report (2020-21) to state: “This order of asset price inflation in the context of the estimated 8 per cent contraction in GDP in 2020-21 poses the risk of a bubble.” An analysis in the same annual report though sees “a part of Sensex increase” as “rational”, being supported by improved corporate earnings. Whether bubbles can at all be “rational” remains a matter of academic debate. Empirical evidence across several centuries, however, bears out a home truth — sooner or later, bubbles burst. There was an 81%-plus growth in the Sensex between April 2020 and March 2021 in the backdrop of real GDP growth plummeting to -7.3% during the same period. While output contraction had reversed from the third quarter of 2020-21, the inflation rate also rose and remained way ahead of the real GDP growth rate in the last two quarters (Chart 1). It is difficult to find any rationality behind the skyrocketing BSE Sensex in the context of such stagflation in the real economy. Just like the precipitous fall in the equity prices was driven by foreign portfolio investors (FPI) net selling over Rs. 68,800 crore worth of equities in March-April 2020, the return of massive FPI inflows has driven the Indian equity bubble since then (Chart 2). Net FPI inflows clocked an unprecedented Rs. 2.74 lakh crore in 2020-21, the previous high being Rs. 1.4 lakh crore in 2012-13. While the mutual funds were net sellers during 2020-21 to the tune of Rs. 1.2 lakh crore, retail investors chased higher equity market returns, with the interest rates falling across the board. As reported by the RBI, 1.43 crore demat accounts were opened in 2020-21 as against around 50 lakh accounts opened in 2019-20. The equity bubble in India has not evolved in isolation. The global liquidity glut, following the expansionary, easy money policies adopted by the fiscal and monetary authorities of the OECD and G20 countries, has led to equity price inflation in several markets driven by FPIs, especially in Asia. Following cues from the U.S. and the U.K., Asian equity markets in Singapore, India, Thailand, Malaysia and Hong Kong are currently witnessing price-earnings (P/E) ratios significantly above their historic means. The BSE Sensex’s P/E ratio of 32 in end-June 2021 is way above its historic mean of around 20. Correction in the equity market With COVID-19 vaccination and economic recovery proceeding apace in the U.S., the U.K. and Europe, fiscal and monetary policy stances will change soon. Once the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks start raising interest rates, the direction of FPI flows will invariably change bringing about corrections in equity markets across Asia. India remains particularly vulnerable to a major correction in the equity market because of two reasons. First, the pace of COVID-19 vaccination in India, given the vast population, lags behind most large countries. India has so far fully vaccinated only 6.3% of its population. Within G20 countries, only Indonesia and South Africa are at similar levels, with 6.1% and 2.9% of their populations fully vaccinated, respectively. Many other countries have ensured much higher rates of vaccination. The U.S., the U.K. and China have fully vaccinated half their populations. In contrast, insufficient budgetary allocation and mismanagement of vaccine procurement has created severe supply bottlenecks in India, which have brought down the pace of vaccination in July. In the absence of a substantial increase in the vaccination budget and procurement, large segments of the Indian population will remain vulnerable to a potential third wave of COVID-19, with its attendant deleterious impact on the real economy. Second, India’s economic recovery from the recession will remain constrained by the weak fiscal stimulus that has been delivered by the Central government. Data from the IMF clearly show that while the total global stimulus consisted of additional public spending or revenue foregone measures amounting to 7.4% of global GDP, India’s fiscal measures amounted to 3.3% of GDP only, less than half of the global average. Only three countries in the G20 had a smaller fiscal stimulus than India’s (Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Mexico). The large doses of additional liquidity support, which in many of the G20 countries/ regions like the European Union, Japan, South Korea, India and Turkey exceeded the size of the fiscal measures, have contributed more to the equity bubbles than to spurring real economic activity. The second COVID-19 wave had hit India at a time when the economy had just started showing signs of acceleration, reflected in a sharp rise in GST collections and gross tax revenues in April 2021. The consequent lockdowns once again disrupted economic activity and led to a deceleration in GST and gross tax revenues in May and June 2021. With all agencies, including the RBI, downsizing India’s growth projections for 2021-22, it remains to be seen whether India’s equity bubble lasts beyond end-August 2021, when the first quarter GDP results are due. If it does, it will only be for a while, before one or the other possible trigger causes speculative finance capital to change its course. Prasenjit Bose is a Kolkata-based economist and activist; Indranil Chowdhury teaches economics at PGDAV College, Delhi University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-equity-market-bubble-may-burst-soon/article35437015.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The thread to grasp in the Kitex story||When garment manufacturer, the Kitex Group, recently announced that it was rethinking its plans to make fresh investments in its home State of Kerala, nine other States competed to win its favour. They offered it financial incentives and other sops. The company chose Telangana; the State had not only offered it the “best deal” but also sent a plane for the company leaders to travel to Hyderabad and meet the Minister for Industries. Kerala’s often toxic trade unionism has been the major factor in derailing the industrial ambitions of the State. But beyond the industrial climate of Kerala, the Kitex episode mirrors an ongoing global bargain between capitalism and democracy. Key questions The foremost industrial societies are grappling with this question, and the G7 countries have taken the initiative to move towards a global minimum tax on corporations and to obligate companies to pay more taxes where they operate also as opposed to where they are headquartered. At the heart of the debate are two questions. First, how does a capitalist enterprise relate to the political and social organisation in its location? Second, how do different jurisdictions compete for investments, and at what social cost? Now, a recap of the Kitex story with reference to these questions. Kitex is primarily export-oriented and counts American retail giant Walmart among its global clients. Located in the Kizhakkambalam panchayat near Kochi, the company employs nearly 10,000 people, most of them from outside Kerala. In 2015, the corporate social responsibility activities of the company took a political form. Under the banner ‘Twenty20’ Kizhakkambalam, it fielded candidates in the local body elections, in a sensational move. It won 17 of the 19 seats and took control of the panchayat (https://bit.ly/3zlVxgl). In the 2020 local body elections, it captured power in three more panchayats. In the 2021 Kerala Assembly elections, Twenty20 fielded candidates in eight segments and performed well, though nobody won. Along the way, in 2020, the group had announced Rs. 3,500 crore of fresh investments in the State. Things suddenly turned turtle after the May Assembly results; the company said that the 11 inspections it had at its sites in the month of June were nothing but harassment. The government said these inspections were in response to specific complaints regarding human and labour rights violations. The company chairman berated the investment climate in Kerala. At the end of it all, Kitex announced its decision to move to Telangana. Compact of social control The regulations that cover labour relations, the environment, and natural resources and taxes make up the compact of social control over private enterprises. The social compact between capitalism and democracy is negotiated through elected representatives and bureaucrats. This negotiation turns out in practice to be legal and illegal, and through formal and informal means. Rules are there, but bribes and political donations are also a part of it. In places where democracy is dispersed and political action is multilevel, such negotiations become more complex. For instance, in Kerala, even the Chief Minister is unable to enforce everything that he thinks appropriate — a point that the Kitex chairman has repeatedly made. It is in places where the chief executive has untrammelled power that all decisions are at the ‘single window’. Based on all these considerations, the investor has to make his decisions at two levels — where to locate the capital, and how to deal with the social and political issues there. As American States began to compete with one another to attract investors, the phrase ‘race-to-the-bottom’ came into use in the early 20th century, denoting the competition to please capital, and overlook other factors such as the environment and labour. This race turned global towards the end of the century. Countries, and jurisdictions within countries, are encouraged to compete with one another. In 2015, India partnered with the World Bank to launch the Ease of Doing Business ranking of States, following the global ranking model. The investor friendliness of a State is often reduced to its willingness and capability to override the interests of the labour, environment, and indigenous populations. How tax concessions impact State capacity is a linked question. With States losing most taxation powers, tax concessions are not a viable allurement that they can offer any more. Jharkhand is ranked five in the Ease of Doing Business ranking;; Kerala is at 28 (https://bit.ly/3hQRTF5). The previous government of Jharkhand would jail 3,000 Adivasis who claimed legally guaranteed rights under the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA) and the Forest Rights Act (FRA). The fight for their legal rights led Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy to imprisonment and death in custody at the age of 84, recently. In the poverty score card (out of 100) in the Sustainable Development Goals Index 2019-20, Jharkhand is 28, while Kerala gets 64. The American example Before the rise of globalisation, the capitalist had to negotiate with the political system at its base. The influence of corporations in U.S. democracy remains a contentious topic. In 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court allowed unlimited election spending by corporations and billionaires. They promote or undermine particular causes and personalities. The Kitex group took this model to a step further and directly captured political power in four panchayats, even as complaints of pollution rose against it. Not stopping there, its chairman proposed that bigger companies should follow his model and take over political administration across the country. But controlling four panchayats did not amount to control over the overarching political system. Hence, relocation. The story of globalisation is a story of capital’s enhanced capacity to flee from the shackles of too much democracy to places that are well-controlled under a strong regime, where all clearances are available at a ‘single window’. Investments moved to places where environmental regulations are lax, wages are low, labour standards are weak, and dissent is answered with an iron fist. This was working perfectly until its ripple effects reached the shores of western democracies. Now the West is waking up to the challenge and the G7 move is an acknowledgment of the crisis. U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen now talks about the “working class”. “That global minimum tax would end the race to the bottom in corporate taxation, and ensure fairness for the middle class and working people in the U.S. and around the world,” she said recently. This would also be “encouraging countries to compete on positive bases, such as educating and training our work forces and investing in research and development and infrastructure.” Need for a national standard Rather than vilifying Kerala for its alleged hostility to investments and glorifying the opportunism of capital, the need of the hour is to discuss the requirement of a national standard for corporate governance, environment and labour, alongside the forceful implementation of the laws that guarantee the rights of indigenous communities in the development process. It is ironic that India is encouraging competition among States as a route to development at a time when the most advanced industrial societies are realising the limits of competition and pushing for better global standards in labour, environment and taxation. Turning the development aspirations of States into a modern-day gladiator sport is hardly in line with the slogan that we are asked to repeat — One India. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-thread-to-grasp-in-the-kitex-story/article35437007.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Accepting radical otherness||The U.S.-based Pew Research Center’s survey has thrown up an interesting finding on religious tolerance in India: Indians of all faiths, paradoxically, support both religious tolerance and religious segregation. Most Indians (84%) surveyed said that respecting all religions is very important to them and all religious groups must be allowed to practise their faith freely. Yet, a considerable number of them also said they preferred to have religious groups segregated and live and marry within their own community. This curious finding has resulted in a BBC Asia report stating that India is neither a melting pot (diverse cultures blending into one common national identity) nor a salad bowl (different cultures retaining their specific characteristics while assimilating into one national identity) but a thali (an Indian meal comprising separate dishes on a platter where they are combined in specific ways). The academic Pratap Bhanu Mehta concluded that the survey shows that though India is committed to religious diversity, it is “exclusionary and segmented in toleration”. An ‘unheroic form of tolerance’ Sociologist Ashis Nandy had developed a framework in the 2000s to understand these preferences. In a keynote address delivered in Australia (2010), Mr. Nandy observed that this form of living constituted a distinctly Asian cosmopolitanism. It had developed in regions which have to accommodate not just diversities but “radical diversities” that may prove to be dangerous if they are brought together in the same space. To accommodate these differences and peculiarities in the practices of different communities, everyday mechanisms of coping have evolved. This has resulted in a unique form of cosmopolitanism where differences can be accommodated without pressuring members of one community to be like the other based on a notion of universal brotherhood. On the contrary, members of one community can go to extraordinary lengths to help members of the other community maintain their own customary practices including their separate dining and dietary habits. Mr. Nandy called it a tolerance that is built into people’s everyday rhythms, is not backed by any ideological justification, and involves no sense of obligation to each other. He termed it an “unheroic form of tolerance” that allows interaction for various purposes without forcing one to declare brotherly love or adopt the other community’s practices. It is this kind of cosmopolitanism that Mr. Nandy found operative in Kochi. In one of his earlier essays on Kochi (2001), he explored why the city, which has close to 15 diverse communities, had not witnessed any major religious strife in its 600 years of recorded history. When he interviewed people, they reasoned that Keralites are educated or progressive. But a different story emerged when he probed them about their own life histories. “Kochi’s tolerance was, alas, based on mutual dislike,” he wrote. Every community had an account from its own past to show that it was better than the others. This included two Jewish communities, each of which generally prevented its children from marrying those from the other community. Hence, Kochi’s pluralism and communal amity included hostilities and distances which, “because they operate within a widely shared psychological universe, have certain in-built checks against mass violence.” This model of cosmopolitanism, where people accept “the otherness of the others”, is very different from the Enlightenment version which teaches us to divest ourselves of all prejudices so that we can emerge as the unbiased citizens of the nation state. The latter, a tougher version of tolerance, Mr. Nandy argued, forces us to hide our prejudices and preferences. As a result, everyday living becomes a struggle. It also leads to superficial forms of tolerance of diversity compatible with the demands of the middle class and the modern nation state where one can no longer accept radical diversities. Another cosmopolitanism Mr. Nandy’s explanation helped me make sense of my traditional-minded mother’s attitude on the cow slaughter bill that became an issue in Karnataka. While she showed her distaste at the thought of cows being slaughtered for food, when asked if the practice should be banned, she said, “But how can you ban it. It is their food. They have been eating it for years.” Mr. Nandy’s framework allows us to make sense of such seemingly contradictory actions in our everyday lives. Is this form of living detrimental to the health of a society or is this another unique form of cosmopolitanism whose organic form must be recognised? Perhaps it is the erosion of our abilities to accept the “radical otherness” of people who are different from us that has resulted in much strife today. Shashikala Srinivasan is the author of Liberal Education and Its Discontents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/accepting-radical-otherness/article35437010.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden’s political pick||There is considerable excitement in Indian diplomatic circles on the nomination of the next U.S. Ambassador. Six months after President Joe Biden assumed office, the White House announced that Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti will be the next occupant at Roosevelt House in New Delhi. Support from the President Mr. Garcetti is a political pick of Mr. Biden and endorsed him during his run for the top political post. The nomination is also seen as support from the Biden camp to Mr. Garcetti after some high-profile controversy in the Mayor’s office last year. Mr. Biden is unhurried in making diplomatic appointments. The first set came in April. The latest announcement reflects the U.S.’s priorities as Washington prepares to host this September the first in-person summit meeting of the leaders of Quad. While making public his acceptance of the nomination, the Ambassador-select promised to bring the same energy to the office that he demonstrated as an activist, teacher, a naval officer and a public servant. “And should I be confirmed, I’ll bring this same energy, commitment, and love for this city to my new role and will forge partnerships and connections that will help Los Angeles,” Mr. Garcetti tweeted. People familiar with the workings of the administration in Washington suggest that Mr. Garcetti enjoys a strong backing from the Vice-President too. He served on the panel appointed by the Biden team to select the candidate for vice-presidency. Considering the wide spectrum of interactions among the many sectors of New Delhi and Washington and the number of professionals engaged in conversations, his appointment should be looked at from the prism of both how things work inside the Beltway in Washington, D.C. and a reflection of politics of the West Coast, especially California. As a number of Indian-Americans have been appointed in the Biden administration, a few aspirants with strong India connections will be disappointed. Reports say that a few with India Caucus on the House side also threw their hat in the ring. On this count, Mr. Garcetti’s dealing with India or previous interactions would appear thin. The choice of the new envoy to India, who has a sprinkling of Hindi vocabulary in his lexicon, should open up the conversation. Since the announcement, a quick observation of posts by the denizens of Los Angeles on social media on Mr. Garcetti shows that they are unflattering, but then such is the nature of politics. Mr. Garcetti served in the city council for two decades including the last eight years as the Mayor. Yet, from the standpoint of India, what is important is that Mr. Garcetti can pick up the phone and talk to the President and the Vice-President when required to move the pieces to provide momentum to the bilateral ‘global strategic partnership’. Process of selection The formalisation of his appointment awaits confirmation by the Senate, a requirement under the U.S. Constitution that states the President “shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers…”. The confirmation process can take a few weeks after the President sends the list of names up the Capitol Hill. There is a growing practice to scrutinise names, with Committees examining the qualifications, policy preferences and independence of the nominees, and at times even seeking information on their health and financial assets. The confirmation process has been debated over the years. Some political commentators hold a poor view of it while the legendary Senator, Robert C. Byrd, from West Virginia, defended it saying that if the Senate “rushes through a nomination without adequate investigation, it is accused of ‘consent without advice, or being half-rubber, half-stamp”. Taking part in proceedings in 1987, he remarked that the Senate would do disservice to a president by rushing any nomination. The process as mandated continues uninterrupted. K.V. Prasad is a senior journalist and a former American Political Science Association Fellow with the U.S. Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bidens-political-pick/article35437011.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sharing during scarcity||The Union Ministry of Jal Shakti’s gazette notification on the jurisdiction of the Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards over projects and assets in the fields of irrigation and hydropower, though delayed, is a welcome development. The two river boards can now administer, regulate, operate and maintain 36 projects in the Krishna Basin and 71 in the Godavari to ensure judicious water use in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The arrangement is expected to leave the working of Water Resources or Irrigation Department in the States intact. The seven-year delay to get the notification only reflects the tense equations between the two States over river water sharing. The States have been locked in a battle of sorts over the utilisation of Krishna water, with Andhra Pradesh proposing a few projects, including a lift irrigation scheme for Rayalaseema, a region from where Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy hails, and, in turn, Telangana coming up with half-a-dozen projects of its own. Although the Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat — the chairperson of the apex council of the two river boards — had said that the Centre would go ahead with notifying the jurisdiction of the boards, it took nine months to see whether a reluctant Telangana would fall in line. The seven-year-old State had held the view that the notification should flow from finalisation by a tribunal on Krishna water sharing by the two States that would enlarge the scope of reference of the existing Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal (KWDT)-II. Telangana had even moved the Supreme Court but the Centre said it would consider Telangana’s request only if it withdrew its petition which it did. In the process, Telangana wanted its complaint to be referred to the current Tribunal to avoid duplication of inquiry. The Centre must now see to it that the empowered Boards function in a fair manner, as the Union government’s decision will be final with regard to matters concerning jurisdiction of the two bodies. Both States have their own justification to pursue new water and power projects as several areas await economic development. Rayalaseema is a dry region and it was grievances over poor utilisation of the two rivers in then undivided Andhra Pradesh that was a factor that led to the bifurcation. At the same time, the two States should instead focus on water and energy conservation and improving the efficiency of irrigation schemes and hydel reservoirs. Given the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the finances of the Centre and in States, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh do need to consider these alternatives and low-cost options. After studying the experiences of the revamped Boards, the Centre should look at turning the much talked-about concept of river basin organisations into a reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sharing-during-scarcity/article35437000.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Spy in hand||At least a 1,000 Indian phone numbers are in a list of potential targets of surveillance using the Pegasus spyware sold by Israeli company the NSO Group to “vetted governments” with the approval of the Israeli government. Of these, 300 numbers have been verified; 22 phones were subjected to forensic analysis by Amnesty International and peer reviewed by University of Toronto’s Citizen Lab. Of these, 10 were clearly established as being targeted by Pegasus; eight of the other 12 yielded inconclusive results. The evidence is strong, and the credibility of these revelations is extremely high. Indian citizens were indeed targets of a vicious, abominable and uncivil surveillance campaign by a government entity, Indian or foreign. The buck stops with the Government of India. Instead of coming clean and explaining what it intends to do to protect citizens, the GoI has fallen back on a disingenuous claim that no illegal surveillance is possible in India. There are legal provisions for intercepting communication and accessing digitally stored information in the interests of national security and public safety. The capture of a handheld machine by Pegasus turns that into a real-time spy on the target who can be watched over and followed every step. This surveillance is total, into their private and intimate lives, which have no bearing on any public interest. The cohort of people who were potential targets — journalists, politicians, probably a Supreme Court judge and a former Election Commissioner — does not indicate that the surveillance was necessitated by national security or public safety concerns. It is safe to assume that no information regarding terrorism or Chinese intrusion can be obtained by spying on a woman who complained of sexual harassment by a former CJI. On the contrary, the composition suggests that private craving, turpitude and even voyeurism motivated the perpetrators. This violation is about privacy and much more. Information obtained illegally may have been used to compromise institutions, to steal elections, sabotage Opposition campaigns, and even dislodge an Opposition government. That the accused in the Bhima Koregaon case had their computers breached by unknown entities to plant evidence that the prosecution is now using against them is notable in this context. That state agencies can trample upon the lives of citizens in such manner while elected representatives plead ignorance is unsettling for a democracy. This is antithetical to the basic creed of democracy. The truth about these revelations must be unearthed through an investigation by a JPC or by the Supreme Court or any other credible mechanism. A starting point for the Government must be in clearing the air on the foremost question it is skirting around — has any Indian agency bought Pegasus?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/spy-in-hand/article35437001.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sudan under Communist control||Major Hashem al Atta, who, last night overthrew the Sudanese regime of his former comrade-in-arms, President Jaffar el Numeiry, in a second bloodless coup is a communist. Maj. Atta to-day [Cairo, July 20] cancelled a government ban on four communist organisations, representing the power base of the Sudanese Communist Party. The four groups were dissolved last February by the Numeiry regime, said Omdurman Radio. Contrary to earlier reports that Major General Numeiry was flown to exile in neighbouring United Arab Republic, the Iraqi News Agency said he was under arrest at Army Headquarters in Khartoum. The new rulers to-day formed a seven-man Revolutionary Council and consolidated their hold on Africa’s largest country. The chairmanship of the Revolutionary Council went to Colonel Babikr el Noor Osman, a former Vice-Prime Minister who was dismissed in a major Government shake-up last November, along with Maj. Atta and the former Interior Minister, Maj. Osman Hamdalla, who is also included in the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sudan-under-communist-control/article35437008.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ADB trims FY22 growth forecast to 10%||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has pared its forecast for India’s growth this year to 10%, from 11% projected in April, citing the curbs imposed across States during the second wave. The lender also said on Tuesday it expects most of the country’s population to be vaccinated by 2022-23, suggesting global observers are doubtful that India can meet its target of vaccinating all adults by December 2021. A faster-than-expected spurt in fuel and food prices also nudged the ADB to raise its average inflation projection for 2021-22 to 5.5%, from 5.2% anticipated earlier. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has projected retail inflation at 5.1% for this period. Retail inflation, which remained elevated at around 6.3% over May and June, is also expected to stay above the RBI’s preferred target level of 4% in 2022-23, at 4.8%. India’s average inflation in 2020-21 was 6.2%, so the ADB’s projections suggest almost three successive years of inflation hovering closer to the RBI’s upper tolerance limit of 6% than the midpoint of the 2%-6% range it has to aim to maintain over the medium term, as per the Monetary Policy Committee’s mandate. Inflation had shot past the RBI’s comfort zone in December 2019 to 7.4%, the fastest since July 2014. By March 2020, it had eased to 5.91% before quickening to average 6.2% through the COVID-affected 2020-21.  South Asian impact India is expected to record a growth of 7.5% in financial year 2022-23, the ADB said, an increase from the 7% it had projected earlier. The renewed outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had hampered economic activity across South Asia due to fresh containment measures, it pointed out. “South Asia’s growth outlook for fiscal year 2021 [the ADB refers to the year that started in April 2021] is lowered to 8.9% from 9.5%. The forecast for India is downgraded by 1.0 percentage point to 10.0%. The inflation forecast for South Asia in 2021 is raised from 5.5% to 5.8%, mainly reflecting a higher forecast for India,” the Bank’s economists averred in a supplement to the Asian Development Outlook (ADO) report for 2021. While India’s GDP growth recovered to 1.6% in the final quarter of 2020-21, the pandemic’s second wave led many State governments to impose strict containment measures as new COVID-19 cases peaked at more than 4,00,000 a day in early May, before moderating to just above 40,000 in early July. “Early indicators show economic activity resuming quickly after containment measures eased,” the ADB said. “The growth projection for FY2021... reflects large base effects. The projection for FY2022 (2022-23), by which time much of India’s population is expected to be vaccinated, is upgraded from 7.0% to 7.5% as economic activity normalizes,” the lender added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adb-trims-fy22-growth-forecast-to-10/article35436988.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Wipro to invest $1 billion over three years in cloud||Wipro Ltd. said it would invest $1 billion in cloud technologies, capabilities, acquisitions and partnerships over the next three years. The firm unveiled Wipro FullStride Cloud Services to bring together a full portfolio of its cloud-related capabilities, offerings and talent for the convenience of its global clients. This commitment builds on Wipro’s existing cloud business with clients and significantly expands the investment with its partners and hyperscalers, creating industry solutions that accelerate results for mutual clients, as per a filing.  “With our $1 billion investment in cloud capabilities and the launch of Wipro FullStride Cloud Services, we are in a far stronger position to simplify, orchestrate and accelerate the cloud journey for our clients,’’ said Thierry Delaporte, chief executive officer and managing director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-to-invest-1-billion-over-three-years-in-cloud/article35436983.ece
21 July 2021||CHENNAI,||MRF working on green strategy: CMD Mammen||Leading tyre manufacturer MRF Ltd. is working on a multipronged ‘4R’ strategy to improve sustainability of the industry. The 4Rs relate to reduce, recycle, reuse and renewable, CMD K.M. Mammen said in the annual report. MRF intends to reduce CO2 emissions by developing low-rolling resistance tyres, recycle from end-of-lifecycle tyres as raw material for new tyres, reuse by promoting multiple retreaded tyres and promote critical tyre raw materials from environmentally-sustainable sources such as biomass and waste materials. To become more environment-friendly, the company has made some changes in the raw-material mix for two-wheeler and passenger car tyres. Besides, it is also working with domestic sources on developing raw materials to attain import substitution. On exports, MRF said it took a beating in the first half of last fiscal due to COVID-19 but saw ‘good traction’ in H2 leading to a spurt in overseas shipments. “In the year gone by, many of MRF products have taken centre stage, strengthening the demand for our products,” said Mr. Mammen. “Our focus on product quality over the past many decades has really paid off.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mrf-working-on-green-strategy-cmd-mammen/article35436985.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||FinMin seeks nod for Rs. 1.87-lakh cr. expenditure||The Finance Ministry has sought the Parliament’s approval for fresh gross additional expenditure of Rs. 1.87 lakh crore through the first supplementary demand for grants in 2021-22, entailing a net cash outgo of about Rs. 23,675 crore. Most of this actual outgo is earmarked for the battle against COVID-19, with almost Rs. 17,000 crore allocated to the Ministry of Health, while Rs. 1,750 crore has been sought to compensate banks for the compound interest component of the loan moratorium granted to borrowers last year. ‘GST dues to States’ The gross expenditure of Rs. 1.87 lakh crore also includes the Rs. 1.59 lakh crore to be raised through back-to-back borrowings for paying States’ GST dues. Last Thursday, the Centre released Rs. 75,000 crore to States through such borrowings and the balance is expected to be borrowed in the second half of the current financial year. “The pending GST compensation for the period April 2020-March 2021 has been pegged at a sizeable Rs. 81,179 crore,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. “The financing options for the pending dues for April 2020-January 2021 remain unclear,” she added.  Net cash outgo of Rs. 23,675 cr. is part of supplementary demand for grants placed before the Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finmin-seeks-nod-for-rs-187-lakh-cr-expenditure/article35436989.ece
21 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Recovery to remain patchy, says Parekh||HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh said the unpredictability of the virus remained the key challenge to the overall macroeconomic environment. “The world is still susceptible to recurring waves of infections. Thus, economic recovery will remain uneven and patchy,” Mr. Parekh said addressing shareholders at the 44th AGM on Tuesday. The veteran banker said owing to the second wave, the Indian economy would mirror a trend seen in FY21, wherein the second half of the financial year would be significantly stronger than the first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/recovery-to-remain-patchy-says-parekh/article35436984.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Focus on men’s team and Deepika’s performance||India, unlike in Rio 2016, will not have a full house in Tokyo, what with only four archers making the grade. The absence of the women’s team will be felt greatly, which is inescapable as India will now take a shot in only four of the five events to be held.  The country is yet to win a medal in the sport at this level, though it has had a steady participation in the discipline since Seoul 1988. In Tokyo, the key focus, however, will be on the men’s team and the performance of Deepika Kumari, the lone woman qualifier. The talented Odisha archer, who has had her skills honed at the Jamshedpur-based Tata Sports Academy, is back as World No. 1. A lot is expected from Deepika as she shoots to a possible run for glory in her third Olympics. She was tipped to do well in both London 2012 and Rio four years later, but fared badly, going through her shots hurriedly and thus losing momentum. This is the time for Deepika to make amends and prove her real worth as she will be in action in both the women’s recurve singles and the mixed pairs alongside Atanu Das — an event which has been included in the Games for the first time. Hopefully, consistency will be Deepika’s password this time around as she has her own reputation to defend. Besides Atanu, the men’s team will comprise Tarundeep Rai and newcomer Pravin Jadhav. The latter was in great form in the trials in April as he surprisingly outscored both his seniors. While Atanu will be taking part in his second Games, it will three-in-a-row for veteran Tarundeep. The trio will be seen in action in the men’s team as also the individual event. The competitions will be held from July 23 to July 31, but the first hurdle that the Indians will face will be the ranking rounds on the opening day. A good showing here will help them through a favourable draw thereafter. But here again, there will be no room for any faux pas as a poor outing could spell doom to the chances of the Indian team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-on-mens-team-and-deepikas-performance/article35437205.ece
21 July 2021||Chennai,||Sathish breathes fire in abandoned match||The shortest format of the game might be considered a sport for young blood, but it was the wily 40-year-old R. Sathish who starred in another rain-affected match of the Tamil Nadu Premier League with a spell of 5/10 for defending champions Chepauk Super Gillies against IDream Tiruppur Tamizhans on Tuesday. However, like on Monday, rain intervened before the end of the first innings with Tiruppur struggling at 64 for 7 in the 17th over and never relented, forcing a second straight abandoned match of the tournament.  Earlier, the former TN all-rounder reaped the reward for his discipline and accuracy on a Chepauk pitch where there was some help for the medium-pacers as he ran through an inexperienced batting line-up. Sathish provided the breakthrough for CSG after it elected to field, with the second ball of the match when left-handed opener S. Aravind flashed outside the off-stump to edge it to the wicketkeeper N. Jagadeesan. Known for his athleticism, Sathish then produced a brilliant catch at first slip, diving to his left when pacer Rahul Dev found the edge of S. Siddharth. He soon removed two more left-handers — Tushar Raheja and S. Aravindh — caught behind, while Francis Rokins played down the wrong line to a straight delivery and was trapped leg-before. He picked up his fifth wicket with another leg-before dismissal to remove R. Rajkumar — a lucky one as replays showed there was an inside edge — as Tiruppur was reduced to 24 for six in the seventh over. Skipper M. Mohammed (10 n.o.) and Aswin Crist (23 n.o.) then steadied the ship for with an unbeaten 28-run stand for the eighth wicket before rain saved the day for their side.  The scores: IDream Tiruppur Tamizhans 64/7 in 16.2 overs (R. Sathish 5/10) vs Chepauk Super Gillies. Toss: CSG .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathish-breathes-fire-in-abandoned-match/article35437300.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sania & Co. have a herculean task awaiting them||India’s faint hopes of a tennis medal at the Tokyo Olympics will rest on Sania Mirza. The former doubles World No. 1 will be making her fourth Olympic appearance and the 34-year-old will have in tow Ankita Raina, six years her junior. The challenge that awaits the Indian duo, however, will be herculean, with accomplished pairs such as Barbora Krejcikova-Katerina Siniakova of the Czech Republic (reigning French Open and three-time Major champions), Elena Vesnina-Vera Zvonareva of Russia (both three-time Slam champions) headlining the field. United States’ Bethanie Mattek-Sands, France’s Kristina Mladenovic, Hungary’s Timea Babos, Belgium’s Elise Mertens and Belarus’ Aryna Sabalenka are other notable names, who have 19 Major women’s doubles titles among them. Noteworthy record Sania’s record — three women’s doubles and three mixed-doubles Slam trophies — is similarly noteworthy, but her lack of match practice and current form are worries. In 2021, she has played just eight women’s doubles matches across four tournaments, with a win-loss record of 4-4. None of these have come with Ankita, with whom Sania last played in the Group I Asia-Oceania Billie Jean King Cup round robin in March 2020, winning all three matches. Since then, Ankita has entered the doubles top-100, won a WTA Tour-level trophy and featured in multiple Grand Slam main draws. But she will require a once-in-a-lifetime effort to come close to a medal. In men’s singles, the late entry of Sumit Nagal brought cheer but hopes of a podium finish appear far-fetched. The 23-year-old’s win-loss record of 13-13 since reaching the quarterfinals at the Buenos Aires ATP 250 in March is far from ideal going into an event that is almost Grand Slam-like, with nine of the world’s top-15, including four of the top-five, present. In fact, the last Indian to win a singles match at the Olympics was Leander Paes in 1996. Ending that drought will be a good achievement. Nagal and Sania are eligible for mixed-doubles, but with a combined ranking of 153, they may struggle to be among the top-16 teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-co-have-a-herculean-task-awaiting-them/article35437218.ece
21 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||We can definitely beat the best, says Ankita Raina||At 28, Ankita Raina, who will be making her Olympics debut partnering six-time Grand Slam winner Sania Mirza in the Tokyo Games tennis competition, says her own enthusiasm and Sania’s experience could well be the surprise weapon in their campaign to win an Olympics medal. “There’s a big mix of emotions — excitement, nerves, pride! But, I’m determined to focus on the task at hand, and give it my best shot,” Ankita informed The Hindu before leaving for Tokyo after training at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy here in the last few days. “We are continuing to work on building on our partnership and understanding. Preparing for the Olympics requires its own tactics, routines, and planning, and we and our teams have been very focused and dedicated towards that,” Ankita on playing with Sania. “It’s of course great to partner with someone like Sania, who has been a role model for me! To be representing the country, at the Olympics by her side, is extremely motivating. There of course will be some pressure,” she said. “I’m someone who plays aggressively and runs down the balls. I’ve been working on my serve and net game which is a process and I feel it’s improved as I’ve had good performances this year,” she said. Fans will be missed “It’s natural to have nerves. But, my best has always come when I’ve played for the flag, and this pressure is a privilege,” Ankita said even while stressing that the fans would be missed in Tokyo.  “We’re up against the best in the world with many challenges. I think we just have to trust in ourselves and keep the faith and keep fighting,” she said. “Sania has beaten the best in the world, and I’ve had a good season as well, having also won an Asiad medal before. “I think we just have to stick to our guns, and we can definitely beat the best,” she said. “We obviously want to aim for the best, but it’s important to just take it one match at a time, bring laurels to the country, and a podium finish would be where I would like to see us at the end of the Games,” Ankita said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-can-definitely-beat-the-best-says-ankita-raina/article35437379.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Onus on the individual: the pandemic has changed the rules||The temptation must have been difficult to resist. Here’s a young man, an international sportsman, with a chance of watching the kind of football he will not get back home. There might have been a residual fear about what could happen in cheering, screaming crowds after what happened in similar situations during a cricket series in India. But this is England, the rules are different, and what are the odds anyway? Rishabh Pant may not have worked it out thus. But as a key player in the series to follow, he should have been aware of the risk he was taking when he decided to go — sans mask, it appears — to the England-Germany Euro 2020 match at Wembley. Or if he didn’t, the Board of Control for Cricket in India should have alerted him to it. Mail sent, but... The BCCI did send out a mail advising players caution, mentioning the football and Wimbledon specifically. But, according to a report in this newspaper, it was sent only “hours before the three-week break ended”. That break, between the World Test Championship final against New Zealand and the regrouping at Durham in preparation for the five-Test England series, belonged to the individual players to relax how they wished to. No bubble, no staying together in tour hotels, no do’s and don’ts. It is unlikely that the BCCI would have taken kindly to a player who decided to go mountain climbing or skiing or even scuba diving in this period. It would have said, in effect, “You are here on an assignment that needs you at your physical peak, and anything that interferes with that task is a no-no.” So why should attracting the coronavirus be any different? In fact, you put not only yourself in danger, but your teammates too, and in the worst case, perhaps the tour itself. And the players are contracted to the BCCI. No one is suggesting that young athletes at the height of their powers should spend all their time cooped up indoors for three weeks. Sourav Ganguly, the BCCI president has said it is physically impossible to wear the mask all the time. But players on tour during a pandemic have to be discreet, avoid crowds, and understand the import of the many things that could go wrong. Luckily for Pant and India, there is time enough for the player to recover before the first Test on August 4. This is not a tirade against Pant, who is a valuable player of the team, but merely points out the need for personal responsibility when on tour during a pandemic. The sporting season and the pandemic are both racing in England. Football, cricket, tennis and Formula One have had crowd management that has swung between the cautious and the reckless. Indian players have been seen at many of these events; they will argue that they are following local rules. Keeping track of the rising cases is not impossible. Currently there are some 40,000 new cases daily. This should tell the tourists something — mainly that caution is advised. Some years ago, India’s first great opening batsman Vijay Merchant wrote about the dynamics within a touring party. Some players just want to have fun (especially if they realise their chances of playing a Test are nil), some want to strike a balance between enjoying themselves and contributing to the team effort. A third lot travels knowing the team depends on them and they cannot afford to veer away from the straight and narrow. It might have been a simplistic theory, but it did give an insight into the mind of the touring cricketer those days. Since then, players have become more professional, teams travel with a whole range of support staff, and letting your hair down is not the primary objective for any individual. Players are treated as adults, which is a change from the 60s and 70s, and no one expects the manager, coach or director (as they have been variously known) to keep stating the obvious constantly. Primary objective The primary objective is to play and win cricket matches, and anything which works against that should be avoided. It is better to miss a Euro match as a spectator than a Test match as player. Pant’s is a cautionary tale not just for his teammates and for touring teams in general, but for his countrymen back home too. No matter that the green flag is waved, and at some point ‘Freedom Day’ is declared like it was in England on Monday, with nearly all the restrictions lifted. Keeping safe is an individual responsibility, and if it involves wearing masks and keeping distances for longer than the official period, then these have to be done. The pandemic has changed all the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/onus-on-the-individual-the-pandemic-has-changed-the-rules/article35436995.ece
21 July 2021||KOCHI,||‘Need to pretend a lot at the Olympics’||The Indian athletes will be in Tokyo without any international experience this season and Anju Bobby George has offered a tip to long jumper M. Sreeshankar on how to handle this handicap. And it could turn out to very useful for the others too. “There may be jumpers who have done 8.50 or 8.60m. So you will have to pretend you are a good jumper too. Your performance will all depend on how you behave that day,” said Anju, the country’s lone World championships medallist (long jump bronze, 2003), in a chat with The Hindu . “Even if you’re anxious during the event, pretend that your confidence is up and everything is okay with you. In fact, all the athletes will pretend. Even your coach will be watched closely so he should also pretend that everything is good.” That means one’s acting skills could come in handy at the Olympics. No jitters Anju explained that she did not have any jitters during her Olympic debut. “Though 2004 was my first Olympics, I was already an established athlete. I had won the Worlds bronze, was among the world’s top four and had done all the competitions with the others. So, I was familiar to them and they to me,” said Anju, who was fifth in that Olympics with 6.83m which is still the national record. “I did not have much pressure and I was all set. In fact, I achieved the qualification standard with my first jump at the Olympics.” The qualification round will be the biggest hurdle at the Olympics. “Even for top jumpers, the first round will be the biggest headache. If you don’t qualify for the final with your first jump, you will be under much pressure and the coach will have to play a crucial role,” said the 44-year-old. “Because the two groups will be run simultaneously and only 12 will make the final. Most of them will not achieve the automatic qualification standard (likely to be 8.15m), and probably something near 8.10m would do, so you will have to keep watching the standings and decide what to do: whether to stop after the first jump to reserve your energy for the final or whether to go for three jumps. “And they need to do proper homework about the other athletes before they go.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-pretend-a-lot-at-the-olympics/article35436999.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Medals unlikely but history beckons||History is in the making. Even if India’s paddlers don’t earn a first Olympic medal in what has been conventionally considered a “lesser sport” by some in the Indian sports ecosystem, Tokyo 2020 will still be a historic occasion for the country’s table tennis fraternity. Sharath’s distinction While veteran A. Sharath Kamal will become the first Indian paddler to feature in four Olympics, Manika Batra will be India’s first female paddler to make a second successive appearance in the quadrennial extravaganza. The two will also hope to pull off a miracle in the mixed doubles and make their historic appearance even more significant next week. In an event that has been introduced at the Olympics for the first time, the pair of Sharath and Manika will be India’s lone medal hope, albeit remote, in Tokyo. The duo gave India its first table tennis medal at the Asian Games in 2018 and ensured it wasn’t a fluke by qualifying for the Olympics in style. Interesting In a draw of the top-16 pairs in the world, it will be interesting to see if the pair can cause three upsets in-a-row. When it comes to singles, hoping for a medal might be a bridge too far for all four paddlers. It will be an excellent achievement if either Sharath or G. Sathiyan make it to the round of 16. Manika, too, has admitted that her target is to beat at least one higher-ranked player in singles. Least is expected of Sutirtha Mukherjee on her Olympic debut. Stepping stone While Sharath, 39, will in all likelihood feature in his last Olympics, Manika and Sathiyan are treating Tokyo as a stepping stone towards their primary goal in 2024. However, if Sharath and Manika can pull off a coup, the duo will ensure Indian table tennis is elevated in stature and gets its due as being much more than just a recreational sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medals-unlikely-but-history-beckons/article35437214.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Paes’ bronze, but little else||The spirit of tennis has long straddled the conflicting worlds of nationalism and globalism. While the Davis Cup held a special place, many top players prioritised Grand Slams that brought individual glory and had global appeal. Tennis, in fact, was reintroduced as a medal-winning discipline at the Olympics only in 1988, after a gap of 64 years.  But for Indians, tennis has long been a source of national pride, riding on the exploits of the Krishnans (Ramanathan & Ramesh), Amritrajs (Anand and Vijay) and the rest. In this, Leander Paes’ singles bronze from the 1996 Atlanta Olympics ranks high. It was independent India’s second individual medal, ending a 44-year drought after K.D. Jadhav’s bronze (wrestling, Helsinki 1952).  Paes beat a top-10 player in Thomas Enqvist, ruptured tendons in the wrist in the semifinal loss to Andre Agassi and fought back from a set down against Fernando Meligeni of Brazil in the playoff to bag the historic medal.  But for that, India has had little success. There hasn’t been a singles match win since Paes’ effort and his famed partnership with Mahesh Bhupathi across four Olympics didn’t fetch a single medal. The closest was at Athens 2004, but the duo lost a marathon bronze medal playoff to Croatia’s Mario Ancic and Ivan Ljubicic.  The nation’s best chance was at London 2012, when it had Paes, Bhupathi and Rohan Bopanna in the top-20. But it will be best remembered for off-court bickering and a clash of egos.  Bopanna and Sania Mirza narrowly missed out at Rio 2016, losing the mixed-doubles semifinal against Venus Williams and Rajeev Ram in a match-tiebreak before being defeated in the bronze medal playoff by Czech Republic’s Lucie Hradecka and Radek Stepanek.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paes-bronze-but-little-else/article35437216.ece
21 July 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Best chance for a medal in last 20 years’||Former India hockey captain Viren Rasquinha feels the Indian team has a realistic chance to win an Olympics medal in Tokyo. Assessing the Indian men’s team’s chances, Rasquinha underlined the Manpreet Singh-led side’s improvement. “This is the best chance for a medal in the last 20 years. Our last chance was in Sydney 2000 when we just missed out on a place in the semifinals. This team has really played well. They have improved gradually and consistently and have beaten all the top teams over the last four-year Olympic cycle. First goal “The first goal should be to come out of the pool to the quarterfinals. We are not going to get an easy quarterfinal match,” Rasquinha, who will be part of Sony Sports live studio show, Sports Extraaa, for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games from July 23, told The Hindu on Tuesday. Rasquinha appreciated the Graham Reid-coached side. “There is a lot of freshness, enthusiasm and hard running. A lot on the lines of fitness. Players can adapt to different positions. Undoubtedly, it’s a very good team.” A former midfielder, Rasquinha praised India’s current linkmen. “With Manpreet leading the midfield, he is the fulcrum, he is the guy with boundless energy and is the bridge between defence and attack. Vivek Sagar Prasad is a crafty midfielder. A lot of depth in the midfield and they are going to play an important role.” Rasquinha said P.R. Sreejesh and Manpreet deserved to win an Olympic medal for their long service to Indian hockey. “This is the most open men’s hockey tournament in the last five Olympics. There is no clear favourite. Any of the top seven-eight teams can win gold. If India plays well consistently under pressure, you have to have six-seven really good consistent matches, it can win that medal.” Rasquinha said the women’s side became fit in recent times. “I see them doing weight training regularly. Now they are able to match the Europeans who play a tough body game with a lot of close marking.” Inspirational leader Rasquinha said women’s team captain Rani Rampal should inspire the side. “Rani is a great leader, also an incredible goal scorer under pressure. A lot relies on her shoulder. She has to inspire the entire forward line. She cannot do it alone.” Rasquinha, who works for Olympic Gold Quest, praised the synergy between government agencies and NGOs in supporting the Tokyo-bound athletes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-best-chance-for-a-medal/article35437266.ece
21 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Vijender backs Indian pugilists to do well at Games||Beijing Olympics bronze medallist Vijender Singh thinks that India’s strong nine-member boxing squad is capable of winning medals in the upcoming Tokyo Games. Vijender, the first Indian boxer to bag an Olympic medal, said the experienced hands – including six-time World champion Mary Kom (women’s 51kg), former Worlds bronze medallist Vikas Krishan (69kg) and Worlds silver medallist Amit Panghal (52kg) – have a good chance. “Mary Kom and Vikas have lots of experience. Amit is in good form. I think they will do better,” Vijender, who will be part of Sony Sports live studio show, Sports Extraaa, for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games from July 23, said during an online select media interaction on Tuesday. On Amit, Vijender said, “He is world No. 1 and that brings a lot of benefits. His style is exciting. I am told he boxed well in Dubai (in the Asian championships).” On another southpaw Vikas, Vijender said, “This is his third Olympics and I hope he makes it (to the podium).” Vijender admired Mary, who landed a bronze medal in the 2012 London Olympics. “She is a strong woman. I pray she comes back with a medal. She is fighting after having three kids and we must learn a lot from her.” Sharing experiences Vijender expected Mary and Vikas to share their experience with others. “Manish Kaushik (the Bhiwani boxer who qualified in 63kg) asked me about the Olympic Village. I shared my experience so that he would know how it would be over there. Olympians like Mary and Vikas should share their experience with others.” Vijender, who won his Olympic medal in the middleweight division, had a word of advice for fellow middleweight pugilist Ashish Kumar. “Stay away from social media and save your energy. When you go to the Olympic Village, you are treated like a king. Whatever you want to do in the Village, you can do there. Don’t waste your energy, just focus on why you are here and what you are doing.” Vijender urged the countrymen to encourage all the nine boxers who can perform better after the disappointing show in the Rio Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijender-backs-indian-pugilists-to-do-well-at-games/article35436991.ece
21 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Chahar’s knock helps India pull off an incredible win and go 2-0 up||Tailender Deepak Chahar brought India back from the dead with a steely 69 off 82 balls and script the visiting team’s series-sealing victory in the second ODI against Sri Lanka here on Tuesday. Chasing 276, India was down and out at 193 for seven before Chahar and Bhuvneshwar Kumar (19 not out off 28) forged an unbeaten 84-run stand to clinch a memorable win for the visitors who extended their record of not losing an ODI on Sri Lanka soil since 2012. A struggling Sri Lankan outfit has only itself to blame for not finishing the job from a commanding position. Chahar, whose highest score before this game was 12, showed remarkable resolve and composure under pressure to take his team over the line with five balls to spare. It was expected to be another comfortable chase for India after Sri Lanka put an improved batting effort to post 275 for nine. However, questionable shot selection from the majority of the Indian batsmen gave their opponents hope. Barring Chahar and Suryakumar Yadav (53), the Indian batsmen faltered. Stand-out bowler Leg-spinner Wanindu Hasaranga troubled the Indians with his variations and ended up being the stand-out bowler for his team. India felt the heat early on in the chase with Prithvi Shaw and Ishan Kishan getting out to bad shots. India, at one stage, was reeling at 116 for five. Earlier, Avishka Fernando (50 off 71) and Charith Asalanka (65 off 68) struck half-centuries but the home team could not post an imposing total. Chamika Karunaratne (44 not out off 33 balls) came up with another timely cameo to take the team past 270.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karunaratne-propels-sri-lanka-to-275-in-must-win-game/article35437212.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhavani has a mountain to climb||Bhavani Devi is a trailblazer in Indian fencing. As the first-ever Indian in the sport to make it to the Tokyo Olympics, the 27-year-old’s name will be etched in the annals of Indian fencing. However, there is no guarantee for success in Tokyo. With a world ranking of 42, Bhavani will have a mountain to climb at the Games. Bhavani rose through the world rankings mainly after a good performance in the World championships in 2019 in Budapest. She entered the round of 16, the first-ever Indian fencer to achieve the feat. She defeated two quality opponents — Tunisia’s Azza Besbes (ranked 61 then) in the first round and a higher-ranked Canada’s Gabriella Page (ranked 36 then) in the round of 32. She lost a close battle (15-14) to Bianca Pascu of Romania in the pre-quarterfinals. After the Worlds, Bhavani jumped 23 places to be ranked 44. There are enough world-class fencers who will light up the Makuhari Messe Hall in Tokyo from July 26. Tough competition Yana Egorian of Russia, the 2016 Rio Olympics gold medallist, who has slipped to 23 in world rankings, Ukraine’s Olga Kharlan, the reigning World champion and World No. 1 Sofya Velikaya of Russia, a two-time Olympics silver medallist (2012 & 2016) and Mariel Zagunis, gold medallist in the 2004 and 2009 Games, have all done quite well in the season gone by. If Bhavani is able to get past two opponents, it will probably will be a big achievement for her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavani-has-a-mountain-to-climb/article35437208.ece
21 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Vukomanovic is Blasters’ twelfth coach||Among ISL teams, Kerala Blasters has had the least managerial stability with 11 coaches holding charge in seven seasons. The Kochi-based club has recently appointed Serbian Ivan Vukomanovic as its 12th coach ahead of the new season. The 44-year-old, while accepting the role, was fully aware of the club’s revolving door policy on coaches and is primed up for the challenge to turnaround the fortunes of the side which has the largest fan-base in India.  Vukomanovic says he thrives under pressure and the energy of the Blasters fans will motivate him. However, he said it was the club management’s vision and positive attitude which first impressed him and it was the reason that prompted him to take up the challenge of coaching the club. “The professional approach of the club’s management and positive attitude impressed me first. I like the energy of the huge army of fans supporting the club. I like being part of that kind of club. “As a player, I always played in similar environments and it motivates me the most. “Football without fans and pressure is not the football I like. I am not the guy who announces big words and promise, but I hope we will see fire and passion in Kerala Blasters this season,’’ he said. Budgetary constraints According to Vukomanovic, a coach should be aware of the budgetary constraints of his club and should operate within the limitations to find the best possible combinations. “The big name, fame and status of big stars is not a guarantee that you will win games. I always respected and will respect the budget limits. We will try to operate within our capabilities and sign players with quality and hope that they will make a difference,” he said. Players with potential Vukomanovic is a big fan of promoting young talent and the young brigade of the Blasters has impressed him. “I think that there are some interesting young players with potential. Everything is possible in football. Let’s wait and see, maybe some of them will be a surprise and bring us something new and extra.” The coach believes that the new rule of having more Indian players in the starting line-up will benefit Indian football in the long run and will make a difference in the quality in the ISL.  The big name, fame and status of big stars is not a guarantee that you will win games. I always respected and will respect the budget limits. We will try to operate within our capabilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vukomanovic-is-blasters-twelfth-coach/article35437431.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Limba — the trailblazer||Indian archery caught the imagination of the public after Limba Ram, a tribal from Rajasthan, equalled the 30m world record at the Beijing Asian championships. This was in 1992 and naturally expectations were high of Limba being a potential medal winner in the Barcelona Games that year. However, going into his second Olympics — Limba had participated in Seoul 1988 — the Indian was unlucky as he was tied for the eighth spot after the ranking round in the 70m event. His opponent had a scorecard of more tens than Limba and the latter was sadly knocked out. But beyond the Games, Limba was a consistent performer at the Worlds, World Cups and other major events, winning medals for the country before he was forced to quit due to injury soon after the Atlanta Games in 1996. Inspiring story Yet, the inspiring story of how he came to the fore as a 15-year-old and continued to hold attention at the national level only speaks volumes of this trail-blazer. Of course, the current crop of the Indian archers too have gained a lot from Limba, who was the chief coach of the National teams, both in London 2012 and Rio 2016. They certainly owe a great showing to their master, who strove hard from virtual poverty before emerging as one of the best-known Indian archers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/limba-the-trail-blazer/article35437206.ece
21 July 2021||DURHAM,||Rahul and Jadeja warm up in style||K.L. Rahul (101 retired out) and Ravindra Jadeja (75) powered the Indians to 306 for nine in 90 overs on the opening day of the warm-up game against County Select XI on Tuesday. Rahul and Jadeja, who came together with the side wobbling at 107 for four, added 127 for the fifth wicket. The former was at his fluent best during his 150-ball knock, stroking 11 fours and a six. The latter’s 146-ball innings had five fours and a six. Rohit Sharma, leading the side in the absence of Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane who were rested for the match with minor niggles, fell for nine. Mayank Agarwal contributed 28. Cheteshwar Pujara (21) and Hanuma Vihari (24) failed to click before it was left to Rahul and Jadeja to resurrect the innings. India's fringe players Avesh Khan and Washington Sundar turned up for County Select after the home team lost players due to injury and COVID-related isolation. Avesh bowled 9.5 overs before sustaining a thumb injury.  Clarifying on Kohli and Rahane’s injuries, BCCI secretary Jay Shah said in a statement, “Kohli felt some stiffness in his back late on Monday and has been advised rest by the BCCI medical team. Rahane has mild swelling around his left upper hamstring.”.  The scores: Indians 306/9 in 90 overs (K.L. Rahul retd. out 101, Ravindra Jadeja 75, Craig Miles 3/39) vs County Select XI; Toss: Indians .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-jadeja-warm-up-in-style/article35437210.ece
21 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Tiwary has no problems wearing two hats||Wearing two hats, that of a minister and of a professional cricketer, is not a problem for former India cricketer Manoj Tiwary. The inclusion of Tiwary among 39 Bengal probables for the forthcoming domestic season was a surprise for many. But the 35-year-old never had any confusion about the challenging decision he took a few months ago. “When Didi (West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee) asked me to join politics, I could not say no. When I told her that I wanted to play and did not want to end my career abruptly, she said, ‘You can play as long as you can’,” Tiwary, a Trinamool Congress MLA from Shibpur, told The Hindu on Tuesday. For Tiwary, who is West Bengal’s Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports, it’s about managing the two jobs well. “I have a very good team which knows how to handle different situations. I was confident that managing the two things would not be difficult,” said Tiwary, a former Bengal skipper. “My job is to work on my fitness and skill set. By God’s grace, I have been contributing to the team with my batting, bowling and fielding for the last 18 years.” Tiwary said his position in the government would not affect his relationship with fellow-players in the Bengal side. “I am not going to present myself as a minister. I will gel with other players like a friend. And they can crack jokes on me.” Tiwary wants to see Bengal as the Ranji champion again. “A lot of investment has been made on younger players in the last five-seven years... We want to achieve that (title) as a team,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tiwary-has-no-problems-wearing-two-hats/article35437380.ece
21 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Mirza chooses Seigneur Medicott as teammate||In a late change, equestrian Fouaad Mirza has chosen Seigneur Medicott as his equine teammate for Tokyo Olympics, it was announced on Tuesday. Mirza had earlier chosen Dajara 4 as his equine teammate. Mirza opted for the change as Dajara 4 had undergone heavy pressure in the last few weeks of competing and practise, Fouaad’s sponsor Embassy International Riding School (EIRS) stated in a press release. Seigneur Medicott is a dark bay Westphalian gelding foaled in 2006 and has competed 34 times and won on 10 occasions. He was the German Champion in 2017 and was purchased the same year by the Embassy Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirza-chooses-seigneur-medicott-as-teammate/article35437260.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vi dit downs Adhiban||R. Praggnanandhaa, 15, became the youngest Indian to qualify to the fourth round of the chess World Cup in Sochi, Russia, on Tuesday. The youngster, who lost from a winning position in the second game on Monday, bounced back strongly to blank Michael Krasenkow 2-0 in the two rapid tiebreak games. In an all-India clash, Vidit Gujarathi ended B. Adhiban’s resistance in the final five-minute blitz tiebreaker to win the marathon clash 4.5-3.5.  The results (Third round, tie-breaker): 25-minute Rapid: Vidit Gujrathi drew with B. Adhiban 1-1; R. Praggnanandhaa bt Michael Krasenkow (Pol) 2-0 (Praggnanandhaa wins 3-1). 10m-blitz: Vidit drew with Adhiban 1-1; 5m-blitz: Vidit bt Adhiban 1.5-0.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pragg-bounces-back/article35437220.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tormentor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tormentor/article35437432.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Content with participation||Ever since table tennis was included as an Olympic sport in Seoul, 1988, at least one Indian has participated in the quadrennial extravaganza every time. However, in the true Olympic spirit, for all the last eight editions, India’s paddlers have been content with participation. When it comes to men’s singles, right from Chetan Baboor and A. Sharath Kamal — who have featured in three Olympics each — and Kamlesh Mehta, who played the 1988 and 1992 editions, no Indian paddler has entered the pre-quarterfinals; so has been the case with the women’s and men’s doubles entrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/content-with-participation/article35437219.ece
21 July 2021||Harare:,||Bangladesh sweeps series||Captain Tamim Iqbal hit hisfastest century in One-DayInternational cricket as Bangladesh beat Zimbabwe by five wickets to complete a 3-0series whitewash on Tuesday. Earlier Zimbabwe exceededthe expectations of captainBrendan Taylor by posting 298in the third and final ODI. Opener Regis Chakabva laid the foundation with a brisk 84.  The scores: Zimbabwe 298 in 49.3 overs (Regis Chakabva 84, Ryan Burl 59, Sikandar Raza 57, Mustafizur 3/57, Saifuddin 3/87) lost to Bangladesh 302 for five in 48 overs (Tamim Iqbal 112, Nurul Hasan 45 n.o.). Toss: Bangladesh. MoM: Tamim; MoS: Shakib. Bangladesh wins by five wickets and the series 3-0 . AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-sweeps-series/article35437264.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Mallikarjun and Lokesh hog the limelight||K. Nitesh’s unbeaten 101 (90b, 4x4, 5x6) for Budding Stars was one of the highlight of the A1-Division three-day league cricket championship here on Tuesday. In another match, Paras Raj (129 batting, 158b, 20x4, 1x6) excelled for Baalaji CC.  The scores:   A1-Division (three-day league): EMCC 126 in 49.5 overs & 81/4 in 20 overs vs Ensconse 267 in 88 overs (J. Mallikarjun 165 n.o., Swachit Kumar 30, Lokesh 7/51).   Gemini Friends 103/3 in 37 overs (Yash Gupta 31 batting) vs Cambridge XI.   Budding Stars 137 in 34.5 overs & 254/6 in 40 overs (Tanay Thyagarajan 73, K. Nitesh 101 n.o.) vs Zinda Tilismath 129 in 62.2 overs (Shashank 38, M. Radhakrishna 34, Tanay Thyagarajan 3/19) & 64/4 in 12 overs.   Apex 219 in 70.5 overs (K. Sri Harsha 36, Shaik Zaheer 58 n.o., Syed Chand Pasha 4/42) vs Gouds XI.   Concorde 236 in 56.3 overs (K. Subhash Chandra 82, P. Praveeth Kumar 38, M. Prudhvi 5/72, Shaunak Kulkarni 4/45) vs Baalaji 283/2 in 59 overs (Paras Raj 129 batting, T. Hrishikesh 91, E. Geeta Krishna 46 batting).   Charminar 259/7 in 68 overs (Syed Ghouse 117, Ali Kacchi 61) vs Jai Bhagwathi.   Mahmood 187/7 in 68 overs (Vasant Bung 56, Abhilash Kulkarni 33) vs Khalsa.   Sri Chakra 143 in 47.5 overs vs Rohit Xi 304 in 89.4 overs (Balaji 99, Rohit Reddy 58, Shashank 4/30).   A2-Division two-day league: Kosaraju 287/8 in 73 overs drew with Vijay Hanuman 248/7 in 61 overs (S. Vikas 113 n.o.).   New Blues 284 in 60.3 overs bt Classic 147 in 53.3 overs (Prashanth 38, Vipin Choudhary 4/37, Sarfaraz 3/36).   Brothers XI 49 in 18.5 overs (Aarya Udupa 3/7, Shaik Adnan Ullah 4/8) lost to Universal 52/2 in 7 overs (Sushant Abhang 34 n.o.).   Sunshine 119 in 48.4 overs lost to Lords 120/6 in 55.4 overs (Yash 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mallikarjun-and-lokesh-hog-the-limelight/article35437523.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNPL Nellai Royal Kings vs Ruby Trichy Warriors (MAC Stadium), 7.30 p.m.; CDCA league, II div., All Stars CC vs Chengai Kings CC (7.30 a.m), Sumangali TURF, Santhosapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article35437301.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 09:54 IST,||Sudoku — July 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-21-2021/article35438233.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘It’s 90% art, 10% music’||With the setting up of homegrown platforms like WazirX and Terrain.art, the market for non-fungible tokens is booming. Nischal Shetty, founder of WazirX, admits it is still early days, in India and globally. “What’s interesting, however,” he says, “is that unlike what usually happens with new technology — where it is adopted in the West and then reaches us — NFTs have been on par in the country. We are creating our own platforms.” Edited excerpts:  What are the top categories that WazirX is looking at?  At present it is mainly 90% art and 10% music. But we won’t be restricting ourselves. People are expressing interest in exploring sports, spirituality and the like. We are also toying with the idea of converting real world art into NFTs. Another market is the influencer space. India has one of the largest networks in the world and, until now, they monetised mainly through sponsored content. NFTs can give the influencer economy a new opportunity. For example, a travel influencer can turn the first photo he or she clicks at a destination into an NFT. Are NFTs democratic? Besides bringing in ownership and originality, NFTs are also democratising the ability to monetise one’s creativity. Just like blogging made everyone a writer, NFTs are making everyone an artist — opening up the field to meme and GIF makers, TikTok and Reel creators, podcasters, tweeters, etc. What’s next? At the moment we only have fixed rates on WazirX. An auction tab is one of the most requested features that we are working on. We are also tweaking the way that we get artists on board, by building a referral system. — Surya Praphulla Kumar    Musicians link up: NFTs are creating a new idea of patronage at a time when earning music royalties is a circuitous route and live touring is still down for the count due to the pandemic. P4  Fashion potential: since designs are purely digital, a designer will not need tangible elements like rare textiles or seamstress skills, but a different sort of investment such as animators and 3D software like Houdini. P4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-90-art-10-music/article35437613.ece
21 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||No CM-Sidhu meeting for now||The infighting in Punjab Congress seems to be far from over as Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hardened his stand, saying that he was firm on his stance and will not meet the newly-appointed party president Navjot Singh Sidhu unless he publicly apologies. Reports of Mr. Sidhu seeking time to meet the Chief Minister have also been dismissed by Chief Minister’s media advisor Raveen Thukral. In a tweet the media advisor said “Reports of@sherryontopseeking time to meet@capt_amarinderare totally false. No time has been sought whatsoever. No change in stance... CM won’t meet#NavjotSinghSidhutill he publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him.” Minister rules out meet Even as Mr. Sidhu continued to meet State party leaders in his political outreach attempt, senior Punjab Cabinet Minister Brahm Mahindra has also ruled out a personal meeting with Mr. Sidhu till he resolves his issues with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Mr. Mohindra though welcomed the appointment of Mr. Sidhu as the Punjab Congress Committee president. In a statement issued here, he said the appointment had been done by the party high command and was welcome. ‘Resolve issues’ “However, I will not meet him [Sidhu] till he meets the Chief Minister and resolves his issues with him”, said Mr. Mohindra, adding that Capt. Amarinder Singh was the leader of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) and he (Mohindra) was duty bound to follow him. Besides being the CLP leader, the Chief Minister also headed the Cabinet, of which he was a part, stated the Minister. “We have a collective responsibility and hence I would refrain from meeting the newly appointed president till issues between him and the Chief Minister are resolved”, he asserted. On July 18, Mr. Sidhu, a detractor of Capt. Amarinder Singh, was appointed as State party chief. But both the leaders have not met so far. Neither has Capt. Amarinder publically congratulated Mr. Sidhu nor has Mr. Sidhu uttered any word on a possible meeting with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-cm-sidhu-meeting-for-now/article35437396.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi University likely to launch admission portal before July 26||Senior officials of the Delhi University (DU) on Tuesday said that the varsity is preparing teams and panels to conduct webinars and tutorial videos to assist aspirants in registration process. The university is also likely to launch its new admission portal before the registration process for postgraduate admissions begins on July 26. It had earlier said that in addition to the webinars and tutorial videos, computer-based help desks like chatbots and emails will be available throughout the day to answer queries of candidates. Sanjeev Singh, Head of DU’s computer centre, said: “The admission portal is most likely to be launched two days before the registration process for the postgraduate courses begin. A schedule for webinars and tutorial videos will also be published soon. It will be a continuous process and there will be constant interaction with the students.” The admission process will be completely online this year in view of the pandemic and the university had announced that aspirants will not be required to visit colleges or departments for any purpose. To assist students, Mr. Singh said that panels for webinars will include faculty members instead of volunteers at help desks, like previous years. “It is always better to have domain experts to answer queries. So the panels will be made accordingly as we are majorly catering to three streams — science, humanities and commerce. So we are planning to involve faculty members directly. Lists for the same are being drawn up,” said Mr. Singh. Key dates The registration process for various postgraduate, M.Phil and Ph.D programmes will continue between July 26 and August 21 while the registration process for undergraduate courses is scheduled to begin from August 2 and end on August 31. Admissions to undergraduate courses will be based on merit, like previous years, the university had announced recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-university-likely-to-launch-admission-portal-by-weekend/article35437404.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||FASHION: going beyond designers||We can create NFTs, mint them, scrutinise them… but can we wear them too? The fashion world is tightening its grip on the metaverse through not just digital fashion but also NFTs (non-fungible tokens). Over the past few weeks, I watched the newscape fill-up with headlines of this year’s Paris Fashion Week during which FHCM revealed a team-up with French NFT platform Arianee. The plan was to give away NFTs to selected attendees, buyers and journalists during Paris Fashion Week Men and Haute Couture Week, to further propel the ‘exclusive ownership experience.’ Curiosity about Indian fashion NFTs got me thinking and I spoke with some disruptors in this space. Could India crack this bubble too, as it has done with art and music? To my dismay, the Internet deep dive I went on was not very fruitful. But it brought me to Brooklyn-based digital creator Ravi Singh who minted the first traditional Indian fashion NFT collection. He’s also urging more digital artists to dabble in this new space — and best of all, he is not even a fashion designer! Singh predicts the fashion metaverse – or web3 fashion space – will see more entrants like him, along with the established names such as Gucci, Stella McCartney and Nike. He tells me that the NFT fashion space, still finding its footing, has the potential to create “an anarchist Utopia”.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fashion-going-beyond-designers/article35437614.ece
21 July 2021||July 21 2021 00:00 IST,||ART: Expanding the definition of ‘artist’||Delhi-based sculptor and artist Shovin Bhattacharjee, 45, has been creating digital art since 2002. Among the first Indians to list his work as an NFT, he says, “I have always faced the challenge of limited buyers because the notion still persists that digital art is not authentic art”. The concerns relating to copyright add to buyer hesitation. NFTs, or non-fungible tokens, are helping change that by enabling creators and collectors to verify authenticity by encrypting an unforgeable signature on the blockchain. Christie’s sale of Everydays: The First 5000 Days by the cryptoartist Beeple made news in March both for its $69 million price tag and the fact that a leading auction house had sold an NFT. “As the portals [such as Ethereum, Flow, and homegrown WazirX] create a unique code for each work, there is a record of ownership. [A new block of immutable code is added each time the artwork changes hands.] So my digital works are now better received and valued,” says Bhattacharjee, who recently sold his first NFT, titled Exploration , a digital print on canvas for 1.4 Ethereum that takes a gentle jibe at artist Subodh Gupta’s milk cans from the early 2000s. Provenance and transparency are the big drivers of the NFT boom. “Creating fakes has been happening for ages,” says fine art professional Aakshat Sinha. NFTs, which are cyber equivalents of certificates of ownership of both digital or physical items — think GIFs, music, even casks of whisky — are providing the solution. “By putting information about a work’s provenance on the blockchain, it becomes a collectible. And as concerns about duplication and authenticity of digital art get resolved, more people will adapt to this new digital asset class,” says Bengaluru-based artist Harshit Agrawal. “In the Indian market, we’re already seeing this through platforms like Terrain.art and WazirX NFT.” Agrawal, who works primarily with artificial intelligence, started minting NFTs last year, after following the market closely for a couple of years. “The works I create lend themselves naturally to the NFT art category,” says the 29-year-old. When he first listed NFTs on SuperRare, a curatorial platform, he priced them conservatively, at around $1,000. “At the time, the market was new and even the legends who are selling their works today north of $100,000 were selling at $1,000-$2,000. Now my NFTs start at about $5,000 in primary sale,” he says. Continued on page 3 Since designs are purely digital, a designer will not need tangible elements like rare textiles or seamstress skills, but a different sort of investment such as animators and 3D software like Houdini.P4 Fashion potential Musicians link up NFTs are creating a new idea of patronage at a time when earning music royalties is a circuitous route and live touring is still down for the count due to the pandemic.P4 Musicians link up: NFTs are creating a new idea of patronage at a time when earning music royalties is a circuitous route and live touring is still down for the count dueic royalties is a circuitous route and live touring is still down for the count dueic royalties is a circuitous route and live touring NFT is more than an artwork; it has the potential to make the owning of artwork more democratic. It also brings in several kinds of new aesthetics, such as the ‘cute’ culture that is endemic to Korean pop artists, or the street art used by graffiti artists, and even indigenous styles that are intrinsic to India. It can redefine what ‘success’ in the art market means because it is still open and unique — Myna Mukherjee,curator-director, Engendered  “Honestly I am paying no attention to NFT’s. It’s a language that I haven’t grasped yet, but it smells of capitalism and feels like a Ponzi scam. Which is fine if making money is your thing. If making art is your thing, then NFTs aren’t going to get you a show” — Bharti Kher , artist   sfdfdfd“NFT is more than an artwork; it has the potential to make the owning of artwork more democratic. It also brings in several kinds of new aesthetics, such as the ‘cute’ culture that is endemic to Korean pop artists, or the street art used by graffiti artists, and even indigenous styles that are intrinsic to India. It can redefine what ‘success’ in the art market means because it is still open and unique” — Myna Mukherjee, curator-director, Engendered     When Bengaluru-based artist Harshit Agrawal first listed NFTs on SuperRare, a curatorial platform, he priced them conservatively, at around $1,000. “The market was new and even the legends who are selling their works today north of $100,000 were selling at $1,000-$2,000. Now my NFTs start at about $5,000 in primary sale,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-expanding-the-definition-of-artist/article35437612.ece
21 July 2021||Guwahati,||Oppn. nod to join Nagaland govt.||The opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) has accepted Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio’s offer to join his People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA) government. The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) that Mr. Rio represents, on Tuesday adopted a resolution to first consult ruling partner Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before bringing the NPF on board. The 60-member Nagaland Assembly currently has 59 members after the death of an MLA. The PDA has 34 legislators (20 are from NDPP, 12 from BJP and two Independents) while the NPF has 25. The consultation with the BJP is seen as a formality ahead of the “inevitable” – the NPF becoming a constituent of the PDA to leave the Nagaland Assembly without any member in the opposition. Mr. Rio is believed to have turned the tables on the BJP, which had reportedly been trying to rekindle its friendship with the NPF. The BJP and NPF are allies in the adjoining State of Manipur. The two parties were allies in Nagaland but the BJP opted to stitch an alliance with NDPP ahead of the 2018 Assembly election. Mr. Rio had quit the NPF and joined the NDPP before the election that year. Following the development, the BJP’s central leadership has decided to send its Nagaland in-charge Nalin Kohli to the State on Wednesday, a party leader said. NPF troubles Trouble within the NPF had started in 2019 when seven of its MLAs pledged support to the NDPP-led Nagaland government. The NPF suspended the seven but suffered a setback when the Kohima Bench of the Gauhati High Court had in February dismissed its applications seeking their disqualification from the Assembly. An NPF leader said the party’s legislators had met on Monday to discuss the offer from the Chief Minister. “We decided to accept the offer in the interest of the settlement of the protracted Naga political problem (peace process with extremist groups),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oppn-nod-to-join-nagaland-govt/article35437394.ece
21 July 2021||New Delhi,||Make stand clear on Kalra’s plea to reopen restaurants, HC tells police||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked Delhi Police to take instructions on Navneet Kalra’s plea seeking to reopen his restaurants ‘Khan Chacha’ and ‘Town Hall’, after it was shut in a case related to alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators during the second wave of COVID-19. Justice Rekha Palli asked the authorities why they have not passed a final decision in pursuance to the show cause notices issued with regard to the two restaurants in Capital’s posh Khan Market. “You compel people to come here. You should have passed an order by now. Ultimately, he wants to run them. If he is not entitled in law, please pass an order. What is this – you are involved in an FIR – and that is the end of it?” the High Court remarked. The court’s remark came while hearing Mr. Kalra’s plea challenging the May 11 order-cum-show cause notice issued by the Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing). Mr. Kalra’s counsel said till date the authorities have neither withdrawn the suspension order nor decided on the show cause notice despite his representation. The counsel argued that the suspension was contrary to the provisions of the Delhi Eating Houses Registration Regulations as it does not confer power of suspension at the stage of issuance of a show cause notice. Adverse impact “The order of suspension is also bad as recovery of oxygen concentrators made from the restaurant premises is no ground or is it given as a ground for suspension of licence. The order of suspension adversely affects the business, reputation and livelihood of all employees working in the restaurant,” the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/make-stand-clear-on-kalras-plea-to-reopen-restaurants-hc-tells-police/article35437398.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||City sees rain, waterlogging for 2nd day in a row||Monsoon showers lashed Delhi for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with the Capital receiving 6.3 mm of rainfall between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. At least two incidents of wall collapse were reported, while some low-lying areas in the city were inundated with rainwater. Traffic jams were also reported from across the Capital. The maximum temperature settled at 31.9 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal, while the minimum settled at 24 degrees Celsius, which was also three degrees below normal. The weatherman has forecast partly cloudy sky with very light rain/thundershowers on Wednesday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle between 34 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively.  Officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation said eight complaints of waterlogging were received and 12 tree-uproot incidents were reported. North and east civic bodies officials said no waterlogging was reported in their jurisdiction.   The Public Works Department (PWD) was, however, inundated with waterlogging complaints in the evening. Prominent locations such as the Pul Prahladpur underpass, where a youth drowned on Monday, was “more or less dried up” during the day before a sudden shower reversed the situation, said the department. ‘At least 30 complaints’ “We received a handful of complaints at the control room during the day before they started pouring in after 5.30 p.m. Till a little after 8 p.m., at least 30 complaints were received,” a PWD official said. Former North body Mayor Jai Prakash chaired a meeting with the market and residential association representatives as well as officials to address monsoon-related issues in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-rain-waterlogging-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/article35437402.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cross FIRs registered against ASI and DCP||Two First Information Reports have been registered after a Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) and a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) lodged complaints against each other in Mukherjee Nagar. The incident happened on July 18 when construction work was under way at the ASI’s residence in New Police Lines. The DCP’s residence is right opposite the ASI’s. The ASI’s daughter, the complainant in the case, said the DCP’s wife abused the construction workers and stopped them from working. She even parked their car in a way, which hampered the construction. When the ASI’s daughter objected to it, the DCP’s wife abused her, hit her with a bat and threw a pair of keys at her. The incident was caught on camera. The DCP said the ASI’s family has encroached upon the area where his car is parked and constructed a room at the place, which has a door opening right opposite his house. A senior officer said to maintain “rank respect”, lower-rank officers have a side entry to their house and not opposite the senior officers’ houses. The DCP claimed that a demolition notice was also served to the ASI but the room was not demolished. On July 18, his wife objected to the construction after which the ASI’s family allegedly abused her. “She reacted to it,” the DCP claimed. An officer said probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cross-firs-registered-against-asi-and-dcp/article35437399.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Help abducts employer’s three-year-old daughter||A 23-year-old domestic help has been arrested from Rajasthan for allegedly kidnapping her employer’s three-year-old daughter over an argument regarding money, police said on Tuesday. An officer said the accused kidnapped the toddler from her house in Central Delhi’s Patel Nagar on Monday afternoon. The accused, who hails from Alwar, then demanded Rs. 45,000 ransom from the victim. The police said, earlier in the day, the victim had an argument with the help for asking for more money. “During this, the woman, who works with a garmets export firm, also threatened to fire the accused,” the officer said. The help then took the child out of the house on the pretext of taking her for a walk at 3 p.m. and didn’t return. Next, the child’s mother approached the police. “The help threatened to kill the child if the victim did not pay her the ransom,” the officer said. A case was registered. “We formed multiple teams to solve the case. During probe, it was revealed that the help was travelling with the child towards Alwar.” In coordination with SSP Bhiwadi, SSP Alwar and SSP Sikar, pickets were put up by Rajasthan Police and teams from Delhi Police were sent to Alwar. SSP Bhiwadi team intercepted the duo at a picket and the child was safely rescued within three hours and reunited with her parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/help-abducts-employers-three-year-old-daughter/article35437406.ece
21 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Dispose of petitions on disqualification of MLAs, HC tells Odisha Governor||The Orissa High Court has directed the Governor to dispose of two petitions seeking disqualification of MLAs, who were appointed as chairpersons to district planning committees, under the Odisha Offices of Profit Amendment Act, 2016. One Samrendra Beura had submitted a petition to the Governor seeking the disqualification in May 2019. In September, 2019, he again sought the disqualification of the MLAs under Article 192 (by obtaining the opinion of the Election Commission). The Odisha Offices of Profit (Removal of Disqualifications) Amendment Act, 2016 was enacted with retrospective effect from January 18, 2016 including certain categories of offices that would not attract such disqualification. Thereafter, the government appointed chairpersons to the 30 district planning committees with Minister of State status in August, 2019. SC approached Mr. Beura was, however, aggrieved that his petitions were not disposed of by the Governor. Since the members of the Orissa High Court Bar were on strike, he approached the Supreme Court which disposed of the petition granting him liberty to the approach the High Court. Mr. Beura moved the Orissa High Court again. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Dr. S. Muralidhar and Justice S.K. Panigrahi said, “In view of the limited nature of relief sought for and without expressing any opinion whatsoever on the merits of the petition, or the Odisha Offices of Profit (Removal of Disqualifications) Amendment Act 2016, this court directs that petitioner’s two petitions shall be disposed of by the Governor of Odisha, after obtaining opinion from the Election Commission of India, not later than November 8, 2021.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dispose-of-petitions-on-disqualification-of-mlas-hc-tells-odisha-governor/article35437392.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||IGIA police unit to get offs on birthdays, anniversaries||All officials posted in the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) unit of Delhi Police will get a day off on their birthdays and wedding anniversaries, an order stated on Tuesday. An order issued on Tuesday by DCP (IGI Airport) Vikram Porwal said: “It is hereby ordered that on birthday and wedding anniversaries of an individual officer posted in this Unit, he/she may be given duty rest on that day so that he/she can celebrate/enjoy the day with his/her family.” The order directed all the Assistant Commissioners of Police, Station House Officers and Inspectors to comply “in true letter and spirit”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/igia-police-unit-to-get-offs-on-birthdays-anniversaries/article35437400.ece
21 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth held for killing teenager||A 19-year-old youth has been arrested for allegedly killing a teenager in Janakpuri, the police said on Tuesday. Additional DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said they received a call regarding the murder on July 18. The accused has been identified as Jhamela alias Mohit and the victim as Akash. The accused told the police that he had a dispute with Akash over a girl — they were both were in love with. The victim had allegedly assaulted Mohit. Next, Mohit decided to kill Akash and bought a knife. The police said the weapon used in the crime has been recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-held-for-killing-teenager/article35437405.ece
21 July 2021||Guwahati,||Fragile border situation, says Assam CM||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said the situation along the Assam-Mizoram border was fragile with “eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation”. Three districts of southern Assam’s Barak Valley share a 146.6 km border with Mizoram. Dr. Sarma had on July 12 told the State Assembly that encroachers from Mizoram had taken over 1,777.58 hectares of land in the Barak Valley. Mizoram contested this claim, saying the Mizo villages have existed on the disputed land for more than 100 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fragile-border-situation-says-assam-cm/article35437391.ece
