22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. claim on oxygen-scarcity deaths is appalling, say experts||The Centre’s claim in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that a lack of oxygen did not lead to deaths of COVID-19 patients was hollow and callous, public health experts said. Public health expert and epidemiologist Chandrakant Lahariya said that technically no COVID-19 death would be recorded as “due to a lack of oxygen,” but the experience of patients and the fact that the availability of oxygen would have saved lives meant that the Centre should have chosen its words with care. “They will be recorded as COVID deaths and a lack of oxygen will never be noted as an immediate cause. However, oxygen is necessary for treatment and the failure of the system to provide it has to be acknowledged. The Centre’s bureaucratic response is contrary to the public experience and a more empathetic view was required. Not doing so means we run the risk of repeating mistakes,” Dr. Lahariya said. ‘Absurd stance’ Malini Aisola, convener, All India Drug Action Network, described the Centre’s position as “absurd” and reflective of a refusal to acknowledge the toll of the second wave because of colossal failures to prepare and respond. “Oxygen shortage was undeniably a direct factor in causing numerous deaths — not limited to hospitals, but even patients who became stranded in homes and were struggling to get admission in hospitals,” she told The Hindu. “There is a reality that cannot be erased from public memory — of hospital owners making daily appeals for oxygen supplies, to media and to courts, and sharing death toll due to oxygen running out.” “The statement made in Parliament that there were no deaths reported by the States caused by oxygen shortage is surprising and appalling. Policymakers at both the Centre and in States should not be hiding behind guidelines on death reporting, which might not have included specific questions on oxygen shortage. It is well documented that oxygen stock-outs were a trigger and a key underlying reason for several deaths. We owe it to those who lost their lives to be transparent about what were proximate causes of these deaths, fix accountability, and work on ensuring that such a scenario never recurs in our health system,” said Anant Bhan, researcher, Global Health, Bioethics and Health Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-claim-on-oxygen-scarcity-deaths-is-appalling-say-experts/article35457101.ece
22 July 2021||Chennai,||10 PMs, WHO chief’s staffer, Telegram founder targeted||Telephone numbers linked to 10 Prime Ministers, three Presidents and a King appeared on the list of potential targets for spying using the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli company NSO Group, according to reports. The numbers affiliated with a former staffer of Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General, World Health Organization, and Pavel Durov, the Russian tech billionaire who founded the Telegram messaging app, are also on the list of numbers selected by NSO’s clients. France’s Emmanuel Macron, Iraq’s Barham Salih and South Africa’s Cyril Ramaphosa are the Presidents on the list. Morocco’s Mohammed VI is the King. Pakistan’s Imran Khan, Egypt’s Mostafa Madbouly and Morocco’s Saad-Eddine El Othmani are the Prime Ministers on the leaked database, which also has seven former Prime Ministers, who were added to the list when they were in power. They are: Yemen’s Ahmed Obeid bin Daghr, Lebanon’s Saad Hariri, Uganda’s Ruhakana Rugunda, France’s Édouard Philippe, Kazakhstan’s Bakitzhan Sagintayev, Algeria’s Noureddine Bedoui and Belgium’s Charles Michel, according toThe Wirenews website and other international publications. Mr. Khan’s numbers appeared in a group dominated by Indian targets, the Washington Post reported. Mr. Salih and Mr. Hariri were found among numbers dominated by the UAE and Saudi groups. The Pakistan government has said it is investigating whether a number used by Mr. Khan was compromised. India has rejected surveillance allegations, saying they have “no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever”. The Israeli company issued a statement on Tuesday evening, saying “at least three names” identified by the media reports — President Macron, King Mohammed VI and the WHO director Tedros — “are not, and never have been, targets or selected as targets of NSO Group customers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-pms-who-chief-founder-of-telegram-on-pegasus-list/article35457103.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,||BMRCL alters design of six metro stations on airport line||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has altered the original designs of five metro stations that will come up on Ballari Road as part of the Outer Ring Road-Airport line. BMRCL is planning to build elevated metro stations with island platforms, which will provide commuters easy access to both the lines. If all goes as planned, this will be the first time that island platforms will be built on elevated metro stations in the city. Such platforms are now there at underground stations like Cubbon Park and Sir M. Visvesvaraya. The island makes it possible for metro passengers to access both lines, one towards Baiyappanahalli and the other towards Mysuru Road station. BMRCL plans to build metro stations with island platforms at Kodigehalli, Jakkur Cross, Yelahanka, Bagalur Cross, Bettahalasuru and Doddajala on the ORR-Airport line, and is acquiring additional land to build them. “All operational metro stations on elevated corridors have two side platforms. Passengers who want to move from one platform to another located on the opposite side, have to get down, reach the concourse and again climb up to reach the platform. This will not be the case with six stations. Commuters will be able to access both the lines using a single platform,” said a BMCL official. He added that barring the proposed station at Bettahalasuru, 500 square meters of additional land will be acquired at each location. “There is a proposal to build foot-over-bridges off the National Highway at all the stations, but the design has not been finalised yet,” said the official. BMRCL is building a 58-km elevated corridor from Central Silk Board to Kempegowda International Airport. Initial work has begun on the ORR line from Silk Board to K.R. Puram, and the corporation is in the process of finalising the tender for the construction of the 38 km-stretch from K.R. Puram to KIA via Nagawara and Hebbal. Of the 2.20 lakh sq m of land required, 1.99 lakh sq.m. has been acquired. A depot will also be constructed near Shettigere on 23 acres of land, of which 18 acres has been transferred to the BMRCL.  BOX   Public notice to remove 256 trees  The Deputy Conservator of Forest (Bengaluru Urban district) has issued a public notice for the removal of 256 trees between K.R. Puram and Baiyappanahalli depot. The trees have been identified for removal to facilitate shifting of utilities, widening the road and construction of metro stations. In mid-June, the DCF of BBMP had issued a notice for the removal of 833 trees located on the median of the road for the construction of the elevated corridor between Silk Board and Kodibeesanahalli stations. The ORR-Airport line will come at the cost of Bengaluru’s green cover: 5,000 trees have been identified for removal for its construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmrcl-alters-design-of-six-metro-stations-on-airport-line/article35457124.ece
22 July 2021||Pune,||No death in Maharashtra due to oxygen shortage, says Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Rajesh Tope on Wednesday clarified that there was no record in the State of any death due to shortage of oxygen during the two waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. His remarks came in the wake of the Union Health Ministry’s assertion that States and Union Territories had not provided any specific information on such deaths. “We have never said that because of shortage of oxygen a COVID-19 patient has died in any hospital in the State… There is no record of any such case, nor have I made any statement to this effect… The fatalities that have occurred were due to co-morbidities or other medical ailments,” the Health Minister said. Despite Mr. Tope’s assertion, 24 patients, who were on life support at Nashik’s Dr. Zakir Hussain hospital, died in April due to shortage of oxygen following massive leakage of the gas from a tanker. At the time, Mr. Tope had attributed the tragedy to a valve malfunction in the tanker and ordered a high-level probe into the incident. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut, said people whose kin had died due to oxygen shortage during the second wave should “take the Union government to court”. The Shiv Sena and NCP are partners in the tripartite Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the State. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate told The Hindu, “While it is true that there have been deaths due to oxygen shortage, hospitals … do not specifically say a patient died due to this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-death-in-maharashtra-due-to-oxygen-shortage-says-tope/article35457559.ece
22 July 2021||Chennai,||T.N. to get 5 lakh additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines this month||Tamil Nadu has been allocated five lakh additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines this month for performing well in the inoculation programme. “For July, the State was allotted 72 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, 17 lakh doses were for private hospitals. We have been getting continuous supply. As the State has been performing well, the Union government has given the nod for supplying five lakh more doses of vaccines this month,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. He said the total number of vaccines administered was nearing two crore in the State. As of Tuesday, 1,96,43,859 people had been vaccinated, including 1,83,56,631 in government vaccination centres and 12,87,228 in private hospitals. “As of this morning, we have 6,27,470 doses in hand, and we will be getting 5,42,780 doses during the day. There will be no shortage of vaccines for the next three days,” he said. The Union government allocates 25% of the vaccines produced to private hospitals. For July, private hospitals in the State were allotted 17 lakh doses. Of these, only four lakh doses had been administered so far, the Minister said, adding, “We are taking measures to expedite the process to administer the remaining 13 lakh doses to the people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-get-5-lakh-additional-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-this-month/article35457213.ece
22 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Woman killed as house collapses in Bidar village||Incessant rain lashing Bidar district claimed a life in the early hours of Wednesday. Parvathi Vaijainath (33), a resident of Kumarachincholi village in Humnabad taluk, was killed on the spot when her house collapsed. Her husband and two children, who were injured in the incident, were rushed to Bidar for treatment. A native of Janwad near Bidar, the family of the victim had, about eight years ago, migrated to Kumarachincholi village in search of livelihood as it did not have any land to cultivate in its native place. Parvathi Vaijainath was, along with her husband, working as agricultural labour on a daily-wage basis. Her two daughters are studying in a local government school. As the news reached the taluk headquarters, Tahsildar of Humnabad Nagaiah Hiremath and Executive Officer of Taluk Panchayat Govind immediately rushed to the spot. Mr. Hiremath assured the kin of the deceased of getting a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh released to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-killed-as-house-collapses-in-bidar-village/article35457351.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. to get 5 lakh additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines this month||Tamil Nadu has been allocated five lakh additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines this month for performing well in the inoculation programme. “For July, the State was allotted 72 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, 17 lakh doses were for private hospitals. We have been getting continuous supply. As the State has been performing well, the Union government has given the nod for supplying five lakh more doses of vaccines this month,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. He said the total number of vaccines administered was nearing two crore in the State. As of Tuesday, 1,96,43,859 people had been vaccinated, including 1,83,56,631 at government vaccination centres and 12,87,228 at private hospitals. “As of this morning, we have 6,27,470 doses in hand, and we will be getting 5,42,780 doses during the day. There will be no shortage of vaccines for the next three days,” he said. The Union government allocates 25% of the vaccines produced to private hospitals. For July, private hospitals in the State were allotted 17 lakh doses. Of these, only four lakh doses had been administered so far, the Minister said, adding, “We are taking measures to expedite the process to administer the remaining 13 lakh doses to the people.” The Minister said it was for this purpose that a meeting with private hospitals was held in Coimbatore on Tuesday. A total of 117 hospitals from Coimbatore, Salem, Erode and Tiruppur took part. “The Union government is supplying vaccines for free to the State government which, in turn, is offering them for free to the people. However, private hospitals pay for the 25% vaccines and provide them at a cost. While Covaxin costs Rs. 1,410, Covishield costs Rs. 780. People are not showing interest in paying for vaccines at private hospitals,” he said. This was why the government asked the industries to join hands with private hospitals to procure vaccines using Corporate Social Responsibility funds so that vaccines were available free of cost at private hospitals, he added. Similar meetings with private hospitals in Chennai, Vellore, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur would be held in the State capital in two days. Industries would also participate in the meeting. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang paid a courtesy call on Mr. Subramanian and later visited the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital at Omandurar Estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-get-5-lakh-additional-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-this-month/article35457172.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Low remittances a big blow to State’s economy, says Balagopal||Falling remittances from overseas workers and a dip in agrarian incomes due to global trade pacts are a ‘big blow’ for Kerala’s economy, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. He urged the Centre to cut fuel taxes as high inflation was hurting households and finances of States were already stretched. Terming the Central government’s use of cess levies as a ‘shortcut’ to corner most of the taxes on fuel products without sharing it with States, Mr. Balagopal told The Hindu that fuel taxes were one of the few revenue streams left with States and they were collecting far lesser than the Centre. “The Central government’s taxes (on petrol and diesel) are around Rs. 34 a litre from about Rs. 7 earlier, and they are collecting most of it as a cess. Then they are saying the States should start acting to reduce prices. If we forego the tax, the entire economy will collapse because even the meagre expenditure we are making now cannot be sustained,” he said. While high inflation is denting livelihoods and businesses, trade agreements such as the ASEAN pact were hurting plantations in Kerala, the North-eastern States and West Bengal, the Minister pointed out. Several Indian workers in other countries are facing serious problems and remittances are falling, the Minister said. “Now, we have some problem because they send a lot of money to India and the largest number is in Kerala (about 1.4 million). This reduction in remittance income is a big blow to our economy,” he said. These concerns compound the challenges for Kerala’s economy, which had been in trouble even before COVID-19, with the occurrence of floods as well as other natural calamities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/low-remittances-a-big-blow-to-states-economy-says-balagopal/article35457433.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||1.2 lakh Indian children lost their primary caregivers: study||As many as 1.19 lakh children in India lost their primary caregivers (one or both parents or one or both custodial grandparents) to COVID-19, placing the country after Mexico (1.4 lakh) and Brazil (1.3 lakh) in this figure, says a new study published in The Lancet . Globally, this figure stood at 11.34 lakh between March 1, 2020, and April 30, 2021. Children who lost either a mother or a father totalled 10.42 lakh, with 1.16 lakh of them in India. The study developed estimates of pandemic-associated orphanhood and caregiver deaths using excess mortality and deaths for 21 countries that accounted for 76.4% of the global deaths during the period. It then used these findings to develop global extrapolations. Researchers from the COVID-19 Response Team of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, the Imperial College, London, the University of Oxford and the World Bank were among those who conducted the research. More than 15 lakh children around the world lost at least one primary or secondary caregiver. This figure stood at 1.86 lakh for India. Though India ranks third in absolute numbers, its figure of 0.3 per 1,000 children was much lower than countries such as South Africa (5.1), Mexico (3.5), Brazil (2.4), Colombia (2.3), Iran (1.7), the United States (1.5), Argentina (1.1) and Russia (1). There were up to five times more children with deceased fathers than mothers. For example, in India, an estimated 25,500 children lost mother and 90,751 father and 12 children both parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-lakh-indian-children-lost-their-primary-caregivers-study/article35457131.ece
22 July 2021||Mysuru,||It’s office time, in Brindavan Gardens||Information technology professionals Moazzam Hussain and his wife, Shiba Fathima, may not have dreamt of having their workstations in the midst of beautifully landscaped gardens and finely manicured lawns adorned with fountains of water.But, the concept of work from home (WFH) adopted by several companies in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has given many employees a chance to live such experiences by mixing work with tourism. Encouraged by photographs of a colleague working from a picturesque locale at Sardar Sarovar Dam in Gujarat, which were shared on social media, Mr. Hussain and Ms. Fathima, both employees in different IT companies in Bengaluru, packed their bags and set out to Mysuru and checked into a hotel earlier this week. Every morning, they hire a cab from their hotel to reach Brindavan Gardens, adjoining the Krishnaraja Sagar, about 22 km away from here. They make themselves comfortable on the stone benches overlooking the gardens spread across several acres before opening their laptops and starting their work by creating a hotspot from their mobile phones for Internet connectivity. “Working in such an atmosphere is not only soothing to the mind, but also beneficial for the eyesight,” said Mr. Hussain, a native of Bihar. “Whenever I take a break from looking at the laptop, I can see the pleasing sight of the vast gardens and the greenery,” Mr. Hussain said. During the last three days of working from Brindavan Gardens, Mr. Hussain claimed he already felt relieved of the migraine that often tormented him after work. Ms. Fathima, a native of Uttar Pradesh, said she was enjoying the experience of working from Brindavan Gardens. “Working from within the confines of home for an extended duration becomes difficult after some time. But, working from such locales is a good experience,” she said. Mr. Hussain and Ms. Fathima said they eat their lunch at nearby restaurants and head back to their hotel in the evening by booking a cab. The duo, who propose to work from Brindavan Gardens for a week, are planning to move to a new location next week. Their colleagues are posting statuses from beaches in Goa, besides dams and gardens in different parts of the country. “We have not finalised our next destination yet. But, it will be either a garden, a dam or a beach,” Mr. Hussain said. “We may even go to a beach in Goa,” added Ms. Fathima. The WFH option has come as a blessing, offering them the option to mix work with tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/its-office-time-in-brindavan-gardens/article35457152.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||1.2 lakh Indian children lost their primary caregivers: study||As many as 1.19 lakh children in India lost their primary caregivers (one or both parents or one or both custodial grandparents) to COVID-19, placing the country after Mexico (1.4 lakh) and Brazil (1.3 lakh) in this figure, says a new study published in The Lancet . Globally, this figure stood at 11.34 lakh between March 1, 2020, and April 30, 2021. Children who lost either a mother or a father totalled 10.42 lakh, with 1.16 lakh of them in India. The study developed estimates of pandemic-associated orphanhood and caregiver deaths using excess mortality and deaths for 21 countries that accounted for 76.4% of the global deaths during the period. It then used these findings to develop global extrapolations. Researchers from the COVID-19 Response Team of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, the Imperial College, London, the University of Oxford and the World Bank were among those who conducted the research. More than 15 lakh children around the world lost at least one primary or secondary caregiver (co-residing grandparent). This figure stood at 1.86 lakh for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-lakh-indian-children-lost-their-primary-caregivers-study/article35457099.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata appeals to SC||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the Pegasus spyware issue and asked all the Opposition parties to form a united front against the BJP without delay. “Either take suo motu cognisance or set up an SIT [Special Investigation Team] monitored by you to know whose phones were affected... Only the judiciary can save democracy,” Ms. Banerjee said.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-appeals-to-sc/article35457098.ece
22 July 2021||Belagavi,||Krishna inflow goes up||The inflow into the Krishna and its tributaries increased to around 63,000 cusecs due to heavy rain in Belagavi district also and some districts in adjoining Maharashtra on Wednesday. Officials, however, clarified that there was no threat of immediate floods. Villages on the river banks may see floods when the inflow crosses two lakh cusecs, an Irrigation Department officer said. The bridge-cum-barrage in Kallol near Chikkodi came under water. Rainfall in the Navaja region in Maharashtra was 148 mm, Mahabaleshwar 140 mm, Radha Nagari 130 mm and Koyna region witnessed rainfall of 109mm, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krishna-inflow-goes-up/article35457350.ece
22 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,||3 policemen sacked in custodial death case||Three police personnel of Addagudur police station, involved in the custodial death of Dalit woman A. Mariyamma last month, were dismissed from service following an inquiry, Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh M Bhagwat said on Wednesday. “Sub-inspector V. Maheshwar, constables M A Rasheed Patel and P. Janaiah, under suspension, are dismissed from the service under Article 311 (2) (b) of the Constitution and 25 (2) of the TS Civil Services (Conduct) Rules,” a statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-policemen-sacked-in-custodial-death-case/article35457380.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul flags excess deaths||Citing a study on excess deaths, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday that wrong decisions of the government “killed” 50 lakh people during the pandemic.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rahul-flags-excess-deaths/article35457125.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A reminder of the crisis||The makeshift oxygen pipeline outside Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram is a reminder of the grim three weeks in April-May when hundreds lined up for oxygen there.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-reminder-of-the-crisis/article35457126.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Prayers amid pandemic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prayers-amid-pandemic/article35457128.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. delays release of data||A day after the Finance Ministry told the Rajya Sabha it needed more time to furnish data on sale of electoral bonds, activist Kanhaiya Kumar said on Wednesday that the details had been provided to him by the State Bank of India two months ago in reply to his RTI plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-delays-release-of-data/article35457247.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||HC stays Arunachal’s entry permit notification||The Itanagar Bench of the Gauhati HC has stayed the State government’s June 30 notification prescribing temporary entry permits for “developmental works in public and private sectors” only to those vaccinated against COVID-19. Indians who intend to visit Arunachal Pradesh need to possess an Inner-Line Permit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-arunachals-entry-permit-notification/article35457496.ece
22 July 2021||Guwahati,||Another police encounter in Assam, smuggler hurt||A suspected supari (betel nut) smuggler was injured in a police encounter in Bongaigaon district when he tried to escape from custody, police said on Wednesday. With the latest number, at least 15 suspected militants and criminals have been shot dead in police encounters in the State since May while 25 others have been injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-police-encounter-in-assam-smuggler-hurt/article35457497.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition participates in Trinamool’s Martyrs’ Day||Opposition leaders on Wednesday remotely participated in the Martyrs’ Day observed by the Trinamool Congress and listened to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s speechin Delhi at a function organised by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-participates-in-trinamools-martyrs-day/article35457498.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana in HC against criminal proceedings||Actor Kangana Ranaut has approached the Bombay High Court challenging the criminal defamation proceedings initiated by the Metropolitan Magistrate. She has sought quashing of proceedings initiated by the Magistrate who on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kangana-in-hc-against-criminal-proceedings/article35457560.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||ACB to probe flagship scheme of Fadnavis govt.||Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced an Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) probe into over 900 work orders given under the Jalyukta Shivar scheme, which was the flagship scheme of the previous State government led by Devendra Fadnavis. The Water Conservation Department minister Shankarrao Gadakh told reporters that a committee under former IAS officer Vijay Kumar has recommended the ACB probe. “We have received the report and action will be taken as per the report,” he said. The ACB probe was recommended after observing gross violations in 900 works. The Vijay Kumar committee was formed by the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government to inquire into adverse remarks by the CAG on the water conservation scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-to-probe-flagship-scheme-of-fadnavis-govt/article35457561.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Man paid Rs. 2 lakh to get his wife killed’||Non-Resident Indian Ramakrishna Ganiga (42) hatched a plan to murder his wife Vishala Ganiga in March and paid Rs. 2 lakh to the two contract killers for executing it on July 12 in Brahmavar, said Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan on Wednesday. The police arrested Ramakrishna Ganiga and Swaminath Nishad (38) of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-paid-rs-2-lakh-to-get-his-wife-killed/article35457541.ece
22 July 2021||Belagavi,||Cattle seized||Officers of the Department of Animal Husbandry seized cattle, meant for slaughter, in Vijayapura and Belagavi districts. A team led by Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry Pranesh Jagirdar, stopped trucks carrying 71 cows and bullocks in Ittangihal village in Vijayapura district. In Raibag, the police seized 209 cows, bullocks and buffaloes from Imtiyaz Bepari, a trader. The seized cattle were sent to three shelters in Chikkodi and nearby areas. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cattle-seized/article35457349.ece
22 July 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya Cong. seeks to counter Assam Bill||The protest against the three farm laws has come full circle, with farmer unions arriving at Parliament on Thursday to demand the repeal of the laws passed 10 months ago. Farm leaders said the government must ensure there is no chaos or conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-to-stage-protest-outside-parliament-today/article35457248.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia accuses Centre of lying about deaths||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday accused the Centre of “lying” about “no deaths due to lack of oxygen”. “Instead of taking responsibility for the deaths, the Centre is shamelessly denying them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sisodia-accuses-centre-of-lying-about-deaths/article35457250.ece
22 July 2021||MYSURU,||Fillip to industrial growth in Chamarajanagar||As many as 31 new investments have been cleared in Chamarajanagar, giving stimulus for industrial development in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fillip-to-industrial-growth-in-chamarajanagar/article35457564.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to stage protest at Parliament||The protest against the three agricultural reform laws has come full circle, with farm unions arriving at Parliament on Thursday, to demand the repeal of the laws passed 10 months ago. With Delhi’s Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal giving official approval for a staggered agitation at Jantar Mantar during the monsoon session, farm leaders say the government must take responsibility for ensuring there is no conflict or chaos as seen on Republic Day, the last time the protesters entered the capital. “It is Parliament that had passed these laws, and it must take the responsibility to repeal them. We have issued voters’ whips to all Opposition MPs that they must raise the issue within the House, while we sit outside at Jantar Mantar,” said Jagmohan Singh, a leader of the Dakaunda faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab. He said there had been no progress in terms of talks with the government since the last round ended six months ago on January 22. Hence the return to the legislature. “There will be no hullaballoo. We will just sit there as long as Parliament sits every day, holding them accountable to the people’s interests. It will be a parallel Parliament.” Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal, who is also a member of the core committee of the wider Samyukt Kisan Morcha platform of all protesting unions, welcomed the L-G’s official nod of approval. “We have been having talks with the Delhi police, and they have pursued this official permission with the government,” he said. He reiterated that there would be no attempt to enter Parliament or accost MPs. The MPs would not even speak at the Kisan Sansads being held at Jantar Mantar, he said. Given that the SKM is taking steps to vet and control its daily contingent of 200 protesters, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said the ball was in the government’s court to prevent hijacking of a peaceful agitation. “We do not want any agent to enter and create a bad name for the movement, because that was done on January 26. Those people who were not part of the movement were used and they created the vandalism. If that happens again, that is the government’s responsibility,” he said. The protesters are coming in special buses, with each expected to wear identification badges and carry Aadhaar cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-to-stage-protest-at-parliament/article35456865.ece
22 July 2021||Kolkata,||‘SC must take cognisance of Pegasus’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the Pegasus spyware issue and asked all the Opposition parties to form a united front against the BJP without delay. “My humble regards to our Hon’ble Supreme Court. Why can’t the court take suo motu cognisance when judges’ phones are tapped?... Either take suo motu cognisance or set up an SIT [Special Investigation Team] monitored by you to know whose phones were affected... Only the judiciary can save democracy,” she said. Ms. Banerjee was addressing the annual Martyrs’ Day rally in Kolkata, which was telecast live across several States, including New Delhi. The July 21 Martyrs’ Day rally is organised annually by the Trinamool Congress to commemorate the 1993 Kolkata firing. The Trinamool Congress chairperson added, “We must forget our individual interests and come together to save the country. To work together, we must form a front without any delay.” Ms. Banerjee said she would visit New Delhi later this month and would be happy to meet Opposition leaders between July 26 and 29. “I also want to meet important leaders… Chidambaram ji [Congress leader P. Chidambaram] will be there, Sharad ji [Nationalist Congress Party chairperson Sharad Pawar] will be there, I am ready to attend any meeting between July 26 and 29.” Ms. Banerjee, who is likely to visit New Delhi after two years on July 25, said, “The general election is still two-and-a-half years away, but nothing will be achieved if we form an alliance just before it.” The Chief Minister urged each and every Opposition party to start working together to make a “front” and not leave matters for the last moment. “If the doctor comes after death, nothing will happen. If the treatment is done on time, the patient can be cured. Now is your time. The more time you waste, the more the situation will worsen,” she said. The Chief Minister alleged that her phone was tapped. She said she had put plasters on her phone as “they [Centre] tap everything”. “See, I have put plasters on it, what else can I do. The camera turns on when I use audio or make video calls. I have put a plaster on my phone’s camera. The Government of India should be plastered, or else the country will be in ruins,” she stated. The Chief Minister, who spoke in Bengali, Hindi and English during a hour-long speech, alleged that the Centre did not trust anyone, including its own Ministers. “I cannot talk to Chidambaram ji , Sharad ji because my phone is tapped, I cannot talk to the Delhi Chief Minister, the Telangana Chief Minister or any other Chief Minister,” she added. During her speech, Ms. Banerjee repeatedly said, “Pegasus is dangerous and ferocious.” She accused the Centre of indulging in “ spygiri [surveillance]” and the BJP of being a “high-load virus” party. She also blamed the Prime Minister for the “monumental failure” in handling the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. She thanked the State’s people for electing her to power for a third term. “Bengal is the model State for the country and not Gujarat.” Ms. Banerjee also relaunched her party’s mouthpiece, Jaago Bangla , as a daily, with the lead article saying, “ Ebar sapath chalo Delhi [Now, let’s go to Delhi]”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-must-take-cognisance-of-pegasus/article35456881.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE allows schools to finalise results by July 25||The CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) has extended the last date for schools to finalise Class 12 results from July 22 to July 25. In case any school fails to complete the moderation process by then, its results will be declared separately, a letter from Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj on Wednesday said. The Board also announced that Class 12 examinations for private candidates would be held between August 16 and September 15. In a letter to the CBSE school principals on the eve of the deadline to finalise results, Dr. Bhardwaj noted that “teachers involved are under stress, getting panicky and committing mistakes and sending request to CBSE to rectify these.” Given these problems, the Board has decided to extend the deadline to 5 p.m. on July 25. “It is requested that schools may continue to work towards compiling the result by completing the moderation to avoid any last minute rush. In case any school is left to complete the moderation, the result of such schools will be declared separately,” said the letter. The CBSE had said the final results would be declared by July 31. Tabulation policy When Board examinations were cancelled due to COVID-19, it formulated a tabulation policy to assess students using previous years’ marks, as well as internal and practical scores. However, the process is different for private candidates. “In case of regular students, schools have conducted a unit test, mid-term and pre-board examinations, and thus the performance of these students was available. However, in the case of private candidates, no records based on which their assessment could be done without the conduct of examination,” said an official statement. In multiple posts on social media, private candidates have asked why their health and safety concerns are not considered as seriously as those of regular candidates. They have also complained that the delay in holding exams for them will affect their prospects for admission into higher education. The CBSE statement said it was coordinating with the University Grants Commission to ensure that the admission schedule took into account the later declaration of results for private candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-allows-schools-to-finalise-results-by-july-25/article35456899.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||BSF and Pak. Rangers exchange sweets on Id||The Border Security Force (BSF) and the Pakistan Rangers on Wednesday exchanged sweets at various points along the border on the occasion of Id-ul-Adha, the first time since the Pakistani side shunned the custom in 2019. A BSF spokesperson here said, “An exchange of sweets took place between the BSF and the Pakistan Rangers on the occasion of Id at JCP [Joint Checkpost] Attari.” This lies across the Wagah border at Amritsar district in Punjab. A similar exchange of sweets took place between the two forces along the Rajasthan front too, officials said. The Pakistani side had unilaterally stopped the exchange after the Narendra Modi government abrogated the provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, on August 5, 2019. This was the first time that sweets were exchanged between the two forces after the abrogation of Article 370, as the Pakistani side refused to continue the custom, they said. After the developments of August 2019, an offer of exchanging sweets was made by the BSF, but the Pakistani side did not reciprocate, the spokesperson added. The BSF spokesperson, however, said this custom was suspended last year due to the outbreak of COVID-19. The BSF guards the around 2,290 km India-Pakistan International Border (IB) that runs north to south from Jammu, Punjab, Rajasthan and up to Gujarat on India’s western flank. Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed when their bus in a long convoy of over 70 vehicles plying from Jammu to Srinagar was bombed on February 14, 2019 by a Jais-e-Mohammed suicide bomber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-and-pak-rangers-exchange-sweets-on-id/article35456858.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Intelligence agencies not grounded in law’||The use of NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware against Opposition leaders, activists, judges and journalists would not have occurred if intelligence agencies were grounded in law and with provisions for holding them accountable, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari has said. In 2011, Mr. Tewari had moved a private member’s Bill in the Lok Sabha — the Intelligence Services (Powers and Regulation) Bill — that sought to bring “appropriate statutory basis” for intelligence agencies. It also dealt with the question of balancing the demands of security and privacy of individuals. Mr. Tewari listed an improved version of the Bill in 2019, but since the beginning of the 17th Lok Sabha, private members’ business has not been taken up. “The problem in India is that both the law enforcement and intelligence organisations do not have a sound legal basis,” he stated. Mr. Tewari pointed to a November 2013 Gauhati High Court judgment, which called the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) “illegal”. For the past eight years, the CBI’s existence hung by the thread of a stay, as the Supreme Court had so far not adjudicated on the legality of the organisation that had the authority to deprive people of their life and liberty, he stated. To a question raised by Mr. Tewari in 2009 on the legal basis of the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), the government admitted that the RAW had no basis in law. The IB, it stated, derived its existence from being on the Union List. Mr. Tewari said, “It creates a spectre of completely unbridled power, when you have organisations functioning without any legal framework that have the ability to transgress in the personal lives of the citizens.” The world over, he observed, intelligence agencies were governed by law. “In each evolved democracy, intelligence agencies are subject to very rigorous parliamentary oversight. There are specific parliamentary committees that look at their functioning so that excess do not get committed. Unfortunately, in India, there is a complete absence of even a public discussion on how to hold the agencies accountable,” he said. If this law had been in place, something like Pegasus would not have happened, Mr. Tewari added. Mr. Tewari said BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad, in an “implicit admission of the government’s culpability”, had stated that when 45 countries had used the Pegasus spyware, why should India be singled out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/intelligence-agencies-not-grounded-in-law/article35456884.ece
22 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Recalling the days of ‘oxygen langar’||“Official records may show otherwise but our records prove that there was a severe oxygen crisis during the second wave of COVID 19,” says Gurpreet Singh Rumy, president of Khalsa Help International, known for coming up with the idea of ‘oxygen langar ’ at the Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurdwara in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram area. On a muggy July afternoon, Mr. Singh is keen to show the makeshift oxygen pipeline outside the gurudwara. It is a reminder of the grim three weeks in April-May when the road was filled with hundreds in need of oxygen for their near and dear ones. “Anybody who had passed by this road would remember how serious the situation was as the road was choked with patients waiting in four-wheelers, gasping for breath,” says Mr. Singh, who worked day and night along with volunteers of the NGO to help people. “If the government says nobody died because of oxygen shortage, it should explain why so many people were knocking at the doors of a gurdwara. It is only after they were denied oxygen beds that they came to us,” he says. “We waited for a week. It is only after we sensed that the health care system is collapsing that we chipped in.” His son Gurmeet Singh remembers that they started the service on April 22. “We could do it because unlike other gurudwaras we were already running a COVID-19 testing centre at the gurudwara for a year. We were careful but not unduly scared of the disease,” says Mr. Gurmeet, who twice tested positive. “We had a doctor on duty and our goal was to stabilise the patient before he or she could find a hospital bed. For this, we put up 30 beds inside the gurudwara.” For the next 28 days, Mr. Singh says, around 7,000 serious patients were provided oxygen. “I have seen 25-30 people dying in front of my eyes because they arrived here when it was too late,” he says. Ishan Bindra, a volunteer, brought a relative to the gurudwara for oxygen. “Her condition improved but she succumbed to COVID a few days later at a hospital in Noida,” says the volunteer. Keeping up supplies The challenge, Mr. Singh says, was to maintain the supply of oxygen. “A hungry person could wait for langar but those with oxygen saturation levels as low as 50 could not,” he says. “For the first few days, we sourced from Naraina Industrial Area but from then on we travelled to different States and brought oxygen cylinders from Hisar, Ludhiana, Ropar and Haridwar,” says Amoljeet Singh, the volunteer who was in charge of maintaining the supply. Mr. Singh claims at least four hospitals in the vicinity sought their help for supplying oxygen cylinders to them. The NGO later shifted the facilities to Krishna Dental College. “But we haven’t dismantled the supply pipes as you never know how serious the third wave could be,” says Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recalling-the-days-of-oxygen-langar/article35456892.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Congress leadership does a balancing act||The Congress leadership is attempting a balancing act in trying to promote younger leadership in States while reaching out to the old guard. In the past few days, while the party was firefighting a very public leadership tussle in Punjab, The Hindu has learnt Congress president Sonia Gandhi reached out to senior members of the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) — who had written to her about revamping the party last year — as well as other veterans. These leaders include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Digvijaya Singh, a source said on Wednesday. There’s no official word on the agenda of these meetings but the Congress chief is said to have discussed organisational matters and the political situation. While most of these meetings took place away from the media glare, her meeting with the former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister triggered speculation that Mr. Nath could be given a big responsibility at the All India Congress Committee when a reshuffle takes place. Mr. Nath, however, denied these reports and said he was not in any hurry to leave Madhya Pradesh, where he heads the party. The timing of Ms. Gandhi’s political meetings with the senior leaders, however, is significant: it comes at a time when the party seems to be experimenting with State-level leadership. While the Congress is yet to resolve the differences between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former PCC chief Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan, the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress Committee (PCC) chief despite stiff opposition from Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has created an impression that the Gandhi siblings — Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra — are now ready to fully back the younger leaders and ease out seniors. Against such a backdrop, the Congress chief’s meeting with veterans could help bridge the divide. But it’s also clear that Mr. Sidhu’s elevation seems to be part of a larger Congress design to promote younger leadership in the States, even if some of them may have joined the party recently. Like Mr. Sidhu, Lok Sabha member Revanth Reddy joined the Congress in October 2017. But the former two-time Telugu Desam Party MLA was recently appointed as the Telangana Congress chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leadership-does-a-balancing-act/article35456867.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘CAA, NRC won’t affect India’s Muslims’||The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) will not harm India’s Muslims, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said at a book launch function at Guwahati in Assam on Wednesday. A communal narrative was being spun by a section of people trying to derive political mileage out of these issues, he said. The CAA was passed in 2019 to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who took refuge in India till December 31, 2014. The NRC of 1951 was updated in Assam to leave out 19.06 lakh persons out of some 3.3 crore applicants. Mr. Bhagwat said, “Not a single Indian Muslim will face any loss due to the new citizenship Act. India has been following the [1950] Nehru-Liaquat Pact, which states that each country would protect its minorities while Pakistan failed to do so.” ‘Welcomes outsiders’ Indians had always welcomed outsiders, Mr. Bhagwat said. “But the designs by some to impose their language, religion and food habits on others led to fears,” he added. “There have been organised attempts to increase the Muslim population since 1930, not in connection with terrorism and economy, but for the community to become a dominant force. This happened in Punjab, Bengal and Assam,” he alleged. The plan worked to an extent with Partition and the creation of Pakistan. Although a part of Bengal and Punjab was divided, Assam was saved, he said. Religious persecution, he said, forced people in Pakistan to seek refuge in India, while others came with the intention of increasing their population. “The CAA clearly caters to those who came from the [specified] countries because of persecution. We cannot ignore the plight of the minorities in Bangladesh and Pakistan,” he insisted. “Respect for other religions, cultures, and languages are part of India’s culture. Our Constitution clearly defines the rights and duties, but the problem arises when some people want all the rights and do not want to follow the duties,” he stressed. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the anti-CAA protests in the State were against the inclusion of all communities unlike the “very communal” opposition elsewhere in the country, because Muslims did not figure in the list of persecuted communities. “I will always remain a supporter of the CAA,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caa-nrc-wont-affect-indias-muslims/article35456877.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Centre amends policy on suspended family pension||The Union government has amended a decades-old policy of suspending family pension to the spouse of a deceased government employee, when he/she is charged with murdering the employee or abetting the commission of such an offence. Under the new rule, other eligible members of the family would be entitled to receive the family pension till the disposal of the criminal proceedings against the spouse of the deceased employee. In case, the spouse is proved not guilty of the murder charge, the family pension would be payable to him/her from the date of acquittal. In accordance with the provisions under the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, if a person who is eligible to receive family pension on death of a government employee or a pensioner is charged with offences of murdering the government employee/pensioner or for abetting in the commission of such an offence, the payment of family pension shall remain suspended till the conclusion of the criminal proceedings. In such cases, family pension is neither paid to the person who is charged with the offence nor to any other eligible member of the family till the conclusion of the case. If on conclusion of the criminal proceedings the person concerned is convicted for the murder or abetment of the murder of a government servant, he/she would be debarred from receiving the family pension. In that case, the family pension would become payable to other eligible member of the family from the date of death of the government servant. But if the person concerned is subsequently acquitted of the criminal charge, the family pension becomes payable to that person from the date of the death of the employee/pensioner. However, denying payment of family pension to any other member of the family, particularly dependent children or parents who are not charged with the offence, till the conclusion of the criminal proceedings, was not considered justified. Since finalisation of the criminal proceedings may take a long time and the eligible children or parents of the deceased may suffer for want of financial support by way of family pension, the issue was taken up by the Department of Pension & Pensioners Welfare with the Department of Legal Affairs for a review. In case the other eligible number is a minor child of the diseased government servant, the family pension to such should be payable through a duly appointed guardian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-amends-policy-on-suspended-family-pension/article35456902.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||India signed 26 pacts to fight drug menace||India has signed 26 bilateral pacts, 15 memoranda of understanding and two agreements on security cooperation with different countries for combating illicit trafficking of narcotic, drugs and psychotropic substances, besides chemical precursors, according to a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) reply in the Lok Sabha. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) coordinated with various international organisations for sharing information and intelligence to combat transnational drug trafficking. They included the SAARC Drug Offences Monitoring Desk; Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa; Colombo Plan; Association of Southeast Asian Nations; ASEAN Senior Officials on Drug Matters; Bay of Bengal Initiative For Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Co-Operation; United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and the International Narcotics Control Board, it said. Sharp vigil, effective surveillance, public cooperation, source-based intelligence, sensitisation of field officials and associated measures had resulted in a gradual increase in the registration of a number of drug trafficking related cases in the country, the MHA stated. “For coordination among various Central and State agencies, the Narco Coordination Centre (NCORD) mechanism was set up by the MHA in year 2016 for effective drug law enforcement. This NCORD system has been restructured into a four-tier scheme up to district level on July 29, 2019, for better coordination,” it pointed out. A Joint Coordination Committee with the NCB Director General as its chairman was set up on July 19, 2019, to monitor the investigation into cases involving large seizures. “For digitisation of pan-India drug seizure data, the MHA has launched an e-portal called ‘SIMS’ (Seizure Information Management System) in 2019 for all the drug law enforcement agencies under the mandate of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS)...,” the MHA noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-signed-26-pacts-to-fight-drug-menace/article35456861.ece
22 July 2021||Srinagar,||J&K begins issuance of domicile certificates to non-local spouses||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has rolled out the process of issuing domicile certificates to the spouses of the erstwhile State subjects who have a domicile certificate. This would allow the husbands of the women married outside to acquire the document for the first time. “In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India read with Section of the J&K Civil Service (Decentralisation and recruitment) Act, 2010, the government hereby grants domicile certificates to spouse of a domicile,” a government order, dated July 20, 2021, said. The government has authorised tahsildars to issue the certificate against a “valid proof of marriage”. According to the J&K Grant of Domicile Certificate Procedure Rules, 2020, the domicile certificate would be issued to all Permanent Resident Certificate holders and their children living outside the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-begins-issuance-of-domicile-certificates-to-non-local-spouses/article35456873.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC slams Goa, Vedanta’s delayed pleas||A Supreme Court Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud has slammed the Goa government and Vedanta for “preferring” to file their review petitions against a February 2018 judgment after the retirement of the two judges who authored it. A Bench of Justices Madan B. Lokur and Deepak Gupta, in their February 7, 2018, judgment, cancelled 88 mining leases that were renewed by the BJP government in Goa in 2015 to “benefit private mining leaseholders”. Their 102-page verdict had traced the “rapacious and rampant exploitation” of Goa’s fragile ecology by private mining lease holders, whose sole motive was to make profits, for years. The verdict had noted how these leases were hastily renewed by the State in 2014 with retrospective effect from 2007, just in the nick of time before an amended Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act made auction of leases mandatory to mine notified minerals like iron ore. Review petitions are heard by the same Bench that passed the original judgment. Justices Lokur and Gupta retired on December 30, 2018, and May 6, 2020, respectively. The State of Goa preferred its four review petitions in November 2019, after Justice Lokur’s retirement. Vedanta preferred its four review petitions in August 2020, right after Justice Gupta’s retirement. Justices Chandrachud and M.R. Shah, the second judge on the Review Bench, said no cogent grounds were furnished by either Goa or Vedanta to justify their delay between 20 and 26 months to file their review petitions. Under the Supreme Court Rules of 2013, a plea for review has to be filed within 30 days of the judgment. Dismissing the review, the Bench observed that “such practice must be firmly disapproved to preserve the institutional sanctity of the decision-making of this court”. “Keeping in mind the above, we are inclined to dismiss these review petitions on the ground of limitation alone. In any event, we also find no legitimate grounds for review of the judgment and dismiss these review petitions on merits as well,” Justices Chandrachud and Shah recorded in their recent order. The 2018 judgment specifically delved on the role played by the Goa government in the loot of natural resources. It said the State gave private entrepreneurs mining leases “virtually for a song”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-slams-goa-vedantas-delayed-review-pleas-in-mining-case/article35457132.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. delays release of electoral bond data||A day after the Finance Ministry told the Rajya Sabha that it needed more time to furnish data on sale of electoral bonds asked by an MP, activist Kanhaiya Kumar said on Wednesday that the details had been provided to him by the State Bank of India two months ago in reply to his Right to Information application. Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen had sought the details of the 15th and 16th phases of the sale, which was in the run-up to the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Puducherry, Assam and Kerala from March to May. Bonds cost Mr. Sen also asked about the bonds sold since the scheme started in 2018 and the cost of printing the same. “The government seeks more time to furnish the replies,” a written reply by Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said on Tuesday. Mr. Kumar, a Bihar-based RTI activist, received the reply from the SBI, the only bank authorised to sell the bonds, on May 14. As reported by The Hindu on May 18, the SBI reply said bonds worth Rs. 695.34 crore had been sold from April 1 to 10. No details of parties The SBI declined to share the details of the parties that encashed them and the commission it earned from the sales, both of which were asked by Mr. Sen. Questions delay “The questions are submitted 15 days in advance. The SBI has already provided this information in response to my RTI query. So it’s quite obvious that they have information in requisite format. Still, the Ministry says it needs more time to furnish the replies,” Mr. Kumar said.  Details were provided to me by the State Bank of India two months ago in reply to Right to Information application Kanhaiya Kumar RTI activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-delays-release-of-electoral-bond-data/article35457253.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||HC stays Arunachal’s entry permit notification||The Itanagar Bench of the Gauhati High Court has stayed the Arunachal Pradesh government’s June 30 notification prescribing temporary entry permits for “developmental works in public and private sectors” only to those vaccinated against COVID-19. Hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Dibang Valley district resident Madan Milli on July 19, Justice Nani Tagia said the notification classifying people into the vaccinated and the unvaccinated for the purpose of issuance of temporary permit “violates Articles 14, 19 (1) (d) and 21 of the Constitution of India”. Indians who intend to visit Arunachal Pradesh — as in three other north-eastern States — for business or tourism need to possess an Inner-Line Permit (ILP), a British era system. “Tourist ILPs shall remain suspended during the period of this order [till August 1]. However, for developmental works in both public and private sectors, temporary permits may be issued, provided such persons are vaccinated for COVID-19,” Clause 11 of the government notification read. Rising cases Representing the State, Additional Advocate General R.H. Nabam said the restrictions were placed due to the rising cases of COVID-19 with the sole objective of checking the spread of the pandemic in the State. Examining the plea for staying Clause 11 of the government order, Justice Tagia noted: “There is no evidence available either in the record or in the public domain that COVID-19 vaccinated persons cannot be infected with COVID-19 virus, or he/she cannot be a carrier of COVID-19 virus and consequently a spreader of COVID-19 virus.” It observed that even a vaccinated but COVID-infected person can be a super-spreader. Restrictions based on a person’s vaccination status did not hold any water and that there was no justification for discrimination, it stated. Staying the operation of the impugned Clause 11, the court issued notice on the matter returnable on July 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-stays-arunachals-entry-permit-notification/article35456894.ece
22 July 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya Cong. seeks to counter Assam Bill||The Congress in Meghalaya has asked the Conrad K. Sangma government to come up with a law to counter Assam’s Cattle Protection Bill, 2021, which seeks to restrict the transport of bovine creatures within and through the State. Beef is part of the diet in some Christian-majority north-eastern States, primarily Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland. Geography makes these States depend on the transportation of most food items through Assam. “We should have our own law to protect the interest of most of our people, the right to have access to high-protein red meat in this case. We respect the religious sentiments of all political parties and of citizens across the nation, but this [beef] is a part of our life and we cannot let another State disrupt our food habit,” senior Congress MLA and former Minister Ampareen Lyngdoh said. The Hynniewtrep Youth Council, a pressure group, submitted a memorandum to Meghalaya’s Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong pointing out certain “objectionable” sections of the Assam Bill. “Section 7 of the Assam Bill is in contravention of the Constitution of India as inter-State trade and commerce falls under the Union List of the Seventh Schedule and no State has the authority to regulate inter-State trade and commerce except by the rule of law passed by Parliament,” council’s president Robertjune Kharjahrin said. “If Assam is allowed to restrict the transportation of cattle, it could encourage them to regulate the supply or prohibit other food items and goods, which can greatly impact livelihoods and economy of Meghalaya,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-cong-seeks-to-counter-assam-bill/article35456896.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||1.2 lakh children lost primary caregivers: study||For example, in India, an estimated 25,500 children lost their mother and 90,751 their father and 12 children both parents. The rapid increase in COVID-19-associated deaths from February to April 2021 in India was associated with an 8.5 times increase in the number of children orphaned or losing caregivers in April as compared to March, according to the study. The study underlines that such children are at greater risk of family separation and institutionalisation and recommends investments towards strengthening family based care, with the help of a surviving caregiver or through kinship, foster care or adoption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-lakh-children-lost-primary-caregivers-study/article35456859.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Lightweight anti-tank missile tested by DRDO||A new generation of Akash surface-to-air missile was successfully flight-tested on Wednesday by the DRDO from an integrated test range off the Odisha coast in a boost to air defence capabilities. Separately, the DRDO also successfully flight-tested an indigenously developed low weight man-portable anti-tank guided missile, paving the way for its production for the Army. The Defence Ministry said the Akash missile was test-fired at around 12:45 p.m. from a land-based platform and that the “flawless performance” of its weapons system was confirmed by the complete flight data. “Once deployed, the Akash-NG weapon system will prove to be a force multiplier for the air defence capability of the IAF,” the Ministry said. It is learnt that the new variant of the Akash missile (Akash-NG) has a slightly better range compared to the original version that can strike targets at a distance of around 25 km. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO, the IAF and production agencies Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) for the test-firing of the missile. On the man-portable missile, the Defence Ministry said the test had validated the minimum range successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lightweight-anti-tank-missile-tested-by-drdo/article35457081.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. claim on deaths appalling, say experts||“There is a reality that cannot be erased from public memory — of hospital owners making daily appeals for oxygen supplies, to media and to courts, and sharing death toll due to oxygen running out.” “The statement made in Parliament that there were no deaths reported by the States caused by oxygen shortage is surprising and appalling. Policymakers at both the Centre and in States should not be hiding behind guidelines on death reporting, which might not have included specific questions on oxygen shortage. It is well documented that oxygen stock-outs were a trigger and a key underlying reason for several deaths. We owe it to those who lost their lives to be transparent about what were proximate causes of these deaths, fix accountability, and work on ensuring that such a scenario never recurs in our health system,” said Anant Bhan, researcher, Global Health, Bioethics and Health Policy. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pawar had said in her written response on Tuesday that States had not “specifically reported” instances of people dying due to lack of oxygen. While this is officially true, many States — and this includes both government and private hospitals—have admitted to an oxygen shortage during the second wave and hospital staff reveal a different story. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that there was no record in the State of any death due to shortage of oxygen during the two waves of the pandemic. “We have never said that because of shortage of oxygen a COVID-19 patient has died in any hospital in the State… There is no record of any such case, nor have I made any statement to this effect….” A Maharashtra official on condition of anonymity said, “A death due to ‘oxygen deficit’ usually occurs in cases of choking or drowning and is considered culpable homicide not amounting to murder. If one says COVID-19 patients have died in a hospital due to oxygen shortage, then it would involve a police or government probe and a case would have to be lodged.” ‘No case in TN’ Not a single person has died due to oxygen shortage in Tamil Nadu, State Health Minister Ma. Subramanian claimed, while noting that the State had faced acute shortage in May when the daily requirement of oxygen shot up from 230 MT to over 500 MT. However, a number of doctors, who were on duty during the peak of the second wave, recounted that many patients with COVID-19 waited endlessly outside hospitals due to lack of oxygen-supported beds. Doctors, who were working the wards, had a different story. “Some of them even died while waiting in ambulances,” a young doctor who worked in a zero-delay ward said. “We had patients dying due to oxygen shortage during the crisis. Ventilators and C-PAP machines were not able to deliver the required amount of oxygen because of short supply,” said a government doctor in Chennai. Another doctor pointed out that a few patients died of hypoxic brain injuries caused by a shortfall in oxygen supply. Vimala Thomas, Director, Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences, Gachibowli, Telangana said on May 11 that the deaths were part of natural progression of the disease and complications, and not due to shortage of oxygen. The Uttar Pradesh government did not admit to any deaths due to scarcity of oxygen, but admitted facing shortage of oxygen in several instances.  (With inputs from bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-claim-on-deaths-appalling-say-experts/article35456871.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||10 PMs, Telegram founder targeted||None of the leaders provided their phones for forensic analysis to the media outlets that conducted the Pegasus investigation so that it could not be confirmed whether their phones were actually infected with the malware, according toThe Washington Post. The NSO maintains that it sells the malware, which can secretly unlock the target’s phone, computer or other devices, collect information and transfer it into another device without the permission of the user, only to government agencies to fight terrorism and other serious crimes. “NSO Group will continue to investigate all credible claims of misuse and take appropriate action based on the results of these investigations,” the company said in the statement. Forbidden Stories, a Paris-based non-profit organisation, and the Amnesty International got access to the leaked database and shared it with 17 media publications, includingThe Wire,The GuardianandThe Washington Post. The Amnesty’s Security Lab provided forensic analyses and technical support, while the media consortium conducted the investigation, called the Pegasus Project. Forensic analysis has shown that at least 37 phones were infected by the malware. Election strategist Prashant Kishor, murdered Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi’s fiancee Hatice Cengiz, Rwandan dissidents, besides journalists and activists in India and elsewhere, are among those whose phones were compromised. Overall, the database contained phone numbers of more than 600 government officials and politicians from 34 countries, which included Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bhutan, China, Congo, Egypt, Hungary, India, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Mali, Mexico, Nepal, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Togo, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and the U.S. Numbers belonging to President Macron and other French officials appeared amid a group of more than 10,000 numbers dominated by Moroccan targets and those in Algeria. The numbers for King Mohammed VI, Mr. Tedros’s staffer and former Italian Prime Minister were also found in that group. Morocco has “categorically rejected” claims that its intelligence services had used Pegasus to monitor critics at home and abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-pms-who-chief-are-on-pegasus-list/article35456872.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||Officials’ visit to Israel in 2019 creates political stir||A visit to Israel by a five-member team of the State Publicity Department, Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR), in November 2019 to study new trends in government public relations (PR) and new ways of utilising web media has become the centre of a political slugfest in Maharashtra. Amid claims of the officers not submitting the report to the State government and a possible inquiry into it, The Hindu spoke to one of the five officers who said the tour was sanctioned by the State government and also by the Foreign Ministry after the official invite from the Israel government. The officer, on the condition of anonymity, said Ajay Ambekar, who has now retired, did file the report of the November 17-22 tour. “This was the first time when a team from the DGIPR went to Israel. Our mandate was to study various new means of publicity, understand how foreign government PR agencies work and how communication strategy can be improved. We even did a presentation on return,” the officer said, adding that officials from the Agriculture, Irrigation and Urban Development Departments routinely visited Israel for study tours. On Monday, Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant demanded a probe into the visit. In a reply on Tuesday, former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said the tour was after the Assembly election and before the formation of the new government. It was to study agricultural issues. Interestingly, the agenda of the visit had no mention of agriculture, but talked about PR strategies and the use of social media platforms. In April, Congress MLA from Nagpur Vikas Thakre had sought details of the tour, including information about who organised it and how it helped the State government. “I did not get any reply on this. I am still waiting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/officials-visit-to-israel-in-2019-creates-political-stir/article35456875.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition participates in Trinamool’s Martyrs’ Day||Opposition leaders on Wednesday remotely participated in the Martyrs’ Day observed by the Trinamool Congress and listened to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s speech here in New Delhi at a special function organised by the party. The leaders who dropped by at the Constitution Club, where screens were put up relaying Ms. Banerjee’s speech, included senior Congress leaders P. Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader Tiruchi Siva, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Manoj K. Jha, Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s (TRS) Keshava Rao, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi and Akali Dal’s Balwinder Singh Bhunder. The significant absentees were the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Biju Janata Dal (BJD). The Trinamool Congress leaders claimed that the “enthusiastic” participation of the Opposition parties showed the growing acceptance of the party as a possible fulcrum of “Opposition unity”. Curtain-raiser The event also acted as a curtain-raiser to Ms. Banerjee’s visit to New Delhi on Monday. She is expected to meet all the senior Opposition leaders. She will also be paying a visit to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Martyrs’ Day is one of the key events in the Trinamool Congress calendar. It is observed to commemorate the 13 West Bengal Youth Congress workers who were killed in the police firing during a demonstration led by Ms. Banerjee in 1993 while she was still in the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-participates-in-trinamools-martyrs-day/article35456879.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Doctor turning away rape victim serious’||The Social Welfare Department in Meghalaya has taken “serious note” of a doctor’s refusal to medically examine a minor rape victim on the grounds that the place of the incident was beyond his jurisdiction. The Assembly Committee on Women Empowerment (ACWE) has also decided to hold a meeting on the issue and asked all officials concerned to depose before it. Social Welfare Minister Kyrmen Shylla condemned the gang rape of the 14-year-old as well as the insensitivity of the doctor at the Williamnagar Civil Hospital in East Garo Hills district for citing a jurisdictional reason to decline treatment to her. Four men were arrested for sexually assaulting the girl who had gone out on Sunday evening to buy candles in the Nangalbibra area of South Garo Hills district. “Jurisdiction should not be an issue in such cases. I won’t mind if rules are broken to save a life and for the sake of humanity. We will take up the doctor’s issue with the Health Department,” Mr. Shylla said. Congress MLA and ACWE chairperson Ampareen Lyngdoh said the panel would look into why the hapless girl was refused medical attention in Williamnagar, forcing her to travel 75 km away to a hospital in Baghmara. “We have sought the inquiry reports and all officials concerned have been called to depose online. It is disheartening to know such crimes are occurring regularly even in the midst of the pandemic,” she said. Pressure groups such as the Garo Students’ Union and Federation of Khasi Jaintia and Garo People have sought action against the doctor for turning the rape victim away. In a complaint to East Garo Hills district’s Deputy Commissioner Swapnil Tembe, the organisations said doctors should resolve issues of jurisdiction after attending to a person or victim of sexual assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-turning-away-rape-victim-serious/article35456886.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. delays release of electoral bond data||A day after the Finance Ministry told the Rajya Sabha that it needed more time to furnish data on sale of electoral bonds asked by an MP, activist Kanhaiya Kumar said on Wednesday that the details had been provided to him by the State Bank of India two months ago in reply to his Right to Information application. Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen had sought the details of the 15th and 16th phases of the sale, which was in the run-up to the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Puducherry, Assam and Kerala from March to May. Mr. Sen also asked about the bonds sold since the scheme started in 2018 and the cost of printing the same. “The government seeks more time to furnish the replies,” a written reply by Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said on Tuesday. Mr. Kumar, a Bihar-based RTI activist, received the reply from the SBI, the only bank authorised to sell the bonds, on May 14. As reported by The Hindu on May 18, the SBI reply said bonds worth Rs. 695.34 crore had been sold from April 1 to 10. The SBI declined to share the details of the parties that encashed them and the commission it earned from the sales, both of which were sought by Mr. Sen. “The questions are submitted 15 days in advance. The SBI has already provided this information in response to my RTI query. So it’s quite obvious that they have information in requisite format. Still, the Ministry says it needs more time,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-delays-release-of-electoral-bond-data/article35457129.ece
22 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Centre’s statement on oxygen criminal, cruel: SP||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said the BJP-led Central government’s statement that no person died due to lack of oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19 was “criminal and cruel”. “Those whose homes were ruined, they understand the painful truth of this mahajhooth [big lie] of the BJP,” said Mr. Yadav on Twitter. The BJP does not deserve forgiveness, he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Yadav told reporters that the BJP government was responsible for the deaths of the people who suffered during the second wave. The BJP governments could not arrange oxygen in hospitals when people were dying, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-statement-on-oxygen-criminal-cruel-sp/article35457251.ece
22 July 2021||new delhi,||Shooter moves HC seeking selection in Tokyo Games||Five-time Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma has approached the Delhi High Court seeking his selection in the upcoming Tokyo Games. Mr. Sharma, an Arjuna Awardee and Rajiv Gandhi State Sports Awardee, alleged that the selection panel, Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), deliberately and arbitrarily ignored his name for the Paralympics in spite of him fulfilling all the eligibility criteria. The HC will hear Mr. Sharma’s plea, seeking a direction to the PCI to include his name in the list of selected shooters for the R7 event, on July 22. Mr. Sharma has claimed the selection process was not fair and transparent and the committee was biased against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shooter-moves-hc-seeking-selection-in-tokyo-games/article35457499.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Identifying the jivatma||What is actually intended by an individual when he uses the term ‘I’? Generally it refers to both the body and the atma within. When it is said that a child is born or someone has died, does birth or death bind the person inclusive of the body and the atma? There is lack of clarity in such matters from a laukika standpoint. The Charuvakas, for instance, see no difference between the body and the atma and they view birth and death accordingly. But Vedanta sees the jivatma as an individual being with a sarira in which there is the atma and teaches us to differentiate between the two entities. To clarify this matter further, the Brahmasutra discusses at length about the nature of the atma swaroopa, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. In the view of Vedanta, when it is said the jivatma is born and dies it pertains only to the sarira with the senses, mind, intellect, etc, and not the atma which is nitya and of chaitanya swaroopa. Sastras say that unlike the sarira, the atma is not bound by birth and death. The atma does not die even when the individual body dies. They explain that the atma leaves that body to take another sarira according to its karma. The jivatma’s awareness of the laukika world is owing to the association of the atma with the sarira. Whatever is affecting the sarira is also felt by the atma. But in actuality, all the experiences and knowledge of the laukika world is called vritti jnana. This is only a reflection of the atma’s chaitanya swaroopa in the antakarana. Atmaswaroopa is to be recognised and meditated upon. This is necessary to grasp the import of the Mahavakyas such as Tat Tvam Asi, and understand that the self spoken about in these statements is the atma alone and not the sarira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/identifying-the-jivatma/article35456893.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGMA to be renovated, says Minister||Union Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Wednesday said the National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) here would be renovated and reorganised as a part of the commemoration of the 75th Independence Day next year. Mr. Reddy, who visited the NGMA along with Ministers of State for Culture Meenakshi Lekhi and Arjun Ram Meghwal on Wednesday, said the NGMA was being renovated “in the context of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”, a Ministry statement said. “The Minister explained that after the completion of the renovation and reorganisation works, the new look of the NGMA will be presented before the people as it will be rededicated to the nation. For this, a large number of paintings and artworks are being collected from different parts of the country to be displayed at the gallery and this collection will remain available for the future generations of the country,” the Ministry said. Weeks after being appointed to their posts, the Ministers visited the historic Jaipur House that houses the NGMA, which was renovated recently, as well as the new wing that hosts exhibitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngma-to-be-renovated-says-minister/article35456860.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Scindia forms advisory committees||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has set up three committees with sizeable representation from the industry to advise the government on the aviation sector. One committee each is for airlines and airports and a third for maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO), cargo, flight training organisations and ground handling. Boosting connectivity The committee on airlines has representation from all carriers and includes IndiGo chairman Rahul Bhatia, SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh, GoAir director Ness Wadia, Vistara chairman Bhaskar Bhat, AirAsia CEO Sunil Bhaskaran and Air India’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal. They will advise the government on enhancing domestic and international connectivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scindia-forms-advisory-committees/article35456862.ece
22 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Two youth found dead in police custody||Two young men who were accused of a motorcycle theft and were under detention were reportedly found dead in the police station, causing furore in the tribal belt of South Gujarat. The two were detained at the Chikhli police station of Navsari district. The police said they found them hanging in the computer room, which also served as a lock up room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-youth-found-dead-in-police-custody/article35456863.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||IT panel to deliberate on Pegasus issue||The Standing Committee on Information Technology, headed by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, will deliberate on the use of the Pegasus spyware against nearly 300 persons in India on July 28. Officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Department of Telecommunications have been summoned to depose on the subject — “Citizens’ data security and privacy”. The committee has had several rounds of meetings on the subject. It was also deliberated in two meetings held in November 2019. The panel has not submitted a report so far because the investigation remained inconclusive. The Union government has neither confirmed or denied its involvement in the snooping episode targeting activists in 2019. “The latest revelations show that it is a more serious situation. Does the government have access to Pegasus or not is the key question,” one of the members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-panel-to-deliberate-on-pegasus-issue/article35456882.ece
22 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Cong. has a habit of raising allegations’||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Wednesday hit out at the Congress for creating a ruckus in the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament over the “phone tapping” issue, adding that the party had a habit of raising allegations rather than discussing development issues. “Our party has nothing to do with spying or phone tapping. If at all there is any party that has a habit of hatching spy conspiracies and destabilising popular governments, it is definitely the Congress,” said the Chief Minister while addressing a press conference here. Mr. Lal condemned the Congress for supporting Amnesty International, the agency that had first published a report about the snooping on the personal data of Ministers and journalists in India with the help of Pegasus, the Israeli spyware. “In the last seven years, the Narendra Modi-led government did not give Congress a chance to raise valid issues. Therefore, following its character, it has hatched a conspiracy to defame and malign the Indian democracy,” Mr. Lal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-has-a-habit-of-raising-allegations/article35456885.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Probe ordered into Assam bird deaths||The wildlife wing of the Assam Forest Department on Wednesday ordered a probe into the death of a large number of birds due to suspected poisoning of an agricultural field in Barpeta district. The poison was sprayed apparently to prevent the birds — sparrows and doves — from damaging the crops. Locals said more than 300 birds had died. Chief Wildlife Warden M.K. Yadava gave Assistant Conservator of Forest Ranjit K. Dutta a week’s time to submit a report after investigating the deaths in Bohori Silagaon village under Sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Case registered “A case has been registered by the ranger concerned and a man named Mannan Ali has been arrested in this connection. We are awaiting the autopsy report on the birds to ascertain the exact cause of the death,” State Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-ordered-into-assam-bird-deaths/article35456897.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul flags 49 lakh ‘excess deaths’ report||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said wrong decisions of the Government of India (GoI) “killed” 50 lakh people during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a tweet, Mr. Gandhi cited a report of the Washington-based think tank, Centre for Global Development, that offered three different scenarios of “excess deaths” in India between January 2020 and June 2021. “The Truth. GOI’s wrong decisions during Covid second wave killed 50 lakh of our sisters, brothers, mothers and fathers,” he tweeted, tagging the working paper of the Centre for Global Development. The study — authored by Abhishek Anand, Justin Sandefur and Arvind Subramanian (former chief economic adviser to the GoI) — projected three different estimates: a conservative estimate of 34 lakh deaths using civic registration data from the States; another estimate of 40 lakh deaths using infection fatality ratio and finally, an estimate of 49 lakh deaths based on an analysis of a consumer pyramid household survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-flags-49-lakh-excess-deaths-report/article35456900.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana challenges criminal proceedings||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has approached the Bombay High Court challenging the criminal defamation proceedings initiated by the Metropolitan Magistrate. She has sought quashing of all the proceedings initiated by the magistrate. The magistrate court on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against Ms. Ranaut after she failed to appear despite summons. The petition says the Magistrate was duty-bound to examine the actor before directing an inquiry. The matter will be heard by a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar on July 26. Earlier, the Juhu police station, which is probing the case, had told the court that the offences alleged by lyricist Javed Akhtar against Ms. Ranaut required further investigation. A copy of the report was submitted to the court along with a video clip of the interview. The court was informed that despite the summons issued by the Juhu police station, she did not appear. It was alleged that on July 19, Ms. Ranaut had given an interview to a television channel in which she made defamatory statements against Mr. Akhtar by linking him with the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A criminal complaint was filed on November 3 before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-challenges-criminal-proceedings/article35456869.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC to rule on Deshmukh’s plea today||The Bombay High Court will give its verdict on Thursday on pleas filed by former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh seeking to quash the FIR against him, and the Maharashtra government seeking to delete two paragraphs in the FIR. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar will pronounce the judgment. Mr. Deshmukh’s petition seeks to quash the CBI’s FIR against him that alleges corruption in a letter written by former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A public interest litigation petition was filed before the court in which another Bench of the court directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh that subsequently led to the registration of the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-rule-on-deshmukhs-plea-today/article35456870.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Yediyurappa cancels legislature party meeting||Even as Veerashaiva-Lingayat seers continue to make a beeline for the Chief Minister’s residence to express support, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is learnt to have expressed willingness to resign during his recent trip to New Delhi, has been sending mixed signals to the party over the last two days. Amidst speculations that the legislature party meeting he had earlier called on July 26, the second anniversary of the government, could become a platform for his exit, the Chief Minister cancelled not only the meet, but also a dinner for MLAs on its eve. This is being seen as the Chief Minister’s attempt to buy time. More than 100 Veerashaiva-Lingayat seers expressed their unconditional support to the Chief Minister on Wednesday, prominent among them Siddalinga Swami of Siddaganga Mutt, Tumakuru. “We wish the Chief Minister completes his full term, as during his previous stint he had to resign midway. The seers unequivocally support his continuation,” said Siddalinga Swami, who met the Chief Minister at his residence. Several other seers even threatened the BJP high command of the community’s ire against the party if they replaced Mr. Yediyurappa. Sangana Basava Swami of Kottur Veerashaiva Shivayoga Mandir saw in it an RSS conspiracy. “In Maharashtra, Marathas brought the BJP to power but the party installed a Brahmin as the Chief Minister. We suspect the same pattern may repeat in the State.” The mobilisation of support for Mr. Yediyurappa from Veerashaiva-Lingayat seers and the All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha, cutting across party lines, is learnt to have made the party leadership anxious. “The Lingayat vote base is key for the party’s prospects in the State and it is not ready to antagonise the community. The party wants to effect generational change in a peaceful manner and give Mr. Yediyurappa an honourable exit,” a senior leader of the party said. However, the Chief Minister seems to be sending out mixed signals to both the community and the party, not revealing what he has up his sleeve, a senior party strategist said. A source close to Mr. Yediyurappa said that even to those close to him, it was not clear what was on his mind — whether he wanted to continue in office or he was trying to negotiate modalities of exit, such as the next choice of Chief Minister and political role for his sons.  It was Yediyurappa who first brought the BJP to power in Karnataka. Some conspired to remove him since he would not be a chamcha. Only upon his return to the BJP could the party win again. Why repeat the mistake? Subramanian Swamy RS member, BJP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yediyurappa-cancels-legislature-party-meeting/article35456904.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 33 cr. sanctioned for children who lost parents||The Tamil Nadu government has sanctioned Rs. 33.37 crore as part of the first tranche under a scheme announced by the Chief Minister to support minor children who lost one or both of their parents to COVID-19. A total of 101 children who were orphaned and 944 minors who lost either of their parents have benefited from the scheme so far. A total of eight government orders have been issued since June 15, granting financial assistance to 1,045 children. One more file, containing proposals to benefit two orphaned children and 242 others who lost one of their parents, has been sent to the Finance Department for its concurrence. Officials continue to identify beneficiaries across the State under the scheme. While acknowledging and welcoming the efforts being made by the State government towards the welfare of such children, some child rights activists claimed the eligibility criteria mentioned in the operational guidelines for implementing the scheme were narrowing down the number of deserving beneficiaries. AIADMK coordinator and former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, too, had urged “against discriminating [among] children” on the basis of the income of their deceased parents. Child rights activist R. Vidyasagar questioned why the State government, which extended the COVID-19 financial assistance and relief kit to over two crore rice ration cardholders, was choosing the beneficiaries only from the list of 60 lakh below poverty line (BPL) families maintained by the Tamil Nadu Corporation For Development of Women Ltd. “Moreover, the list maintained by the Tamil Nadu Corporation For Development of Women Ltd. may not reflect the latest and actual scenario. COVID-19 has pushed several sections of unorganised workers into poverty, and the list may not include them. The pandemic has been affecting the people for more than a year and a half,” the former Child Protection Specialist with UNICEF said. The executive director of the Arunodaya Centre for Street Children, Virgil D’Sami, said there had been cases of children losing their parents to post-COVID complications, and the scheme was not covering them. A report, ‘COVID-19 Reversing the Situation of Child Labour - A Rapid Survey in Tamil Nadu’, which was undertaken by the Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) last November and involved 767 vulnerable families in 24 districts, said child labour increased by nearly 280% among vulnerable communities due to economic distress. The government order for the scheme was issued in English and not in Tamil, though its intended beneficiaries are from BPL families. The State government could also advertise the scheme more and involve the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) to get independent and neutral inputs for the implementation of the scheme. If the scheme was not implemented properly, it would lead to cases of child labour and child marriage, especially among girl children, activists felt. When contacted, a senior official told The Hindu , “It is an ongoing scheme, and every day, officials are scrutinising new cases eligible under the scheme. There is talk about the [COVID-19] third wave and, hence, we will scrutinise the cases and identify the beneficiaries.”  There have been cases of children losing their parents to post-COVID complications, and the scheme does not cover them Virgil D’Sami Executive director, Arunodaya Centre for Street Children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-33-cr-sanctioned-for-children-who-lost-parents/article35457175.ece
22 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Wall to be built around Porur lake to check dumping of waste||The Water Resources Department (WRD) is drawing up an estimate to construct a compound wall around Porur lake. The wall proposed to be constructed at a cost of around Rs. 20 crore would come up along the perimeter of the lake stretching for 5 km with small gaps to allow inflow of floodwater. The compound wall along the Kundrathur and Iyyapanthangal sections is planned in the wake of residents complaining about illegal dumping of garbage in the lake. Ramesh Nivash, secretary, Maduram Nagar Houseowners’ Welfare Association, Paraniputhur, complained that huge amounts of garbage collected from multi-storey apartments of Iyyapanthangal panchayat and Paraniputhur were being dumped unauthorisedly. He said several representations had been made to the authorities, including the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, in this regard. Garbage being cleared Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and officials of various government agencies inspected the lake last week following complaints about medical waste being dumped and directed officials to clear the garbage. The panchayat officials started the work on Wednesday. Officials of the WRD said directions had been issued to the Kundrathur Block Development Officer to stop dumping of waste near the lake and also the letting of sewage. Raw sewage was being released into the lake from areas such as Srinivasapuram and Pattur through the Thanthikal channel that brings excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir. The Porur lake, which is an important drinking water source, is set to be the site for the government’s ambitious pilot project on the indirect use of reclaimed water. Metrowater plans to blend reclaimed water into the lake and link treated water to the existing city watersupply network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-to-be-built-around-porur-lake-to-check-dumping-of-waste/article35457207.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP always stands for a unified Tamil Nadu’||Reiterating that the BJP does not endorse the creation of a Kongu Nadu by bifurcating western Tamil Nadu, the party’s State president, K. Annamalai, has said it stands for a “unified Tamil Nadu”. In an interview, he denied that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was unpopular in the State, and said it would be a straight fight between the BJP and the DMK in 2026. Edited excerpts:  You said the creation of a Kongu Nadu was not the BJP’s demand. Would this demand be revived in the future? The (Tamil Nadu) BJP represents the aspirations of the people of Tamil Nadu. As for Kongu Nadu, if you look at the region, there was never a demand for a separate State from the people there. But you have to understand that Kongu Nadu was always used as a social identity. You have to look at the context in which it was used — for seven [Union] Ministers, a social identity was given: Bundelkand, Konkan Maharashtra, Purvanchal and Kongu Nadu. The Central government, especially the Prime Minister’s Office, only used it as a social identity. We have always stood for a unified Tamil Nadu. If there’s an aspiration of the people [for Kongu Nadu], I can react. When there’s no demand, why should I react? You recently said the BJP was targeting 150 Assembly seats in 2026. How are you planning to achieve this? Tamil Nadu politics is, right now, negative politics. It is now between the DMK and the BJP. Whatever politics the DMK is engaging in is against [Prime Minister] Modi ji , the Central government and the BJP. They are not doing anything else [except saying] ‘We don’t want NEET, National Education Policy, three-language formula; we don’t want this or that…’ Naturally, the BJP is forced to explain to the people that NEET and the three-language formula are good for them, and that nobody is imposing Hindi on Tamil Nadu. As we keep clarifying, defending [our policies] and talking to the people, the public are saying, ‘Okay…these guys are different’. Can any ordinary cadre in the DMK aspire to become a Minister, like in our party? Now, there are three Chief Ministers — Stalin, Udhayanidhi and Stalin’s son-in-law. They are putting up Udhayanidhi’s photo next to Periyar’s. Is this the social justice they are talking about? In Tamil Nadu, we have a communication issue. We are not able to fully convert the Prime Minister’s popularity into votes because we have structural issues. We have booth-level issues. We are sorting these out. But there is a perception that the Prime Minister is highly unpopular in the State... I don’t go by what a couple of news channels project about him. I go by the views of the common people. When he [Modi] comes to Coimbatore, why do two lakh people turn up? We will aggressively work to ensure that his popularity is converted into votes. 2019 [Lok Sabha election] was a bad year for the BJP in Tamil Nadu because when the whole country was celebrating Modi ji ’s leadership, they [DMK] were able to generate an artificial negativity wave against him, simply by having three to four news channels. In the last two years, we have done a lot of ground work. I can confidently say that in 2026, we will form the government You are saying it’s going to be the DMK vs the BJP. What about the AIADMK then? The AIADMK is a very good friend and alliance partner. The principal Opposition is the AIADMK in terms of numbers. But the fight is between the DMK and the BJP in the open space because it is narrative politics at play. Do you feel V.K. Sasikala’s moves might impact the AIADMK? For the AIADMK, there’s a general council that has elected two leaders — OPS [O. Panneerselvam] and EPS [Edappadi K. Palaniswami]. Ms. Sasikala is an individual. We don’t want to comment on individuals. The DMK’s use of the word ‘Ondriya Arasu’ [Union government] seems to irk your party… If you’re just translating ‘Ondriya Arasu’ as the Union government, I am fine with it. But if you look at the context in which some Ministers talk about it, I don’t agree with it. The Finance Minister talks about how different States need representation in the GST Council based on the area they cover. Then look at the context of them saying, ‘Tamil Nadu is finally free from the clutches of the Centre’. That is why we object to the use of ‘Ondriya Arasu’. If the Chief Minister clarifies tomorrow that they are only translating it, we don’t have an issue.  For the full interview, visit: https://bit.ly/TNBJPchief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-always-stands-for-a-unified-tamil-nadu/article35457179.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK splits Erode suburban unit||The AIADMK on Wednesday announced the bifurcation of the Erode (suburban) district unit, making former School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan secretary of one of the newly-formed district units. A release, issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K Palaniswami, co-coordinator, stated that Mr. Sengottaiyan, also an organisation secretary, would hereafter be in charge of the Erode (suburban – west), under which three Assembly constituencies would get covered. Apart from Gobichettipalayam, he would look after Anthiyur and Bhavanisagar (reserved). Except Anthiyur, the other two constituencies are being held by the AIADMK in the Assembly. Between 1980 and the early 1990s, Mr. Sengottaiyan was the party’s district secretary for the erstwhile Periyar district, which had included Dharapuram and Kangeyam taluks, now lying with Tiruppur district. Former Environment Minister, K.C. Karuppannan, who was the secretary of the unified district unit of Erode (suburban), will have to confine himself to Erode (suburban – east). Perundurai and Bhavani come under this unit and they are being represented by the party in the Assembly. The development took place in the light of reports of sections of the party in the original district unit preferring the leadership of Mr Sengottaiyan to Mr. Karuppanan. Besides, former Minister “Thoppu” N.D. Venkatachalam, who was expelled from the party before the election for his decision to contest as an independent, had declared at the time of joining the DMK recently that he would make the ruling party a bigger force in the area than the AIADMK. The Erode (urban) unit has been left intact and its secretary is K.V. Ramalingam, former Public Works Minister, who lost to DMK’s S. Muthusamy, now Urban Development Minister, in Erode (West) by a margin of about 22,000 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-splits-erode-suburban-unit/article35457218.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College teachers call for new Annamalai University Act||The Joint Action Council of College Teachers of Tamil Nadu has called for the enactment of a new Act for Annamalai University. The enactment should be in such a way that stakeholders in higher education are given equal representation in the university syndicate, involving them in the decision-making process, the council said. The council termed the Higher Education Minister’s announcement on Tuesday that the university will affiliate colleges in the four districts of Cuddalore, Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Mayiladuthurai as the right decision as it would help the students. It also urged the government to streamline deputation of surplus staff from Annamalai University to government colleges in consultation with the council. “A proper policy must be formulated and implemented in all government colleges in the four districts which are [to be] affiliated to the university” to ensure smooth running of the colleges, council convener M. Nagarajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-teachers-call-for-new-annamalai-university-act/article35457198.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As Metro recovers, need for last mile connectivity returns||With patronage for Metro Rail gradually increasing as lockdown restrictions are relaxed, there appears to be a need to revive the last mile connectivity services. From around 45,000 passengers a day in mid-June, the patronage has now gone up to nearly 65,000 a day. In the pre-COVID-19 days, on average, at least 1.12 lakh passengers used the Metro Rail services daily. According to sources in Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), one of the key reasons for the growth of passenger traffic back then was the last mile connectivity service. Affordable rate Commuters could use the vehicles and get dropped off close to their destinations for an affordable rate of Rs. 10. “Now that there is a recovery [in passenger traffic], we must get back to attracting more commuters. While obviously the priority is physical distancing, it is possible to implement that and [still] run last mile connectivity services for commuters. One of the reasons it was stopped was because it was not financially viable. But we have to find other ways to implement last mile connectivity,” a source in CMRL said. Even if not all stations, the major ones should have vans or share autorickshaws. “For instance, at least for stations like Chennai Central, Wimco Nagar, Alandur, Thirumangalam, Koyambedu and Chennai Airport, there should be some vans or share autorickshaws plying to nearby areas,” an official said. Officials said otherwise at least the long-term plan of making all buses stop at all stations should be made a reality at the earliest. “We should explore other ways to help commuters reach stations, failing which they will find it difficult,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-metro-recovers-need-for-last-mile-connectivity-returns/article35457187.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK bifurcates Erode suburban unit||The AIADMK on Wednesday announced the bifurcation of the Erode (suburban) district unit, making former School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan secretary of one of the newly formed district units. A release, issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator, stated that Mr. Sengottaiyan, also an organisation secretary, would hereafter be in charge of the Erode (suburban – west), under which three assembly constituencies would get covered. Apart from Gobichettipalayam, he would look after Anthiyur and Bhavanisagar (reserved). Except Anthiyur, the other two constituencies are being held by the AIADMK in the Assembly. Between 1980 and the early 1990s, Mr. Sengottaiyan was the party’s district secretary for the erstwhile Periyar district, which had included Dharapuram and Kangeyam taluks, now lying with Tiruppur district. Former Environment Minister, K.C. Karuppannan, who was the secretary of the unified district unit of Erode (suburban), will have to confine himself to Erode (suburban – east). Perundurai and Bhavani come under this unit and they are being represented by the party in the Assembly. The development took place in the light of reports of sections of the party in the original district unit preferring the leadership of Mr. Sengottaiyan to Mr.Karuppanan. Besides, former Minister ‘Thoppu’ N.D. Venkatachalam, who was expelled from the party before the election for his decision to contest as an independent, had declared at the time of joining the DMK recently that he would make the ruling party a bigger force in the area than the AIADMK. The Erode (urban) unit has been left intact and its secretary is K.V. Ramalingam, former Public Works Minister, who lost to DMK’s S. Muthusamy, now Urban Development Minister, in Erode (West) by a margin of about 22,000 votes. The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) also announced that the Ramanathapuram district unit would be split into Ramanathapuram – east and west – units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-announces-bifurcation-of-erode-suburban-unit/article35457196.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Balagurusamy offers students guidelines on choosing colleges, programmes||Candidates aspiring to join an engineering college should first be cognisant of their aptitude and interests first and then interact with alumni of the selected college, their parents, and faculty members before making a decision, according to E. Balagurusamy, former Vice-Chancellor, Anna University. With the college admission season set to begin, he has offered 10 guidelines on how to choose a college and course. Since students spend four years of their prime time in a college and their experiences in college are critical to their success in life, they should choose programmes that suit their aptitude and interest instead of succumbing to parental, peer pressure or the current popularity of a programme, he said. Candidates must apprise themselves of the quality of the institutions as well. The approximately 550 engineering colleges affiliated to the AnnaUnivesity, many of which are located in rural areas, may be classified into five categories ranging from very good to average to very bad. While 40% have average capabilities only 10% may be considered ‘very good’ or ‘very bad’. As much as 20% of the institutions are either good or bad, he said in a statement. It would be better for candidates to short-list five colleges based on their marks and ability to invest in the chosen programme. Candidates should research the chosen institutions using the information booklet, websites and available sources and rank them on a five-point scale based on faculty, infrastructure, support facilities, extracurricular activities, and pass percentage. He also cautioned against making a decision based on colourful college brochures as they may carry false claims on ranks, accreditation, awards and fictitious faculty names. “Many mediocre colleges offer liberal fee concessions and scholarship for students with high marks. Do not fall prey to such gimmicks. Look for their reputation before acceding to such offers,” Prof. Balagurusamy said. Students should understand the culture of college management. “Most colleges are run on a business model and therefore their commitment to the quality and social values are highly questionable. Look at the background of the chairman and the trustees and their social standing. I know personally, some of them have criminal background,” he said, adding: “Remember, the chairmen are supposed to be role models for the teachers and the students.”  Many mediocre colleges offer liberal fee concessions and scholarship for students with high marks. Do not fall prey to such gimmicks Prof. Balagurusamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/balagurusamy-offers-guidelines-on-choosing-colleges-programmes/article35457220.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,891 fresh cases of COVID-19||On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded 1,891 new cases of COVID-19, the daily count, after weeks, fell below 200 in Coimbatore and under 100 in Thanjavur and Tiruppur. Five districts — Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai, Salem and Chengalpattu — saw over 100 fresh cases each. Coimbatore reported 183 cases, while Erode saw a small rise in infections from 129 on Tuesday to 141 on Wednesday. As many as 138 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. There were 119 cases in Salem and 102 in Chengalpattu. Tiruppur and Thanjavur recorded 97 and 90 cases respectively. Among those who tested positive for the infection were five people who returned from the U.A.E. Apart from them, six returnees from West Bengal, three from Andhra Pradesh and one each from Bihar and Odisha also tested positive for COVID-19. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 25,41,168. As many as 2,423 people were discharged after treatment. A total of 26,158 persons are currently under treatment for COVID-19. Twenty-seven people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 33,809. Salem recorded four deaths, followed by Erode and Tiruchi with three fatalities each. Two people died of the infection in Chennai. In the last 24 hours, 1,41,248 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 3,59,68,166. A total of 3,51,02,736 people have been tested so far. As many as 1,49,497 people, including 84,843 in the 18-44 age group and 48,088 in the 45-59 age group, were inoculated on Wednesday. This took the overall coverage to 1,85,06,128. Vaccination was held in 1,728 sessions. The cumulative vaccination coverage of private COVID-19 vaccination centres stood at 13,10,639 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1891-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article35457185.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three persons held under POCSO Act||The All-Women police, Kilpauk, on Wednesday arrested a 46-year-old security guard and two of his accomplices on charges of raping a 15-year-old Nepali immigrant. The victim’s family was living in a house in the Kilpauk police station limits. The police said following a quarrel with her parents, the girl ran away to a residential area in Nungambakkam, where her family had stayed previously, and met Jana, a security guard, also from Nepal and acquainted with her family. He took her to his house and allegedly raped her for two days. She eventually escaped and returned home to her parents. On a complaint from the parents, Deputy Commissioner of Police K. Karthikeyan ordered an investigation leading to Jana’s arrest. A case was booked under the POCSO Act. The police said the accused confessed that the girl was sexually assaulted by two other persons as well. The police arrested Vicky alias Vignesh, 23, and Arun Kumar, 24, of Nungambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-raping-15-year-old-nepali-girl/article35457192.ece
22 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Study sheds light on intensity of COVID-19 in type-2 diabetics||A retrospective observational study done in persons with the COVID-19 infection has drawn a clear association between high three-month average sugar levels (HbA1c) and the severity of the disease in type-2 diabetics. The results, published recently in the peer-reviewed International Journal of Scientific Study , suggested that the prognosis of COVID-19 severity in diabetic patients showed higher risk based on a HbA1c level of 9% or more. “Uncontrolled type-2 diabetes might be responsible for an overall higher hospitalisation rate in cases of COVID-19 infection,” its author V. Balaji, of the Dr. V. Seshiah Diabetes Care and Research Institute, states. He goes on to hint that focusing on the pre-existing comorbid risk factors among diabetic patients can be used to manage the severity of the viral infection and can minimise the socio-economic burden. A total of 120 post-COVID type-2 diabetes patients were included in the study conducted between March and October 2020, of which 102 were hospitalised and 18 were home quarantined based on the severity of COVID-19. Among hospitalised patients, a majority were men with other pre-existing comorbidities, commonly hypertension and cardiac conditions. All of them recovered from the infection. “Using pre-infection glycemic control data, we found HbA1c was a clear predictor of COVID-19 severity,” the study outlined, mentioning other clinical characteristics which were also significantly linked to hospitalisation, including gender, age, pre-existing conditions like obesity, hypertension, thyroid and cardiovascular disease. Unexpectedly, obesity and male gender were not associated with hospitalisation, despite being suggested as risk factors in earlier studies. Patients with long term uncontrolled HbA1c level (greater than 9%) need more attention, as they are prone to hospitalisation and severe disease. The findings of the present study will help in planning a comprehensive support strategy for individuals with diabetes in the healthcare sector, and set regular monitoring of sugar levels and HbA1c as the cornerstone of interventions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-sheds-light-on-intensity-of-covid-19-in-type-2-diabetics/article35457194.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to move ECI again on Rajya Sabha vacancies||With uncertainty continuing over byelection to three seats in the Rajya Sabha from Tamil Nadu, the DMK has planned to approach the Election Commission of India, again, for getting them filled. T.R. Baalu, former Union Minister and the DMK’s parliamentary party leader, told The Hindu on Wednesday: “We, the party, have sought an appointment with them [Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners]. We hope to meet them tomorrow [Thursday] and reiterate our point.” Mr. Baalu, in his letter sent last month, had urged the ECI to conduct byelections to the three seats, separately. He said “the delay impedes Tamil Nadu from being adequately represented in the Rajya Sabha, and it goes against the spirit of democracy and the goals enshrined in the Constitution.” Last Friday, the ECI said that it would hold the bypoll to one vacancy in the Upper House, from West Bengal, but there was no reference to Tamil Nadu. According to the Rajya Sabha’s website, there are 14 vacancies. As for the State, the vacancies arose due to the death of A. Mohammedjan in March and the resignation of two senior leaders, K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, on getting elected to the Assembly in May. Going by the schedule for West Bengal, the process, beginning with the announcement on holding the byelection, lasts at least 24 days. If this is the indication for Tamil Nadu too, those going to get elected to the Upper House may not be able to participate in the current monsoon session of the Parliament, even if the Commission announces the schedule in a day or two. Pointing out that ECI, ordinarily, has six months to fill a vacancy, V. Maitreyan of the AIADMK, who served as a member of the Upper House for 14 years, said given the strength in the Assembly and the likelihood of the ECI holding the bypoll separately for the three seats, the DMK bagging all seats is a certainty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-move-eci-again-on-rajya-sabha-vacancies/article35457180.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle-mounted foggers deployed for dengue prevention||The Greater Chennai Corporation has appealed to the residents to cooperate in dengue prevention measures by removing all unwanted materials that allow stagnation of water, resulting in the breeding of mosquitoes. In a press release, the Chennai Corporation outlined the various prevention measures being undertaken, including the deployment of over 3,600 workers for spraying insecticides to destroy mosquito larvae, alongside 6,000 field survey workers, by dividing the city’s 200 divisions into sectors of 500 houses each. The Corporation will also take up dengue prevention activities at slum tenements, schools and crowded places, using 256 hand sprayers and 167 heavy-duty ones. The civic body, having started mosquito prevention in waterways using drones, would begin an intensive fogging operation. This would be carried out in thousands of streets, utilising 68 modern vehicle-mounted foggers and 287 sprayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-mounted-foggers-deployed-for-dengue-prevention/article35457202.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Effluent treatment plant in Ambattur estate||Ambattur Industrial Estate will soon get a common effluent treatment plant to treat industrial effluents. Gradiant India (P) Limited, a subsidiary of Boston-based Gradiant Corporation, has signed a contract with the Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) and the Chennai Auto Ancillary Industrial Infrastructure Upgradation Company (CAAIIUC) to install the treatment plant. The proposed plant is expected to treat 2 lakh litres of effluents a day, and would be owned, operated and maintained by Gradiant India for a period of 15 years. Recycle and reuse Treated water would be recycled and reused by the industries to help reduce the intake and usage of freshwater. M. Balachandran, president, AIEMA, said the effluents from the metal processing industries contain a high amount of total dissolved solids and required robust treatment systems. The land required for the common effluent treatment plant has been provided by the Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited. On the new project, Ravichandran Selvaraj, managing director, Gradiant India, said it would help small and medium scale industries meet their treatment needs, and would aid in the water security mission of the city. The effluent treatment plant would showcase one of the best technologies in the recycle and zero liquid discharge sector, he added. The Ambattur Industrial Estate comprises 2,000 micro, small and medium units, including electroplating, powder coating and other metal processing units. CAAIIUC is a special purpose vehicle company formed for the industrial clusters of Ambattur, Thirumudivakkam and Thirumazhisai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/effluent-treatment-plant-in-ambattur-estate/article35457190.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity to offer scholarship to meritorious students||Sai University (SaiU) will offer scholarship from 25% to full tuition fee waiver to meritorious students. The private university has called for applications for undergraduate programmes in the School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Computing and Data Sciences; and for PG from the School of Law. University founder K.V. Ramani said, “Upon receiving the application of an eligible student, our team will guide them through the scholarship process.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-to-offer-scholarship-to-meritorious-students/article35457209.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adani Group firms’ plea to extend Rs. 7.01 tariff per unit rejected||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has rejected pleas by companies from the Adani Group for the grant of a specific extension for their solar projects, to avail a tariff of Rs. 7.01 per unit from Tangedco. In separate petitions, Ramnad Renewable Energy Ltd and Kamuthi Solar Power Ltd, arms of Adani Green Energy (Tamil Nadu) Limited, said they had entered into a power purchase agreement with Tangedco for the supply of 72 MW and 216 MW solar power respectively, on July 4, 2015. In its tariff order, the TNERC had fixed a tariff of Rs. 7.01 per unit on September 12, 2014, and had extended the applicability of the tariff till March 31, 2016. The two firms had to complete their projects by March 31, 2016, to be eligible for the tariff of Rs. 7.01 per unit. However, the projects were commissioned only in September 2016, and Tangedco said it would offer a lower tariff of Rs. 5.10 per unit, applicable from April 1, 2016. The firms said the projects were ready from their end well before March 31, 2016, and said Tangedco failed to provide the required infrastructural facilities for evacuation of power, which delayed the commissioning. They sought an extension till September 2016, with an applicable tariff of Rs. 7.01 per unit. The firms said they had invested around Rs. 1,524 crore on the project and had availed funding from banks and financial institutions. The entire financial planning and projection with regard to the project was based on the tariff rate of Rs. 7.01 per unit, and if it was not applicable, the firms said they would suffer huge losses. TNERC chairman M. Chandrasekar ruled that Tangedco had been clear in its communications to the firms regarding the availability of infrastructure. Mr. Chandrasekar added that he did not find any mistake on the part of Tangedco and rejected the pleas. He also upheld the decision by Tangedco to offer a tariff of Rs. 5.10 per unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adani-group-firms-plea-to-extend-tariff-of-rs-701-per-unit-rejected/article35457177.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister: outsourcing of recruitment scrapped||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Wednesday said the government had cancelled recruitments through outsourcing. “There will be no new appointments through outsourcing. All appointments will be made through direct recruitments now. In the case of outsourcing, private agencies benefit, and not the workers. So we have cancelled the outsourcing method,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Wednesday. There are nearly 30,000 personnel in the Health Department, who were either appointed on contract basis or through outsourcing, he said, adding: “In the last 10 years, the government did not take any measure to regularise their services. Wherever we go, they are petitioning us for regularisation of services.” He said the issue would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister once the lockdown ends. “We will take up department-wise measures, and see who has been appointed on contract basis or outsourced, and who is required for the department. They will be regularised as per rules,” he added. Work to hold consultations with officials on the number of people working on a temporary basis and the number of vacancies in each department and who can be prioritised will be taken up, he said. He said no contract workers had been removed from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-outsourcing-of-recruitment-scrapped/article35457182.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||British antiquities restorer arraigned in U.S. after extradition from London||U.S. authorities announced the indictment of Neil Perry Smith, 58, following his extradition from London to face charges for his role in a decades-long, global antiquities trafficking ring that looted and smuggled culturally significant relics from Asia and sold them in New York’s art market. He was allegedly involved in restoring broken Nataraja idols which were stolen from Sripuranthan, Ariyalur and Sri Narambunathar, Thirunelveli district. Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance Jr. made this announcement on Tuesday. Smith is charged with possessing and restoring 22 stolen pieces, with an estimated value of more than $32 million. His restorations concealed the antiquities’ origin so that alleged conspiracy ring leader Subash Kapoor could then sell them at his now-closed Madison Avenue-based gallery, Art of the Past. Smith, Kapoor and six other co-defendants were indicted in October 2019 following a year-long investigation by the Manhattan District Attorney Office’s Antiquities Trafficking Unit, along with law enforcement partners at U.S. Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), into the group’s illicit activities affecting the New York market and originating in Sri Lanka, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Cambodia, Thailand, Nepal, Indonesia, Myanmar, and other nations. From 2011 to 2020, the D.A.’s Office and HSI recovered more than 2,500 items trafficked by Kapoor and his network over a three-decade span. The total value of the pieces recovered exceeds $143 million. A reminder “The arraignment of Neil Perry Smith serves as a reminder that behind every antiquities trafficking ring preying upon cultural heritage for profit, there is someone reassembling and restoring these looted pieces to lend the criminal enterprise a veneer of legitimacy. Smith will now face justice on U.S. soil, and we look forward to seeing alleged ringleader Subhash Kapoor inside of a Manhattan courtroom in the near future. In the meantime, we will continue to pursue these cases vigorously and return these stolen items to the countries from which they were stolen,” said District Attorney Vance in a statement. Smith and Brooklyn-based restorer Richard Salmon were contracted by Kapoor to clean stolen antiquities and repair any defects, such as dirt, rust, or damage that might indicate recent looting or theft. According to invoices and inventory logs seized from Kapoor’s office and storage locations, Kapoor typically arranged for the antiquities to be sent to one of the restorers after their arrival at Art of the Past. For example, Smith restored the bases of numerous bronze relics stolen from temples in India after smugglers intentionally broke them to facilitate illicit removal from the site and across international borders. Smith’s restorations helped Kapoor mislead potential buyers about the origin and condition of looted antiquities so that he could, in turn, capitalise on this veneer of legitimacy by dramatically increasing values. Shiva, Parvati Among other items, Smith allegedly restored include a Shiva Nataraja with an estimated value of $5 million, and an Uma Parvati with an estimated value of $3.5 million. Commenting on the big development, S. Vijay Kumar, co-founder of India Pride, said, “NPS altered the colour of the stolen Sripuranthan Nataraja by giving it a fake greenish patina and even made a new hand for the Nataraja from Sri Narambu Nathar, Pazhavoor. Sadly the law enforcing agencies in India did not follow up. Now the U.S. has successfully managed to get NPS arrested and we are sure investigation will reveal more such cases. We hope India joins the U.S. in this case at least now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/british-antiquities-restorer-arraigned-in-us-after-extradition-from-london/article35457200.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyer held on rape charge||The All-Women police, Tiruvallur, arrested a lawyer on charges of raping a woman, who had approached him seeking divorce from her husband. The accused S. Tarjan, of Manobala Nagar, was arrested from Kodaikanal, where he was reportedly in hiding, and remanded in judicial custody. The police said Tarjan had gone to the woman’s house under the pretext of collecting documents for the case, and raped her after making her consume intoxicants. The woman, in her complaint, alleged that he had taken Rs. 7 lakh from her, and sexually assaulted her repeatedly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyer-held-on-rape-charge/article35457203.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC’s ITI invites applications||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation Industrial Training Institute, Chromepet, has invited applications for mechanic (motor vehicle) course. Candidates who have passed Class X may apply for the two-year course. They can contact the institute at Gandhi Nagar, Chromepet, for applications or Ph: 044-29535177. Applications are also available atwww.mtcbus.tn.gov.in. The last date for submitting applications is August 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtcs-iti-invites-applications/article35457610.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on social reform initiatives released||Bank with a Soul: Equitas , a book by retired IAS officer C.K. Gariyali was released by Duvvuri Subbarao, former Reserve Bank of India Governor, recently. Dr. Gariyali, who is a founder trustee of EDIT (Equitas Development Initiative Trust), has chronicled the journey of Equitas and the trust in transforming the lives of women with frequent social reform initiatives, and how they helped in setting up micro-enterprises and in pioneering financial inclusivity. Empowering women In the book, she writes about, how as a founder trustee, she has seen Equitas go beyond banking and play a role in empowering over 30 lakh women by lending to them and helping them set up micro-enterprises, improving their income and enhancing their quality of life through health camps, job fairs and skill training. “The strength of Equitas lies in forging partnerships, and they are currently setting up a state-of-the-art cancer hospital in partnership with the Sri Sringeri Sarada Math in the city for providing affordable cancer treatment to the people,” Dr. Gariyali said, and added that, “I hope other banks and corporates in India will get inspired by the Equitas model.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-about-equitas-social-reform-initiatives-released/article35457191.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS deplores Karnataka’s petition||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Wednesday condemned the Karnataka government for filing a petition in the Supreme Court against several projects proposed by Tamil Nadu, including the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project. He said the project, for which the foundation stone was laid in February during the AIADMK regime, had only envisaged tapping the flood flows of the Cauvery and Coleroon rivers for drinking water and irrigation. Karnataka approached the Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu’s project, which it had no connection with, because the latter had not given its consent to the Mekedatu dam project, he said. Chief Minister M.K, Stalin should take legal steps to have the petition dismissed at the earliest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-deplores-karnatakas-petition/article35457183.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone of MTC MD snatched||Unidentified bike-borne suspects snatched the mobile phone of MTC Managing Director Anbu Abraham while he was walking on Park Road in Thirumangalam on Tuesday. Based on his complaint, personnel from the Thirumangalam police station took up investigation, and began scrutinising CCTV camera footage to trace the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-phone-of-mtc-md-snatched/article35457188.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for mechanic course||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation Industrial Training Institute, Chromepet, has invited applications for the mechanic (motor vehicle) course. Candidates, who have passed Class X, may apply for the two-year course. They can contact the institute at Gandhi Nagar, Chromepet, for applications or call 044-29535177. Applications are also available atwww.mtcbus.tn.gov.in andthe submission deadline is August 30. A total of 1,252 students have been trained in the institute so far, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-mechanic-course/article35457189.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sending obscene videos||Personnel from the Sankar Nagar police station on Wednesday arrested a 34-year-old man, who allegedly sent obscene videos to Veeralakshmi, who is the founder of an outfit called Tamilar Munnetra Padai. She lodged a complaint recently stating that she had received obscene videos on her mobile phone from an unidentified person. While the case was under investigation, she released a video threatening the sender with a knife. A special team, led by the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Pallavaram, investigated the complaint and nabbed Arokiasamy, who was hiding in Malappuram, Kerala. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sending-obscene-videos/article35457204.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life due to usury, two arrested||A 42-year-old man ended his life at a grocery store in Korattur due to harassment from moneylenders. The deceased was identified as S. Selvakumar, 42, from Korattur, who ran a grocery store. He was found dead by customers on Tuesday. On information, personnel from the Korattur police station retrieved his body and sent it for post-mortem examination. In a note which was recovered on Wednesday, Selvakumar alleged that Prakash, 28, and Thyagarajan, 47, had harassed him. He had borrowed Rs. 4 lakh and Rs. 11 lakh from them respectively. While he paid Prakash Rs. 11 lakh as interest, an interest of Rs. 33 lakh was paid to Thyagarajan. The duo allegedly demanded more money to settle the debt, and threatened Selvakumar to hand over his house. The police arrested Thyagarajan and Prakash, and remanded them in judicial custody.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-due-to-usury-two-arrested/article35457205.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||District administration looking at ways to vaccinate more workers||With just about 20% of industry workers vaccinated in Coimbatore district, industries demand more allocation and the district administration is working on different options to inoculate more workers. The district is estimated to have almost 60,000 registered MSMEs and about 500 larger companies that employ totally 4.5 lakh to five lakh workers. These do not include units in trade and service sectors and MSMEs in the unorganised sector. Of the 4.5 lakh workers, 20% to 22% have taken the vaccination and a small number of them have taken the second dose too. “Our member units have asked for close to 17,000 doses and we are discussing with the local authorities. We have written to the Central Government too asking for more allocation for Tamil Nadu. We need to inoculate more workers to manage the third wave. But, vaccines are not available. Our association conducted two vaccination camps in April and June. Those who took the first dose in April are unable to get the second dose now,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. In the jewellery sector, just about 10% of workers and goldsmiths have been covered and in the construction sector about 20% have received one dose of the vaccine at least. “We keep trying at different levels of the government seeking more allocation,” says Paneerselvam, chairman of Builders Association of India, Coimbatore chapter. The MSMEs do not come under Corporate Social Responsibility norms of the government and cannot afford to pay under CSR funds or get the workers vaccinated by paying for them at private hospitals, say industry sources. According to C. Balasubramanian, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, private hospitals charge minimum Rs. 780 for one dose of the vaccine. If a shop has two or three workers, the shop owner can bear the cost. But there are shops that employ 100 to 200 workers and for each worker, the cost will work out to Rs. 1,560 for two doses of the vaccine. When businesses are reeling under financial crunch, they will not be able to bear this cost, he says. Jayaram of Rasi Hospital, which has all three vaccines, says many exporting units are tying up with private hospitals to get the workers and staff vaccinated as the international buyers are asking them to get the workers vaccinated. Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran said that depending on the allocation to the district, 1,500 to 2,000 doses are allocated every day for vaccinating industry workers. This is done through industrial associations. The district administration will talk to industries and motivate them to tap the allocation with private players by using the CSR funds. Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma. Subramanian launched a scheme for this here on Tuesday and on day one, industries and institutions contributed Rs. 68 lakh. The contribution from CSR amount will be used to vaccinate the workers through private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-looking-at-ways-to-vaccinate-more-workers/article35457240.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to attract more investments to the State: Minister||The State government will come out with policies to attract more investments to Tamil Nadu, said Information Technoloy Minister T. Mano Thangaraj here on Wednesday. Inspecting the Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu’s Information Technology (IT) park, which is under construction at a total project cost of Rs. 114 crore, the Minister said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wants IT parks across the State to generate employment. IT parks play a major role in generating employment opportunities. About 4.5 lakh students graduate out of engineering courses every year in the State. But, only 1.5 lakh of them get jobs in the IT sector. The rest move to other States or countries. Tamil Nadu ranks fifth in the country in the IT sector and steps will be taken to make it the number one State in the IT sector. e-budget During the last 10 years, the State lost a lot of foreign investments to other States. The State government will come out with policies that will attract investments. When the budget is presented in the Assembly, it will be paperless, e-budget, he said. The Minister interacted with the IT employees working at the units in the Special Economic Zone and later inspected an e-seva centre at the Corporation Central Zone office. IT Principal Secretary Neeraj Mittal and Managing Director of Elcot Ajai Yadhav were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-attract-more-investments-to-the-state-minister/article35457225.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Siruvani a cause for concern||Water level in the Siruvani Reservoir has remained at around the 25-foot mark for quite a few days. Water managers worried This has worried the city’s water managers in the Coimbatore Corporation, who said if the situation continued, the city could see a very difficult summer in 2022. As of July 21 the water level stood at 25.13 feet in the reservoir that had 49.50 feet as the full reservoir level. And, this worked out to 57% of the gross storage. The water level had remained the same for quite a few days. With 53 days into the South-West Monsoon season, this was worrisome because July and August were the months when Siruvani catchment received good rainfall resulting in copious inflow and water crossing the full reservoir level. Though the current water level was not a cause for immediate concern, if the situation persisted then the city could be in for trouble in summer 2022. Water shortage A full or near full reservoir by November-December would translate to water supply throughout summer, till May 30, when the South-West Monsoon usually set in, the sources said and added that if the water level did not increase, the city could start facing water shortage, particularly in Siruvani-fed wards, as early as December-January. It was to address the issue that the Corporation had held a meeting of all its water supply engineers in the recent past, the sources said. Monsoon plays truant Meanwhile, South-West Monsoon had been playing truant in Coimbatore in July. Data from the Agro Climate Research Centre in the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University showed that Coimbatore, as of a few days ago, had received only around 20 mm rainfall, which was less than one-third of the average rainfall for the month – 68.5 mm. In June, too, the district had received less than the average rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-siruvani-a-cause-for-concern/article35457227.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SSI placed under suspension||The City Police have placed a Special Sub-Inspector attached to the Race Course police station under suspension for assaulting a woman and setting ablaze her two-wheeler recently. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) T. Jeyachandran placed SSI K. Parthipan (57) under suspension on Tuesday. The Singanallur police had arrested Parthipan on July 17 based on the complaint lodged by the woman and her father. Following his arrest, Singanallur Inspector S. Deivasigamani conducted an inquiry into the incidents and submitted a report to the DCP through the Assistant Commissioner of Police (East) M.G. Arun. The Singanallur police arrested Parthipan on July 17 in two cases – one related to the harassment and assault on a 30-year-old woman after trespassing into her house at Varadarajapuram and another in connection with the torching of her scooter at Singanallur Uzhavar Sandhai. According to the police, the woman lives with her son at Varadarajapuram after getting separated from her husband and waiting for a legal separation. Parthipan trespassed into the house of the woman, whom he knew for a long time and had helped her in buying household articles, around 8 a.m. on July 15. The policeman allegedly demanded that the woman to be with him for some time. The woman refused the demand following which Parthipan abused her, manhandled and slapped her. As neighbours intervened, he left the house after breaking the lock of her scooter. The SSI went to Singanallur Uzhavar Sandhai, where the woman’s father runs a canteen, on July 16 night. He set ablaze woman’s scooter which her father was using.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-placed-under-suspension/article35457244.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Machinery available for hire, farmers told||The district administration has asked farmers to hire machinery available with the Agricultural Engineering Department. Earth movers In a release issued here on Wednesday, the administration said three earth movers, eight tractors and earth lifting machinery were available on hire. Various equipment that could be attached to tractors and used by farmers for levelling land, ploughing farm bunds, deep ploughing, harvesting maize, cutting trench for laying pipeline, drying hay, etc would be available for hire, the release added. Contact Those interested could get in touch with Executive Engineer, Agricultural Engineering, on 0422-2964838, Assistant Executive Engineer on 0422-2966500 or Assistant Executive Engineer, Pollachi, on 04259-231271.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/machinery-available-for-hire-farmers-told/article35457214.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chain snatchers target police constable, college professor||In separate incidents, chain snatchers took away the gold chains of a woman college professor and a woman police constable in the city on Tuesday. Police said that in the first incident, unknown persons snatched a five-sovereign gold chain from R. Shanthi (46), a professor of a private engineering college. The incident occurred after she got off the college bus and was walking towards her house at Ramalinga Nagar at K.K. Pudur around 5.45 p.m. Saibaba Colony police registered a case based on her complaint and started investigating. In the other incident, persons riding a two-wheeler snatched a two-sovereign gold chain from M. Iswarya (23), a grade-II police constable attached to the fourth platoon of the Armed Reserve, Coimbatore City Police. The snatching took place around 8.15 p.m. on A.T.T. Colony Road when Ms. Iswarya, a resident of Srirampuram near P.N. Palayam, and her sister were riding a scooter. The Race Course police registered a case based on her complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chain-snatchers-target-police-constable-college-professor/article35457216.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions demand reopening of NTC mills||Trade unions here have demanded reopening of the National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills in the State. Members of LPF and CITU staged a protest in this regard on Wednesday. They said that seven of the 23 NTC mills in the country are located in Tamil Nadu and provide jobs to about 6,000 workers. The units are not operating since last March when the lockdown was announced to control the spread of pandemic. The workers are paid 50% wages while the officials continue to get 100% salary, they said. The mills should be operated so that the workers get full wages. There are reports that the Central Government is not reopening the mills so that the units can be shutdown or privatised over a period of time. With the Government not opening the mills, the workers also doubt if there is such a move by the Government, the unions said. According to M. Arumugam, former CPI MLA of Valparai, even the units that were reopened in February-March are closed again because cotton is not available with the mills. The Joint Action Committee of Trade Unions have sent a letter through P.R. Natarajan, MP, seeking appointment with the Union Textile Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-demand-reopening-of-ntc-mills/article35457230.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation seals shops for violation||Coimbatore Corporation late on Tuesday night sealed two shops in Central Zone on charges of violating the State Government’s COVID-19 lockdown restriction. According to sources, during routine check by flying squad formed for enforcing the lockdown restriction, it found a furniture shop on Variety Hall Road and an electrical goods shop near the Avinashi Road flyover functioning beyond the stipulated 9 p.m. deadline. The team asked the workers there to vacate the premises and later sealed them. The shop owners would have to pay fine to the Corporation to have the shops reopened. The sources said keeping open shops beyond 9 p.m. was increasingly visible in several commercial parts of the city. Members of the public not wearing mask was another common violation that flying squads found across the city, the sources said and added that in Central Zone alone the officials collected Rs. 22,000 to Rs. 25,000 a day in fine from those not wearing mask. The Corporation on Wednesday night sealed three shops at Hope's College, Avinashi Road, as authorities led by Assistant Commissioner, East Zone, R. Rangarajan, found them doing business beyond 9 p.m. The shops were a bakery, textile shop and one selling utensils, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-seals-shops-for-violation/article35457228.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Title deeds for 15 tribal families||Fifteen tribal families living in Pudhuppathi hamlet in Mavuthampathy panchayat have received title deeds. A release said during Collector G.S. Sameeran’s visit to the village on June 26, the residents submitted a petition saying 30 of the 45 families there had been living on the land, classified Pudhuppathi Natham. Fifteen families that had been living there for 30 years as the others were omitted and yet to get title deeds. Based on the petition, the Collector issued a direction to the revenue officials and after preliminary work, the administration issued title deeds on July 12. The Collector had also asked the District Rural Development Agency to support the families construct houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/title-deeds-for-15-tribal-families/article35457229.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest staff foil bid to fell sandalwood trees||The staff attached to the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range foiled an attempt by four persons to fell sandalwood trees from a patta land in the early hours of Tuesday. Jolly Jacob (55) from Mananthavady in Wayanad district, M. Moideen (44) from Mannarkkad in Palakkad district, R. Jagadeesh (54) from Narasimhanaickenpalaym, and R. Rajendiran (36) from Sundapatti near Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district were nabbed by the patrol teams of the department from a private land close to forest boundary.  S. Selvaraj, forest range officer, said that a fine of Rs. 10,000 each was slapped on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-staff-foil-bid-to-fell-sandalwood-trees/article35457245.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Panel to address factors that attract leopards to Valparai town||A recent video of three leopards taking a night stroll through the otherwise busy Taluk Road at Valparai town was widely shared in social media. Though leopards have been coexisting with the people of Valparai, a committee formed to mitigate their interactions with humans at the hill station has identified possible reasons behind their frequent presence in town areas. According to the committee, which held a meeting on Wednesday, improper management of meat waste, bushes around Valparai town, domestic animals and placing of baits to attract leopards for tourists were among the factors that attracted them to urban pockets. “Waste disposed of by chicken and meat stalls could be a factor which attracts leopards to town areas. Tourist operators and home stay owners have been found placing bait to attract the big cats. They have been warned of stringent action,” said an official from the Forest Department. Leopards have been found preying on wild boars that stray into urban areas, also attracted by garbage, bandicoots and domestic animals like dogs. “The public should be aware of the presence of leopards around Valparai and avoid direct interaction with them by not venturing out at night. Domestic animals should be kept in safe enclosures. More awareness on these aspects will be taken to the people through the municipality and the police,” said the officer. The committee has resolved to address issues such as improper management of garbage, waste generated at the Valparai Government Hospital and bushes in and around the town. It also wanted night drives and tourism activities intended for sighting leopards to be called off and street lights installed across Valparai town. Assistant Conservators of Forests of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve E. Prasanth and S. Selvam, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division A. Sukumar, Regional Joint Director of Veterinary Services (retired) N.S. Manoharan, Valparai Municipal Commissioner S.S. Suresh Kumar, Valparai tahsildar S. Raja, Valparai Chief Medical Officer Mahesh Anandhi, Sub-Inspector of police Sowrirajan, and Forest Range Officers K. Jayachandran (Valparai) and A. Manikandan (Manambolly) are the members of the committee which was constituted by Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Director of ATR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-to-address-factors-that-attract-leopards-to-valparai-town/article35457239.ece
22 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Free examination writing centre||Students who want to write online entrance, college or school exams can make use of a facility to be inaugurated on July 24 by Rotary Club of Coimbatore West. The centre, located at 15, Kalidas Road in Ramnagar, has wired data connection, fans, lights, and power back up. Students can pay a minimum charge to use it and the facility is available free of cost to the needy. P.P. Subramanian, the Chief Consulting Engineer of PP Associates, said the company has set up a board room on the same premises to be given on rental basis. It has smart board and can be used for meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-examination-writing-centre/article35457215.ece
22 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Snooping row: Congress urges PM to submit white paper in Parliament||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Wednesday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi submit a White Paper in Parliament in the context of the current row over ‘illegal surveillance’, using Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, of ministers, politicians, journalists, judiciary, and other prominent persons in the country. Talking to reporters in Chidambaram, Mr. Alagiri said that Union Home Minister Amit Shah should quit office since he had ‘compromised national security’. The fact that Pegasus software is sold only to governments and to no one else shows that the Prime Minister and Mr. Shah had colluded with the NSO group in using the spyware against political opponents and journalists, he charged. The Congress leader said it is amusing that the Indian investigation agencies, including Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and Intelligence Bureau (IB) were kept in the dark over the illegal surveillance in spite of the fact that the three agencies had been reporting daily to Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. “The Prime Minister should submit a white paper on the issue so that all misgivings could be cleared. Although India is the cradle of democracy, the surveillance issue, and keeping it out of bounds only exposes Mr. Modi’s shattering of our democratic and constitutional values,” he said. SC-monitored probe The TNCC also demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the snooping controversy. Mr. Alagiri said that the Prime Minister had urged people to get vaccinated as vaccine in the arm would make one ‘Baahubali’ in the fight against COVID-19. But now, the snooping of mobile phones exposes all that is happening in our households to countries like Israel, China and Pakistan, he claimed. The nation’s security had been jeopardised because of the snooping incident. “How can the Prime Minister guarantee security if such illegal surveillance takes place?” he asked. The illegal surveillance has exposed the fragile security apparatus. The Centre has not denied the snooping incident, he said, adding that the TNCC would take out a rally to the Raj Bhavan in Chennai on Thursday over the Pegasus snooping controversy. Mr. Alagiri also condemned the Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya for misleading the country that no deaths were reported by any State because of shortage of oxygen. He said that several states, including Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana had reported deaths due to lack of oxygen and the Minister was misleading the country by lying about the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snooping-row-congress-urges-pm-to-submit-white-paper/article35457617.ece
22 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records zero deaths, 79 COVID-19 cases||Cuddalore district reported no deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. As many as 79 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the overall tally to 59,748. The district saw 58,017 recoveries and 835 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 34 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 43,476. Kallakurichi district reported 44 cases, taking the overall tally to 28,634.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-zero-deaths-79-covid-19-cases/article35457615.ece
22 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Private schools not allowed to collect full fee||Parents may flag out of turn fee collection by schools in violation of the high court ruling, according to the Education Department release. As per the interim ruling of the Madras High Court last year, all private schools shall collect not more than 40% of the fee by August 31, and 35 % of the fee two months after the reopening of the school. The remaining 25% of the total fee shall be collected only after orders from the government. Schools shall not force parents to pay full fees in violation of the court order. Further, parents and students aggrieved by forcible fee collection by schools may raise a complaint with the district administration throughdpimatric@gmail. com, a release from the Chief Education Offier N. Geetha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-schools-not-allowed-to-collect-full-fee/article35457333.ece
22 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Road safety review meeting held||A review meeting on road safety and law and order was held here by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini in the presence of Superintendent of Police C. Kalaichelvan at the Collectorate. With the increase in vehicular traffic, there is a need to improvise on traffic safety measures on roads in order to ensure there are no road accidents. Accidents cause both loss of life and property and a majority of accidents could have been easily averted if safety measures and public awareness went together, Ms.Dhivyadarshini said. In Dharmapuri, the highways department has undertaken road repair works in several stretches. Such works shall also entail safety improvisations to the road including pedestrian crossing, speed breakers, reflectors, traffic lights, and warning boards, Ms. Dhivyadarshini said. The Collector urged the officials to ensure safety improvisations are undertaken in the already repaired roads. Further, officials were also urged to check the functioning of traffic lights. In addition, overloaded trucks that damage the roads should be intercepted and fined adequately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-safety-review-meeting-held/article35457334.ece
22 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Talavadi commuters face hardship at inter-State border||With inter-State bus service with Karnataka yet to resume, commuters in Talavadi who commute to work place face hardship as they have to depend on autorickshaws to reach the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border and board the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses to reach their destinations. Hundreds of people in Talavadi travel everyday to Chamrajanagar in Karnataka which is located 17 km away. While many work in hotels and vegetable mandis, many visit hospitals for undergoing various treatments. Due to lockdown, inter-State bus services between the two States are yet to resume. After the lockdown norms were relaxed, workers started commuting to their work place in the past two weeks. But, in the absence of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus services and private bus services to various destinations in Karnataka and KSRTC bus services to Talavadi , commuters depend on goods carriers to reach the State borders at Ellakattai and Pulinjur check-post and board the KSRTC buses. Likewise, commuters from Karnataka reach the border and board autorickshaws and reach Talavadi to proceed towards Sathyamangalam. “Buses are operated once in every three hours from Talavadi to Sathyamangalam and hence buses are overcrowded”, said S. Manickam, coordinator, Talavadi Taluk Farmers’ Association, who wanted more buses to be operated. He said that absence of inter-State buses is causing hardship to the workers and hospital goers to Chamarajanagar and Sathyamangalam and wanted frequency of bus services to be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talavadi-commuters-face-hardship-at-inter-state-border/article35457345.ece
22 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 141 cases, three deaths||Erode district reported 141 new cases, taking the tally to 92,325. While 213 persons were discharged, 1,936 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, taking the toll in the district to 626. Salem district reported 119 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 92,397. While 154 persons were discharged, 1,653 persons continue to be under treatment. Four persons died, raising the toll to 1,534. Namakkal district reported 59 cases taking the tally to 46,648. While 83 persons were discharged, 773 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 438. Krishnagiri district reported 28 cases, while 48 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 452 cases as of Tuesday. A total of 41,052 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri district recorded 31 cases and one death, while 65 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 461. As of date, a total 25,774 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-141-cases-three-deaths/article35457340.ece
22 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water released into Kalingarayan canal||Water was released from Bhavanisagar dam into Kalingarayan canal to carry out farming in 15,743 acre in the district here on Wednesday. The State government had ordered the release of water from July 21 to November 17 for a period of 120 days to benefit farmers in Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi taluks. On Wednesday, water was released from the dam that reached Kodiveri anicut and later reached Kalingarayan anicut at Bhavani. Officials of the Water Resources Department and farmers opened the sluices at the anicut. At 8 a.m., the water level at the dam stood at 96.42 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet while the storage was 26.01 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The inflow was 2,519 cusecs while the discharge was 600 cusecs in Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 400 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-into-kalingarayan-canal/article35457347.ece
22 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sakthi Masala firm workers get vaccinated||A total of 650 workers at Sakthi Masala Private Limited were vaccinated here on Wednesday. At a special camp organised at Sakthi Hospital, run by the company, workers above 45 years were vaccinated with a second dose of Covishield.     The charred body of a 52-year-old man was found near a graveyard at Nanjappa Nagar at Karungalpalayam here on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Azaenset of Palakattur in the city. Inquiries revealed that he was unmarried and was found roaming at street in Nanjappa Nagar. On Tuesday, unidentified persons smashed a boulder on his head and set him on fire.     A 58-year-old man, who sexually assaulted a four-year-old child in Anthiyur, was arrested by the police here on Wednesday. Police said that when the girl was playing outside her home on Tuesday evening, Devaraj lured her with chocolates and took her to a secluded place and assaulted her. Based on a complaint, All Women Police Station at Bhavani arrested him.     District Collector Shreya P. Singh provided study materials to a UPSC aspirant who was rescued from child labour years ago. According to officials, Ms. Selvi hailed from Tirunelveli. Her family migrated to Namakkal when she was in Class VI and her mother died soon after. Later, she started working in a powerloom unit near Pallipalayam and was rescued by the officials from the National Child Labour Project. With the support of officials, she completed her undergraduation and got married recently. Ms.Singh met her on Monday and enquired about her preparations for UPSC examination.     A man was arrested near Marandahalli for illegal production and supply of country guns to buyers. The accused E. Shankar of Kadur village in Denkanikottai in Krishnagiri was arrested during a vehicle check. It was found that Shankar and his father Ellappan were engaged in manufacturing country guns and supplying to buyers for hunting of animals. The accused led the police to 11 persons in Dharmapuri, who had bought the country guns from Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sakthi-masala-firm-workers-get-vaccinated/article35457342.ece
22 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Since extension works are scheduled to be carried out by Tangedco in the electric lines from Kasipalayam and Kavindapadi sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 22 and 23 in the following areas:  Muthampalayam line: Rail Nagar, Anna Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Rettapalivalasu, Muthampalayam Housing Unit Phase 5 and 7.  Town Kavindapadi line : Kavindapadi, P. Mettupalayam, Perundalaiyur and Salangapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35457343.ece
22 July 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||New vegetable market in Karur soon||The Karur Municipality plans to construct a new vegetable and fruit market in the town. Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji, who inspected the existing market named after former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj on Wednesday along with Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, said there were 184 shops in the market. The building had become old and some of the shops were in dilapidated condition. There was demands for a new market.Hence, it had been decided to construct a new market at the same place at a cost of Rs. 10.25 crore. A proposal to that effect had been sent to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-vegetable-market-in-karur-soon/article35457301.ece
22 July 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Ration rice seized||The police have seized 15 tonnes of ration rice and rice flour from three rice mills here and are on the lookout for the rice mill owners who went underground after the seizure. Sources said three rice mills and godowns attached to these mills were checked on Tuesday after Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kovilpatti, Udhayasooriyan received information about the ration rice stocked in these places. Revenue Divisional Officer, Kovilpatti, Sankaranarayanan, tahsildar Amudha, and Inspector of Police, Kovilpatti East Police Station, Sujith Anand participated in the raid. After breaking the locks in the rice mills following permission given by Collector K. Senthil Raj, the police raided the rice mill on Kadalaikaaran Street belonging to one Kannan and seized six tonnes of ration rice. The team also raided the rice mill and the godown in the same area, both belonging to Vijay to seize six tonnes of ration rice and rice flour reportedly made from the ration rice. When the officials entered the rice mill and godown owned by one Marimuthu, they could seize three tonnes of ration rice and rice flour. In all, 12 tonnes of ration rice and three tonnes of rice flour were seized and handed over to the Civil Supplies CID Police for further investigation. A hunt is on to nab Kannan, Vijay and Marimuthu. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police, Civil Supplies CID, Bhaskaran, who inspected the check-posts at Kaliyakkavilai and Netta, asked the police personnel to be vigilant. “Once the ration rice is seized, the police should start investigation for arresting the master brain behind the smuggling of ration rice so as to put an end to the smuggling of the essential commodity meant for the poor in Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized/article35457324.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Transfer patta of a property in favour of woman: High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the authorities concerned to transfer the patta of a property to a woman. It took cognisance of the fact that Tirunelveli Corporation attempted to claim the right over the property through adverse possession. It was hearing the petition filed by S. Kanaga in 2013. The property belonging to her grandmother was bequeathed to her in 2002 by her mother. She then made an application to the Palayamkottai Tahsildar seeking to issue the patta in her name. She was then directed to approach the Revenue Divisional Officer. The patta was issued in her name after an inquiry. Aggrieved by this order, Tirunelveli Corporation authorities filed a revision petition before the District Revenue Officer. This petition was allowed. Then, in 2011, she moved the High Court for relief. The order was quashed and the matter was remanded back to revenue authorities to inquiry and pass orders. The District Revenue Officer passed an order directing both the parties to approach the Civil Court to settle the issue. A finding was recorded that the Corporation perfected the title through adverse possession. The order to issue the patta in the name of the petitioner was again set aside. This was challenged by the petitioner. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh sought the reports in the case. Perusing the Town Survey Field Register, the court observed that it was shocked to see manipulations in the record that was so apparent on the face of it. There was absolutely no basis for the corporation to claim any right over the property. The manipulation was noticed by the Tahsildar and the Revenue Divisional Officer. This was one of the reasons why the claim of the Tirunelveli Corporation was rejected in the first place and the patta was directed to be issued in favour of the petitioner. The claim was made only by virtue of manipulated entry made in the register. The court said that the property in question was vacant land. It is a settled law that insofar as vacant land is concerned, possession follows title. Without a title, Tirunelveli Corporation can never claim to be in possession of the property. Whereas the petitioner was able to trace the title from 1935 onwards when the property belonged to her grandmother. The court quashed the order that was passed by the District Revenue Officer and upheld the order passed by the Revenue Divisional Officer. The court directed the patta be transferred in favour of the petitioner and the necessary mutation be carried out in the revenue records by the Tahsildar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transfer-patta-in-favour-of-woman-high-court/article35457320.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Pass orders after hearing TANTRANSCO, landowners’||Considering the importance of the Virudhunagar-Coimbatore high voltage transmission line project, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Dindigul Collector to pass orders after hearing the TANTRANSCO and the local residents who had raised an objection. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by residents of Dindigul district. They sought a direction to restrain the TANTRANSCO authorities from entering their land for erection of high tension transmission towers and drawing of the transmission line. The petitioners opposed the project being taken through their land. They said that there was a deviation from the resettlement plan and they would be losing their property. If the line was drawn as per the original plan, their land would be spared, they said. In a counter affidavit, the TANTRANSCO submitted that the proposed project would improve operational efficiency, quality of power, reliability of the system and reduced losses leading to better voltage profile in Tamil Nadu. The 765 KV transmission line would pass through Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul and Tiruppur districts. A deviation was made in the line route taking into account the fact that an already existing line was passing close to the proposed route near Thovar reserve forest. Taking note of the fact that already 50 % work was completed, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said that the deviation in the route happened in Silvarpatti village. The original resettlement plan was conducted through remote sensing and GIS technologies method. The plan was prepared with assistance from Anna University. Thereafter, a physical survey was conducted and it was found that the route alignment passed through the reserved forest. Then, the final route was suggested, reviewed and accepted. The judge observed that specialists were involved in the process of drawing the plan of the important project and unless the court found any illegality on the face of it, the court cannot venture into giving its views on the findings of the expert body. Further, the court said that there was no requirement for the authorities to get consent of the owners of the property or issue notice before proceeding with the project as the government permitted TANTRANSCO to execute the project as per the provisions of Electricity Act. However, whenever any objection or protest was made by the landowners, the authorities have to necessarily approach the District Collector as per the provisions of Telegraph Act to seek the order to enter the property, the judge said. The court observed that unless the order was obtained, authorities cannot enter the property. The court directed TANTRANSCO authorities to file the application and Dindigul Collector to pass orders after affording opportunity to hear the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pass-orders-after-hearing-tantransco-landowners/article35457246.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bakrid celebrated in city||Eid-Ul-Azha, also known as the festival of sacrifice, was celebrated in Madurai district on Wednesday. With the re-opening of religious institutions in the State, people offered their special prayers in eidgah and mosques. People followed COVID-19 protocol by wearing masks and maintaining physical distance while offering the prayers. Sanitisers were provided at the eidgah and mosques, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, said Government Kazi of Madurai A. Syed Khaja Mueenudeen. Goats and sheep were sacrificed as part of the celebrations and people shared the meat with their near and dear ones and the poor and needy. This is done to maintain the spirit of togetherness, he said. In Tirunelveli, TNTJ president M. Shamsul Luha Rahmani said Muslims should strictly follow charity during Bakrid and Ramzan by helping and feeding the poor. After the prayers, the TNTJ sacrificed several sheep and bulls and gave the meat to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bakrid-celebrated-in-city/article35457537.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Circular on RSS chief’s visit triggers row, corporation official shunted||An Assistant Commissioner of Madurai Corporation was on Wednesday relieved from his post following a political row over his circular relating to the impending visit of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to the temple town. The Assistant Commissioner (Personnel) had issued a circular on Tuesday to all Zonal Officers to take up road repair and cleaning work on the route on which the RSS chief would travel during his visit to Madurai from Thursday. In a tweet, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan questioned under which rules of Madurai Corporation had the Assistant Commissioner issued such a circular. The circular had said that the RSS chief would be visiting Satyasai Nagar for a four-day programme from Thursday to Monday. It instructed the officials to get information about the itinerary of the leader — from his arrival at Madurai airport — and take up repair works on the road he is to travel. The local body officials should not dig up any roads for renovation works on his route, and the zonal officers were asked to keep a watch on it. Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan initially said that this was done as part of security arrangements given for the Z Plus protectee. In a statement, the Commissioner also added that the Assistant Commissioner had been asked to give an explanation for unilaterally issuing the circular that gave room for ambiguity and also for issuing it without getting permission from higher officials in violation of administrative procedures. Later in the day, the Assistant Commissioner was removed from his post.  The official has been asked to give an explanation for issuing the circular that gave room for ambiguity Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/circular-on-rss-chiefs-visit-madurai-official-shunted/article35457208.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Landmarks to be lit up in green today||Three decades after Fragile X was discovered as the single gene linked to autism, India is set to join the global awareness initiative in a big way for the first time by illuminating prominent buildings in teal green on July 22, observed as World Fragile X Day. So far 23 malls, hotels, clubs, high rise apartments have confirmed their participation. These include the Fortune Pandiyan Hotel, Madurai, and Daiwik hotel, Rameswaram, in Tamil Nadu, two city centres in Salt Lake and New Town in Kolkata, the Woodrose Club, Augusta Club and MLR convention centre in Bengaluru, One Mall in Ahmedabad, Planet Godrej residential towers in Mumbai, Mayo College, Ajmer and six properties of the Taj group of hotels in Pune, Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur and Gurugram, among others. The Fragile X support groups and families view this as a big leap in their efforts to throw light on the lesser known genetic condition that passes down silently through generations. In 1991, the Fragile X was identified by three American researchers as the most common inherited single gene cause of autism. In India, 400,000 individuals are said to be affected with Fragile X Syndrome (FXS), according to Shalini Kedia, the founder-chairperson of Fragile X Society-India, established in 2003. Research studies by the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, and the National Fragile X Foundation in California estimate that one in 3,000 male babies and one in 8,000 girl babies are affected with FXS while four per cent of all children with diagnosis of autism have FXS as the underlying cause of their condition. “Counselling about FXS can empower the family with reproductive options and make a difference in their life,” said Debashis Ghosal, a parent advocate from Kolkata. For the first time, 30 children diagnosed with FXS will be participating in a mini-marathon on Thursday in Mumbai. The global illumination campaign was launched in 2018 with the lighting up of the Niagra Falls. In 2019, the Taj Mahal Tower, Mumbai, joined the cause. This year more than 250 lightings are scheduled globally. By tomorrow evening, Ms.Kedia expects more buildings to get on the campaign. “A family just called to say they would illuminate their two small restaurants on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Such gestures strengthen our movement,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/landmarks-to-be-lit-up-in-green-today/article35457540.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||14-year-old boy held for impregnating minor near Melur||A 14-year-old boy has been charged with impregnating a minor girl near Melur. The boy and the girl, who were classmates in a nearby school, were relatives and lived in the same street. “They seem to have been infatuated with each other and were unaware about the implications of a physical relationship. Since the parents were away at work and with school remaining closed, they got more time to spend together,” Superintendent of Police, V. Baskaran, said. Not only the parents, but also the neighbours had not suspected anything as they were very young. The issue came to light when the girl was taken for a medical check-up after she complained of ill-health. Consequently, the police was alerted. The boy has been booked under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The SP said that educating teenage children, both boys and girls, about good touch and bad touch by their parents will prevent such crime. “After POCSO Act came into force, the police have been very stringent and abusers are being brought to book. Yet, family surveillance of children and knowing the persons with whom the girl children spend more time is important to safeguard them,” Mr. Baskaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-year-old-boy-held-for-impregnating-minor/article35457322.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Constable recruitment: Physical test begins on July 26||Physical test for recruitment of grade one constables for police will be held for 2,727 candidates from July 26 to August 10 at MGR Stadium in Race Course, here. In a press release, Madurai district Superintendent of Police, V. Baskaran, said that all the candidates must produce a COVID-19 negative certificate taken four days prior to their schedule for physical test. They should also bring all the original educational certificates, without which they would not be allowed to enter the ground. Those candidates, whose photographs are not present in the downloaded hall tickets, should bring two passport-size photographs, and original copy of Aadhar card, voter identity card or driving license for proof of identity. The candidates should not wear shirts with any slogans or peculiar identity or colour. Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board will later announce the date for physical test for those infected with COVID-19. Candidates would not be allowed to carry their mobile phones to the examination centre. They should compulsorily wear masks, he said. Candidates can download their hall ticket fromwww.tnusrbonline.organd appear at the centre at the specific time and date allotted for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-recruitment-physical-test-begins-on-july-26/article35457538.ece
22 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam was 130.10 feet (permissible level 142 ft) with an inflow of 1,344 cusecs and discharge of 900 cusecs. The water level in Vaigai dam was 68.37 ft (max level 71 ft) with an inflow of 1,058 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Rainfall Thekkadi recorded 0.6 mm, Gudalur 4.8 and Uthamapalayam recorded 1.4 mm rainfall during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35457325.ece
22 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Hunt on to nab youth for abusing girls||The All Women Police of Marthandam are on the lookout for a teen, who sexually abused a Plus Two student and allegedly kidnapped a SSLC student after ditching the first victim. Police said Abhi, 19, from Marthandam allegedly sexually abused a Plus Two student on several occasions as the girl’s mother is working in another district. Later, he reportedly was in a relationship with a 14-year-old SSLC student from nearby Kaliyakkavilai. When the Plus Two girl met Abhi to know the reason behind their strained relationship, he allegedly threatened and verbally abused her. Upset over this, the girl told her mother about it and the Abhi threatened her also. So, the mother filed a complaint with All Women Police, Marthandam. When the police went to Abhi’s house, he was not there. Even as the hunt is on to locate Abhi, a woman from Kaliyakkavilai filed a complaint with the All Women Police alleging that Abhi had kidnapped her daughter, the SSLC student. The police registered another case based on the complaint from the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hunt-on-to-nab-youth-for-abusing-girls/article35457677.ece
22 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners mull strike over fuel price||South Zone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association (SIMTA) has appealed to both the Central and State governments to reduce the price of diesel by August 9, failing which it would call for an indefinite strike. G.R. Shanmugappa, general secretary of the association, which is an apex body of lorry owners of the southern States, told the media in Erode on Wednesday that the price of diesel increased by Rs. 28 a litre in the last one year and the price was hiked 36 times. He said that of the 26 lakh lorries in South Indian States, less than seven lakh lorries were operated for essential services while over 40% of lorries could not be operated. “Both the governments should reduce the taxes on diesel and reduce the price”, he said, and wanted Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to keep his promise to reduce the price of diesel by Rs. 4. Mr. Shanmugappa said the license agreement for toll fee collection at 571 toll plazas across the country, including 33 in Tamil Nadu, had expired. “But the fees continue to be collected at those toll plazas”, he said. He urged the governments to invite them for talks and arrive at an amicable solution. “If they fail to hold talks, we will hold a meeting and call for an indefinite strike”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-mull-strike-over-fuel-price/article35457219.ece
22 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Panel to crack down on banned plastic smuggled into U.T.||In spite of a ban in place on Single Use Plastic (SUP) in the Union Territory for well over a year, the prohibited material is still finding its way into markets with officials of the Puducherry Pollution Control Committee (PPCC) seizing over Rs. 10 lakh worth of SUP products from a city godown in a recent raid. According to officials at the PPCC, during its constant vigil on the stockists and godowns it began tracking a major godown on Louie Pragasam Street. A team, comprising the tahsildar, deputy tahsildar of Puducherry taluk, senior environmental engineer and junior scientific assistant of PPCC, inspected the godown. They found large stock of various banned plastic items, such as carry bags, cups and tumblers valued at over Rs. 10 lakh. The godown premises has been sealed. Ban on 10 types Officials said that Government of Puducherry has imposed a ban on 10 types of Single Use Plastic in the Union Territory since August 2019. This ban order prohibits manufacture, stock, sales, transport and use of these single use plastic. The PPCC, the regulatory body under the Department of Science, Technology and Environment, had subsequent to the ban shutdown 20 industries engaged in the manufacturing of these banned items. No change However, in spite of this, the usage of the SUP has not decreased and the banned material continues to sneak its way into the marketplace. It is learnt that banned items are transported from other States, stocked and being sold, officials said. On the direction of the Secretary and Director of Department of Science, Technology and Environment, the PPCC would maintain a vigil on the illegal single use plastic supply chain, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-crack-down-on-banned-plastic-smuggled-into-ut/article35457624.ece
22 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Namassivayam reviews law and order arrangements||Home Minister A. Namassivayam on Tuesday night visited several places in the town to review law and order arrangements. The Minister inspected Rajiv Gandhi Square, Indira Gandhi Square, New Bus Stand area, Venkatasubba Reddiyar statue, Raj Theatre, Nellithope Signal and Ajanta Theatre junction. The visit followed the review meeting the Minister had after taking charge of the Home portfolio. According to a police officer, the Minister had issued a specific direction at the review meeting to increase night patrolling so that activities of anti-social elements could be thwarted. The Minister wanted to see for himself deployment of police personnel during the night and requirements. Additional Director General of Police Anand Mohan and other senior officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namassivayam-reviews-law-and-order-arrangements/article35457622.ece
22 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 death reported even as Union Territory logs 112 new cases||No COVID-19 death was reported on Wednesday even as the Union Territory logged 112 new cases from 6,549 tests and 139 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The cumulative toll remained at 1,781 deaths — Puducherry (1,417), Karaikal (224), Yanam (104) and Mahe (36). Puducherry logged 85 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (12), Yanam (8) and Mahe (7). The test positivity rate was 1.71%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.71%. The active cases remained below the 1,000-mark and totalled to 961 cases, including 163 in hospitals and 798 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,19,935 cases and 1,17,193 recovered patients. Vaccination update Of an estimated 14.43 lakh tests administered so far, over 12.33 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory to date aggregated to 6,51,889, including 37,712 healthcare workers, 22,950 frontline personnel and 4,60,523 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-reported-even-as-union-territory-logs-112-new-cases/article35457614.ece
22 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK plea not to table Fisheries Bill||DMK convenor (North) S. P. Sivakumar has appealed to the Centre not to table the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021 in the monsoon session of Parliament as some of its provisions had triggered disquiet among the fishermen community and protests across coastal pockets. In a statement, Mr. Sivakumar said there were genuine concerns over some of the provisions in the proposed Bill relating to criminalisation and imprisonment of fishermen, use of force against them and levy of heavy penalties. Certain clauses in the Bill also infringe upon the rights conferred to the States under the State List of the 7th Schedule of Constitution of India, he said. The DMK leader called for consultations with fishermen communities and a fresh Bill formulated incorporating their views in the interests of protecting marine resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-plea-not-to-table-fisheries-bill/article35457620.ece
22 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It is a dream project’||About 100 farmers owing allegiance to Farmers Forum of India staged a demonstration here on Wednesday condemning Karnataka government’s plea in the Supreme Court against the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking project in Tamil Nadu. The demonstration, which lasted about 30 minutes at the new bus stand, was led by Forum State general secretary G.S. Dhanapathy. Mr. Dhanapathy said the river-linking was a dream project not only for Pudukottai but also for other drought-prone districts as its implementation would ensure diversion of excess Cauvery water during floods through the canal to be dug from Mayanur barrage in Karur district to prevent wastage of water into the sea and flooding. The decision of the Karnataka government to file a plea in the Supreme Court was condemnable, the Forum functionary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-a-dream-project/article35457312.ece
22 July 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||D. Kuppuramu is chairman Coir Board||The Union government has appointed BJP leader D. Kuppuramu as the chairman, National Coir Board, under the Union Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. The BJP functionaries organised a felicitation function here on Tuesday. During the function, Mr. Kuppuramu said that the Coir Board was currently exporting Rs. 3,000 crore worth goods every year. The Board, in consultation with the Union Minister Narayan Tatu Rane would enhance the exports. For this, the Board would explore job opportunities for youth and womenfolk in more districts. Steps would be taken to open an export centre in Ramanathapuram. AIADMK leader Anwar Raja commended the BJP leadership for recognising their loyal functionaries with such posts. It was good to see Mr. Kuppuramu head the Coir Board at the national- level, Mr Raja said and appreciated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership. BJP national leader H. Raja said that the Union government would be eager to hold a dialogue with the fishermen leaders on the proposed Marine Bill. “I have a strong suspicion that some middlemen were behind the fishermen agitation,” he said and called them for a discussion. He assured that anything which were anti-fishermen would be dropped. He also said that the Tamil Nadu government cannot oppose the NEET blindly as the Supreme Court was directly monitoring the progress. Any attempt to move away from NEET would mean contempt of court. He clarified that it was the DMK and the Congress which had given its nod to NEET, while in power in the past. After the BJP came to power, in the last seven years only one fisherman died and too in an unfortunate incident. Whereas, the number of fishermen who died during the Congress rule when the DMK was heading the State government was around 500, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/d-kuppuramu-is-the-new-chairman-for-coir-board/article35457319.ece
22 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Anti-dengue operations intensified in Salem||As part of anti-dengue operations, conservancy workers removed discarded coconut shells and other waste materials along the roadside here on Wednesday. With the onset of South-West monsoon, the Corporation is focusing on anti-dengue operations in all the 60 wards in the four zones. Coconut shells, worn-out tyres, broken bottles and other materials abandoned along the roads that could be a breeding place for mosquitoes were being removed. Workers said that tender coconut sellers dump the shells along the roads at many places that could turn into a breeding of mosquitoes that transmit the dengue causing virus. Hence, they were involved in removing the shells and other waste materials in the corporation limits, they added. They said that they are also identifying vacant plots and lands where rain water stagnates and ask the owners to take steps to prevent rain water stagnation on the land. They said that obsolete tyres could also be seen along the roads while plastic items can hold rainwater and serve as breeding spaces for mosquitoes.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Erode, the Corporation has deployed 300 workers to carry out anti-dengue operations in all the 60 wards in four zones. Officials said that COVID-19 positive cases have dropped significantly in the corporation limits and they were focusing on other development activities. Since monsoon season has started, all the precautionary measures were being taken to prevent outbreak of dengue. They said that major drainages were desilted and work is on to clear the silt. They said that as part of dengue preventive activities, workers were also educating the residents to keep their premises clean and also prevent stagnation of rain water. Water gets accumulated in the collection tray at the backside of the refrigerator which turns out to be a major source of mosquito breeding. Hence, residents were asked to clean it regularly. Officials said that workers will execute their duties until the end of monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-dengue-operations-intensified-in-salem/article35457338.ece
22 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man detained under Goondas Act||City Police Commissioner Najmal Hoda invoked provisions of the Goondas Act against a history-sheeter who was recently arrested in a murder case. On December 22, 2020, Chelladurai of Kitchipalayam was hacked to death by a gang led by Vasur Raja alias Thulasi Govindarajan. He went into hiding and was arrested in February. Fourteen others, who were involved in the murder, were already arrested and detained under the Goondas Act. Inquiries revealed that he was involved in murder, dacoity, sale of ganja and disturbing the peace of the public. A total of 30 cases were pending against him in Vellore, Cuddalore and Bengaluru. His bail petition was dismissed in the court last week. Since he would be involved in crime activities if he is out on bail, based on the recommendations, he was detained under the act. Detention order was served to him at the Central Prison in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-detained-under-goondas-act/article35457341.ece
22 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Probe irregularities at Tamil University: TUPC||The Tamil University Protection Committee (TUPC) has urged the State government to form an inquiry committee headed by a retired judge to probe the alleged irregularities and corrupt practices indulged in by the administrators of Tamil University, Thanjavur. In a memorandum submitted to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, TUPC coordinator Thyaga Kamaraj of Thanjavur, an advocate, has listed out various charges against Tamil University Vice-Chancellor G. Balasubramanian. Claiming that mishandling of activities of the university by the Vice-Chancellor and his authoritarianism had resulted in the institution inching towards nihility, Mr. Thyaga Kamaraj exhorted the State government to form an inquiry committee to look into the charges and save the university. He also forwarded memorandums detailing the irregularities and maladministration of the Tamil University Vice-Chancellor to the Governor of Tamil Nadu and Chancellor of Tamil University Banwarilal Purohit and Minister for Tamil Official Language and Culture and Pro-Chancellor of Tamil University Thangam Thennarasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-irregularities-at-tamil-university-tupc/article35457299.ece
22 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||NDRF reaches Theni||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team arrived here and inspected ghat sections covering Kumuli, Cumbum Mettu, Bodi Mettu and Megamalai. Following the south west monsoon setting in, the government, as a preparatory measure, has held meetings to tackle the challenges that may arise. The NDRF team members led by Inspector Ganesh Prasad inspected the 6-km stretch from Lower Camp to Kumuli on Wednesday in which Uthamapalayam Tahsildar Udayarani, Gudalur Municipal Commissioner Arumugam and others were present. The waterbodies in the district and areas prone to inundation were also discussed during a meeting, officials said.    The annual girivalam around the Dindigul Fort (Malaikottai) being taken on the Pournami (July 23) has been banned this year. According to Dindigul Collector S Visagan, following COVID-19 pandemic, the government has imposed a lockdown. Hence, the public have been informed to cooperate by staying indoors and not to converge at the Fort.    Periyakulam MLA Saravana Kumar flagged off a TNSTC bus from Theni to Bodinayakkanur covering hamlets including Boothipuram, Manji Nayakanpatti, Valayapatti and Kodangipatti among others. According to the MLA, after 10 years, the villagers in these pockets could commute to Theni comfortably in government buses. The DMK, he said, had promised to re-introduce the bus facility, if elected. Keeping the party's poll promise made in the manifesto, he said that the frequency would be enhanced depending on the patronage. Initially, six trips would be made during the day. Senior DMK leader Thanga Tamil Selvan, who also travelled on the bus till Bodi, purchased tickets for all the passengers on board on the inaugural ride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndrf-reaches-theni/article35457323.ece
22 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen rescued||Three country boat fishermen, who went missing on Tuesday, were rescued on Wednesday. Francis, 28 and Thamizharasan, 28, both from Inigo Nagar here, and John Jayapaul, 40, of Periythaazhai had gone for fishing. Though they should have returned by noon, they failed to do so. A few fishermen ventured into the sea in search of them. They could not locate anybody. They alerted Tharuvaikulam Marine Police and the Indian Coast Guard. When the fishermen started search operation in the areas 15 nautical miles away from Thoothukudi shores on Wednesday, they located the trio, whose country boat was drifting away after the engine of their boat tripped due to technical snag. The team rescued the three fishermen with the boat and reached Inigo Nagar on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-rescued/article35457680.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New landing system installed at Tiruchi airport||A team from Radio Construction and Development Unit of Airports Authority of India, New Delhi, has installed the new and upgraded Instrument Landing System (ILS) at Tiruchi International Airport. A nine-member team, which arrived here in the first week of July, completed on Tuesday the task of installing the new system that would aid in smoother landing of flights. The team upon accomplishing its task has left for New Delhi. As part of the upgraded ILS, a set of 16 new antennae have been installed on a concrete platform constructed at the end of Runway 27 adjoining Tiruchi-Pudukottai national highway. The glide path — a navigational equipment and another component of the ILS — is on the end of Runway 09 towards Nathamadipatti side. “With the new ILS having been installed, the flight calibration test to ensure accuracy and integrity of the upgraded system is expected to be conducted in the first week of August,” Airport Director S. Dharmaraj said. A separate team from the Flight Inspection Unit from New Delhi armed with required equipment will conduct calibration tests at Tiruchi before the new and upgraded ILS is formally commissioned. The flight calibration tests will be conducted for a day or two depending on the requirements using an aircraft with onboard calibration system, he further said. The localiser of the upgraded system will provide centre line information of the runway to pilots, while the glide path information pertaining to the angle of descent. A few officials of the Radio Construction and Development Unit will join the team when the flight calibration test is done. After completion of the test, approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation will be sought before commissioning the new system. The new ILS is expected to get commissioned by mid-August, he aded. The entire project has been executed at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-landing-system-installed-at-tiruchi-airport/article35457310.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Holy Cross Community Radio to host talk show on pandemic||The Holy Cross Community Radio (90.4MHz) run by students of Holy Cross College has been selected to raise awareness of COVID-19 in partnership with UNICEF. The project seeks to take the help of youth to encourage COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and the importance of vaccination. Through the project, the students must organise a 30-minute show per week on the topic. Busting myths on the vaccine, bringing doctors and other experts to the show to talk on the issue and other topics related to the pandemic, motivating youth to join hands in the fight against the infection and, most importantly, addressing the stress on mental health are on the agenda. The Holy Cross Community Radio was the brainchild of A. Christina Bridget, Principal, Holy Cross College. “We hope that the radio will continue to be a bridge between the community and the students, and will help create meaningful change,” she said. The college has a special recording room and other facilities for the initiative. The college was part of the project last year, too, airing a 25-minute weekly programme in Tamil that focused on COVID-19 norms including physical distancing, handwashing habits and care for patients. UNICEF reaches out to public broadcasters across the world. In India, they got in touch with the Community Radio Association based in New Delhi, of which the Holy Cross Community Radio is a part of. The Community Radio was also part of three other programmes organised by Google News Initiative to create COVID-19 awareness, the Election Commission on voting during the pandemic and AYUSH Ministry on treating mental and physical health through yoga. A team of six students along with the station manager and the assistant station manager are expected to begin work on the project soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holy-cross-community-radio-to-host-talk-show-on-pandemic/article35457303.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination of pregnant women begins in Tiruchi district||The Tiruchi district administration has begun inoculation of pregnant women following a directive from the Centre allowing them to be vaccinated against COVID-19. All primary health centres will have some doses of the vaccine solely for pregnant women and post natal mothers. According to the instructions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, pregnancy does not increase the risk of COVID-19 infection, but current evidence indicates that pregnant women are at an increased risk of contracting severe illness from COVID-19 compared to non-pregnant women in case they get infected. Preganant women can get the shot at any time during their pregnancy as no specific period has been indicated. Keeping in mind the instructions, health officials in the district have drawn up a plan to provide a stock of vaccine doses to primary health centres to inoculate only new mothers and pregnant women. Tiruchi district records 3,000 births in a month. So, taking into account pregnancies over the last nine months, at least 25,000 women are to be inoculated, a senior health official toldThe Hindu.  “Primary health centres have dedicated Tuesdays to monitoring pregnant women. When they come for their regular check-up, we also give them awareness of the COVID-19 vaccine and the importance of taking it,” a staff nurse at a primary health centre said. Vaccine hesitancy? Similarly, Village Health Nurses, who conduct door-to-door check-ups, and field-level awareness programmes have also been given the task of encouraging pregnant women to take the jab. While there is some hesitancy, the women are not averse to the vaccine, the staff nurse said. “They worry about the health of their child, but once you tell them the benefits, they are convinced. We have a staff member here who is pregnant and has taken the vaccine. Talking to her also alleviates some concerns,” she added. Pregnant women and postnatal mothers can approach their nearest primary health centre to get the COVID-19 vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-of-pregnant-women-begins-in-tiruchi-district/article35457305.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bakrid celebrated with fervour||Muslims across the central region celebrated Bakrid in a sombre manner keeping in mind COVID-19 restrictions in place. The festival of sacrifice is celebrated on the 10th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic or lunar calendar. According to the Quran , Bakrid is celebrated to commemorate Prophet Abraham’s faithfulness to God. During the celebrations, Muslims practise the act of Qurbani , which involves an act of sacrifice and distribution of meat to family members and the needy. The festival also marks the end of the annual Haj pilgrimage to the holy town of Mecca. Muslims visited mosques and gathered in small groups at their homes along with family members. “We had to keep in mind the COVID-19 protocol as some of us had tested positive and recovered recently. However, the spirit of Eid was palpable,” a resident of Thillai Nagar said. The price of goats had shot up due to COVID-19 restrictions affecting transport through State borders, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bakrid-celebrated-with-fervour/article35457307.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||303 cases, four deaths||The central districts reported 303 fresh cases and four deaths on Wednesday. Of the four fatalities, three were reported in Tiruchi and one in Pudukottai district. The remaining seven districts reported no COVID-19 deaths. For the first time since May, all districts in the region reported less than 100 fresh COVID-19 cases. Thanjavur reported 90 fresh cases, while Tiruchi reported 71. Officials of the district administration cautioned the public to continue to maintain COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, including mask-wearing and personal distancing, while also insisting on vaccination as a means to protect themselves from the infection. Nagapattinam district reported 29 fresh cases and neighbouring Mayiladuthurai 28. Ariyalur reported 21 fresh COVID-19 cases and Pudukottai reported 20. In Karur district, 15 patients tested COVID-19 positive, while Perambalur district reported the lowest COVID-19 cases in the region on Wednesday with 11 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/303-cases-four-deaths/article35457308.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||HC order: Devarayaneri residents hope for early eviction of encroachments||With the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directing the Public Works Department to remove encroachments from Devarayaneri irrigation tank on the outskirts of the city, farmers of the village are hopeful that their long-pending demand would soon be fulfilled. Disposing of a petition filed by D.R.Karuppasamy, a resident, the High Court, in its recent order, had directed the PWD to remove the encroachments within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of the order. In its counter affidavit, the PWD, the first responnent, had submitted that villagers of Devarayaneri had made representations from 2015 to remove the encroachments made in Devarayaneri tank. Since Revenue records such as A-Register, FMB, and other records were not available with the Revenue Department, a team was deputed to Chennai to trace and get the records from the archives as well as from the Survey and Settlement Office, Chennai. After hectic efforts, copies of records were obtained from Chennai and a joint field inspection was conducted on November 4, 2020. It was found encroachments,by way of cultivation, had been made by the people belonging to the nomadic Narikuravar community in an extent of more than 120 acres out of 369.73 acres of tank. In an extent of 9.94 acres, the people from the community had constructed pucca houses and nearly 200 families were residing there. The encroachments would be evicted by due process of law, it said. The High Court, in its judgement, said it was open to the respondents (the PWD and the District Collector, the second respondent) to consider providing alternative accommodation to the encroachers while removing the encroachments. Welcoming the order, Mr. Karuppasamy hoped that the PWD authorities would act swiftly and remove the encroachments. “It is our long-pending demand. We do not want the habitations to be removed. It is enough if they remove the land used for cultivation by encroachers and a sign board was installed cautioning tresspassers ,” he said. The tank is fed by the Uyyakondan canal running from Vazhavanthankottai tank. It also gets rain flows from jungle streams in Pudukottai district. It has a registered ayacut of about 600 acres, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-order-devarayaneri-residents-hope-for-early-eviction-of-encroachments/article35457314.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fake godman, anti-social and advocate arrested||The city police on Wednesday arrested a fake godman, Tejas alias Balasubramaniam, on the charge of duping people by claiming that he had close contacts with politicians and officials. Police also arrested an anti-social element, Jai alias Kottapattu Jaikumar, and an advocate, Karthik, who had links with the fake godman and supported him. A press release said Jai allegedly trespassed into a liquor outlet in Ponmalai police station limits and stole liquor bottles last month. A case was booked by Ponmalai police against Jai and his brother Rajkumar under various IPC Sections in this connection. On Wednesday, Jai allegedly threatened the complainant that he would be ‘eliminated’ if he appeared as witness in the court. He also claimed that he had close links with ‘godman’ Tejas alias Balasubramanian of Allithurai near here. He said the ‘godman’ had close contacts with politicians and police personnel and advocate Karthik. He also stated that the ‘godman’ had promised to have his name removed from the list of anti-socials to be killed in ‘encounter’. During inquiry, it came to light that Tejas was a ‘fake’ godman who had been duping people by claiming close contacts with politicians and officials. The arrested fake godman, Jai and the advocate were later remanded to judicial custody, the release further said. Commissioner of Police A. Arun warned that stern action would be taken against fake godmen and asked people to lodge a complaint in case they were duped by such persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-godman-anti-social-and-advocate-arrested/article35457675.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||Covishield doses will be administered at the following vaccination camps in the city on Thursday: Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Srirangam (second dose only); Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam; and Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College in Srirangam zone; Corporation High School, Ambikapuram (Second dose only); Corporation Elementary School, Bhagavathipuram, Tiruverumbur; and Servite Matric School, Duraisamypuram in Ariyamangalam zone; Infant Jesus Matric School, Edamalaipattipudur ( (Second dose only)); Mukkulathor High School, Thanjavur Road, and Kalaiarangam Mahal in Golden Rock Zone; Corporation Elementary School, Thennur (Opposite to EB Office – Second dose only); Corporation High School, Kaliamman Temple Street, Edamalaipattipdur, and St.John’s Vestry Higher Secondary School, in K.Abishekapuram zone. The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m. and tokens will be issued by medical officers from 8.30 a.m., according to a press release from Tiruchi Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article35457315.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special prayers mark Bakrid celebrations||Thousands of Muslims participated in the Bakrid special prayers conducted in various parts of four southern districts on Wednesday and offered meat, cash and grocery items to the poor. TNTJ president M. Shamsul Luha Rahmani, while participating in the prayers organised at Masjid-Ur-Rahman in Melapalayam, said the Muslims should strictly follow charity during Bakrid and Ramzan by helping and feeding the poor. The TNTJ was helping the poor from all religions. After the prayers, the TNTJ sacrificed several sheep and bulls and gave the meat to the poor. “The skin of the sacrificed animals is sold and this proceeds would usually be utilized for the medical treatment and the education of the poor,” he said. State president of Social Democratic Party of India Nellai Mubarack participated in the Bakrid prayers conducted in the Karim Nagar Masjid Huda by Meeran Mohideen Anwari. Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab participated in the prayers organised in the mosque at Aththiyooththu Street. Bakrid prayers were conducted in Palayamkottai, Ervadi, Pettai, Kalakkad, Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram, Maanur and other areas of Tirunelveli district. In Tenkasi district, a few thousand Muslims participated in the Bakrid prayers conducted in Kadayanallur. Similar prayers were organised in Tenkasi, Shencottai, Vadakarai, Puliyangudi, Vasudevanallur and Sankarankovil. Goats and bulls were sacrificed after the prayers and the meat was shared with the poor and the friends. In Thoothukudi district, special prayers were conducted in Rahmathullahpuram, Anna Nagar, Millerpuram, Rahmath Nagar, Zakhir Hussein Nagar, Muthiahpuram, Terespuram, Kaayalpattinam, Udangudi and other areas. Muslims offered special prayers in Nagercoil, Marthandam, Kanniyakumari, Thittuvilai, Thuckalay, Thiruvithancode, Thaengaaipattinam, Kaliyakkavilai, Colachel and other areas of Kanniyakumari district. In all these places, those who participated in the Bakrid prayers were asked to maintain physical distancing and masks were distributed in most of the places before the start of the prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-prayers-mark-bakrid-celebrations/article35457679.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Decision on varisty hailed||The Joint Action Council of College Teachers – Tamil Nadu has welcomed the State Government’s decision to convert the Annamalai University from ‘unitary university’ into ‘affiliating university’. In a letter to the Chief Minister, M. Nagarajan, its convener said their organisation wholeheartedly welcomed the move to convert Annamalai Unitary University into an affiliating university. “It will benefit various stakeholders of Annamalai University in particular, and the enhancement of access to quality higher education for the students from four districts in general,” he observed. A new Annamalai University Act must soon be enacted based on the doctrine of democratisation of higher education. In the proposed University Act, higher education stakeholders must be given equal representation in the syndicate so as to involve all stakeholders in the decision-making process. It is pertinent to point out that the deputation of surplus staff of Annamalai University to government colleges must be streamlined in consultation with JAC. A proper policy must be formulated in this regard and implemented in letter and spirit in all government colleges situated in the above mentioned four districts, which are to be affiliated to the Annamalai University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-varisty-hailed/article35457682.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Police extending a helping hand||Family of a police officer that lost its head recently got help from batchmates of the late police officer serving in various parts of Tamil Nadu. When the policemen, who joined Tamil Nadu Police in 1993, renewed their contacts over the social media, they decided to help the families of those who died in harness after joining the force along with them. As the ‘1993 batch’ lost seven of their friends, mostly to COVID-19, in the past six months, the friends started contributing to help these families. In Tirunelveli, the Tamil Nadu Police on last May 24 lost Special Sub-Inspector of Police M. Johnson of ‘1993 batch’, who was attached to the Tirunelveli Junction Police Station. Subsequently, the 1993 policemen, calling themselves as ‘1993 Kaakkum Karangal’, serving in Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar and Perambalur districts mobilized funds for helping the family of Johnson and handed over Rs. 6.29 lakh to the family of the late police officer on Wednesday. After consoling the family, now living in Mallika Colony in Thiyagaraja Nagar in Palayamkottai, they assured the family of Johnson that they would always be there to help them in future also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-extending-a-helping-hand/article35457681.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Work on Chennai - Salem expressway on a fast lane||More than a decade after it was taken over by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) from the State Highways Department, the Chennai-Salem Expressway via Tirupattur (NH 179A) will get a complete makeover — including conversion of the existing two-lane stretch into a four-lane carriageway — at a total cost of Rs. 252 crore in phases. Currently, the first phase of the multi-crore work is being undertaken between Kathaani village in Vaniyambadi of Tirupattur district and Harur in Dharmapuri, for a distance of around 45 km, on the expressway. The expressway covers a distance of 125 km between Salem and Vaniyambadi (Tirupattur). It connects with the Benguluru Highway (NH 48) at Vaniyambadi. “The widened stretch will be much safer and it will be a shorter route for travellers. Travel will be much easier and safer for the goods-laden lorries also,” Amar Kushwaha, District Collector, Tirupattur, told The Hindu.  Sanctioned by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the existing two-lane expressway will be widened to 22 metres from its existing seven metres width making it convenient for container lorries and trailer vehicles to use the stretch safely. Further, the stretch will also have wide stormwater drains with six feet depth and three feet width. Solar-powered LED street lights will be installed with reflectors and warning signboards. Rest lanes for trucks and other goods vehicles will also be created. The widening work will help de-congest the existing two-lane expressway and the Benguluru Highway. Once the widening work gets completed, the expressway is also set to be become a toll road between Chennai and Salem. At present, the Expressway witnesses huge traffic from Vellore, Ranipet, Ambur, Arcot, Wallajah, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chennai mainly due to the stretch being narrow. Another reason for the traffic chaos on the expressway is because a large number of goods-laden lorries and trucks avoid the Benguluru Highway to reach Salem from Chennai and instead, they take the expressway via Vaniyambadi route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-chennai-salem-expressway-via-tirupattur-on-the-fast-lane/article35457619.ece
22 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Former tahsildar succumbs to mucormycosis||K. Kalavathi (53), former tahsildar of Uthukuli taluk who was under treatment for mucormycosis at a private hospital here, died on Tuesday. An official from the Health Department said on Wednesday that she had tested positive for COVID-19 in May and was admitted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai, Erode district. She was subsequently referred to a private hospital on Perumanallur Road in Tiruppur Corporation limits in July after developing symptoms of mucormycosis. After around 15 days of treatment, Kalavathi died at the hospital at around 6 p.m. on Tuesday, the official said. This was the first reported death due to mucormycosis in Tiruppur district as 14 cases have been confirmed in the district so far, out of which 13 patients have recovered, according to the official. Medical leave Revenue Department sources said that Kalavathi served as the Uthukuli tahsildar from March to May this year and had been on medical leave since the last week of May after testing positive for COVID-19. The district administration had appointed R. Jagadish Kumar as the new Uthukuli tahsildar on June 28 as part of a reshuffle, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-tahsildar-succumbs-to-mucormycosis/article35457231.ece
22 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||PDS rice seized||Officials from the Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection Department on Wednesday seized over 200 bags of rice meant for distribution under the public distribution system (PDS) from a building in Murugampalayam within corporation limits. Officials said the department’s flying squad led by special tahsildar P. Sundaram reached the spot based on a tip-off. On searching the premises, the officials found the rice bags weighing more than 10 tonnes. The seized rice will be send to the Civil Supplies godown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pds-rice-seized/article35457234.ece
22 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Needs of Dharapuram will soon be addressed: Minister||The long-pending needs of the residents of Dharapuram will be addressed soon, said Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Wednesday. She chaired a review meeting with Dharapuram Sub-Collector Anand Mohan and other officials at the Sub-Collector’s office. Speaking to mediapersons, she said that the Government Hospital at Dharapuram will be modernised and a government arts college will be established soon. Noting that Dharapuram (Reserved) was her constituency, Ms. Kayalvizhi added that the issues related to pattas, drinking water supply and infrastructure will soon be adressed by the Tiruppur district administration. The Minister also inaugurated a fair price shop near Kundadam during her visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/needs-of-dharapuram-will-soon-be-addressed/article35457233.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Free COVID-19 kits for patients in home quarantine||Free COVID-19 care kits are to be distributed to patients in home quarantine in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts by Sri Ramakrishna Seva Sangam, Tiruvarur. The kit comprising a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, vapouriser, face masks, sanitiser, soap, immunity booster powders and tablets worth Rs. 1,500 has been sponsored by Ramakrishna Mission Students’ Home, Chennai, which launched free distribution of the kits in Chennai on June 1. Those who wish to avail the free kit should approach the Seva Sangam within five days of declaration of RTPCR test result with permission to remain in home quarantine by district health authorities or local civic body. Desirous patients can contact Vijayakumar, Sri Ramakrishna Seva Sangam, K.T.R. Office, Inooru Pillaiyar Kovil North Street, Vijayapuram, Tiruvarur (mobile number: 095664 14475), according to a press release from the Sangam. Thanjavur Thanjvaur Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on Wednesday visited Manambuchavadi in corporation limits where a family was ordered to remain in home quarantine after a family member tested positive for COVID-19. Accompanied by Corporation Commissioner, K. Saravanakumar, the Collector enquired after the condition of the patient and whether the civic body/health department personnel deputed to look after their requirements were extending their assistance. Later, the Collector inspected containment measures implemented by Thanjavur Corporation at Jabamalaipuram where seven members of a family had tested positive and were undergoing treatment at Thanjavur Medical College hospital, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-covid-19-kits-for-patients-in-home-quarantine/article35457298.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Six PEW personnel suspended||Six police personnel attached to Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Tiruvarur district, have been placed under suspension for failing to initiate legal proceedings against two persons found smuggling liquor. According to sources, the police personnel intercepted two persons travelling on a motorcycle near Kachanam in Alivalam police station limits on July 2 and found them carrying liquor bottles brought from Puducherry. But they were allegedly let off by the team headed by Inspector K. Gnanasumathi. On receiving a the tip-off, Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan ordered an inquiry into the incident. The inquiry proceedings confirmed that the PEW team comprising Ms. Gnanasumathi, Sub-Inspector Varalakshmi, Head Constables Shanmugasundaram and Raja and Grade-I Constables Bharathidasan and Vimala let off the smugglers. The suspension order was served to them on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-pew-personnel-suspended/article35457300.ece
22 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in elephant attack||A 62-year-old man died of injuries he suffered in an elephant attack at Mavanallah in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Wednesday. Forest department officials identified the deceased as A. Iruthayaraj, an area resident. The man was riding a motorcycle at Mavanallah when he crossed paths with a wild elephant. The elephant is believed to have charged at Iruthayaraj and knocked him off the motorcycle, before possibly trampling him. Iruthayaraj was rescued and rushed to the Primary Health Center in Masinagudi, where he was given first aid. He was then shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Udhagamandalam, where he died. A postmortem will be conducted on Thursday as the victim’s family could not be immediately located.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-elephant-attack/article35457226.ece
22 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 38 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,754 with 38 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total of 46,236 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 428. The district's death toll is 1,090. In Ranipet district, 27 cases were reported positive and the total number of cases stood at 41,732. In Tirupattur district, 18 new cases were reported and the tally of positive cases touched 28,009. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 65, taking the total to 51,493. Out of this, 49,988 persons have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 872.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-38-new-cases/article35457625.ece
22 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Physical test for constabulary recruitment starts on July 26||The first phase of physical examination for recruitment of grade one constables for police and Departments of Prisons and Fire and Rescue Services will be held for 3,096 candidates from July 26 to August 3, here. The physical examination will be held at K.V.S. Boy’s Higher Secondary School ground on Madurai Road. While the test for 2,228 male candidates will be held between July 26 and 30, the examination for 868 female candidates will be held on August 2 and 3. In a statement, Virudhunagar district Superintendent of Police, M. Manohar, said that all the candidates must produce a COVID-19 negative certificate for tests taken four days prior to the physical test. Those infected with the virus should ensure that COVID-19 positive certificate along with the call letter, is handed over to the SP, who is also the head of the sub-committee of Virudhunagar Examination Centre, through their guardians or others. Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board will later announce the date for physical test for those infected with COVID-19. Candidates would not be allowed to carry their mobile phones to the examination centre. They should compulsorily wear masks. Candidates can download their hall ticket fromwww.tnusrbonline.organd appear at the centre at the specific time and date allotted for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-test-for-constabulary-recruitment-starts-on-july-26/article35457317.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode corporation plans to establish integrated market, bus terminal||The Erode corporation has planned to establish a modern integrated market and a bus terminal on 51.4 acre at Solar Pudur along the Karur Bypass Road. On Tuesday, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy said that to ease traffic congestion in the city, a long term solution is needed and hence a bus terminal would be established at Solar Pudur apart from the development of the existing terminal at the middle of the town. The corporation owns the land where the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board had established an effluent treatment plant 18 years ago that remained defunct in all these years. With the Rs. 40 crore development works at the bus stand in the city is expected to begin soon, discussion is on to shift the bus stand to Solar Pudur and to a college premises at Veerappanchatiram. Officials had inspected the land at Solar Pudur last week and Collector H. Krishnanunni is expected to take a final call for shifting the bus stand temporarily to the two spots. The Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market that functioned on R.K.V. Road were shifted temporarily to VOC Park Ground during the COVID-19 pandemic last year. Since buildings at the market on R.K.V. Road were demolished and construction work has begun, over 850 shops continue to function on VOC Park Ground. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the Minister had proposed the idea of a modern integrated market like the model of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex that would have godowns, storage facility, wholesale and retail shops selling vegetable, fruit and flowers and with other facilities. Also, the bus terminal would be big in size with all facilities, he added. Mr. Elangovan said that the two projects were focused on a long-term vision and added that a consultant needs to be appointed to carry out a feasibility study for the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corporation-plans-to-establish-integrated-market-bus-terminal/article35457336.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to get 5 lakh additional doses||The Minister said it was for this purpose that a meeting with private hospitals was held in Coimbatore on Tuesday. A total of 117 hospitals from Coimbatore, Salem, Erode and Tiruppur took part. "The Union government is supplying vaccines for free to the State government which, in turn, is offering them for free to the people. However, private hospitals pay for the 25% vaccines and provide them at a cost. While Covaxin costs Rs. 1,410, Covishield costs Rs. 780. People are not showing interest in paying for vaccines at private hospitals," he said. This was why the government asked the industries to join hands with private hospitals to procure vaccines using Corporate Social Responsibility funds so that vaccines were available free of cost at private hospitals, he added. Similar meetings with private hospitals in Chennai, Vellore, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur will be held in Chennai in two days. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang paid a courtesy call on Mr. Subramanian and later visited the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital at Omandurar Estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-get-5-lakh-additional-doses/article35457176.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||183 new cases, one death in Coimbatore||As many as 183 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The district had 2,525 active cases of the disease while 306 persons recovered. The district’s death toll increased to 2,141 after a 50-year-old woman died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday. The daily caseload of Tiruppur district went below the 100-mark after nearly four months as 97 new cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 86,916. Prior to this, the district reported less than 100 new cases on April 6. The Health Department reported no new deaths as the toll remained at 815. The district reported 1,562 active cases and 132 recoveries on Wednesday. In the Nilgiris, 58 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 30,013. The number of deaths in the district stood at 173 on Wednesday while 838 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/183-new-cases-one-death-in-coimbatore/article35457237.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival of sacrifice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-of-sacrifice/article35457223.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prompt response||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prompt-response/article35457243.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival of sacrifice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-of-sacrifice/article35457332.ece
22 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE Society all set to open dedicated cancer hospital||Belagavi-based KLE Society, which runs two medical colleges and three hospitals, is all set to open a dedicated cancer hospital. A cancer hospital of world standards will become functional in Belagavi by February next year, society chairman Prabhakar Kore said in a release. He recently visited the construction site of the hospital. He also met Director of Tata Memorial Cancer Hospital Umesh Mahantshetti in Visakhapatnam and also other experts. The hospital will cater to patients from North Karnataka, Goa and South Maharashtra, Mr. Kore said. Work on the building, behind the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, is nearing completion. The hospital will have a clinical team of highly qualified, experienced surgical oncologists, radiation oncologists, medical oncologists, social workers and trained nurses. The society has begun the process of appointing other necessary staff to the hospital. It is being built at a cost of Rs. 200 crore. It will have well ventilated, airy wards to provide comfort to inmates. Mr. Kore said that the cancer hospital will provide comprehensive cancer care, including counselling, testing, chemotherapy and other treatment methods, radiation, medical oncology, surgery and post operative care. Doctors will be using result-oriented treatment methods. The hospital will be a state-of-the-art and technology-driven facility. The 200-bed hospital will have the best available modern medical gadgets and equipment. They include modular operation theatres, round-the-clock diagnostics, including nuclear medicine, and PET-CT scan technology. As many as 40 cancer patients are under treatment in the Prabhakar Kore Hospital attached to JN Medical College in Belagavi. KLE directors V.S. Sadhunnavar, Shankaranna Munavalli and S.C. Metgud, KAHER Vice-Chancellor Vivek Saoji, M.V. Jali, hospital medical director, Kumar Vinchurkar, S. Imtiyaz and others were present during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kle-society-all-set-to-open-dedicated-cancer-hospital/article35457355.ece
22 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rashtriya Basava Dal expresses support for BSY||Rashtriya Basava Dal, a pan-India federation of Lingayat associations, has expressed its support for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “Removing him as CM will be an insult to voters,” Bavaraj Dhannur, national president, RBD, said in a release. “If the BJP high command has any plans to oust Mr. Yediyurappa, it should scrap them,” he said. “If he is abruptly removed, it will be an insult to the voters and the Lingayat community,” he said. The BJP got the most votes in the State in the recent elections only due to him. If the BJP cuts short his term, it would amount to betraying the trust of voters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rashtriya-basava-dal-expresses-support-for-bsy/article35457369.ece
22 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Simple Id||Bakrid was celebrated in a simple manner across Belagavi and Dharwad districts. Prayers were held in batches at the Idgah Maidan in Belagavi. In Hubballi, the faithful greeted each other on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-id/article35457359.ece
22 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CAD and CAM facility launched in Dharwad||Chancellor of the SDM University Veerendra Heggade visited the university campus in Dharwad on Wednesday. He inaugurated a CAD CAM machine in the Prosthodontics Department and CBCT X- Ray machine in Oral Medicine Department. He also inaugurated a new laboratory in the dental care department. Experts Krishna Burade, Satyabodh Guttal and Priya Horatti showed him around and gave details of the new equipment. Vice-Chancellor Niranjan Kumar, pro-Chancellors S.K. Joshi and V. Jeevandhar Kumar, Registrar Lieutenant Colonel U.S. Dinesh, administrative director Saket Shetty, principals Balaram Naik and Ratnamala Desai, Padmalata Niranjan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cad-and-cam-facility-launched-in-dharwad/article35457353.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Top 10 affected wards are in city’s outer areas||The number of COVID-19 positive cases has seen a steady decline across the State, including in the capital Bengaluru, which was bearing the brunt during the raging second wave. But within the city, most wards in the top 10 reporting the most cases in the last 10 days are in the outer areas. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) bulletin of July 21, the top 10 wards with most cases were Kuvempunagar, Horamavu, Ramamurthynagar, Hoodi, Hagadur, Agara, Varthur, Bellandur, Uttarahalli and Begur. In contrast, many wards in the top 10 with the least number of cases are core city areas, Dharmarayaswamy Temple, Cottonpet, and Padarayanapura. Asked about the reason behind the trend, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep said those with the most cases at present are high mobility wards in terms of movement of persons. M.K. Sudarshan, Chairman, Technical Advisory Committee, told The Hindu that there was a similar trend one saw the last time too before the beginning of the second wave. “One major factor is that the newer areas have a high migratory population - those who move frequently. There are new layouts, the rent is lower; the segment of population is different. In the central core city areas, it is mixed - commercial and residential. So not many people are on the move because of the lockdown and COVID-19 related restrictions. So the group of people is different,” he explained. Other experts also pointed to the possibility of the presence of antibodies in certain populations as they have already been infected as another epidemiological assessment. As Bengaluru Urban reported 419 new cases on Wednesday, and the city still recording close to 10,000 active cases, Dr. Sudarshan said the simplest strategy to tackle wards with high caseloads is testing - tracking - treating. “Vaccination is another requirement, but it depends on stock availability. Wherever cases are more, testing, tracking and treatment should be done aggressively,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-top-10-affected-wards-are-in-citys-outer-areas/article35457140.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Revenge tourism’ makes its presence felt in Karnataka||As lockdowns were lifted in different parts of the country, visuals of people holidaying with a vengeance lead to many things: anxiety in lawmakers and the medical fraternity, relief for the battered tourism sector, and the coinage of a new term — ‘revenge tourism’. Sure enough, popular destinations in Karnataka have not been left behind from the trend. The tourism circuit is witnessing huge footfalls in the State’s most famous travel hubs. In fact, most stakeholders agree that the response post the second wave lockdown is far higher than what was seen after the first wave restrictions were lifted. M. Ravi, vice-president of Karnataka Tourism Forum, said tourist accommodations in popular destinations in the State, especially resorts, were booked to capacity till the long weekend of August. “Many properties are sold out. Sakleshpur, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu are seeing good turnouts. This certainly fits the term revenge tourism,” he said. While the resurrection of business is being welcomed by the sector, they are joining the chorus of sounding an alarm, calling for a more regulated approach. With thousands of private vehicles thronging Mullayanagiri, they have suggested to the district administration to let mini coaches ferry visitors instead. Utham Hulikere, Chikkamagaluru district homestays association president, said since the lockdown opened up and restrictions were eased all over, a lot of people were heading to the district. “We are following very strict protocols; we’re allowing only 50% occupancy. We are calling guests for meals at different times. This way, the guests also feel safe because we notice a lot of families travelling now. The problem arrives when they travel to tourist spots and don’t follow protocols, creating apprehension among the local people,” he said. The stakeholders met on Friday to discuss the way forward and among the suggestions for curbs were restricted timings at the tourist spots. “At the end of the day, it is economics — many have lost staff because they couldn’t pay to keep them, which in turn was because there was no income. Not that plantations are doing well either now. Homestay was a boost for planters. For months during the pandemic, properties were lying unused and they look run down. We have suggested that marshals should guide tourists on dos and don’ts at tourist spots,” he said. Mr. Hulikere though does not agree with the new term being used to describe tourism. “People were tied up for two to three months and they are frustrated. They want to feel free. So the response is overwhelming. We are even seeing many extending their stay, especially family travellers. Revenge tourism is not exactly the term to use. After being holed up in apartments, with the second wave being so bad as it hit closer home, it has led to frustration,” he said. B.H. Jayanth Pai, Chikkamagaluru district lodge and restaurants owners’ association president, said people were rushing to tourist spots post the lockdown, especially youngsters. “During the weekends, there are huge crowds. Homestays, hotels and restaurants are actually recovering from the three months they suffered,” he said. Monsoon tourism was also contributing, he said, offering the waterfalls in the Charmadi Ghats as an example of a huge draw for tourists. But with the crowds come the problems associated with overtourism. “Trash is a huge problem. We’re not against tourism, but we are definitely against tourists polluting the area,” he said. K.N. Ramesh, DC, Chikkamagaluru, told The Hindu that with a third wave imminent, strict enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines was crucial. “In addition, tourists numbers are swelling. Apart from the pandemic, we also need to look at these spots as eco-sensitive zones. We will consult all stakeholders and come up with measures for regulated tourism. During the weekends, there are 1,500-2,000 vehicles in Mullayanagiri. This has to be controlled, along with coming up with long-term solutions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenge-tourism-makes-its-presence-felt/article35457148.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,639 new cases, 36 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,639 new cases of COVID-19. This takes the total number of cases in the State to 28,88,341. Of the new cases reported, the majority — 419 — were from Bengaluru Urban. Incidentally on July 19 (Monday), the district had reported 266 cases.  A total of thirty-six people were reported dead on Wednesday, taking the COVID-19 death toll to 36,262.  As many as 2,214 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,26,411. There are currently 25,645 active cases in the State. While the positivity rate for the day was 1.07%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 2.19% Testing As many as 1,52,714 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-1639-new-cases-36-deaths/article35457142.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 murder accused shot at, held||The city police have cracked the murder of a history-sheeter who was hacked to death inside a bank in Koramangala on Monday and arrested two persons - Pradeep and Ravi, after shooting them in their legs. The accused allegedly attacked the police who tried to apprehend them in the city on Wednesday morning. Both are recovering at a private hospital. Pradeep and Ravi, both in their mid 30s, were allegedly part of the gang of assailants that attacked Joseph Babli and killed him inside a bank on Monday. Pradeep alias Chotte, a history-sheeter with the Ashok Nagar Police Station and Ravi, a history-sheeter with J.C. Nagar Police Station are said to be close associates of another history-sheeter Shiva, presently lodged at Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in connection with a murder case. The police said they were part of a team that murdered Joseph Babli. They suspect the motive is old rivalry over an assault that Babli was allegedly involved in. “We can ascertain the exact motive and identify all the forces behind the murder, only after we arrest the other accused who are still at large in the case,” a senior police official said.  Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant paid a surprise visit to Koramangala Police Station on Tuesday night and pulled up officials for delay in cracking the Joseph Babli murder case. He reportedly set a 24-hour deadline for the case to be cracked. Tip-off Hours later, the Koramangala police reportedly received a tip-off that the two accused were hiding near Begur lake. When a team of officials went to apprehend them, the two accused reportedly tried to flee and also attacked cops with lethal weapons injuring a head constable and an assistant sub-inspector, forcing cops to allegedly fire in self defence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-murder-accused-shot-at-held/article35457133.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC sets aside show-cause notice to professor||The High Court of Karnataka has said that holding of a departmental enquiry as per the law is mandatory for imposing penalties, including dismissal from service, even after an employee of a university is found to be guilty in an enquiry conducted by the internal committee on sexual harassment. “On a coalesce of the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, and the Rules what would unmistakably emerge is, where the Service Rules exist, the report of the Internal Complaints Committee becomes a fact finding report or a preliminary report, with regard to the allegation of sexual harassment and the employer becomes duty bound to proceed under the Service Rules before imposing any major penalty,” the court observed. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Arabi U., a 60-year-old professor in the Department of Economics, Mangalore University. The petitioner had questioned a show-cause notice issued to him on November 5, 2020, on behalf of the varsity’s syndicate asking him why he should not be imposed with the penalty of dismissal from the service based on the findings of the Internal Complaints Committee on Sexual Harassment. A project student had lodged a complaint with the State and National Commission for Women against him when he was functioning as chairman of Department of Economics in April 2018. Referring to Section 19(i) of the 2013 Act that the employer has a duty to treat sexual harassment as a misconduct under the service rules and initiate action for such misconduct, the court also pointed out that the statute governing Classification, Control and Appeal Rules of Employees of Mangalore University also makes it clear that no order imposing any of the major penalties shall be made except after an inquiry held as per the procedure prescribed in the statue. Citing a judgment of the apex court in a similar case related to Central University, Kerala, the court said that the Supreme Court has clearly held that the order of termination being passed on the basis of Internal Complaints Committee was illegal and sets aside the order of termination by holding that regular enquiry or a departmental action as per the service rules is indispensable. While setting aside the show-cause notice issued to the petitioner, the court gave liberty to the varsity to initiate proceedings against him under the service rules by following the procedures stipulated and conclude such proceedings within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-sets-aside-show-cause-notice-to-professor/article35457157.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines to stay deployment of MBBS graduates on compulsory rural service||The High Court of Karnataka has declined to stay the process to deploy medical students, who have secured a seat under government quota of seats for MBBS course and completed degree in 2021, for a one-year compulsory rural service as per the Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012. Stating that the court is of the view that compulsory rural service is much better option to change the mindset of medical students through socialisation of the medical education curriculum, the court said that law of compulsory rural service is not repugnant to the provisions of either the repealed Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 or the newly enacted National Medical Commission (NMC) Act, 2019. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on a batch of petitions filed by Prarthana N. and several other students, who had questioned the June 8, 2021, notification asking them to enrol for counselling for posting them for rural service. Though the High Court in 2019 upheld the 2012 Act, the petitioner had contended that rural service cannot be imposed in view of enactment of NMC Act in 2019, which does not propose such service for medical students. “Currently community medicine is a subject which is cursorily taught to medical students in their early years. Therefore, this court is of the view that the rural service, in all probability, would sensitise them to the miserable health conditions in rural India and infuse a spirit of voluntary service within them. Therefore, compulsory rural service has to be undergone on priority basis,” the court observed. The court also said that “the medical students are also paid decent remuneration for compulsory rural service, and therefore, most students should be willing to put in a year’s rural service as they would acquire valuable practical experience.” “We are in the midst of global COVID-19 pandemic and the experts are anticipating third wave. The fresh graduates in the present context are a ray of hope for the public at large and if the State calls upon the fresh graduates to compulsorily serve for one year with substantial remuneration and if the State ensures that the doctors and other health workers stay at their work place, the threat to the public at large would be taken care of,” the court observed. The court also said that “this is not a time where these young doctors spend their valuable time in litigating...” while pointing out that the petitioner students are bound to undergo compulsory rural service since they had voluntarily executed the bonds while securing seats under the government quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-declines-to-stay-deployment-of-mbbs-graduates-on-compulsory-rural-service/article35457153.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vistadome renews tourism interest in coastal belt||Like it did for Araku Valley, the newly introduced Vistadome coaches on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru rail route has already piqued interest in tourism for the area. Tour operators have started coming up with rail and road packages including the train ride as one of the main attractions. Arjun Travels, for instance, has started offering five- and six-day packages that cover popular attractions such as Belur-Halebidu and Sakleshpur and a ride on the Vistadome coaches. One of them offers Hassan – Mangaluru Vistadome train ride after the Bengaluru-Hassan leg, promising travellers a “scenic, breathtaking glimpses of mountains, valleys, gorges and greenery” on the train ride before reaching Mangaluru. This is the main intention behind introducing the coaches on the route, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma told The Hindu . “It’s not just the destination, the route itself is very good. So along with people travelling to Mangaluru for other reasons, we are seeing a lot of tourists taking this train since we launched it,” he said. The coaches have so far received good feedback via social media too, he said. He added that coaches — each with a capacity to seat 44, are running at almost full capacity — despite the pandemic. When asked if there were plans to expand such a service to similar scenic routes, he said the headquarters would decide on the same. Meanwhile the tour operators in Mangaluru said that “revenge tourism” was already ensuring bumper bookings till August. Vistadome, they said, would definitely cause a fillip. “Beach homes are doing well since the lockdown was lifted. Revenge tourism has already resulted in demand for them and they are booked till August. Though the impact of the train on tourist bookings will be clear in a month, it definitely adds value to the sector here. It has rekindled the excitement of train journeys and has definitely become one of the reasons to come to Mangaluru,” said Yathish Baikampady, the former CEO of Panambur Beach Development Project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vistadome-renews-tourism-interest-in-coastal-belt/article35457150.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Insurance firms told to include nominees in crop scheme||The State government has directed insurance companies to mandatorily include names of family members of farmers as nominees while providing insurance coverage for crops under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil has instructed officials of insurance companies to include family members of farmers as nominees to ensure payment of insurance amount to nominees in case of death of the insured member/farmer. So far, insurance firms have not been including nominees, which has caused difficulties in payment of insurance to families of farmers, according to official sources in the Agriculture Department. Mr. Patil instructed insurance firms not to set up their offices on the premises of the department in districts and taluks, and directed them to open offices outside the department’s offices and provide GPS link of the location to the department. Farmers have been told to provide Aadhaar-linked bank account numbers to insurance firms. In the 2018-19 kharif season, 12.8 lakh farmers claimed crop insurance of Rs. 2,595.86 crore, and of them 12.73 lakh farmers received Rs. 2,586.27 crore. Insurance amount of Rs. 9.58 crore pertaining to 6,215 farmers had not been settled. In the 2019-20 rabi season, 6.81 lakh farmers claimed crop insurance of Rs. 771.81 crore, and of them 6.44 lakh farmers received Rs. 736.37 crore. Insurance amount of Rs. 35.43 crore pertaining to 37,202 farmers had not been settled due to non-linkage of bank account of farmers with Aadhaar, or inactive accounts. In 2020 kharif season, 11.01 lakh farmers opted to insure their crops on 12.81 lakh hectares, according to an official press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/insurance-firms-told-to-include-nominees-in-crop-scheme/article35457158.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rare Chrysilla volupe spiders discovered at Puttenahalli lake||A pair of Chrysilla volupe spiders, a rare species, was recently spotted at Puttenahalli lake by photographer Satish Chandra Karanth. The discovery has residents, members of the Puttenahalli Neighbourhood Lake Improvement Trust (PNLIT), and wildlife enthusiasts ecstatic. The Chrysilla volupe was believed to be extinct for 150 years, until it was discovered at the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) in 2018. Mr. Karanth, who is a regular visitor to the lake, expressed his surprise when he spotted the spider. In a release by PNLIT, he said, “While I was trying portrait shots of a garden lizard in our Puttenahalli lake bed last week, this colourful rare spider popped up on its head.” The spider belongs to the family of jumping spiders (Salticidae) and scientifically named Chrysilla volupe. Male spiders are 5.44 mm long including stretched legs and 1.76 mm wide. They have a carapace in reddish orange colour with two iridescent blue stripes, stated PNLIT in the release. Females measure 2.61 mm long and 0.88 mm wide, and have a greyish carapace with grey eyebrows with all legs yellow in colour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rare-chrysilla-volupe-spiders-discovered-at-puttenahalli-lake/article35457135.ece
22 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Package tour from Bengaluru to Jog Falls||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be introducing a package tour from Bengaluru to Jog Falls via Shivamogga, Sagar with non A/C Sleeper service on weekends (Fridays and Saturdays). The tour includes a visit to Varadahalli, Varadamoola, Ikkeri and Keladi. The first tour is scheduled for July 23. The fare for adults is Rs. 1,900 each and for children (6 to 12 years) Rs. 1,700 each, according to a KSRTC release. For details, visithttps://www.ksrtc.karnataka.gov.in/Jog Falls was opened to the public on June 28. The popular attraction is already drawing a lot of tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/package-tour-from-bengaluru-to-jog-falls/article35457137.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IBM to set up ‘Airport in a Box’ at KIA||IBM and Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL), operator of Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru (KIAB/BLR Airport) have entered into a 10-year partnership under which IBM and its spin-off firm Kyndryl would provide IT solutions to create an ‘Airport in a Box’ platform to enhance passenger experience. As one of the fastest-growing airports in the world, KIA has a mandate to become nimble and scalable by building a cost-competitive technology and operations environment to increase agility and operational flexibility to handle future growth in passenger traffic. To achieve this, BIAL has chosen IBM Global Business Services, IBM hybrid cloud capabilities and Kyndryl to design and implement a next generation architecture with a robust and dynamic delivery model, said an IBM release. The new platform will enable BIAL to improve employee productivity, better use IT assets, reduce costs through streamlined inventory control and improved incident management. Hari Marar, MD & CEO, BIAL said, “KIA is a pioneer and leader of change in the Indian aviation industry. Our vision is to make it a smart airport, a digitalised, seamlessly connected, intuitive airport. Our aim is also to introduce more digitally advanced, innovative services and products at BIAL so that the passengers and partners will have seamless access to future forward technologies.” Interestingly, once the ‘Airport in a Box’ platform is fully operational at KIA, IBM may replicate it for the global travel and transportation industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ibm-to-set-up-airport-in-a-box-at-kia/article35457143.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Celebrating the works of Friedrich Engels||To mark the 200th birth anniversary of Friedrich Engels, philosopher, political theorist and revolutionary socialist, Kriya Madhyama and Navakarnataka Publications are bringing out translations of his works and works on him. On Wednesday, a translation of Engels’ seminal work German Philosophy was released. On Tuesday, Prof. G. Ramakrishna’s introductory book on Engels was released, accompanied by a talk on ‘Engels’s Contribution to Scientific Socialism’ by K.K. Theckedath. The first book, translated by V.N. Lakshminarayana, was released by Prof. Rajendra Chenni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-the-works-of-friedrich-engels/article35457144.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU launches alumni financial aid drive||National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru has launched an alumni financial aid drive. Through the drive, which opened on July 20 and will end on August 15, the university hopes to raise Rs. 15 lakh. The overall financial aid targeted for the 2021-22 academic year is Rs. 75 lakh, which will go towards funding the education of deserving students. While any amount of contribution is welcome, NLSIU has put out indicative amounts that will directly benefit one student: 100% waiver on tuition and residence, and support towards stipend – Rs. 3,07,000; 100% waiver on tuition – Rs. 2,02,000; 25% waiver on tuition – Rs. 50,400. As a part of the plan, it will contribute Rs. 20 lakh from its financial aid corpus, and seek to raise Rs. 15 lakh from the alumni community through the rive. The remaining shall be raised through third-party and external aid received from philanthropies, government and corporations. In 2020-21, its alumni contributed to the University Financial Aid, raising approximately Rs. 36 lakh through individual and batch contributions, and 45 students benefited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nlsiu-launches-alumni-financial-aid-drive/article35457145.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lobbying hard for a chair not yet vacant||Lobbying by aspirants to replace B.S. Yediyurappa as the Chief Minister intensified on Wednesday, with several leaders flying to Delhi and Varanasi, even as others were busy getting in touch with senior RSS leaders in the State. Arvind Bellad, known to be on the list of aspirants, flew to Varanasi on Tuesday night where he met Dr. Chandrashekhar Shivacharya Swami of Kashi Peetha of Jangamwadi Mutt, a prominent Veerashaiva Mutt on Wednesday. His visit to Varanasi comes close on the heels of another leader Murugesh Nirani’s visit to Varanasi. These visits have attained significance as Varanasi is being represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Lok Sabha. Sources say the two made their case with those close to the Prime Minister. Several dissident leaders, including Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, C.P. Yogeshwar, and Mr. Bellad, have maintained silence. Shantaveera Swami of Kolada Matha, who held a press conference, said if the BJP high command had decided to affect leadership change in the State, as reports suggest, another Veerashaiva-Lingayat should be made the Chief Minister. He batted for Mr. Bellad, while naming other senior Lingayat MLAs like Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Basavaraj Bommai. Panchamasali Lingayat seers are known to be pushing for a person from their community such as Mr. Nirani or Mr. Yatnal. Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya and a few other MLAs were in Delhi meeting Union Ministers and State party president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Mr. Renukacharya, who has been a vocal follower of the Chief Minister’s camp, said on Wednesday that he was “not senior enough to comment on leadership change”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lobbying-hard-for-a-chair-not-yet-vacant/article35457155.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pegasus spyware: Cong. to stage protest today||Congress legislators of the State will organise a rally from Vidhana Soudha to Raj Bhavan on Thursday to protest against alleged attempts at surveillance of phone numbers of key Congress and JD(S) leaders using Pegasus spyware. Congress MLAs, MLCs, MPs, and other leaders will participate in the protest march and are expected to submit a memorandum to Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot seeking a probe. Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar tweeted: “It’s not our phones; it’s our democracy which has been hacked...” He said that hacking into people’s phones and private lives and using that information for politics, at tax payers’ expense, does no happen in democracies. It was reported by The Wire that during the political turmoil in Karnataka in July 2019, which ended in collapse of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government and the BJP coming to power, the phone numbers of key leaders in the coalition and their associates “were selected as possible targets for surveillance.” These reports are part of a global investigation named “The Pegasus Project”. Phone numbers of the then Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara, personal secretaries of the then Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, and security personnel of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda were selected as possible targets, according to The Wire ’s review of numbers that were of interest to the Indian client of NSO Group, a company based in Israel that developed the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pegasus-spyware-cong-to-stage-protest-today/article35457159.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surjewala, Shivakumar to hold party meetings in Mangaluru, Tumakuru||AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar will hold party meetings with legislators, former legislators, and party office-bearers in Mangaluru on July 23 and in Tumakuru on July 24 in an attempt to revamp District Congress Committees (DCCs) and Block Congress Committees (BCCs) to prepare the party for elections to zilla panchayats and other local bodies. They will meet leaders from five districts – Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru – at the party office in Mangaluru on July 23. On July 24, they will meet leaders from Tumakuru, Kolar, Chickballapur, Chitradurga, and Davangere districts in Tumakuru. Office-bearers of frontline cells and wings of the party, former Ministers and candidates who contested the 2018 Assembly and 2019 parliamentary elections have also been invited to the meetings. Sources said the party has decided to appoint new office-bearers to DCCs and BCCs to energise the party and prepare for elections to various local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surjewala-shivakumar-to-hold-party-meetings-in-mangaluru-tumakuru/article35457161.ece
22 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Why should BSY step down, ask seers||The Malenadu Veerashaiva Mathadheeshara Parishat, a forum of seers of the Malnad region, has come out in support of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The forum, which held its meeting in Shivamogga on Wednesday, wanted Mr. Yediyurappa allowed to complete his term as the Chief Minister. As many as 21 seers of the forum attended the meeting. Mallikarjun Murugharajendra Swamy, president of the parishat, addressing the media wanted to know why Mr. Yediyurappa should step down. “What reason do you want to give? Is he suffering from health issues? Have development works been stopped in his rule? He has been active every day. He has no serious health issues. Manohar Parrikar was allowed to enjoy the post till his last day, despite serious health problems”, he said. Work lauded Mr. Yediyurappa has brought in many development projects for Shivamogga. The district got medical college, irrigation projects, development of Udutadi and many more. He would bring more works if he was allowed to continue, the seer said. Further, Mr. Yediyurappa had given importance to all sections of society in his budget. He should be allowed to complete his term and offered an honourable exit.. The seer also said any move to quit the post would hit the BJP badly. “We are supporting him because every individual of the State has been benefited by his governance in one or the other way.” The seers of various mutts in Shivamogga district were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-should-bsy-step-down-ask-seers/article35457565.ece
22 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Saptapadi programme soon: Minister||Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary has said the State government will introduce Saptapadi, a programme to promote simple marriages, soon. The government will hold marriages on the premises of 100 temples in the State. Speaking to mediapersons after a meeting with officers in Shivamogga on Wednesday, the Minister said the department would provide jewellery worth over Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 10,000 in cash for the bride, besides Rs. 5,000 for the groom, who get married under the programme. The department had already finalised the muhurtas for the event. The officers had been directed to make preparations for the event. This scheme would help many poor families. The Minister said the government would develop basic infrastructure facilities at Kote Anjaneya Temple in the city. An action plan had been finalised. The department would recruit priests to fill up the vacancies, he added. Earlier in the day, the Minister visited Kote Anjaneya Temple with RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa. Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saptapadi-programme-soon-minister/article35457368.ece
22 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM to inaugurate development works||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will launch development works worth over Rs. 1,700 crore related to Shivamogga district virtually on July 24, said RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa in Shivamogga on Wednesday. At a press conference, Mr. Eshwarappa said the works included those being taken up in Shivamogga, Shikaripur, Sorab, Sagar and Thirthahalli taluks. The Chief Minister would take part in the programme from Bengaluru. The programmes will be held at Kuvempu Rangamandir in Shivamogga and other taluk centres simultaneously at 10.30 a.m. orks being inaugurated include tourism development works worth Rs. 185 crore, setting up of a cancer centre at Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences at a cost of Rs. 100 crore, a new district administration office complex at a cost of Rs. 120 crore, and an airport terminal construction at a cost of Rs. 107.89 crore. The Chief Minister would also inaugurate the Agriculture University building constructed by spending Rs. 155 crore at Iruvakki, and the lift irrigation project to provide water for 255 tanks of Udagani-Talagunda-Hosur hoblis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-inaugurate-development-works/article35457553.ece
22 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to bring transgender policy under Social Welfare||Members of the Karnataka Sexual Minorities Forum have demanded that the State government transfer the Karnataka State Transgender Policy 2017 from the existing Women and Child Welfare Department to the Social Welfare Department for effective implementation of schemes meant for sexual minorities. State Coordinator of the Karnataka Sexual Minorities Forum Mallu Kumbar, addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Wednesday, urged the State government to bring the transgender policy under the Department of Social Welfare to reap its benefits. He also demanded that the government set up Karnataka State Transgender Welfare Board and allocate Rs. 100 crore for the welfare of the transgender community. Expressing displeasure over the government attitude towards transgenders, Mallu Kumbar said that the benefits under most of the schemes are not reaching transgenders because there is very little awareness about the schemes among the implementing officers in various departments. The government passed the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights)Act 2019, which ensures the community of equal right to healthcare and welfare measures, but there is no single window to take this up, he added. Mallu Kumbar demanded that the government extend 5% reservation in education, employment and politics for transgender citizens. The government should bring create awareness on transgenders among the common people, he added. “Daily wage workers have some social network, but the transgenders are isolated and a highly ostracised community. Many transgenders even do not have their Aadhaar card or ration card to avail themselves of benefits of the schemes and we have no option to eke out a living but to beg or take up sex work,” Mallu Kumbar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-bring-transgender-policy-under-social-welfare/article35457361.ece
22 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Webinar on canopy architecture in horticulture crops concludes||A two-day national webinar on canopy architecture management in perennial commercial horticulture crops organised by the College of Horticulture, Bidar, a constituent college of the University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot (UHS-B), concluded on Tuesday. The programme, which was inaugurated by Director, Indian Institute of Horticulture, Bengaluru, B.N. Srinivasa Murthy, saw as many as eight lectures delivered by eminent speakers of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and different agricultural universities in the State. Nearly 900 participants from different States enrolled for the webinar. Vice-Chancellor of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, M.B. Chetti delivered the keynote address on light interception and its impact. Scientists from UHS-B D.R. Patil, S.I. Athani, M.S. Kulkarni and T.B. Alloli were the guests of honour. Vice-Chancellor of UHS-B K.M. Indiresh presided over the event. Dean of the College of Horticulture, Bidar, Ravindra Mulge and organising secretaries Praveen Jholgiker, Ashok Surwenshi and Srinivas N and co-organising secretaries Ganeshgouda Patil, Praveenkumar B. Naikode and Nagendra Kawale were present. The former dean of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, T.N. Balamohana talked on canopy management in mango and its advantages and principal scientist of ICAR S.D. Ramteke spoke on the application of growth regulators and canopy management in grapes. Associate professor at the College of Horticulture, Bidar, Praveen Jholgiker presented a paper on high density planting guava and Gundappa of the Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, delivered a talk on pest management in high-density planting in mango and guava. The former director, Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore, M.R. Dinesh, who was the chief guest in the valedictory session, stressed the need for understanding the recent developments in canopy management in commercial horticulture to improve yield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-on-canopy-architecture-in-horticulture-crops-concludes/article35457363.ece
22 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kharge’s birthday celebrated in Kalaburagi||Senior Congress Leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge’s 80th birthday celebrations were held on a grand scale in Kalaburagi city on Wednesday. As part of celebrations, the party activists and leaders showered flower petals on a giant poster of the leader at Jagat Circle. They also cut a cake and burst crackers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kharges-birthday-celebrated-in-kalaburagi/article35457371.ece
22 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sulphal seer bats for Nirani||Sarangadhareshwara Swami, the head of Srishaila Sarang Mutt and Kalaburagi Sulphal Mutt, demanded that the BJP high command give an opportunity to Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani to become the Chief Minister of Karnataka if B.S. Yediyurappa’s removal from the post was inevitable. “I have been telling for long that Mr. Yediyurappa built the BJP in the State from scratch. The BJP would collapse in the State if he is removed. If the party high command is very particular about the change of leadership, I would ask for a Lingayat leader from North Karnataka. I prefer Murugesh Nirani, who represents Panchamasali Lingayats. None from the community has become the Chief Minister though the community’s population size is over 45 lakh in the State.” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sulphal-seer-bats-for-nirani/article35457372.ece
22 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sharanbasaveshwar students do well||For yet another year, students of Sharanbasaveshwar Composite Residential PU College continued their good performance by scoring good marks in the II PU examinations the results of which were announced on Tuesday. Shriya B. Loya and Mallikarjun S. Bhasagi have scored 600 out of 600 each, while Kritika Sherikar, Abhijit Biradar, Nikita and Avinash Bhimangouda secured 599 marks to make the institution proud. Of the 1,088 students, 169 have secured above 95% and 163 students above 90% marks. As many as 470 students have scored distinction, 555 First Class and 53 students obtained Second Class. As many as 530 students scored 100 marks in various subjects. A total of 163 students secured 100 marks in Mathematics, 83 in Physics, 77 in Biology and 61 students scored 100 marks in Chemistry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharanbasaveshwar-students-do-well/article35457362.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nod for DNB in Immunohematology, Blood Transfusion||The National Board of Examination (NBE) in Medical Sciences has granted provisional accreditation to the Government Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru, to conduct the DNB programme in Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion starting the 2021-22 academic year. The accreditation will be valid till December 2025. The Wenlock Hospital is the only institute to offer this speciality course in the State. There are a total of 11 institutes offering this course in the country. Of these, Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, Punjagutta, Hyderabad, is the other one in South India offering this speciality course. This is the first DNB programme offered by Wenlock Hospital. The three-year-long course is taken up after MBBS. In the guidelines for the programme, the NBE said that trainees will receive composite training in fundamentals and applied aspects of transfusion medicine. This post-graduate level programme equips consultants and teachers in transfusion medicine to offer well organised and efficient transfusion services in their institutions. The trainees will be exposed to the latest developments in transfusion medicine and provided with organisational and managerial skills for operation of blood centres, the NBE stated. Two candidates The Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion of Wenlock Hospital has been allowed to take two candidates every year starting in the 2021-22 academic year. Students have to qualify in the entrance examination conducted by NBE and seat allocation will be made through centralised merit-based counselling. The proposal to start this DNB programme was made by the then Superintendent of Wenlock Hospital H.S. Rajeshwaridevi. Her successor Sadashiva Shanbhog pursued it and NBE granted temporary accreditation after inspection of facilities. Dr. Shanbhog told The Hindu that the hospital has posted two of its senior consultants J. Sharath Kumar Rao and Zulfikar Ahmed as faculty members for the programme. Both senior consultants are MD (Pathology) degree holders. While Dr. Rao completed his MD (Pathology) in 1997, Dr. Ahmed did it in 2008. Dr. Shanbhog said that the hospital was well equipped to run the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nod-for-dnb-in-immunohematology-blood-transfusion/article35457550.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Man paid Rs. 2 lakh to contract killers to get his wife killed’||Non-Resident Indian Ramakrishna Ganiga (42) hatched a plan to murder his wife Vishala Ganiga in March and paid Rs. 2 lakh to the two contract killers for executing it on July 12 in Brahmavar in Udupi district, said Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan on Wednesday. Mr. Vishnuvardhan told reporters that the police arrested Ramakrishna Ganiga and Swaminath Nishad (38) of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, who is one among the two contract killers accused in the murder. A search is on for the other contract killer and also others involved in the murder. Vishala Ganiga, who lived with her husband and daughter in Dubai, had come down to her home town on July 2 in relation with partition of ancestral property. She was found dead in her flat in Kumaragodu of Brahmavar on July 12. The police found that the perpetrators had strangled her to death. Five police teams were then formed to trace the accused. Mr. Vishnuvardhan said that investigation revealed that the relationship between Ramakrishna Ganiga and Vishala Ganiga had soured. He had contacted two contract killers from Dubai in March and paid them Rs. 2 lakh for murdering his wife. When he had come along with his wife and daughter to Brahmavar a few days later in March, Ramakrishna Ganiga had introduced the two persons as his friends to his wife. On July 12, Ramakrishna Ganiga called his wife when the latter was on her way to a bank. He asked her to return to her apartment and hand over a parcel to his two friends. The two contract killers came to the apartment 10 minutes after she had arrived and they murdered her. The presence of two cups of tea in the apartment made the police suspect the involvement of two persons in the murder. To hoodwink the police, the accused stole jewellery worn by Vishala Ganiga to give an impression that it was murder for gain, he said. Mr. Vishnuvardan lauded the efforts put in by the five teams led by Police Inspectors Anantha Padmanabha, Manjunath, Sharanagowda, Pramod Kumar and A. Sampath Kumar in solving the case. He also appreciated the support from Senior Superintendent of Police, Gorakhpur, Dinesh Kumar, in the arrest of Nishad. Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood has announced a reward of Rs. 50,000 to the members of the five police teams. Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray gave away commendation certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-paid-rs-2-lakh-to-contract-killers-to-get-his-wife-killed/article35457548.ece
22 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Special prayers held for Oscar Fernandes||All-India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former MLC Ivan D’Souza and others held a special mass prayer in the chapel at the Bishop’s House in Mangaluru on Wednesday for the speedy recovery ailing Rajya Sabha Member Oscar Fernandes. President of Dakshina Kannada unit of the Congress and MLC K. Harish Kumar, former Minister and MP Vinay Kumar Sorake, AICC secretary P.V. Mohan, councillor Naveen R. D’Souza, and others were present on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ivan D’Souza said that he is appealing to all to hold special prayers in all places of worship on Thursday for the recovery of Mr. Fernandes. Priests at the chapel held a special prayer on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-prayers-held-for-oscar-fernandes/article35457556.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain likely||India Meteorological Department has said that heavy rainfall in the range of 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm is likely to occur at isolated places in all the districts of the coastal region on Thursday. Very heavy rainfall (115.6 mm to 204.4 mm) is likely to occur at isolated places in the coastal belt on Friday and Saturday. There is likely to be heavy rainfall (64.5 to 115.5) at isolated places on July 25 and July 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-likely/article35457547.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bookings open for electric scooter today||Bajaj Auto will open bookings for Chetak electric vehicle in the city on Thursday. Customers can book their vehicles online by logging on towww.chetak.comfor Rs. 2,000. Previously, the booking slots available for Pune and Bengaluru were fully subscribed to, in less than 48 hours. The same is anticipated in Mangalore as well, Bajaj Auto Executive Director Rakesh Sharma has said in a release. Built for a greener and cleaner tomorrow, Chetak EV needs minimal maintenance with a service interval of 12,000 km or one year (whichever is earlier) and a battery warranty of three years or 50,000 km (whichever is earlier). Chetak EV will be available at Chetak@KTM Mangalore dealership at an ex-showroom price starting at Rs. 1,42,988, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bookings-open-for-electric-scooter-today/article35457545.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fernandes remains critical||The health condition of senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes continues to be critical. Apart from specialists from Mangaluru and Manipal, doctors from other parts of the country, including from AIIMS Delhi, are treating the former Union Minister at a private hospital in the city. The 80-year-old Mr. Fernandes who lost his balance and slipped in his house here on Sunday while doing physical exercise has suffered an internal injury in his head. This was noticed by doctors at the private hospital in Kodialbail after his regular dialysis on Monday. As he became unconscious later, Mr. Fernandes has been kept in the intensive care unit. He continues to remain unconscious, a close aide of Mr. Fernandes said. Among those who called on him at the hospital on Wednesday included senior Congress leader B. Janardhan Poojary. Earlier, the former Major Irrigation Minister M.B. Patil met Mr. Fernandes. Gadag MLA and All India Congress Committee in-charge of party affairs in Maharashtra H.K. Patil also visited Mr. Fernandes. Mr. Fernandes’ wife Blossom Fernandes and their two children were in the hospital. Mr. Fernandes’ four elder sisters also visited the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oscar-fernandes-remains-critical/article35457373.ece
22 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farm campaign in Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has asked the Agriculture Department to commence “Krishi Abhiyana” in Udupi district on July 26. It is to enlighten farmers on the facilities they could avail of from the Agriculture and Horticulture departments. Speaking at a meeting in his office on Tuesday, the Deputy Commissioner said that the “Krishi Abhiyana” should be conducted till August 7. And, farm scientists and officials of the departments should visit villages during the period and create awareness on integrated farming. Mr. Jagadeesha said that the Union government has laid stress on farm schemes this year to make farmers self-reliant economically. In all, 3,085 farmers in the district have been covered under the crop insurance scheme during 2020-21 and they have also been provided with loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-campaign-in-udupi/article35457546.ece
22 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Fillip to industrial growth in Chamarajanagar district||As many as 31 new investments have been cleared in Chamarajanagar by the District Single Window Committee, giving the much-needed stimulus for industrial development in the backward and border district. Investments of at least Rs. 55 crore were expected in the near future with the approval of proposals and the development of new industries whose proposals had been cleared earlier. The investments in the area of textiles, food processing, stone cutting and polishing, packaging and so on are all set to take wings in Badanaguppe-Kellamballi industrial area in Chamarajanagar taluk. The work on developing sites for setting up small and medium industries has also been taken up with the development of an industrial sub-layout on an area of 118.44 acres. At Badanaguppe-Kellamballi, there is ample scope for industrial development as the estate is spread across 1,500 acres. Already, some units have started their operations. Also, the Industries Department has received 163 applications seeking sites at the estate for developing factories. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi said 31 applications had been cleared recently after an interview with the investors on a virtual platform. The single window committee headed by the DC approved the proposals of 31 entrepreneurs. Small plots The DC had urged Minister for Major and Medium Industries Jagdish Shettar, who had visited Chamarajanagar recently, to develop an industrial sub-layout for allotting sites in smaller dimensions to entrepreneurs belonging to SC/STs at subsidised rates. He had apprised the Minister on the need for developing small plots for spurring development of small and medium industries. There were a lot of enquiries seeking allotment of small plots for setting up small and medium enterprises (SMEs) at Badanaguppe estate. Accordingly, the government has approved development of industrial sub-layout setting aside 118.44 acres of land for allotting sites measuring 0.25 acres, 0.50 acres, 0.45 acres, one and two acres. The work on establishing the sub-layout has commenced, a note said here. So far, 233 industries had been approved at Badanaguppe-Kellamballi estate. Among them, 10 were major industries which got approval from the State-level single window agency. More than 100 entrepreneurs belong to SC/STs and they would be getting 75 percent of financial assistance for setting up their units. The 31 new industries cleared by the district committee would soon be allotted sites for commencing their operations. In the manufacturing sector, nearly 800 new jobs were expected to be available, Mr. Ravi said. T.Nadu investment Mr. Shettar had said that the district has potential to be developed as an industrial hub as investments can also be attracted from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Accordingly, the department had planned road shows in Coimbatore and Tiruppur and also in Kerala to attract investments and make Chamarajanagar, which shares border with Tamil Nadu, one of the prominent destinations for industrial development. However, the road shows were yet to happen and the reason was attributed to the ongoing pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fillip-to-industrial-growth-in-chamarajanagar-district/article35457566.ece
22 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Religious heads should eschew politics, says Vishwanath||A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, took on the Lingayat seers who have cautioned the BJP leadership against replacing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and urged them to refrain from “politicking”. Addressing mediapersons in Mysuru on Wednesday, the MLC said that mutts should confine themselves to religious activities and not become a hotbed of politics. It is not correct for religious heads to take a political stance and support any individual on the basis of caste or community, he added. “Leave politics to politicians, and don’t bring politics into religion,” said Mr. Vishwanath, stating that there should be righteousness, or dharma, in politics. “Seventeen MLAs, who joined the BJP to facilitate formation of the government in Karnataka, are not Lingayats, and none of us joined the BJP because Mr. Yediyurappa is a Lingayat,” said Mr. Vishwanath. He said none of the seers, who are backing Mr. Yediyurappa now, supported him when he was imprisoned or when he was suspended from the party. He called upon Mr. Yediyurappa to “make a dignified exit from politics”. He said none of the 17 MLAs who were given a ministerial berth in the Yediyurappa government should be accommodated in the Cabinet in case there is change of guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-heads-should-eschew-politics-says-vishwanath/article35457162.ece
22 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hoteliers oppose penalty for delayed trade licence renewal||Even as the crisis-hit hotel industry in Mysuru is keenly expecting an order from the government on 50 per cent property tax waiver on hotel/restaurant buildings, the hoteliers have questioned the logic behind imposing 15 per cent penalty in Mysuru for non-renewal of trade licence. “How could we renew the trade licence when there was a lockdown for over two-and-a-half months,” asked Hotel Owners’ Association President C. Narayana Gowda. The association had urged the Mysuru City Corporation to hold the trade licence renewal mela on its premises this year too to facilitate their members do the task. Before it could hold the mela, lockdown was announced. Now, 15 per cent penalty has now been imposed for the renewal. The association has also opposed 20 per cent hike in trade licence fee in view of pandemic situation since last two years. “We are not demanding entire waiver of trade licence fee but opposing the hike when the hotel industry is in crisis,” he argued. In this connection, the association recently submitted a memorandum to MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy, who told the delegation led by Mr. Gowda that a decision on withdrawing 20 per cent hike on trade licence can be only be taken by the government since the MCC no powers. The MCC can only consider penalty waiver, Mr. Gowda said. The association delegation, therefore, met Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj and Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who were in Mysuru recently and held a meeting at the MCC, and submitted separate petitions seeking withdrawal of the hike. Trade licence fee is hiked once in three years. The government could have avoided this year in view of COVID-19, Mr. Gowda suggested. Mysuru has 350 restaurants and over 415 hotels with about 10,000 rooms. “They would be benefited if the government considers our request,” Mr. Gowda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hoteliers-oppose-penalty-for-delayed-trade-licence-renewal/article35457568.ece
22 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sharp rise in prices of broiler chicken in State||The price of broiler chicken has registered a sharp increase over the last fortnight amid rising cost of poultry feed and a dip in production. From less than Rs. 200 per kg, the retail price of chicken is now touching Rs. 250 in most urban areas of the State. While sources in the Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Association (KPFBA) in Bengaluru said the farm gate price of live chicken had increased from Rs. 90 per kg to Rs. 128, a dealer from Pandavapura claimed that the wholesale price was around Rs. 140 per kg. Explaining the difference between the farm gate price and retail price, KPFBA executive secretary Inayathulla Khan said every kg of live bird will yield about 680 to 720 grams of meat. “If the price of transport, labour, rent of the shop, and other charges are added, the retail price will naturally cross Rs. 250 per kg,” said Ramesh, a chicken dealer. A kg of skinless chicken was sold for Rs. 260 in Udayagiri in Mysuru recently. However, the price was Rs. 220 for a kg of chicken with skin. Speaking to The Hindu , chairman of Broiler Coordination Committee of KPFBA Manjesh Kumar Jadav attributed the increase in prices to the rise in prices of poultry feed such as soya and maize, while many farmers were unable to keep up with the production levels owing to the losses in the recent lockdown. Mr. Jadav recalled that consumption of chicken declined by 40% after the lockdown was declared. Besides, retail chicken outlets were permitted to operate only for a limited time. The price of soya increased from Rs. 35 per kg to Rs. 76 and maize from Rs. 15 per kg to Rs. 22 over the last three to four months along with the price of amino acids and vitamins, which constitute the feed of the birds. Though the farm gate price was less than Rs. 90 per kg before the lockdown when the cost of production was less than Rs. 70, the increase in feed cost pushed the cost of production past Rs. 110 per kg. “Many farmers had lost a substantial sum of money during the lockdown owing to the increase in production costs. Even at Rs. 125 per kg, it will take these farmers at least three to four months to recover the losses”, Mr. Jadav reasoned. Several farmers suffered losses and did not have sufficient capital to maintain the production at the same leve. “The production reduced from 3 crore kg per month to about 2.5 crore kg per day now,” he said. The slump in production comes amidst medical advice to include protein-rich poultry products in diets amidst COVID-19, Mr. Jadav said. Consumption of eggs in Karnataka had increased from 1.2 crore per day to 1.5 crore per day at present. “Though the consumption had dipped to 80 lakh per day during lockdown, it has picked up again to reach 1.5 crore,” he said. The retail price of egg has also gone up from Rs. 5 to 7, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharp-rise-in-prices-of-broiler-chicken-in-state/article35457366.ece
22 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Khelo India, Sports Sciences centres for Mandya district||A Khelo India Centre (KIC) and a Sports Sciences Centre will soon be coming up in Mandya, the sugar bowl of Karnataka, and a sum of Rs. 2 crore had been sanctioned to facilitate their formation. The idea of KIC was announced by the Union Sports Ministry while the Sports Sciences Centre was announced in the State budget for systematically assessing sports talents. Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda, who is the Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports, has released Rs. 10 crore towards the development of District Stadium in Mandya town in a bid to revamp the sporting infrastructure in the district. A sum of Rs. 24 lakh had been released for developing an outdoor gym at K.R. Pet taluk stadium. The unused funds in the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports (since 2018) are now being used to develop outdoor gyms in taluk stadiums. A sum of Rs. 71 lakh was remaining after holding the Dasara CM Cup in 2018-19 and Rs. 12.90 lakh was unused after hosting the Mini Olympics for Under-14 in Bengaluru in 2019-20. The total of Rs. 83.97 lakh was available with the Sports Authority of Karnataka. A decision has been taken to make use of it for developing outdoor gyms in four taluks, including K.R. Pet, Mandya, Kadur and Karkala. Another outdoor gym in the district is coming at Sir M. Visvesvaraya Stadium in Mandya at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh. The proposed outdoor gyms at Karkala and Kadur will also be developed at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh each. The funds sanctioned for developing sports infrastructure in Mandya include Rs. 2 crore for developing a sports hostel for girls and Rs. 7 crore for stadium development in K.R. Pet. Outdoor gyms The Minister said the work on developing outdoor gyms in Mandya and K.R. Pet will start soon. This will benefit sportspersons and the general public. The work on the gyms would be taken up at a faster pace to make them ready at the earliest. By announcing the KICs, the Sports Ministry wanted to nurture talented sporting talents at an early age and ready them for 2028 Olympics. These centres will get equipment, sports kits and coaches for training the talents. The Centre has proposed to set up at least one KIC in each district with the support of respective State governments, which are tasked to rope in mentors to train young athletes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khelo-india-sports-sciences-centres-for-mandya-district/article35457567.ece
22 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Peaceful Id||Several thousands of Muslims in both Yadgir and Raichur districts celebrated Bakrid on Wednesday. Adhering to guidelines issued by the government to stop the spread of COVID-19, Muslims offered prayers in their houses and also in mosques with reduced capacity. The celebrations were peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peaceful-id/article35457364.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister’s son rubbishes reports on leadership change||Shivamogga Lok Sabha member and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Raghavendra has rubbished reports of a change in leadership of the Karnataka government. He told reporters in Shivamogga on Wednesday that Mr. Yediyurappa had built the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka and there was no basis for the reports on a change in leadership. Regarding comments by several leaders of the party, Mr. Raghavendra said such statements would harm the party and that the party’s senior leaders would set things right. Responding to a question on seers meeting the Chief Minister, Mr. Raghavendra said the seers had expressed their opinions and cannot be construed as lobbying in favour of any person. Earlier in the day, Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary, who was in Shivamogga, said the party’s high command would look into the issue of change in leadership of the Karnataka government. “We have been instructed to look after development works and take measures necessary to control the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The party’s national president J.P. Nadda and State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel would handle the affairs concerning change of leadership,” he said. Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa maintained that the party’s high command would decide on the issue. “Party’s in-charge Arun Singh had come to Karnataka, and he listened to the opinion of all legislators. The party high command will take a decision. All others have to keep quiet,” he said. Support Meanwhile, former MLA and Congress leader Beluru Gopalakrishna has expressed support for Mr. Yediyurappa. At a press conference, he said he wants Mr. Yediyurappa to continue as Chief Minister. “If he continues in the post, Shivamogga would get development works. My concern is development. However, it is left to the BJP on its choice for the Chief Minister’s post”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-ministers-son-rubbishes-reports-on-leadership-change/article35457569.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Life goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-goes-on/article35457552.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-fervour/article35457164.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Traditional and modern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traditional-and-modern/article35457358.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Design of six stations altered||“There is a proposal to build foot-over-bridges off the National Highway at all the stations, but the design has not been finalised yet,” said the official. BMRCL is building a 58-km elevated corridor from Central Silk Board to Kempegowda International Airport. Initial work has begun on the ORR line from Silk Board to K.R. Puram, and the corporation is in the process of finalising the tender for the construction of the 38 km-stretch from K.R. Puram to KIA via Nagawara and Hebbal. Of the 2.20 lakh sq m of land required, 1.99 lakh sq.m. has been acquired. A depot will also be constructed near Shettigere on 23 acres of land, of which 18 acres has been transferred to the BMRCL.    Removal of 256 trees   The Deputy Conservator of Forest (Bengaluru Urban district) has issued a public notice for the removal of 256 trees between K.R. Puram and Baiyappanahalli depot. The trees have been identified for removal to facilitate shifting of utilities, widening the road and construction of metro stations. In mid-June, the DCF of BBMP had issued a notice for the removal of 833 trees on the median of the road for the construction of the elevated corridor between Silk Board and Kodibeesanahalli stations. The ORR-Airport line will come at the cost of Bengaluru’s green cover: 5,000 trees have been identified for removal for its construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/design-of-six-stations-altered/article35457141.ece
22 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Fish seeds deposited in dam||The Fisheries Department in association with the Kudayathur grama panchayat deposited two lakh fish seeds at Vayanakadavu in the Malankara dam. It is part of a project to increase inland fish production in the State. Kudayathur grama panchayat president Usha Vijayan inaugurated the function. Joice Abraham, Assistant Director, Fisheries, presented a report. According to him, inland fish stock has been considerably affected due to water pollution, habitat destruction, climate change, and overexploitation. The project will help increase inland fish wealth and improve the living conditions of the communities depending on it. The fish seeds were brought from the National Fish Seed Farm at Polachira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-seeds-deposited-in-dam/article35457518.ece
22 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cardamom crop destroyed in elephant attack||Wild elephants have destroyed vast swathes of cardamom plantations at Suryanelli, near Munnar, according to workers. Almost every year, when the monsoon starts, the animals enter human habitations, wreaking much damage. This time, cardamom plantations bore the brunt of their attack. “Wild elephants not only pose a threat to crops but also to human life. They are seen in the vicinity of workers’ houses all through the day,” says Selvaraj, a farmer. Work hit “This time an elephant herd was seen. Now, one tusker is frequenting the area, causing large-scale destruction. Fearing attack, workers are mostly keeping indoors, which affects works in the cardamom plantations. It is time for the first harvest and matured crop has been destroyed in the attack,” he says. Once elephants destroy the plants, the only option is to replant the entire area. It will take another three years for the plants to yield, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardamom-crop-destroyed-in-elephant-attack/article35457516.ece
22 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Nobel Laureate calls for research in ‘outdated’, unexplored areas||Research in basic, failed, unexplored and outdated areas lead to inventions and innovations, Nobel Laureate Prof. Martin Chalfie has said. Mr. Chalfie, who shared the 2008 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, was delivering an online lecture titled, “The Continuing Need for Useless Knowledge”, that is part of a series of lectures being conducted by the Central University of Kerala, Kasaragod. He said it was not always research with billion-dollar investments which brought in innovations. Often, research in rather more basic areas and ideas thought to be outdated made big discoveries. Mr. Chalfie discussed the role of failure in scientific discovery. He elaborated this concept with the examples of many Nobel Prize winning works, including his work on developing green fluorescent proteins (GFP) as a biological marker. The programme was organised in collaboration with Kerala University. Prof. H. Venkateshwarlu, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Kerala, delivered the welcome speech. The university launched the series of lectures hosted by world-renowned scientists in February 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nobel-laureate-calls-for-research-in-outdated-unexplored-areas/article35457437.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Controversy over transwoman’s death||The death of transgender activist and Kerala’s first transwoman radio jockey Anannyah Kumari Alex has kicked up a storm with the community members alleging medical negligence and even suspecting whether it was indeed a case of suicide. Anannyah was found hanging at her apartment at Edappally on Tuesday evening. The Kalamassery police have registered a case for unnatural death inferring it to be a case of suicide. The transgender community staged a protest in front of the hospital, Renai Medicity, on Wednesday where Anannyah had undergone Sex Reassignment Surgery (SRS) a year ago and subsequently developed complications. “Anannyah should receive justice. The medical negligence on the part of the hospital definitely contributed to her death. I find her death mysterious. She was too strong-willed a person to opt for suicide,” said Sruthi Sithara, a transwoman and a close friend. Nadira Mehrin, another transwoman, also felt that the victim was not the kind to end her life. “The emotional trauma caused by the post-surgery complications definitely played a role,” she said. The post-mortem, which was originally scheduled for Wednesday, was postponed after the community members backed by the victim’s father petitioned the Kalamasserry police demanding it to be conducted only by a medical panel of experts. “I had spoken to her three weeks ago when she shared her physical problems and hardships on account of joblessness,” said Anannyah’s father S. Alexander. Another petition was filed with the Palarivattom police demanding to stop SRSs at Renai Medicity alleging that the complications caused by medical negligence led to the death. The police, however, said that they are not authorised to issue such directions. Hospital’s stance Meanwhile, the hospital issued a statement absolving its team led by doctors Arjun Asokan, who performed the surgery on the victim, and Madhu of the Renai Centre for Comprehensive Transgender Health, of any medical negligence. Shortly after the surgery, the victim developed intestinal obstruction, a known SRS complication, and a procedure was done to address it. She was subjected to the surgery after weeks-long counselling about potential complications and securing her consent letter. She was satisfied about the treatment at the time of discharge and complained only 6-7 months later about the surgically implanted body parts and some urinal problems. Another surgical intervention was recommended to correct those issues and she was convinced of such follow-up treatment. Later, she, however, complained of medical negligence and sought a huge compensation. However, a medical board looking into the issue on her own demand ruled out any medical negligence, the statement said. “The hospital management was willing to part with her medical documents to help her seek legal recourse. The management was also willing to help with her follow-up treatment considering her financial state but declined her other not legally-binding demands,” claimed the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-erupts-over-death-of-transwoman/article35457454.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corporation to take decision on biomining of legacy waste today||The Kochi Corporation will take a decision on biomining of waste heaps, which have accumulated on its Brahmapuram campus over the years, on Thursday. The civic body had come under fire from the National Green Tribunal for its failure to manage the legacy waste. Incidentally, the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation had completed the tender formalities for the processing of waste following a government intervention. It was the failure of the Kochi Corporation council to approve the tender process thrice that led to the government intervention. The State Chief Secretary had also issued an ultimatum to the civic body to issue the work order for biomining failing which action would be taken against its secretary and the council. The Chief Secretary issued the directive on March 6 following the order from the Green Tribunal. After a drone survey, the National Institute of Technology, Kozhikode, had estimated the quantity of legacy waste on the campus as 55,1903 metre cube. The State government had earlier this year offered to share the expense for the processing of waste. The government will pay half the money required for the process. The Local Self-Government Department had in May directed the civic body to award the work for the agency which was selected for the process. The special meeting of the corporation council will in principle have to approve the directives of the State government agencies, including the Local Self-Government Department, and give its nod for biomining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-take-decision-on-biomining-of-legacy-waste-today/article35457467.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,270 test positive in Ernakulam||Around 2,270 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. Nearly 2,220 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 43 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 10.21%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Puthenvelikkara (58), Pallipuram (52), Cheranalloor (51), Karukutty (46), Sreemoolanagaram (46), Thrikkakara (43), Nayarambalam (41), Kottuvalli (40), Payipra (40), Manjapra (40), Maradu (40), Rayamangalam (40), Aikkaranad (37), Chellanam (37), Vadakkekara (37), Varappetti (36), Alangad (35), Kalamassery (35), Thripunithura (34), North Paravur (34), Kumbalangi (32), Edathala (31), Ayavana, Njarakkal, and Vengola (30). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Aarakuzha, Koothattukulam, Pambakuda, Maradi, Vaduthala, Vennala, Ayappankavu, Kaloorkad, Kuzhippalli, Pindimana, Panampilly Nagar, Ramamangalam, Kunnukara, Chalikavattom, and Panayappilli, according to an official release. Around 22,242 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday. Around 16,300 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2270-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35457475.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A walk down memory lane for West Kochi’s iconic institution||The 54th foundation day celebrations of Cochin College, one of the iconic institutions in West Kochi, was a special occasion for the alumni of the first batch that saw the college get off the ground in July 1967. They got together early this week in a virtual meet to recall the old days and share memories. Students and teachers, who were part of the first pre-degree batch of the college in 1967, came together in a meeting inaugurated by R.V. Kallikar, who had joined the college on its founding year as head of the department of English. He went on to become the principal of the college in 1976. He said on Wednesday that the experiences in the college evoked nostalgic memories. He was the principal of the college for 19 years until he retired in 1995. He recalled that due to heavy rain in the monsoon, first classes could not be held on the premises identified for establishing the college at Koovappadam and classes were held in the Mattanchery Nehru Memorial Town Hall for a year under an initiative by the then Mattancherry municipal chairman M.K. Raghavan. The college started with 240 students, said the former principal who is still active in the field of education. The college has grown in stature as one of the best institutions in Kochi. There are around 2,000 students combined in the aided and self-financing sections of the college, said Thomas Vayalat, manager of the college, who was also a former student of the college and the college union chairman. M.K. Sasheendran, a former bureaucrat and now an advocate, recalled the early days of the college, which was launched under the aegis of the Cochin Education Society. He said the speech delivered by the then Kerala High Court Chief Justice M.S. Menon in October 1967 on the occasion of the foundation laying was a historic one. The Chief Justice spoke about the importance higher education and the values it should inculcate in students. The first president of the Cochin Education Society was S.S. Koder, a prominent Jewish trader in West Kochi, said Mr. Sasheendran. Former principal Kallikar said the launch of courses in economics, physics, chemistry and zoology and establishment of state-of-the-art laboratories for science experiments made the college popular. Along with these initiatives, the college also saw its students bagging the first, second and third ranks under the Kerala University in 1978 in commerce, he added.  Due to heavy rain in the monsoon, first classes could not be held on the premises identified for establishing the college||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-walk-down-memory-lane-for-west-kochis-iconic-institution/article35457459.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Miscreants dumping waste in public places go scot-free in district||Twenty-seven local bodies in Ernakulam were found to have made ‘zero progress’ in acting against those responsible for dumping of waste in public spaces. The Local Self-Government Department has given a month’s time to the secretaries of these civic bodies to initiate legal and penal action against violators. Serious lapses in creating public awareness and steps against illegal waste dumping came to the fore after the second round of performance audit carried out by the department on July 12. The previous evaluation was done in April. Officials of the local bodies cited the pandemic situation as the reason for not able to take action against unauthorised waste dumping in public places. Erring panchayats Some of the erring panchayats include Ayavana, Elankunnapuzha, Avoli, Valakom, Aarakuzha, Kadamakudi, Payipra, Kaloorkad, Mulavukad, Manjaloor, Alangad, Aaradi, Vengoor, Avoli, Chottanikkara, Koovapadi, Varapuzha, Udayamperoor, Rayamangalam, Kadungalloor, Karumnallor, Cheranalloor, Vengola and Nedumbassery. Twenty-four panchayats that failed to act against dumping of waste in waterbodies have also been pulled up for the delay in acting against violators. Strict punishment should be taken against persons who dump waste into waterbodies or in public places. Action should be also taken against those found burning waste in public spaces. Burning of waste  The assessment carried out in April had found that open burning of waste in violation of the rules was prevalent in 15 local bodies in the district. The civic bodies include Ayavana, Avoli, Arakuzha, Payipra, Kaloorkad, Manjaloor, Alangad, Maradi, Varapuzha, Rayamangalam, Karumaloor, Kadungalloor, Cheranalloor, Chittatukara and Kottuvalli. The recommendations by the State Level Monitoring Committee on solid waste management against unauthorised waste dumping in the district have been gathering dust owing to the lack of support from local bodies. Secretaries have the powers to file complaints against violators before the police. The committee had asked the District Police Chiefs (Kochi city and Ernakulam Rural) to file a first information report and forward it to the District Legal Services Authority and the Kerala State Pollution Control Board so as to facilitate realisation of compensation from violators on ‘polluter pays’ principle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/miscreants-dumping-waste-in-public-places-go-scot-free-in-district/article35457478.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Office space in Infopark to touch 1 crore sq.ft.||Infopark Kochi is on the cusp of touching 1 crore sq.ft. of office space by the end of this year. The park currently has 92 lakh sq.ft. office space. Soon, about 10 lakh sq.ft. of space will be ready for new companies, creating another 12,000 job opportunities. The furnishing of new office spaces is progressing at Infopark’s satellite campuses at Koratti and Cherthala parks as well, which is mainly for startups and small and medium entrepreneurs. Some of the big companies in Infopark are now expanding their office space to satellite parks as well, a release issued here said. The Caspian Techpark Campus, with three towers on 2.63 acres of land in Infopark Phase II, is in the final stages of construction. The first tower, providing 1.30 lakh sq.ft. of office space, will be completed by the first quarter of 2022. This 10-storey building will house IT, ITES, corporate and startup companies. It will have a total area of 4.50 lakh sq.ft. available to companies when the construction is over. CloudScape Cyber Park, another major campus in Phase II, is also set to go operational. This project’s first phase will have 62,000 sq.ft. of fully equipped office space for small and medium IT enterprises, the release said. IBS Software Services’ own IT campus in Kochi Infopark Phase I is in progress and the first phase is expected to be completed by the end of this year. With a total area of 4.21 acres with 6 lakh sq.ft. of office space, the campus will have a capacity of 6,000 jobs once all phases of the project are completed. It also features a theatre and an open roof cafeteria, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/office-space-in-infopark-to-touch-1-crore-sqft/article35457470.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Caution is the password to counter cyber snooping||Seven years ago, a Malayali man settled in the United States approached a cyber expert here with an offer of Rs. 1 lakh a month for snooping on his wife. Four years later, another man from Singapore approached the same person with a somewhat similar assignment, only with four times the previous offer. “He did not even reveal whether the woman was his wife, girlfriend or someone unrelated. It was as if the fee was also for not asking questions,” said the expert who turned down both offers, which were outright illegal. As ominous as it may sound, snooping, cyber experts observed, was a commonly deployed tool. “It is widely prevalent in the corporate world to preempt leak of company secrets. Legal profession is not free from it as rival clients are being snooped on. Private detectives also employ it for their clients,” said Nandakishore Harikumar, who runs a cybersecurity start-up. Path to snooping ‘Couple snooping’ whereby partners’ smart devices are snooped on is not rare either. Getting the partner to click on an innocuous-looking link on some pretexts will help install the malware remotely in the targeted device. “While spyware like Pegasus is too expensive, numerous malwares are either available for much less or their sources are freely accessible on the Dark Web, which an efficient hacker can customise into a potent tool. Since these malwares can be bunched up with popular apps, they can easily slip into the device unnoticed. While microphones and cameras of smartphones are the most targeted applications, keystroke trackers that help crack passwords are also widely used, especially in phishing attacks,” said Mr. Harikumar. Rahul Sasi, a cybersecurity expert, said that smartphones gifted can come embedded with such malwares or spyware sparing the perpetrators the hardship of installing it remotely. Updating helps “Updating the operating systems (OS) of the device and checking the authenticity of apps prior to installation are the basic tools to counter malicious cyberattacks,” he said. Using secured Virtual Private Network that mask IP credentials and not clicking on unsolicited links are other precautions to be taken. Prasanth Sugathan, lawyer and Legal Director of the Delhi-based Software Freedom Law Center India, said that except for the access of devices by the law enforcement agencies authorised under the Telegraph Act or Information Technology Act, all such access is deemed ‘unauthorised.’ Elusive proof “Section 43 (a) of the IT Act deals with unauthorised access to a computer while Section 43 (c) has reference to introducing any computer contaminant or virus. Section 66 provides for imprisonment and fine of up to Rs. 5 lakh for offences listed in Section 43,” he said. Mr. Sugathan, however, said that cases registered under these sections rarely lead to convictions as the charges are hard to prove owing to deficient cyber forensic evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-is-the-password-to-counter-cyber-snooping/article35457608.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ayalkoottam groups to sensitise people on Zika virus in Vazhakulam||Kudumbashree’s ‘ayalkoottam’ neighbourhood groups have been formed to create awareness on Zika virus and coordinate measures to check the spread of the disease in Vazhakulam panchayat. The move comes a week after a health worker residing in the panchayat was tested positive for the disease. The panchayat authorities in association with health officials have stepped up vigil in all the wards. “We are now focussing at the ward-level by forming cluster groups involving ayalkoottam members to sensitise people on the impact of the Zika virus. These groups will work closely with panchayat and health officials to check the infection,” said C. K Gopalakrishnan, president of the panchayat. The samples of the family members of the health worker were sent to the regional unit of the National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha. “The panchayat has initiated mosquito control measures including fogging and spraying larvicides in drains as part of the drive to check mosquito menace,” said Mr. Gopalakrishnan. The Health Department had organised awareness sessions for all the ward members in the panchayat. The district-level surveillance against vector-borne diseases has also been stepped up in the wake of the detection of Zika virus case in Vazhakulam. The samples of two persons in Chellanam and division 40 of the Kochi Corporation, suspected to have been infected with the disease, have been confirmed as negative. The department has requested the public to observe dry day once in a week to check breeding of mosquitoes. All water tanks have to be covered using proper lids to prevent breeding. Stagnant water in flower pots, containers and coolers have to be removed regularly. The district administration has also sought the support of all the healthcare facilities in the fight against vector-borne diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayalkoottam-groups-to-sensitise-people-on-zika-virus-in-vazhakulam/article35457468.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi library hopes to catch them young, one book at a time||“One book at a time” seems to be the motto of 77-year-old Tagore Library and Reading Room at Karuvelipady in West Kochi, when it comes to luring young children into reading. With children more or less restricted to their houses owing to the pandemic, the library authorities are determined to turn the crisis into an opportunity. The library has launched a programme of introducing a selected work to children through a short video by retired or serving teachers every Saturday. The programme is meant for children from West Kochi. The first book to be featured last Saturday was the children’s novel Gramabalika by Lalithambika Antharjanam. “The video is circulated through social media platforms, including our YouTube channel and two WhatsApp groups of children comprising our members and those who are not yet members but have participated in various programmes organised by the library,” said C.S. Joseph, secretary, Tagore Library. The video is also shared on a WhatsApp group of 55 teachers closely associated with the library, and they in turn share it on multiple groups of their students, thus maximising the reach of the video. The library has already shortlisted 25 titles to be featured under the programme, with Arivinte Jalakam , a series of articles compiled by S. Rameshan, and Vaazhthapetta Poocha , a collection of children’s stories by award-winning author Gracy, being next in line. “Every book featured under the programme will be kept in a separate rack at the library for the children to access them easily. We will also procure the titles at a discounted rate for those who wish to buy them, thanks to the Library Council assistance,” said Mr. Joseph. The library has 464 children as members, though fewer than 100 of them are active. Converting the entire lot of them into active members is among the objectives of the programme, which is already beginning to pay dividends in terms of attracting new members. “The programme had its genesis in the fortnight-long reading celebrations held between June 19 and July 7. “We then decided to continue it,” said Mr. Joseph. The library founded by a group of 13 enthusiastic young readers back in 1944 now has 1,230 members. It was shifted to a new building last year funded under the development fund of the Kochi MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-library-hopes-to-catch-them-young-one-book-at-a-time/article35457477.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Special drive to vaccinate prisoners in Kerala: govt.||Kerala has informed the High Court that most of the prisoners in the State have been given the first dose of vaccine and a special initiative taken to vaccinate prisoners of different age groups. The submissions were made when a suo motu case on vaccination of prisoners came up for hearing recently. The government submitted that of the total 4,808 prisoners, the majority were given the first shot of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-drive-to-vaccinate-prisoners-in-kerala-govt/article35457479.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hallmarking anxieties a drag on gold business||The decision to make hallmarking compulsory for gold ornaments from July 1 has plunged the gold retail ornamental business in the State into jeopardy. While gold ornament sellers have welcomed the move by the government to ensure that customers bought unadulterated gold and also received the best price for the gold in their possession, the order for compulsorily imprinting the Hallmarking Unique Identification on gold ornaments had caused a serious slowdown in business, said S. Abdul Nassar, State treasurer of All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants’ Association. He said that gold retail business in the State was worth between Rs. 40,000 crore and Rs. 50,000 crore annually and employed about 10 lakh people directly and indirectly. There were around 7,000 registered gold and silver ornaments sellers in Kerala and around 5,000 who operated without registration. The smaller retailers, whose business turnover was Rs. 40 lakh per year or less need not register under the present GST rules. The hallmarking facilities available in the State are not able to meet the requirements of the gold retail ornaments business. The Alpha numerical number helps trace the origin of the ornaments but the servers providing the numbers are unable to handle the workload. There have also been instances of the same ornaments getting different hallmarking numbers even as the slowdown in the server operated by the service provider continued. K. Surendran, general secretary of All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants’ Association, said that hallmarking centres that did thousands of units of ornaments previously were unable to provide unique identification numbers for even much less numbers. There are around 73 hallmarking centres in the State and the retailers were facing delays up to three days in getting the pieces hallmarked. The delay was a big drag on sales, especially because most small retail buyers went in for immediate requirements. The gold sellers have alleged that the process of unique identification number was not much beneficial to the buyers but a bureaucratic demand. The retailers also say that the decision to implement the hallmarking unique identification system was taken in a hurry and without proper preparations. The merchants have also demanded that implementation of provisions under BIS Section 29 should now be suspended and confiscations of ornaments brought to a stop.  The process of unique identification number is not much beneficial to buyers, it is a bureaucratic demand Gold sellers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hallmarking-anxieties-a-drag-on-gold-business-in-state/article35457460.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No proposal for sea erosion protection pending: Minister||Pankaj Chaudhary, Union Minister of State for Finance, has said that no proposals for flood management and border areas programme was pending with the ministry. He was answering a question raised in the Lok Sabha by Hibi Eden, MP, on July 19, whether any project proposals to contain sea erosion, including in Chellanam, in Ernakulam district, was pending with the Union government. The Minister said that activities related to prevention of flooding were State subjects and that the Union government had been providing technical and financial support for the efforts. The Union government had allotted Rs. 55 crore for these activities during 2014-15 and Rs. 19 crore during 2017-18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-proposal-for-flood-management-pending/article35457461.ece
22 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cardamom: dip in production likely this year||Cardamom production in the State is likely to dip significantly this year with the crop cycle witnessing serious disruption due to the shortage of labour and heavy rain in many areas. COVID-19 restrictions have resulted in a shortage of hands to maintain cardamom holdings. While workers from States in North India are available, their lack of experience in keeping up field operations has been a problem. Pandemic curbs At the same time, workers from the Theni district in Tamil Nadu has been affected by pandemic restrictions, said Muthusami Murugan, professor and head of the Cardamom Research Station at Pampadumpara of the Keala Agricultural University. He said about 10,000 workers moved in and out of the cardamom plantations in the State on a daily basis. But the restrictions on movement of people to contain the pandemic has affected garden maintenance activities that have to be completed in a regular cycle in keeping with the farming operations. Annual production Kerala has around 50,000 hectares under cardamom cultivation and the annual average production is around 20,000 tonnes. It is estimated that there are around 35,000 families, cultivating small holdings, accounting for more than 60% of the production while large and medium holdings account for the rest. Joseph Karukapally, a supplier of fertilisers in cardamom cultivation areas, said a disruption in cardamom auctions had resulted in some confusion over price levels. However, the auction system has now been restored. Dr. Murugan said there was a chance of production dipping this season with the disruption in cardamom plantation operations and maintenance. While shortage of labour supply was one reason, climatic conditions too affected operations. Cardamom is a shade-loving plant while the temperature is seen to be rising. Besides, heavy downpours affect the pollination of plants. Honeybees that help pollination appear to be unable to survive the heavy downpours now being experienced in the cardamom-growing areas, he added. T.D. Sabu, a farmer in Aanavilasam, near Kumili in Idukki district, said the steep rise in the price of labour had affected the operations of cardamom holdings. He said the average wages had gone up to Rs. 600 per day while the price of the best quality cardamom ranged between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 1,200. He said production could be down to 25% to 30% this year because of various factors, including climate impact, COVID-19 controls on labour movement and rise in the cost of labour. Fertiliser prices too had gone up. The price of complex fertilisers like NPK had climbed considerably, forcing farmers to curtail operations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardamom-dip-in-production-likely-this-year/article35457440.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||N. Ravi is Commander of Coast Guard||Deputy Inspector General N. Ravi has taken over as the new Commander of Coast Guard in Kerala and Mahe. He assumed charge from DIG Sanatan Jena. Mr. Ravi joined the Coast Guard in 1995 and is an alumnus of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. He has commanded Interceptor Boat C-136, Fast Patrol Vessel Sarojini Naidu, Offshore Patrol Vessel Varuna and Advanced Offshore Patrol Vessel Vishwast. His shore appointments include postings as Joint Director of Ships Acquisition, Chief of Staff at Andaman and Nicobar Command, and as Principal Director (Logistics) at the Coast Guard Headquarters in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-gets-new-commander/article35457472.ece
22 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Quality products in free food kit: Minister||The government will ensure quality products in the free food kit, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil said here on Wednesday. Inaugurating the renovated Supplyco supermarkets in Kollam, he said 32 outlets would be started across the State before Onam. “Good products will be available at a fair price through the Supplyco outlets. The mobile ration shop scheme launched in remote tribal areas will be extended to more places,” he said. Ration card issue The Minister said 1,18,000 ration cards held by ineligible beneficiaries had been surrendered since the new government came to power. “The government has made all arrangements to distribute provisions during the pandemic. All deserving persons will get ration cards,” he added. Mr. Anil also reminded public representatives to monitor the new outlets after inaugurating the renovated supermarkets at Mylakkad and Adichanallur. G.S. Jayalal, MLA, presided over the function while Ithikkara block panchaayt president made the first sale. Adichanallur grama panchayat president Sheela Binu and district panchayat members Priji Sasidharan, Sreeja Hareesh, and Supplyco officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quality-products-in-free-food-kit-minister/article35457524.ece
22 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,175 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,175 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,017 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,164 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include three NRIs and eight health workers. The test positivity rate of Kollam is 11.26% and 10,433 samples were tested on Wednesday. At present, the district has 28,872 people under observation. While 4,293 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,02,057 primary and 18,608 secondary contacts of the cases. Home vaccination Home vaccination for bedridden citizens above the age of 60 has started in Punalur municipality as part of strengthening COVID-19 containment measures. The home vaccination drive is led by nurses and junior health inspectors from the Punalur Taluk Hospital. They will administer the vaccine to elderly persons with mobility problems. Officials say 25 people from each ward coming under the municipality will be vaccinated. At present, over 100 people from Arampunna, Pathekkar, Placheri, and Mylakkal wards have been vaccinated. “The vaccination centres in the municipality are the Punalur Taluk Hospital and the Nehru Memorial building. Home vaccination was started considering the difficulty of senior citizens in reaching the centres,” says Nimmy Abraham, chairperson. At Piravanthur Meanwhile, preventive measures have been intensified at Kadakkaman Colony at Piravanthur, a panchayat that reported several new cases. At present, the colony has 26 cases while 25 patients were moved to a domiciliary care centre functioning at Kuriyottumala. Ward-level panels While ward-level committees and rapid response groups have stepped up surveillance and containment measures, four rounds of antigen tests were also conducted at the colony. In each ward, 10 groups were formed to ensure protocol compliance. Panchayat officials say they were able to bring down test positivity rate after strengthening enforcement measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1175-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article35457526.ece
22 July 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Diploma in AI||The T.K.M International Centre for Training & Placement has entered into an academic tie-up with the National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology, Kozhikode, to conduct diploma course in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. The course will be conducted online and interested persons can submit their applications through the website tkmictp.in. For details call 9778225077.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diploma-in-ai/article35457521.ece
22 July 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Special clinics at Punalur homoeo hospital||Special clinics for thyroid, allergy, and asthma have started functioning at the Government Homoeo Hospital, Punalur. P.S. Supal, MLA, inaugurated the clinics and municipal chairperson Nimmy Abraham presided over the function. The clinics functioning on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays will have two doctors. Along with routine treatments, post-COVID-10 treatment is also available at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-clinics-at-punalur-homoeo-hospital/article35457522.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Test positivity rate rises to 14.2% over the week in Kozhikode||There is no let-up in the weekly average test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 in Kozhikode and restrictions are expected to continue in a majority of local bodies in the district for another week. According to the district administration, the weekly TPR has been recorded as 14.2%, up from 13.5% recorded last week. Four of the six municipalities and 32 of the 70 grama panchayats are in the ‘D’ category where the TPR is above 15%. They are Koyilandy, Ramanattukara, Payyoli, and Koduvally municipalities, and Arikkulam, Changaroth, Chekkiad, Chelannur, Chemanchery, Chengottukavu, Chorod, Kadalundy, Kakkodi, Karassery, Koothali, Kizhakkoth, Kodiyathur, Kunnamangalam, Kayakkodi, Kavilumpara, Nanminda, Narippatta, Narikkuni, Olavanna, Omassery, Peruvayal, Thamarassery, Thalakkulathur, Thiruvallur, Unnikulam, Velam, Valayam, Villiappalli, Atholi, Kunnummal and Nochad grama panchayats. Only shops selling essential goods and drugs will be opened here between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Only home delivery will be allowed in hotels and restaurants. Banks can have 25% of staff on rotation. Kozhikode Corporation, Mukkom, and Vadakara municipalities, and Ayancheri, Azhiyoor, Balussery, Chathamangalam, Cheruvannur, Kakkur, Kayanna, Kodanchery, Kottur, Kuruvattur, Kuttiyadi, Maniyoor, Madavoor, Mavoor, Meppayyur, Moodadi, Naduvannur, Nadapuram, Panangad, Perumanna, Purameri, Puthuppadi, Thikkodi, Thiruvambadi, and Vanimel grama panchayats are in ‘C’ category. The TPR is between 10% and 15% in these local bodies. Shops other than those selling essential stuff will be allowed to open only on Fridays from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Chakkittappara, Edachery, Eramala, Kattippara, Keezhariyur, Koorachund, Koodaranhi, Maruthonkara, Onchiyam, Perambra, Thooneri, Thurayur, and Ulliyeri grama panchayats are in ‘B’ category where the TPR is between 5% and 10%. Government offices and banks can function with 100% staff strength here on all days. All the shops selling essential stuff and construction material can open on all days with 50% staff. Other shops can function on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Public transport is allowed here. Fifteen persons can enter religious places of worship observing pandemic protocol. None of the local bodies have a weekly TPR below 5%. Complete lockdown would be in force on Saturdays and Sundays until further notice, a release said. 2,151 fresh cases Meanwhile, 2,151 fresh COVID-19 cases were recorded in the district on Wednesday. There were 2,129 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 17 others was not known. The daily TPR was 14.62% when 14,960 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation had 329 locally acquired infections, Koyilandy 80, Kuruvattur and Thalakkulathur 57 each, Olavanna 56, Kunnamangalam 54, and Puthuppady 52. As many as 1,531 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 18,526.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-rises-to-142-over-the-week-in-kozhikode/article35457450.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Building near railway gate caves in; none hurt||An old building near the Court Road railway gate caved in on Wednesday. No one sustained injuries in the incident which took place around 1 a.m. Accessories destroyed The police said a tailoring unit was operational in the building which was obtained on rent nearly 20 years ago by a tenant from Kuttichira. The building, which was in an unfit condition, collapsed following heavy rain and wind. Some of the tailoring accessories kept inside the leased space were destroyed in the incident. Houses damaged Revenue Department officials said nearly 50 houses had been damaged in rain-related calamities in the district in the past seven days. With the orange alert sounded by the India Meteorological Department, the Revenue Department authorities had called for better alert by people living in low-lying areas, river banks and landslip-prone areas. Coastal areas  The coastal people had also been asked to monitor the situation and contact the authorities in case of any emergency rehabilitation requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/building-near-railway-gate-caves-in-none-hurt/article35457452.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Infant diagnosed with rare genetic disease dead||An infant diagnosed with the rare disease, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), whose parents and relatives had launched an active social media campaign to collect funds for his treatment, died at the Government Medical College Hospital late on Tuesday night. According to sources, Imran Ahmed, son of Arif, a native of Perinthalmanna in Malappuram district, suffered a cardiac arrest while he was on ventilator support at the Institute for Maternal and Child Health attached to the hospital. Genetic disease Imran was taken to doctors after it was noticed that he could not move his hands even two-three weeks after birth. He was initially admitted to a private hospital and then to the medical college hospital. He was diagnosed with SMA, a genetic disease affecting the central nervous system, peripheral nervous system, and voluntary muscle movement. When it was revealed that his treatment would cost around Rs. 18 crore, Arif had contacted the office of the Health Minister, who promised all help. Later Arif approached the Kerala High Court, seeking a directive to the government for financial aid. Though the government was asked to file an affidavit by June 28, it was reportedly not given. In the meantime, the campaign launched by Arif and friends evoked an enormous response from within the State and abroad. A local people’s committee headed by people’s representatives too had been formed. Close to Rs. 16 crore collected through crowdfunding as deposited in a bank account opened for the purpose. The news of his death came when the local youth organisations were planning to hold a ‘payasam festival’ to collect more money. His last rites were held at a mosque in Valambur near Perinthalmanna. Apart from his father, Imran is survived by his mother, Raneesa Thasni, and sister Diyana Fathima.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infant-diagnosed-with-rare-disease-dead/article35457456.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police to widen net in parallel telephone exchange case||The District Crime Branch squad investigating the parallel telephone exchange case will seek the support of the Bengaluru police also for netting some of the inter-State operators in the illegal business. According to Crime Branch sources, there have been similar illegal telephone exchanges in Bengaluru city as well, which had been exposed by the local police. In the first round of search carried out in different parts of Kozhikode city, the police had exposed eight parallel exchanges which transferred illegal internet calls from abroad to local phones. The call diversion violating the Telecom rules was facilitated using China-made call routers and hundreds of illegally obtained SIM cards. Police officials, who were part of the first round of investigations in the first week of July, said there were around 700 SIM cards with the illegal exchange operators in Kozhikode district. In the verification process, it was found that all those SIM cards were obtained from States like Assam, West Bengal, and Karnataka. The cards were obtained using fake identity cards and misusing the local connections of some of the shareholders in the business. Police sources said the Crime Branch team would mainly check whether the investors and operators in the illegal business had facilitated the communication of any extremist elements. Also, the possible misuse of the illegal network for the operation of gold smugglers’ gangs would be investigated. Till date, only one person has been arrested in connection with the case. According to Crime Branch sources, more suspected operators, who colluded with the inter-State gang, would be netted in the days to come. They also hinted that a few Keralites, who supported its operations from abroad, would be interrogated in pace with the further probe. The case initially investigated by the city police was handed over to the District Crime Branch recently following the suspicion that the illegal communication network was misused for facilitating untraceable secret communications between extremist elements. Also, it was found to be a grave case that requires the full-time technical support of the police cyber dome and the hi-tech crime inquiry cell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-widen-net-in-parallel-telephone-exchange-case/article35457443.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||DIET to help students tackle emotional issues||The District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Kozhikode, is chipping in to help students and parents cope with various aspects of online learning at home. Class-level Parents Teacher Association meetings are to be held soon to discuss giving emotional support to children from Classes VIII to XII in the district. Training for Plus Two class teachers and principals as part of the project titled Comprehensive Online Meeting of Parents for Educational Rejoice and Incubating Orientation was completed recently. DIET sources said that a survey conducted among parents of Plus Two students had revealed that their children were behaving emotionally and illogically to issues and picking quarrels with them after the launch of online classes. The students also preferred to stay alone. They were not regularly talking to family members, sharing their personal things, and were found to spend more time on electronic gadgets. These behaviour patterns were attributed to physical and emotional changes happening in teenagers as well as the impact of online learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diet-to-help-students-tackle-emotional-issues/article35457448.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Malabar Devaswom staff demand revised wages||Hundreds of employees of the Malabar Devaswom Board on Wednesday observed protests in front of temples, houses and public places to mark the 27th anniversary of the verdict of the Kerala High Court ordering the State government to address the plight of the temple employees in north Kerala. The protests were organised under the aegis of the Kerala State Temple Employees Coordination Committee. Family members, retired employees and well-wishers of the employees also took part in the protests.  Based on a report in The Hindu , the High Court of Kerala had initiated suo motu proceeding in 1992. The report had highlighted the poor living conditions of the employees and the pathetic state of affairs of the temples in the Malabar region. Two years later, the court ordered a reasonable income for the temple employees and set up a Malabar Devaswom Management Fund. Coordination committee convener V.V. Sreenivasan said that the State-level inauguration was held in front of the Cherukunnu Sree Annapoorneswary Temple in Kannur district in the morning. He said that the employees, who had staged an indefinite strike from November 1 last, ended their protest after 64 days following an assurance from the newly appointed Malabar Devaswom Board president M.R. Murali and former Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran that the wages of the employees would be revised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temple-employees-demand-revised-wages/article35457438.ece
22 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police to collect more evidence in girl’s murder||Sameera Navas, who was remanded in judicial custody on the charge of strangulating her five-year-old daughter, will be released in police custody on Thursday for collecting more evidence in the case. The suspected involvement of the woman in witchcraft, which allegedly led to the killing of the child, would be probed in detail during the custody period. Ayesha, Sameera’s daughter, was found dead at her home in the evening of July 7.  The case would be investigated further under the leadership of Panniyankara Circle Inspector Rajeena K. Joseph. The suspect would be taken to her house for the first time to collect evidence. The statements of her family members, including the elder child, would be recorded. According to police sources, the woman had been in touch with a black magic practitioner near Kohinoor in Malappuram. A few days before the murder, she had reportedly visited him for some inputs related to witchcraft which she allegedly practised on the child. Her family was reportedly unaware of the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-collect-more-evidence-in-girls-murder/article35457457.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,166 new cases in capital, 747 recoveries||The COVID-19 case load in the district went up by 1,166 cases on Wednesday, even as the district administration announced the test positivity rate (TPR)-based curbs in local bodies for the next seven days starting Thursday. The district reported a TPR of 8.1% and 747 recoveries from the infection on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 10,063. Of the new cases, contact transmission accounted for 1,087 cases. The list included three health workers. In all, 31,395 people are in quarantine in the district, including 2,170 people who were added to the list on Wednesday. The district administration has issued a revised list of local bodies where the TPR-based curbs will be in force for one week from Thursday. Local bodies are classified as A (average TPR below 5% - areas with low spread), B (between 5 and 10% - areas with moderate spread), C (10-15% - areas with high spread) and D (TPR above 15% - areas with critical spread). Corporation The Thiruvananthapuram corporation and the Neyyatinkara municipality are in the B category. Attingal and Nedumangad municipalities are in the C category and Varkala in the D category. Nine grama panchayats - Chirayinkeezhu, Pulimath, pallickal, Kattakada, Vakkom, Uzhamalackal, Vettoor, Kottukal and Edava - also are in the D category. Public offices, PSUs, companies, commissions, corporations and autonomous institutions in the A and B category locations can function with 100% attendance. Those in C category local bodies can function with 50% staff attendance. Banks can function on five days a week. July 24 and 25 will be holidays. Places of worship in A and B category locations can conduct rituals with a maximum of 15 people. Examinations are permitted in all four categories on all days including weekends. Indoor shooting of TV serials are permitted in A and B category local bodies. Home delivery Supermarkets in A, B and C category locations can open on weekends for home delivery of items. The weekend lockdown measures will be in force on July 24 and July 25. In the D category locations, these curbs will be applicable throughout the week. Gyms and indoor sports venues can function in non-AC halls/spaces with adequate ventilation. Attendance is restricted to 20 persons at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1166-new-cases-in-capital-747-recoveries/article35457669.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Unnati’ to help job-scheme workers improve their skills||The ‘Unnati’ project that will provide skill training to existing workers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), with an aim of reducing the dependency on the scheme, has been launched in the State. Under the project, one adult member of a household which has completed 100 days of work under the MGNREGS will be provided training through the Rural Skill Division of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Krishi Vigyan Kendras of the Ministry of Agriculture. Project details The household from which a candidate will be selected for the training will continue to enjoy 100 days of work under the scheme. A family member in the 18-35 age group from the household will be eligible for training under the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY). In case of special groups, persons of up to 45 years of age can apply. Stipend for 100 days The person undergoing training will be paid a stipend as per the prevailing wage rate for a maximum period of 100 days. The person will be eligible for stipend on a minimum attendance of 75% of the training classes or the course attendance requirement, whichever is more. “We started the programme in the State recently. Around 100 people have already joined. The target we have been given for the year is above 10,000. It is aimed at providing them skill training or entrepreneurship training, as per their choice. Under the DDU-GKY, placement is also ensured following the training. The Rural Enhancement Training Institute provides training in entrepreneurial skills, including cloth bag- and paper bag-making. The basic aim here is to reduce their dependency on MGNREGS and ensure jobs with better wages,” says an official of the MGNREGS State mission. Rs. 6.85 crore set aside An amount of Rs. 6.85 crore has been sanctioned for the State for payment of the first instalment of stipend under the Unnati project. The Kudumbashree Mission has been entrusted with the selection of beneficiaries. Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, some of the institutes have remained closed and, hence, the programme has been slow to pick up pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unnati-to-help-job-scheme-workers-improve-their-skills/article35457528.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Is the State beginning to witness effect of vaccination?||The State’s COVID-19 case graph is on the rise, test positivity rate (TPR) is also moving closer to 12% now and the active case pool is rising steadily. But amidst this apparent gloom, Kerala is beginning to see the vaccination effect and an apparent age shift in infections, public health experts point out. Despite the steady increase in new cases and the active case pool, total COVID hospitalisations in the State has remained around 25,000 since weeks. ICU and ventilator occupancy also have not gone up significantly. Breakthrough infections This indicates that even though new infections are increasing, a chunk of it could be re-infections in people who had been infected by COVID during the first wave. It is also possible that a good percentage of the new infections are breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated persons or infections in people who have received only one dose of vaccine. “Either way, it is fairly certain that people who are getting COVID-19 now are not getting serious illness and have only mild infections, which are easily managed at home. Or else, the ICU occupancy and hospitalisation rates would have shot up. We need more disaggregated data on re-infections and breakthrough infections to establish this fact. But, now that over 50 % of the population above 18 years has received at least one dose of vaccine, we are quite hopeful that the State is beginning to see the beneficial effect of vaccination against COVID,” says T. S. Anish, public health expert. Mass testing The just-concluded augmented testing done by the State, when three lakh COVID testing was done over two days, has also thrown up some interesting results. The results revealed that the highest TPR of 25% was found in children, followed by those in the 80 plus age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/is-the-state-beginning-to-witness-effect-of-vaccination/article35457484.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, KSRTC ensures alternative service during delays||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has put in place a system to ensure that long-distance passengers do not face any difficulties or delays due to accidents or breakdown while availing themselves of its services. The Chairman and Managing Director has issued instructions to ensure that passengers are not stranded for more than 30 minutes, unless in unavoidable circumstances, due to a bus breakdown or accident. In case of an accident or breakdown during service, the bus conductor has to inform the control room within five minutes. The information will be passed to the nearest depot, from where an alternative arrangement will be made within 15 minutes. If a bus of the same class is not available, one from a higher or lower class will be sent to take the passengers to the nearest depot, where a bus of the same class is available. The unit officers concerned will be informed to ready a replacement bus at the depot. Replacement service The conductor also has to inform the control room and arrange a replacement service for the return journey, if the breakdown happens in the onward journey and there is advanced reservation for the return trip. Passengers themselves can inform the control room and send photographs to the KSRTC's WhatsApp number. The contact numbers of KSRTC control room are 9447071021 and 0471- 2463799 and the WhatsApp number is 81295 62972. The KSRTC has also implemented a system by which services with pre-reservation are operated without fail, as part of addressing complaints that some long-distance services are cancelled at the last minute without prior announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-ksrtc-alternative-service-during-delays/article35457436.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bakrid celebrated under COVID shadow||The State celebrated Bakrid under the grim shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic for the second year in a row on Wednesday. The festival, which customarily entails communal prayer, family visits, gifts for relatives and friends and feasting, seemed a subdued affair this year. Families remained sequestered at home mostly. Mosques allowed only less than 40 persons for prayers. Worshippers bought their mats, wore masks and sat physically distanced for prayers. The traditional geniality after prayers seemed absent, given the COVID-19 protocol against close physical interaction. Watchmen checked the body temperature of visitors at mosque entrances, jotted down addresses and mobile phone numbers before permitting them inside for prayers. Festival greetings were confined mainly to mobile phone video calls, WhatsApp messages and online socialising. The customary holiday cheer seemed singularly absent. Residents generally deemed social gatherings unsafe. The government had also requested citizens to avoid holiday gatherings and casual travel. The State had come under criticism from the Supreme Court (SC) for allowing Bakrid relaxations despite a high test positivity rate of 10.8% that showed scarce signs of declining. The government’s pandemic expert committee had also expressed concern that unregulated holiday crowds and festival shoppers could precipitate another dangerous spike in COVID-19 cases. Large swathes of Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kasaragod districts, the traditional hubs of Bakrid festivities, remained under the grip of the pandemic.    The government has, for now, rejected the traders’ demand to withdraw weekend lockdown, lift night curfew and allow shops to open on all days in the run-up to the Onam shopping season. It announced that it would tighten COVID-19 regulations from Thursday. Weekend lockdowns, night curfew after 9 p.m. and curbs on retail and mobility would continue until July 27 at least.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bakrid-celebrated-under-covid-shadow/article35457486.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Blue whales sing off Kerala coast||Researchers have recorded, reportedly for the first time from the waters off Kerala, the song of blue whales. The recording was more or less serendipitous. A hydrophone deployed off Vizhinjam to capture the sounds of migrating humpback whales had instead recorded the call of the endangered blue whale. The research team consisted of Dipani Sutaria, a marine mammal expert and member, IUCN Cetacean Specialist Group, and A. Biju Kumar, head, Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala. Deployed with the help of deep-dive experts, the hydrophone had been retrieved in June this year. The study was locally supported by Kumar Sahayaraju, a marine biologist and resident of coastal Thiruvananthapuram. Low-frequency moans While humpbacks are known for their high-frequency vocalisations, blue whale songs are a series of short, low-frequency moans. Whale sounds (moans, cries, chirps and cries) are essentially communication tools, for activities such as socialising and mating. Call patterns can vary from population to population, Dr. Biju Kumar said. So far, the presence of blue whales in the waters off Kerala have been reported through a few carcasses that beached. But the recording of their calls confirms their presence along this stretch of the western coast, he said. Pygmy blue whales Though the larger blue whale populations are found around Antarctica where krill, their favourite food, is available, the occurrence of pygmy blue whales is reported in the Indian Ocean. “Research teams from the University of Kerala have identified several whales that beached on the Kerala coast earlier, including Bryde’s whale. A whale stranded at Valiaveli in 2019 was identified as a blue whale through DNA barcoding,” Dr. Biju Kumar said. Divya Panicker, a doctoral student in oceanography, had recorded the blue whale song from the Lakshadweep waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blue-whales-sing-off-kerala-coast/article35457442.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack: prisoner on parole held||A prisoner who was out on parole was arrested by the City police on charges of trespassing into a house and attempting to assault a woman. The police identified the accused as Manu, 38, of Vinayaka Nagar, Karikkakom, who was out on parole from the Central Prison, Poojappura. He has been accused of trespassing into the house of Sreelatha of Vinayaka Nagar and attempting to attack her with an iron bar. He shattered a window pane, according to the police. Manu was in prison in connection with a murder case and was allowed parole in May. He went into hiding after the incident, but was tracked down by a police team led by Pettah SHO Binu Kumar and SI Ratheesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-prisoner-on-parole-held/article35457666.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Problem of plenty in women safety projects?||Less than a month after the State government launched Aparajitha, a mechanism to report cases of domestic violence and dowry-related atrocities, it kicked off a ‘Pink’ protection project that aims at tackling problems faced by women, again with police intervention. Activists though question if the State needs more mechanisms to protect women, or should it focus on strengthening existing ones. Creating confusion Aleyamma Vijayan of the Sakhi Women’s Resource Centre says multiple mechanisms only create confusion as women tend to approach all of them. However, there is no way for one to know what the status of a complaint is or who is following it up. What kind of solutions these institutional mechanisms provide is also pertinent. She suggests a single helpline like in many other States, similar to the 1098 helpline for children. This helpline should be widely disseminated. A single mechanism A Women and Child Development Department official concurs. Multiplicity of complaints prevents accurate data collection. There should be a single mechanism or portal on which a complaint can be registered and necessary services provided by the government on its basis, she says. Focus should also be on improving existing systems, especially through better awareness, rather than depending solely on police enforcement to check atrocities. She also calls for energising panchayat ‘jagratha samithis’ so that services can be provided to women at the lowest level. However, Ms. Vijayan points that efforts to set up the jagratha samithis have failed to make headway. It needs to be examined if a local panchayat is capable of dealing with such cases or should there be a district-level fora. J. Sandhya, lawyer, says it is not a lack of helplines that is the problem. Nor is there any need for new police mechanisms. The problem is there is not enough action by the police on complaints of violence against women owing to complacency. The police cite the need for preliminary enquiry in cases of cruelty but nowhere does the Supreme Court verdict say cases should not be registered by the police, says Ms. Sandhya. Even in instances where women have received protection orders, the police do not take strong action. Again, the police have the responsibility to inform complainants of the availability of services of Women Protection Officers but this does not happen. The services of one Women Protection Officer for a district is not enough, she points out. For multiple helplines T.K. Anandi, former Gender Advisor to the State government, says there is need for multiple helplines for women, especially as Mitra 181 helpline alone will not be able to help all those in need. There is also little awareness of Mitra 181 or Women Protection Officers in the State. Ms. Anandi says appointment of at least one more Women Protection Officer in the districts has been recommended so that the burden on existing officers is eased. She feels the police alone will not be able to solve problems without the intervention of Women Protection Officers. There also has to be a mechanism for handling cybercrime in the State, particularly in the pandemic scenario and with online education under way for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/problem-of-plenty-in-women-safety-projects/article35457609.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quota debate should not cause discord: Imam||Debates surrounding minority scholarship quotas should not create rifts in society, Palayam Imam V. P. Suhaib Moulavi said on Wednesday. Leading the Bakrid prayers here, he also urged the people to take a strong stand against the practice of dowry. Minority scholarships, or any benefit for that matter, should not be the cause for discord in the society, Suhaib Moulavi said. He urged the people to adopt an uncompromising stand against giving and accepting dowry during marriages. “Dowry poses a stiff challenge to the society today. We are hearing reports of suicides that occur in the name of dowry. Shouldn't we take a take a stand against it. The faithful should come forward to oppose it. The youth should take a pledge against dowry,” he said. Given the COVID-19 situation, Bakrid prayers were held in mosques by strictly adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Leading the prayers at the Vallakadavu Valiyapally, Hafiz P. H. Abdul Gaffar Moulavi, Chief Imam of the Vallakadavu Muslim Jama-ath, urged the faithful to dedicate themselves to the service of others in this time of crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quota-debate-should-not-cause-discord-imam/article35457672.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Daily cases cross 17,000||The State’s COVID-19 case graph, which had hit a plateau in the post-lockdown phase, is on the rise since the past two-and-a-half weeks. The State reported 17,481 new cases on Wednesday, when 1,45,993 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate also seemed to show an increase at 11.97%. The active case pool showed an increase at 1,29,640 cases with 14,131 patients reported to have recovered. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 15,617, with the State adding 105 deaths to the official list.   Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,318 cases, Ernakulam 2,270, Kozhikode 2,151, Thrissur 1,983, Palakkad 1,394, Kollam 1,175, Thiruvananthapuram 1,166, Kottayam 996, Alappuzha 969, Kannur 777, Kasaragod 776, Pathanamthitta 584, Wayanad 475 and Idukki 447 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-cases-cross-17000/article35457483.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KTU warns against misinformation campaign||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has urged students to be vigilant against a misinformation campaign about the ongoing examinations. Offline examinations are being conducted smoothly in other universities, including Kerala University of Health Sciences, but attempts are being made to disrupt and boycott examinations only at the KTU, M.S. Rajasree, Vice Chancellor, said in a statement on Wednesday. The Vice Chancellor said the university had decided to conduct the offline examinations in accordance with a decision arrived at a meeting of Vice Chancellors of universities in the State that was convened by the Minister for Higher Education. However, only the KTU was being targeted. The exams were rescheduled to ensure that classes were completed and adequate study time was provided. A centre change system was allowed for students. The State government had also issued an order prioritising COVID-19 vaccination for students of the KTU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-warns-against-misinformation-campaign/article35457665.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Four more Zika cases confirmed in State||Four more cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection have been confirmed in the State, of which one case has been reported from Kottayam district, raising apprehensions that the virus could establish new focal areas of infection outside the capital district from where all lab-confirmed cases of ZIKV have so far been reported. Of the three cases in the capital district, two have been reported from the Anayara cluster and one from Pettah. The case reported in Kottayam is also linked to Thiruvananthapuram, as the infection has been reported in one of the team members from the Vector Control Research Centre, Kottayam, who had visited the capital as part of ZIKV investigation, Health Department sources said. Aedes Aegypti is a day-biting mosquito and it is highly possible that the team member got bitten by an infected mosquito during field visits in the capital city. The Health Department will now keep a close watch on disease surveillance in Kottayam. So far, 42 cases of lab-confirmed cases of ZIKV have been reported from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zika-case-confirmed-in-kottayam/article35457458.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Improve coordination with police, WPOs told||The Women and Child Development Department has directed the 14 Women Protection Officers (WPOs) in the State to improve coordination with the police force. The department has found that lack of coordination between the Women Protection Officers and the police has been severely affecting their functioning. A meeting held by Women and Child Development Director T.V. Anupama with the Women Protection Officers on district-level implementation of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, and day-to-day responsibilities of Women Protection Officers recently observed that the number of cases received through the 181 helpline and the police was very less, and hence, Women Protection Officers should work in association with the police. They were directed to file regular updates on domestic violence cases on the department website. The meeting underlined the need for the officers to be gender sensitive and efficient. It urged them to define clearly the domestic violence Act and the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, and provide services in a time-bound manner to women who are subjected to crimes. They were also urged to conduct domestic violence monitoring committee meetings regularly. The meeting decided to take steps at the directorate level to get District Police Chiefs to participate in the committees. At least one service providing centres (SPC) under the department should be opened in each block and each Corporation. Visit shelter homes Ms. Anupama asked the Women Protection Officers to visit government shelter homes regularly. The officers, along with District Women and Child Development Officers, should visit the SPCs at least once in three months and submit reports to the department. The Women Protection Officers were also asked to take immediate action on complaints received as part of Rakshadooth, a scheme in association with the Postal Department wherein women or children who have been subjected to domestic violence or their representative can deposit their complaints in the post box for action by the Women Protection Officers or District Child Protection Officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wpos-told-to-improve-synergy-with-police/article35457532.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister’s pat for reading project||The online education system introduced in the wake of the pandemic outbreak has gained acceptance, largely due to the influence of the digital reading project introduced by the P.N.Panicker Foundation in 2003, according to Minister for General Education V.Sivankutty. Speaking after inaugurating the valedictory of the National Reading Day celebrations organised by the foundation here on Wednesday, he said the library movement in Kerala had played a key role in achieving total literacy. He stressed the need for school libraries to become more active. Former MP, Pannian Ravindran presided and Chief Secretary V.P.Joy delivered the keynote address. Vice chairman of the foundation N.Balagopal was among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-lauds-digital-reading-project/article35457533.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Star ranking soon for industries||As part of promoting ‘Responsible Investment’ in the State, the companies which excel in this respect will be accorded with a star ranking, Industries Minister P.Rajeeve has said. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) will prepare guidelines for this. He was speaking after inaugurating a virtual conference as part of the 60th anniversary celebrations of KSIDC. He said that growth areas for the future will be identified, and plans will be prepared to attract new investors and entrepreneurs in such areas to the State. Various factors, including better infrastructural facilities, lower power tariffs and better human resources, make the State a favourable destination. Mr.Rajeeve said that the KSIDC should be able to adapt to the changing times. The first government of 1957 itself had taken a stand which had instilled confidence in private investors. KSIDC MD M.G.Rajamanikyam presented a report on the 60 years of the Corporation. He said that the KSIDC will come forward with projects which are suited to the post-COVID world. The Corporation’s industrial policy will be one which takes the environment too into consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/star-ranking-for-industries-soon/article35457455.ece
22 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested||The police have arrested two men on charges of attacking two motorcyclists and snatching a gold chain and a mobile phone from one of them. The arrested were identified as Renjith, 32, and Vishnu, 23, residents of Kalpana Colony, Menamkulam. The police said on Wednesday they were on the lookout for a third man who was involved in the attack. The men have been charged with assaulting the complainants, Shantanu and his friend Sujith, who were travelling on a motorcycle, around 12 noon on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested/article35457667.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||N. Ravi takes over as CG Commander||Deputy Inspector General N. Ravi has assumed office as State Commander of the Indian Coast Guard for Kerala and Mahe. He took charge from outgoing Officer DIG Sanatan Jena, TM on Wednesday. The Flag Officer graduated from Madras Institute of Technology (MIT) and joined the Indian Coast Guard service on January 7, 1995. He is an alumnus of Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. He has held important Command and Staff appointments and commanded several Coast Guard vessels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/n-ravi-takes-over-as-cg-commander/article35457535.ece
22 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Cases remain high in Thrissur||COVID-19 cases have been remaining high in Thrissur district. The test positivity rate (TPR) on Wednesday was 14.48%. As many as 1,983 people tested positive on the day while 1,583 people recovered from the disease. There were 9,937 active cases in the district on Wednesday. So far 3,03,810 positive cases have been recorded in the district. In all 1,962 people, including 12 health-care workers, contracted the disease through contact on the day. There are 31 local bodies, including 28 grama panchayats and three municipalities, in the district in D category where triple lockdown is in place. The average test positivity rate from July 14 to July 20 is 12.45%. There are 40 panchayats in C category. Only four local bodies in the district are in A category with TPR less than 5%. There are 19 local bodies in B category with TPR between 5% and 10%. In the wake of a massive infection reported at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital, samples collected from medical students have been sent to the virology lab at Pune. This is to check whether the infection is due to any mutant variant of COVID-19 virus. District health officials led by the District Medical Officer visited the medical college, hostels and hospital premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-remain-high-in-thrissur/article35457604.ece
22 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fire safety inspection at Kuthiran tunnel complete||The fire and safety wing completed the final round of safety examination at Kuthiran tunnel road on Wednesday. The examination led by the district fire officer was conducted ahead of the opening of one of the twin tunnels in August. ‘Satisfied’ The district fire officer, who expressed satisfaction at the safety systems at the tunnel, said a certificate would be issued on Thursday. Fire hydrant points have been installed every 50 m in the tunnel. A diesel pump and two electric pumps are installed to pump water in case of fire. There is a water tank with 2-lakh-litre capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-safety-inspection-at-kuthiran-tunnel-complete/article35457435.ece
22 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Keralite’s short film selected for Cannes fete||Dog Brothers , a short film directed by Viswan of Kuthirambara in Thiruvilwamala, has been selected as one of the three nominees to the ‘Best First-time Filmmaker Short’ category in the Cannes film festival. Viswan has written the script too. The lynching of a tribal youth, Madhu, by an angry mob at Attappady accusing him of stealing food, is the theme of the film. It tells about the politics of hunger and poverty. The film progresses through the deep friendship of two brothers in a village in Palakkad with two dogs. Actors Along with a group of children from Viswan’s own village, Kuthirambara, child actors Harijit and Aadit, actor K.S. Prathapan and folk singer Vasantha Pazhayannur have done key roles in the film.  Dog Brothers has already won an award in the Kolkata International Film Festival and earned an official selection to the Berlin Film Festival. Out of Syllabus , Dr. Patient, and Appavum Veenjum are the other films by Viswan. Other entries The other films selected to the final round of the Cannes festival are from the U.K. and the U.S. Gopakumar Nair has produced the film in the banner of Great A.V. Productions. Vijesh Kappara has done the camera.  The lynching of a tribal youth by a mob at Attappady accusing him of stealing food is the theme of the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralites-short-film-selected-for-cannes/article35457439.ece
22 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CB to probe Karuvannur loan scam||The Crime Branch (CB) will investigate the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank loan scam. The Irinjalakuda police were investigating the case. Since the loan fraud involved more than Rs. 100 crore, the case was handed over to the Crime Branch. A recent audit by the joint registrar of the cooperative societies found a loan fraud worth more than Rs. 100 crore at the bank controlled by the CPI(M). Loans were sanctioned on property pledged by local customers without their knowledge. Loan amounts were credited multiple times to selected accounts. The police had registered a case against six persons, including the secretary of the bank in this connection. Joint registrar of cooperative societies Mohanmon K. Joseph submitted a report to the registrar on the scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-to-probe-karuvannur-loan-scam/article35457481.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Falling into history||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/falling-into-history/article35457465.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Out of bounds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/out-of-bounds/article35457445.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a safe Bakrid||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-safe-bakrid/article35457447.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Out of bounds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/out-of-bounds/article35457673.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Prayer time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prayer-time/article35457606.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prayer-time/article35457530.ece
22 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illegal structures removed in Anantapur||The Anantapur Municipal Corporation has launched a drive to remove all unauthorised structures in the city and Kamalanagar, a business hub, by removing encroachments of roads and drains. Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy supervised the removal of the encroachments on Wednesday. Earthmovers were used to bring down unauthorised constructions and encroachment of the drains. Mr. Murthy warned people of Kamalanagar against building any structures on the drains and appealed to them to keep the drains, over which slabs would be laid, free so that those could be cleared during the rainy season and inundation could be stopped. He warned of action against those who resort to construction of the removed portions. The engineering wing officers have been instructed to complete at the earliest the work on drains and side footpaths in the streets, where the encroachments were being removed. He also asked the shop owners and citizens to cooperate with the Municipal Corporation to ensure hassle-free movement of traffic in the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illegal-structures-removed-in-anantapur/article35457644.ece
22 July 2021||AVANIGADDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP inspects work on model police station||Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal on Wednesday inspected the office of Avanigadda Deputy Superintendent of Police and the model police station, which is under construction. Interaction He enquired with Avanigadda DSP Md. Basha about major issues in the division and the crime rate. The SP interacted with the police officers on security along the coast and checked the records in the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-inspects-work-on-model-police-station/article35457688.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka CM appeals to supporters not to protest||Breaking his silence, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday appealed to his supporters to adhere to party discipline and not hold any protests. This came amid escalating demand from Veerashaiva–Lingayat groups that he should not be replaced as Chief Minister. Some had called for protests across the State if the BJP chose to effect a leadership change. The Chief Minister tweeted, “I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with the highest standards of ethics and behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics and not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cm-appeals-to-supporters-not-to-protest/article35457092.ece
22 July 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Koyas seek recognition for Gondi language||People belonging to the Koya tribe on Wednesday observed the Gondi Language Day in the Agency areas of East Godavari district, and sought inclusion of their language in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Awareness rallies The Gondi Language Day is observed on July 21 as per the Delhi Convention - 2018 organised by the Adivasi Samkshema Parishad (ASP), the prime body that has been striving for the protection of the language and culture in eight States spreading over southern, central and northern parts of the country. Coinciding with the day, the government employees, students, youth, and women belonging to the tribe took out motorcycle rallies and conducted meetings seeking that their long-pending demand for inclusion of Gondi in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution be met. Floral tributes At Chintoor, the Koyas offered floral tributes at the statues of Adivasi freedom fighters and took out a rally. At Kunavaram, a meeting conducted under the aegis of the JAC of Koya Tribal Society called for intensifying efforts to protect the Koya culture and language. The attendance at the meetings and rallies was thin following incessant rain since morning. “The national-level movement for Gondi language will simultaneously stress the need for protection of our culture and unity at the village-level,” ASP national coordinator Madivi Nehru told The Hindu over phone. According to an official document of the Ministry of Home Affairs, there are demands for the inclusion of 38 languages, including Gondi, in the Eighth Schedule. In 2004, four languages – Bodo, Dogri, Maithili, and Santhali – were added to the Eighth Schedule, which comprised of 22 languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koyas-seek-recognition-for-gondi-language/article35457592.ece
22 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tada Falls reopens for visitors after three months in Chittoor||The Ubbalamadugu waterfalls, popularly known as Tada Falls, near Varadaiahpalem in the Satyavedu range was reopened for visitors after three months. Visitors’ entry was restricted to the spot, an eco-tourism project, nestled in the forests of Varadaiahpalem and BN Kandriga is known for perennial waterfalls. Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) J. Prasada Rao said that the Tada Falls saw footfalls of about 500 visitors on Wednesday, adding that the number is likely to go up in the coming weeks. “All arrangements have been made to enforce the COVID-19 guidelines. The visitors will not be allowed if they fail to comply with the guidelines including wearing masks, carrying sanitisers, and maintaining social distancing,” said Mr. Prasada Rao. However, the visitors are not allowed to enter the water bodies. “Anyone found to be using chewing tobacco products on the premises will be fined. We want people above 65 years of age to avoid visiting the eco-tourism project,” he said. As the Tada Falls witnesses heavy crowd during the weekends and holidays, predominantly from Chennai and other border areas in Tamil Nadu, a special team of forest personnel has been posted at the entrance to ensure the compliance with guidelines such as wearing masks, checking body temperatures and restricting entry of visitors with symptoms of cough, cold and fever. The FRO urged the visitors to strictly confine their movements within the permitted limits of Tada Falls, and avoid straying into the surrounding forest area known for its treacherous terrain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tada-falls-reopens-for-visitors-after-three-months-in-chittoor/article35456906.ece
22 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training sessions for sarpanches from today||In an attempt to strengthen the village administration system, the authorities will organise training sessions for sarpanches. Collector M. Hari Narayanan told the media on Wednesday that a three-day training session for sarpanches would commence at the DRDA hall in Chittoor at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday. The sessions would also be held for the convenience of sarpanches of Madanapalle, Chittoor and Tirupati revenue divisions in five phases. “The role of sarpanches in addressing the rural issues is vital. Sarpanches will be sensitised on their duties. The subjects of training will include infrastructure facilities, drinking water, economic sustenance, public health, government schemes, secretariats and role of volunteers, responsibilities and discipline,” said Mr. Hari Narayanan. Arrangements will be made for stay and boarding of the sarpanches. Deputy Chief Minsiter K. Narayanaswamy, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy and HoDs of the Panchayat Raj and allied departments will attend the inaugural training session, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-sessions-for-sarpanches-from-today/article35457646.ece
22 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre for Financial Literacy opened||Regional Director (A.P. and Telangana), Reserve Bank of India, K. Nikhila on Wednesday inaugurated the Centre for Financial Literacy (CFL) at Amaravati in Guntur district. With the opening of the centre at Amaravathi, nine more CFLs in Chilakaluripet, Narasaraopet, Mangalagiri, Sattenapalli, Tadepalli, Tenali, Macherla, Piduguralla and Bellamkonda in Guntur district were virtually opened from Amaravathi. The CFL has facilities to provide awareness on financial aspects, including opening of account and the banking-related facilities. The Reserve Bank of India has decided to set up the CFLs in all the districts of the country by 2024, and as part of its efforts, initially decided to set up the financial literacy centre in Amravathi. The CFLs are jointly managed by Union Bank of India and the Society for Social Transformation, Kurnool, an NGO. A CFL will be set up for the three mandals. V. Brahmananda Reddy chief general manager, Union Bank of India and convener, SLBC of Andhra Pradesh; Sudheer Kumar Jannawar, chief general manager, NABARD, Hyderabad; M. Yashoda Bai, General Manager, Financial Inclusion and Development RBI, Hyderabad; and others participated in the inauguration programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rbi-centre-for-financial-literacy-opened-at-amaravati/article35457636.ece
22 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||LLR and DL slots available at RTA offices||E. Meera Prasad, Deputy Commissioner of Transport, Guntur, has said that slots are available for learning license and driving license. The RTA offices have decided to open following easing of the curfew but insist that people should follow all precautions, like wearing a mask, following social distancing, etc. Those who want the LLR and DL can apply online and book their slots. As per the demand of the applicants in the district, 150 learning license slots and 300 driving license slots are available in Guntur daily. In Narasaraopet RTO Office, 120 driving license slots and 100 learning license slots are made available. As many as 60 learning license slots per day were made available in Mangalagiri, Tenali, Bapatla, Macharla and in Piduguralla Transport Offices. License slots were made available from July 15, said Mr E. Meera Prasad in a press note asking people to make use of this opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/llr-and-dl-slots-available-at-rta-offices/article35457635.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam set to swell||Increasing flood into Almatti reservoir in Karnataka with heavy rains in the catchment areas of Upper Krishna Basin is set to swell the water storage in Srisailam project, the common facility of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, over the next few days. Both inflows and discharge of water at Almatti was 77,500 cusecs with the Central Water Commission (CWC) forecasting a rising trend based on the heavy rains in the catchment areas for most part of the last 10 days. During the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on July 21, Mahabaleshwar recorded 14 cm rainfall followed by 10.9 cm at Koyna and 6.8 cm in the Warana valley, all the catchment areas of river Krishna and its tributaries. “Since heavy rains are predicted in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts in Karnataka, rise in water levels is expected in Tungabhadra river. Similarly, rise in water levels is expected in Bhima and Krishna rivers due to heavy rains in Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli of Maharashtra and Belagavi district of Karnataka,” the CWC said in an advisory. Inflows into Almatti dam which were at 42,500 cusecs at noon on Wednesday increased to 77,500 cusecs by evening. With the rise in discharge of flood at Almatti, the authorities at Narayanpur dam downstream have increased the discharge of water to nearly 85,000 cusecs by 8.30 pm from 14 spillway gates and power house and indicated further increase in the outflows. Authorities of Karnataka informed their counterparts of Telangana to caution people of habitations along Krishna river course not to venture into the river as the flood level is set to increase. At Jurala, inflows were recorded at 63,000 cusecs on Wednesday night and discharge of flood was 36,000 cusecs from the six spillway gates and 32,000 more cusecs from the power house. As a result, the storage in Srisailam reservoir was on the rise steadily and crossed 69 tmc ft on Wednesday night. But for the release of water to Nagarjunasagar with power generation, the storage would already have crossed 100 tmc ft. Engineers said about 35 tmc ft had been let out towards Nagarjunasagar so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srisailam-set-to-swell/article35457601.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR has failed people of State, says Revanth||TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy said that people and those who participated in the Telangana movement were fast losing confidence in Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Speaking after welcoming Chairman of the Advisory Council on Minimum Wages Sama Venkat Reddy’s decision to join the Congress, he said KCR had failed the people who reposed faith in him in achieving the dreams of Telangana. Private employees have been totally ignored with corporates favoured by the government. He said Mr. Venkat Reddy would soon join the Congress and people who are fed up with KCR would be welcomed into the party. Mr. Venkat Reddy said he had been working on the welfare of employees in the private sector and reserving jobs for people of Telangana in private industries and companies. Despite giving lands to corporates and industries at a cheaper rate, the government has not made any effort to ensure that interests of Telangana youngsters were protected in the employment generated in them, Mr. Venkat Reddy said on Wednesday. ‘75% of jobs to local youth’ He added that 75% of jobs should be ensured for Telangana youngsters in the companies that benefit from lands provided by the government. He hoped that justice would be done by the Congress since KCR has failed them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-has-failed-people-of-state/article35457426.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||State Page - Brief Telugu varsity former VC selected for Dasarathi Krishnamacharya award||Littérateur and former vice-chancellor of Telugu University Elluri Siva Reddy has been selected for the Dasarathi Krishnamacharya award 2021. A committee constituted to select the Men of Letters for the prestigious award selected the former VC for his contributions to Telugu literature. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 1,01,116, a memento and citation. A native of Nagarkurnool in the erstwhile Mahabubnagar district, Prof. Siva Reddy will be the presented the award on Thursday, coinciding with the birth anniversary of Dasarathi Krishnamacharya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-page-brief-telugu-varsity-former-vc-selected-for-dasarathi-krishnamacharya-award/article35457419.ece
22 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on lone woman chieftain of Rayalaseema released||Not many are aware of Vannuramma, the only woman local chieftain (Palegathe) of Rayalaseema who is known as a symbol of grit and valour. A book titled ‘Eduruleni Palegathe Vannuramma’, authored by Bommisetty Ramesh, was released by noted littérateur Kethu Viswanatha Reddy on Wednesday. The land of Rayalaseema used to be ruled by local chieftains who used to wield total control over their respective fiefdoms, but Vannuramma was the only woman among them. Mr. Viswanatha Reddy said not much about Vannuramma was known to the outside world as her time preceded that of Thomas Munro, the first Collector who administered the ceded districts (Dattha Mandalalu). “Munro clamped his iron fist to trample the rights of the 88 chieftains of Rayalaseema,” he said. Lamenting that only one page had been dedicated in the two gazettes pertaining to Kadapa district, he called it oversight on part of the historians. “It is surprising that Mackenzie Kaifiyats (inscriptions) have dedicated a little space on Pothuluri Veerabrahmam, Vemana and Vannuramma,” he said, while appreciating the author for bringing the glory of Vannuramma to light. Writer Palagiri Viswaprasad Reddy, journalist B. Mohan, P. Bhaskar, District Writers Association General Secretary T. Venkataiah took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-lone-woman-chieftain-of-rayalaseema-released/article35457649.ece
22 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New SP takes stock of anti-naxal operations||East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu on Wednesday took stock of the vigilance being done by the Anti-Naxal Squad (ANS) in the East Godavari district and its borders with Telangana, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh. He sought inputs from the ANS and Armed Reserve wings on their field-level challenges and requirements both for their welfare as well as strengthening of the key wings in the areas falling in the Left Wing Extremism areas. “Grievances to be received from the ANS personnel will be sorted out on a war-footing. However, ANS and Armed Reserve personnel should be vigilant and prepared to meet the expectations in the challenging terrains and situations,” said Mr. Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-sp-takes-stock-of-anti-naxal-operations/article35457628.ece
22 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training for newly-elected sarpanches||East Godavari Zilla Parishad CEO N.V.V. Satyanarayana said that newly-elected sarpanches would undergo 14 days’ training on Panchayat Raj system, government welfare programmes and local body administration from Thursday. Mr. Satyanarayana said that 218 sarpanches from panchayats with a population of over 5,000 would be trained in Samarlakota, and the rest at revenue divisions of Kakinada, Peddapuram, Amalapuram, Rampachodavaram and Rajamahendravaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-for-newly-elected-sarpanches/article35457629.ece
22 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||EAPCET to be held in 48 centres||JNTU-Kakinada Vice-Chancellor M. Ramalinga Raju on Wednesday said the Engineering Agriculture and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test- 2021 (AP EAPCET) would be conducted in 48 centres between August 19 and 25 in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In Telangana, the test would be conducted in three centres. The last date to apply for the entrance test is July 25. Candidates could get more details through the website www.sche.ap.gov.in/eapcet, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eapcet-to-be-held-in-48-centres/article35457590.ece
22 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada to get solid waste treatment plant||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Wednesday said a solid waste treatment plant would be set up at a cost of Rs. 7 crore in the 49th ward of Kakinada Rural Assembly Constituency. Mr. Kannababu said tenders had been invited for the plant. “Nearly Rs. 66 crore have been spent on various development works in the past two years from the fund received from the 14 and 15 Finance Commission and the Smart City grant,” he said. Mr. Kannababu laid the foundation stone for a road in the 49th ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-to-get-solid-waste-treatment-plant/article35457630.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||This help desk is by children, for children||Reaching out over phone to over 30,000 little-known peers locked up in homes during pandemic times is no child’s play. That is exactly what 245 trained students from Class VIII to Class XII did during the last academic year under Kutty Desk, a novel initiative of Our Responsibility to Children (ORC) under the Department of Women and Child Development. The ORC, which is meant for early identification and prevention of issues faced by children, has been scaled up from 320 to 356 schools across the State from this year. “We gave psychological training to a pool of students with leadership qualities, educating them on how to make comforting calls in compliance with a set of guidelines. The nodal teachers of ORC then provided them a bunch of contact numbers of students. The calls were recorded to ensure that they stuck to the guidelines,” said Arya R. Chandra, State Programme Officer, ORC. The callers mainly inquired after the well-being of students and their families and shared helpline numbers, including that of Childline, Chiri, a child-specific initiative of Kerala Police, and Disha. Kutty Desk, effectively, serves as a help desk by the children for the children. However, they also interacted with several parents, helping them identify the problems of their wards and seek assistance. They also shared the number of the ORC district project assistants for follow-up assistance. Psychologists The feedback from the calls were shared with the school-level ORC nodal teachers who either made available the service of the seven ORC psychologists across the State or referred them to other similar services such as Chiri. “So effective has the system been that there is a clamour from teachers and parents alike to continue it this year as well. While many of the trained students from last year have passed out, those still interested in associating with Kutty Desk are being retained as mentors to the newly engaged ones. We may enlist 10-20 students from each district for the programme this year,” said Ms. Chandra. Since children are by now familiar with the COVID-19 pandemic and its protocol, the focus this time would be on keeping them entertained and engaging them in activities to reduce their stress and keep at bay unwanted thoughts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/this-help-desk-is-by-children-for-children/article35456907.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Absconding Indian-Afghan held in Kolkata||The Kochi city police have arrested a man reportedly of Indian-Afghan origin for visa violation, in Kolkata, after he had gone absconding from Kochi last month while working for a subcontractor at the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). Eid Gul, 22, of Kabul was arrested by a squad of Ernakulam Assistant Commissioner Y. Nizamudeen from Bowbazar in Central Kolkata. Gul’s father is an Afghan and his mother is from Assam. He had come to India on a three-month medical visa in June 2019 to escape the violence back home. However, he did not return even after the visa period expired. “When his application for visa extension was rejected, his grandmother in Assam asked one of his uncles to take him along to Kochi as a helper. An ID proof was forged in the name of Abas Khan for the purpose. He had been working in the CSL since June before he had gone absconding,” said police sources. The police had been after the youngster for more than a fortnight after the CSL reported about him. CSL sources said that he was not directly employed but was among the numerous employees engaged by subcontractors.  Gul was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/absconding-indian-afghan-held-in-kolkata/article35456908.ece
22 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aarogyasri comes to rescue of patient with rare heart ailment||The YSR Aarogyasri scheme came to the rescue of a 22-year-old homemaker from Mominabad in Anantapur district after she was diagnosed with a rare heart condition that needed immediate surgical intervention for her survival. Shaik Zabeena Tabassum went to the KIMS Hospital in Kurnool with the complaint of chest pain and backache, along with breathlessness that lingered for two months. After an Echo test and a CT Aortogram, the doctors identified it as dissecting aortic aneurysm with a bicuspid aortic valve. Consultant cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon K. Sandeep Reddy said it was a congenital problem seen in five in one million persons. “If bicuspid valve does not close completely, blood can flow backward into the heart. This regurgitation is also called aortic valve insufficiency. The heart then must pump out that same blood again, causing strain on the left ventricle,” he explained. The doctor performed surgery on Ms. Zabeena Tabassum followed by eight days of hospitalisation. She is normal now, the doctor told the media. Cardiologist Ali Soudagar and anaesthetist Vijaya Sai assisted the surgeon during the surgery. The surgery was a difficult one as about 30% of the patients undergoing it do not survive. In Kurnool, this is the first successful case after two failures, said Ms. Sandeep Reddy. “Usually, we see such cases in the age group of 50 to 70 years and those who are hypertensives. In general, the aortic valve has three leaflets. But, the patient had only two because of congenital problems,” the doctor explained. Ms. Zabeena Tabassum thanked the State government for coming to her rescue through the Arogyasri scheme, otherwise the treatment would have cost her Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aarogyasri-comes-to-rescue-of-patient-with-rare-heart-ailment/article35457647.ece
22 July 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries outpace single-day COVID-19 tally in South Coastal A.P.||The recovery of coronavirus patients continued to outnumber the single-day infection tally in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday, even as five more patients succumbed to the infection. The region recorded 509 new infections, while 550 patients got cured of the viral disease during the period. The total number of fatalities went up to 1,916 in the region as three patients in Nellore district and two more in Prakasam district died, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The cumulative infection tally went beyond 2.59 lakh in the region as 206 persons in Nellore district and another 303 in Prakasaam district tested positive in 24 hours.  Active cases The number of active cases came down below 2,500 in Nelllore district, where 231 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours. In Prakasam district, 319 patients recovered from the illness, bringing down the number of active cases to little over 3,000 during the period. The recovery rate improved further to 97.14% in the region as more than 2.52 lakh patients including more than 1.28 lakh patients in Nellore district have won the battle against the disease till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-outpace-single-day-covid-19-tally-in-south-coastal-ap/article35457577.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lingayats don’t want a diktat from Delhi on CM||Support for Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, following speculation that he has been asked by the BJP high command to quit his post, has been pouring in from Lingayat MLAs of the Congress and seers heading maths of the Lingayat community. The community solidarity for Mr. Yediyurappa owes a lot to the long shadow that late Chief Minister Veerendra Patil has cast on State politics and the narrative of hurt feelings in the Lingayat community evoked as yet another Lingayat Chief Minister faces an abrupt exit. The year was 1990 and the Congress had been ensconced in government in Karnataka with its largest majority ever, 179 out of the 224 seats in the Assembly, thanks to the mobilisation of Lingayat votes by Patil in a party that was already in possession of Vokkaliga support. Patil, was, however, dismissed by the then Congress president Rajiv Gandhi just as the former was recovering from a stroke, after incidents of communal violence broke out in the background of the Rath Yatra connected to the Ram Janmabhoomi issue. Gandhi, in fact, announced the dismissal of the Chief Minister before boarding an aircraft at the Bengaluru airport. Patil, weighed down by paralysis following the stroke, gave a statement to television saying he would not quit notwithstanding any diktats from the party high command. Like Mr.Yediyurappa, Patil was defiant in terms of who he wanted to accommodate in his government, making factionalism a given in the party. The then Janata Dal government at the Centre, seeing the stand-off between the Chief Minister and his legislature party (backed by the national leadership), imposed President’s Rule in the State where the ruling party had an absolute majority in the Assembly. The legal aspects of it all aside, the Lingayat community, seeing the brutal dismissal of their ailing leader who had lead them into supporting the Congress, took it personally. When polls were held in 1994, the Congress was reduced to 36 seats from the 179 it got in 1989. This collapse of Lingayat support was beneficial to the BJP, which saw its vote share increase from around 4% in the State to 17%, and the Janata Dal. The BJP went on to actively woo this vote bank, one of the two dominant and electorally decisive communities in Karnataka and formed its first government in the south in the early 2000s. This cultivation of the Lingayat vote also saw the rise of Mr. Yediyurappa in State politics and as the major leader of the BJP. In 2013, following his removal from the BJP over corruption and other charges, he formed his own party, the Karnataka Janata Paksha, and reduced the then ruling BJP to third position in the State in the subsequent Assembly poll of 2013. The BJP learnt from its mistakes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi prepared to take the mantle of national leadership. Mr. Yediyurappa was rehabilitated in the party and was its chief ministerial face in the 2018 polls. The parade of support for Mr. Yediyurappa from Congress MLAs M.B. Patil and Shamanur Shankarappa, who belong to the Lingayat community, is as much about acknowledging the ill-treatment of Patil within the Congress as it is about fishing in troubled waters. For Lingayat seers, the imminent removal of a Chief Minister from the community again at the diktat of Delhi is a case of history repeating itself. At the heart of it is a tug of war between party high commands looking for pliable Chief Ministers and the assertiveness of leaders with a mass base. At the most core of all this unfolding drama is the question of whether the Lingayats will follow the lead of the seers and the Congress MLAs and desert the BJP if Mr. Yediyurappa is removed or will it, defying history, transfer its loyalty to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lingayats-dont-want-a-diktat-from-delhi-on-cm/article35456915.ece
22 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers in Krishna Western Delta, NRBC plead for Godavari water||Worried over the uncertainty in the availability of Krishna water as a consequence to the new projects being taken up by the upper riparian States of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, the farmers coming under the Krishna Western Delta and the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Canal (NRBC) have urged the Andhra Pradesh government to augment water supply by transferring water from the Godavari to the Krishna basin. Allotted quota After bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the lower riparian State had been allotted 512 tmcft and the upper riparian State 299 tmcft. “In the present situation, there is little scope of the farmers in the Andhra Pradesh, especially those in the tail-end areas, realising their quota of the Krishna water because of the projects planned in the upper reaches to draw water when the level at Srisailam is 800 ft,” says All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao. To offset the shortfall, the State government should transfer at least 200 tmcft from the Godavari, which receives floods for up to six months, through the Pattiseema Lift Irrigation project. This should continue till the Polavaram project was completed, Mr. Ranga Rao told The Hindu . Under the NRBC, the farmers were entitled to 56 tmcft of Krishna water to cultivate various crops in 4.50 lakh acres. But they could not realise their quota of water during several years in the past. Hence, at least 10 tmcft of water should be earmarked through the inter-basin transfer from the Godavari, from which over 3,000 tmcft of water went into the sea year after year, said All-India Kisan Sabha national vice-president Ravula Venkaiah. Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangham district secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy lamented that though the Bachawat Tribunal had recognised the Veligonda project as an ongoing irrigation project, the same had not been included when the recent gazette notification was issued by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-in-krishna-western-delta-nrbc-plead-for-godavari-water/article35457594.ece
22 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ray of hope for Ongole siblings suffering from rare genetic disorder||Seven-year-old Lashith Venkata Naga Ayyan and his brother Mokshith, who are suffering from spinal muscular atrophy, a rare genetic disorder, hope for a cure as the Jana Sena Party has promised to take up their cause. JSP Prakasam president Sk. Riaz, who met the siblings on Wednesday, assured their father D. Vinay Kumar to arrange for financial aid. He presented Mr. Vinay Kumar a cheque for Rs. 30,000 and urged the Union and State governments to create a fund to ensure treatment to such children. The parents of the children had took to crowdfunding route through ImpactGuru to meet the cost of treatment of around Rs. 16 crore. It is still a long way to get the needed money as they could raise over Rs. 30 lakh so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-ray-of-hope-for-ongole-siblings-suffering-from-rare-genetic-disorder/article35457578.ece
22 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students’ bodies demand new job calendar||Activists of youth and student organisations staged a demonstration here on Wednesday, demanding that the State government come up with a new job calendar to fill 2.35 lakh vacancies in various government departments. The activists came in a procession to B.R. Ambedkar’s statue near the HCM College and shouted slogans against the YSRCP government, condemning the arrest of the youths and student leaders who tried to lay siege to the the Chief Minister’s office during a protest on July 19. “It is unfortunate that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had promised government jobs to the unemployed youth during his padayatra in the run-up to 2019 Assembly elections, dashed their hopes by releasing a job calendar with a little over 10,000 jobs,” said Progressive Democratic Students Union (PDSU) State vice-president L. Rajasekhar. Andhra Pradesh Vidyarthi Joint Action Committee State president Rayapatti Jagadeesh demanded that the State government withdraw the cases allegedly foisted on the student leaders and concede their ‘just demand’ pertaining to jobs. The stir launched by the unemployed youth cannot be suppressed by such ‘undemocratic’ arrests, said Democratic Youth Federation of India president K.F. Babu. “It is ridiculous on the part of the YSRCP government to claim credit for filling low paid jobs on a temporary basis including the ones for village volunteer post,” said Jana Sena Party women’s wing leader R. Aruna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-bodies-want-false-cases-withdrawn/article35457579.ece
22 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Implement Mandal Commission suggestions’||Srikakulam Backward Classes Association president Pitta Chandrapati Rao on Wednesday urged representatives from all 38 mandals of the district to come forward and participate in the agitation proposed to be taken up on July 26 and 27 in New Delhi to draw the attention of the Central government over the issues being faced by backward classes. Addressing a media conference here, Mr. Chandrapati Rao said that all the recommendations of teh Mandal Commission should be implemented in letter and spirit since backward classes were unable to get reservation in proportion to their population. Association general secretary Badana Devabhushana Rao urged the government to scrap the creamy layer system. He said that an exclusive ministry for Other Backward Classes would enable the government to better understand the socio-economic conditions of their community. Advocate Vana Krishnachand told reporters that an exclusive law needed to be passed in Parliament to protect the interests of the backward classes of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-mandal-commission-suggestions/article35457631.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases in Kerala inch up, touch over 17,000||Kerala’s 17,481 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday represented a further rise over the plateauing post-lock down phase. The State tested 1,45,993 samples and the test positivity rate (TPR) showed a rise at 11.97%. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stood at 15,617, with the addition of 105 recent deaths. Active cases also showed an increase at 1,29,640 on Wednesday. Newly admitted patients in hospitals rose steeply from 2,049 on Tuesday to 2,401 on Wednesday. However, total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID remained steady, as in recent weeks, at 25,054. The cumulative case burden was 32,05,197. Malappuram led the districts on new cases with 2,318, Ernakulam had 2,270, Kozhikode 2,151, Thrissur 1,983, Palakkad 1,394, Kollam 1,175, Thiruvananthapuram 1,166, Kottayam 996, Alappuzha 969, Kannur 777, Kasaragod 776, Pathanamthitta 584, Wayanad 475 and Idukki 447 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 19 more deaths and 2,527 new infections on Wednesday, marking a second day of increase. The death toll stood at 13,197 and the case tally 19,46,749. TPR also rises The daily TPR rose over the past two days. It was 2.93% for the 86,280 samples tested in the past day. Chittoor reported four new deaths, Krishna and Nellore three each, East Godavari, Prakasam and West Godavari two each, and Kadapa, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one each. East Godavari reported 515 new infections. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,639 new cases and 36 deaths, taking total infections to 28,88,341 and the death toll to 36,262, the Health Department said. Active COVID cases stood at 25,645. Dakshina Kannada recorded six deaths, Hassan and Kolar (3), and Chamarajanagara, Dharwad, Shivamogga (2). On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded 1,891 new cases of COVID-19, the daily count, after weeks, fell below 200 in Coimbatore and under 100 in Thanjavur and Tiruppur. Five districts — Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai, Salem and Chengalpattu — saw over 100 fresh cases each. Coimbatore reported 183 cases, while Erode saw a small rise in infections from 129 on Tuesday to 141 on Wednesday. As many as 138 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-in-kerala-inch-up-touch-over-17000/article35456918.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||LDF unlikely to disavow Saseendran||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government appeared resolved to not award the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) a moral victory by disavowing Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran in the Assembly that convenes for a protracted 22-day session on Thursday. The allegation that Mr. Saseendran had attempted to shield a top party aide from prosecution in an alleged sexual molestation case is likely to figure prominently in the House. The CPI(M) reportedly took stock of the likely political fallout of the charge. It did not want the "insinuation" to cloud legislative business. A party insider said that any capitulation to the UDF's demand for Mr. Saseendran's resignation would only help animate the "weakened" Opposition. Moreover, it would act as a glue for UDF partners allegedly divided over the minority scholarship issue. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan appeared to suggest that the government would strongly counter the Opposition charges in the Assembly. “I have no comment now,” Mr. Vijayaraghavan said. Leader of the OppositionV.D. Satheesan said Mr. Saseendran should not be seen on the treasury bench as a Minister during the Assembly session. He alleged that the Minister had used the heft of his office to coerce the victim's father to prevail on his daughter to withdraw the sexual assault complaint against an NCP leader. Mr. Saseendran had violated the oath of office and, in the process, exposed the hollowness of the LDF's "Sthree Paksham" campaign against dowry, gender injustice and misogyny, Mr. Satheesan said. Meets Pinarayi An embattled Mr. Saseendran called on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his official residence here. When pressed whether the Chief Minister had expressed support, Mr. Saseendran said: “He listened carefully.” The Minister said he had also briefed the Chief Minister about a proposal to compensate farmers who had lost their crops to marauding wild elephants. NCP State president P.C. Chacko reiterated Mr. Saseendran's claim that he had called the victim's father, an NCP worker, to settle an intra-party dispute between two local leaders amicably. The Minister was unaware of the victim's complaint. The victim's father alleged that the NCP leadership had resorted to political doublespeak. There was no feud within the NCP in Kollam. His daughter was a BJP worker. Nevertheless, her grievance was genuine. He hoped Mr. Vijayan would oust Mr. Saseendran from the Cabinet. Meanwhile, the Kundara police had named the NCP leader and an aide in an FIR filed somewhat belatedly. Mr. Vijayan might make a statement in the Assembly on the subject, if the UDF pressed the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ldf-unlikely-to-disavow-saseendran/article35456910.ece
22 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into transwoman’s death ordered||Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu has directed Social Justice Principal Secretary Rani George to conduct an inquiry into the death of Anannyah Kumari Alex, a transwoman who was found hanging in her apartment in Kochi on Tuesday, and submit an urgent report. In a statement, the Minister said a meeting of the Transgender Justice Board would be convened on Friday to take steps in connection with Anannyah’s death and discuss the problems faced by the transgender community in general. Guidelines would be issued to ensure that sex reassignment surgeries (SRS) were conducted in a scientific manner and without any lapses. Trans clinics would be started under the government. Steps would also be taken to end the continual exploitation by some institutions working in the sector. Health Minister Veena George has ordered the Health Department Director to hold an emergency inquiry into the death of Anannyah. The transgender community has also petitioned to that effect. Ms. George said an expert committee would be formed to look into the issues related to SRS. ( With inputs from Kochi Bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-into-transwomans-death-ordered/article35456911.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to make incense sticks from used garlands||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is all set to pursue its ambitious plan of making incense sticks (agarbathis) from the sacred garlands used in the temples run by it. The temple trust board says the move is aimed at achieving the twin objectives of providing a ‘divine offering’ to the devotees as well as ensuring proper disposal of the several tonnes of flowers getting accumulated in temples after daily rituals. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, during a meeting on Wednesday to review the progress of the project, asked the officials to ensure that the incense sticks were available at the stalls by August 15. Darshan International Limited, a leading incense sticks manufacturer from Karnataka, has come forward to make the incense sticks on a cost-to-cost basis. “The distribution and sale of the product should be ensured by the Independence Day. The product will be initially made available at the laddu counters at Tirumala and later at other places,” said Mr. Reddy. ‘Panchagavya’ products The TTD Executive Officer also reviewed the steps taken to strengthen the S.V. Ayurvedic Pharmacy, with the Ministry of AYUSH already having given nod to 115 products brought out by the pharmacy and 70 more in pipeline. He asked the officials of the S.V. Dairy Farm to manufacture 15 products out of ‘Panchagavya’. TTD Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer O. Balaji, Chief Engineer Nageswara Rao, Superintending Engineer Jagadeeshwar Reddy, Dairy Farm director K. Haranath Reddy and SV Ayurvedic College Principal P. Muralikrishna attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-make-incense-sticks-from-used-garlands/article35457581.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overwhelming response to Mahayagam||As the unique ‘Kanakambara Sahitha Koti Mallepushpa Mahayagam’ ritual conducted at the temple of Goddess Padmavathi crosses the half-way mark, the response from the devout public is increasing by the day. The ritual at the abode of Padmavathi, who is worshipped as the Goddess of wealth, opulence and prosperity, is meant to ward off the evil effects of COVID-19 pandemic and release the world gripped by the resultant economic crisis. As many as 180 Ritwiks (scholarly priests) who are experts in the nuances of such rituals, are participating from across the southern States under the guidance of Pancharatra Agama adviser Sreenivasacharyulu. The beauty of the ritual is the use of ‘Kanakambaram’ (crossandra) flowers along with the regular jasmine. Forty kg of kanakambaram and 120 kg of jasmine are used every day. While showering the flowers on the deity, the Ritwiks chant the hymns. so many number of times that the total number of chants touches one crore. It was delightful to watch the flowers showered on the deity seated on a neatly-decked platform at Sri Krishna Mukha Mandapam on Wednesday, the sixth day of the nine-day ritual. Devotees disappointed Several regular participants in such rituals are expressing disappointment over their inability to get an eyeful of this event, as the TTD is conducting it in ekantam (private) in tune with the COVID-19 guidelines. However, the ritual is made available in virtual mode on TTD website, while the same is aired on SVBC channel for the benefit of the global audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/overwhelming-response-to-mahayagam/article35457107.ece
22 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flesh trade racket busted, women from Ballari held||The Tirupati Urban Police busted a flesh trade racket late on Tuesday night and arrested two women hailing from Ballari in Karnataka, who were allegedly the kingpins. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided a house in the remote Jeevakona locality and arrested women and two clients. Preliminary investigation revealed that the two women, identified as Lakshmi Priya and Swapna, moved to Tirupati in search of livelihood and started the racket. They allegedly lured young women promising them employment and forced them into flesh trade. They also hired two local youths to contact the clients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flesh-trade-racket-busted-women-from-ballari-held/article35457650.ece
22 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State logs 19 deaths in 24 hours||The State reported 19 new COVID-19 deaths and 2,527 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The daily tally and the active cases increased for the second time in a row. The death toll reached 13,197 and the cumulative tally increased to 19,46,749. The daily positivity rate also increased during the past two days. It was 2.93% for the 86,280 samples tested in the past day and the overall positivity rate was 8.17% for the 2.38 crore samples tested so far. The number of recoveries and recovery rate stand at 19,09,613 and 98.09%. During the past day, 2,412 patients recovered leaving 23,939 active cases. Chittoor reported four new deaths and Krishna and Nellore reported three deaths each. East Godavari, Prakasam and West Godavari reported two deaths each while Kadapa, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each in the past day. Four districts reported no new death. East Godavari reported 515 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (318), Prakasam (303), West Godavari (288), Krishna (249), Nellore (206), Guntur (182), Visakhapatnam (133), Kadapa (111), Anantapur (69), Kurnool (61), Srikakulam (49) and Vizianagaram (43). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,74,429), Chittoor (2,27,911), West Godavari (1,68,100), Guntur (1,66,594), Anantapur (1,55,756), Visakhapatnam (1,51,390), Nellore (1,32,080), Prakasam (1,27,428), Kurnool (1,22,987), Srikakulam (1,20,084), Kadapa (1,09,355), Krishna (1,06,538) and Vizianagaram (81,202).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-logs-19-deaths-in-24-hours/article35457597.ece
22 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durga temple spruced up for Sakambari fest||The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam is geared up to organise a three-day Sakambari Devi festival from Thursday. The annual Sakambari Devi festival is a special occasion for transforming the presiding deity goddess Kanaka Durga at the Indrakeeladri into goddess Sakambari Devi in Aashaada maasam of Telugu calendar. Kanaka Durga temple authorities have spruced up the temple precincts with vegetables of all kinds, including lady’s finger, brinjal, cucumber, green chillies, carrot, and leafy vegetables. And, of course, the idol of the goddess was also decorated with vegetables. The temple priests transform the presiding deity to propitiate her for bountiful rain and a good harvest of food, grains and vegetables. The festival begins with Vighneswara pooja, Punyah vachanam, Akhanda deeparadhana etc rituals. A host of rituals are planned for the festival. Chandi Parayana, Chandi Homam, Santi Poushtika Homam, etc., would be performed for the well-being of the people. COVID guidelines The event, however, will follow all COVID-19 guidelines. The devotees have to wear masks and follow COVID guidelines. The body temperatures would be checked at the entry of the queue lines. Any devotee whose body temperature was found to be above normal would not be allowed to enter the temple. Temple EO Bhramaramba said that the devotees who wanted to donate vegetables could contact toll-free number 1800 425 9099.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/durga-temple-spruced-up-for-sakambari-fest/article35457638.ece
22 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gram Ujala to light up rural households||The Government of India is likely to invest Rs. 450 crore on the Gram Ujala programme in Andhra Pradesh to help the State in reducing the burden of electricity bills on rural households and in bringing down the peak power demand substantially. Under the programme, Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), contemplated distributing around 4.40 crore LED bulbs to about 81.50 lakh rural households in the State, according to an official release. CESL Managing Director and CEO Mahua Acharya met Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday, and discussed the implementation of the programme and requested him to finalise a convenient date for launching it. Ms. Acharya told Mr. Reddy that Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh were the frontrunners in rolling out energy efficiency programmes, which prompted the Union government to select them for the programme. The CESL has already launched the programme in Bihar and U.P., and Andhra Pradesh would be the third State to launch it as per the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) protocols of the United Nations. Under Gram Ujala, 7-Watt and 12-Watt LED bulbs would be given to the eligible rural households at Rs. 10 each on their submitting the 60-Watt and 100-Watt incandescent bulbs that are in working condition. Mr. Reddy thanked Ms. Acharya for selecting Andhra Pradesh for the distribution of a maximum of five LED bulbs per household at Rs. 10 each without imposing any burden on the State government. ‘Consumes less, lasts longer’ Ms. Acharya said LED was a highly energy efficient lighting technology, and that residential LED bulbs use at least 75% less energy than the conventional ones and last 25 times longer. “The CESL is looking forward to launching the programme in Andhra Pradesh, which will give a further boost to its energy efficiency programmes,” Ms. Acharya added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gram-ujala-to-light-up-rural-households/article35457587.ece
22 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Press Academy notification on journalism course today||Andhra Pradesh Press Academy (APPA) Chairman Devireddy Sreenath released the brochure of the certificate course in journalism being offered in association with Vikrama Simhapuri University, on Wednesday. Mr. Sreenath told mediapersons that interested journalists and those seeking a career in journalism could join the three-month course. Online classes While the classes would be conducted online by APPA, the examinations would be held by Vikrama Simhapuri University at centres to be decided on the basis of number of candidates. The minimum educational qualification is Intermediate for journalists and graduation for non-journalists. The notification would be issued on July 22 and the last date for applying is August 20. The classes would commence in the second week of September. Assignments had to be submitted in the second week of November and the final examinations would be conducted in the first week of December. The fee is Rs. 1,500 for journalists and Rs. .3,000 for non-journalists. Further details could be obtained through phone number 9154104393 orpressacademycontact@ gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-press-academy-notification-on-journalism-course-today/article35457104.ece
22 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister pats JNTU-K students for coming up with innovative projects||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Wednesday said in these difficult times of the COVID-19 pandemic, the industry should adopt new technologies and come up with innovative solutions to their existing problems. The Minister inaugurated a workshop on “Solutions to industrial problems through Angular JS”, organised by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU)-Kakinada’s Incubation Centre, in collaboration with Kakinada Smart City Corporation. He complimented the B.Tech final year students from the university who developed two software packages “Work Monitoring Dashboard” and “The Covid Patient Monitoring System”. The Minister said the work monitoring dashboard developed by the students for Kakinada Municipal Corporation would help the authorities to obtain status and data analytics of various projects and this would give them effective control and enable good assessment and management. He said similar concept could be extended for monitoring of any works, for instance, the Nadu-Nedu works in the Education Department. Encouraging students to take up such projects would promote a healthy start-up culture in the State, he said, adding that it would also enhance the employability of engineering students. The Minister said the 55-day long training workshop would facilitate further such works by students in the field of Big Data, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu, Chairman of AP State Council of Higher Education K. Hemachandra Reddy and JNTU-K Incubation Centre Director J.V.R. Murthy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-pats-jntu-k-students-for-innovative-projects/article35457639.ece
22 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre urged to release NREGA wages to A.P. workers||Members of the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the United Forum for Right to Information Campaign (UFRTI) have urged the Centre to release wages worth Rs. 2,180 crore to workers of the State under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). The UFRTI is a confederation of civil society organisations and individuals working on issues of transparency. In a letter addressed to Union Minister for Rural Development Giriraj Singh, the organisation members Chakradhar Buddha, Emmanuel Dasari, Srinivas Goud and Chalapati sought to draw his attention to the issue saying that as on July 2021, wages worth Rs. 2,180 crore were pending for NREGA workers from Andhra Pradesh. Of this amount, Rs. 250 crore was to be received by Scheduled Tribe families and Rs. 640 crore was due to Scheduled Caste families. They said it was noteworthy that the delay was caused at the Central government level. In April-June 2021, 99.81% of the fund transfer orders were generated within three days in Andhra Pradesh, but the Ministry of Rural Development had not processed these fund transfer orders at the same pace. “The Employment Guarantee Act entitles all workers to wages within a week and under no circumstances later than a fortnight. But many workers in Andhra Pradesh have been waiting for their wages for about a month now,” said Mr. Buddha told The Hindu . He said that workers were also not paid their legal entitlement of compensation for late payment of wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-urged-to-release-nrega-wages-to-ap-workers/article35457108.ece
22 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC constitutes new panel||The AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) has constituted the State Advisory Committee (SAC) for three years in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 87 of the Electricity Act, 2003, and the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of State Advisory Committee and its Functioning) Regulation, 2004, with Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy, Chairman of APERC, as the ex officio Chairman and APERC members P. Raja Gopal Reddy and Thakur Rama Singh as ex officio members. The SAC consists of Secretary (Consumer Affairs) of the Government of A.P. as an ex officio member. It has several members on its board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aperc-constitutes-new-panel/article35457588.ece
22 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kapu Nestham disbursement today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will credit Rs. 490.86 crore into the bank accounts of 3,27,244 women beneficiaries of YSR Kapu Nestham on July 22. With this, the total disbursement under the scheme in the last two years reaches Rs. 981.88 crore. Under the scheme, the State government will be providing financial assistance of Rs. 75,000 in five years at the rate of Rs. 15,000 per annum to eligible women aged between 45 and 60, belonging to the Kapu, Balija, Ontari and Telaga communities. The amount will be credited into the unencumbered accounts of the women beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kapu-nestham-disbursement-today/article35457589.ece
22 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu meets Union Minister||BJP State president Somu Veerraju met A. Narayana Swamy, Union Minister of State for Social Justice, in New Delhi on Wednesday. They had a brief discussion on issues related to social justice and other subjects being handled by the Union Minister. BJP national organising secretary B.L. Santosh and MPs C.M. Ramesh, G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and T.G. Venkatesh and State party general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-meets-union-minister/article35457585.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cybercrimes decline by 40% in 2021||Cybercrimes have fallen by 40% in the first half of 2021 as compared to the same period last year in the city, say police. In 2020, the total number of cybercrime cases stood at 353. Of these, the cases reported between January and June 2020 stood at 187. From January 1 to June-end in 2021, the number of cybercrime cases stood at 100. According to statistics obtained from the Cybercrime wing of the Visakhapatnam City Police, out of the total cases, the city reported 22 social media cybercrime cases in 2021 as against 40 in the first half of 2020. Eleven cases related to One-Time Password (OTP) fraud were reported in 2021, while 22 such cases were reported during the corresponding period last year. As many as 25 cases of frauds related to second-hand online shopping/loans/jobs were reported till June in 2021, while during the same period last year, 57 cases were reported. The city also witnessed 29 cases of online financial fraud till June this year, as against 65 cases in 2020. Thirteen lottery frauds were reported in the first half of 2020 and 2021, police officials said. Cybercrime Police Station Inspector R.V.R.K. Chowdhary attributed the decline to various factors. “Awareness programmes were intensified in the last few years, which helped greatly. We conducted camps in educational institutions, offices, public places about the crimes occurring on social media. OTP frauds, online job frauds, second hand online shopping frauds have also come down drastically,” he said. YouTube channel To ensure outreach of the awareness programmes regarding cybercrimes, the police launched a special YouTube channel called Cybercrime Visakhapatnam City. Cybercrime Sub-Inspector Ravi Kishore said that they have been creating videos on topics like OTP fraud, social media stalking, lottery fraud, and online shopping fraud, and how to identify fake social media accounts, and uploading it on to the channel. Police staff themselves don the roles of actors, and shoot the videos using various apps. The videos are slowly gaining popularity, Mr. Ravi Kishore said. “The outreach of the videos and the awareness programmes is encouraging. Many people are contacting us if they receive any fraud calls/messages or e-mails,” he added. Social media frauds Among the major crimes, social media frauds including stalking have been an area of concern for the police, who are exhorting the youth, especially young women, to be more cautious. Police said that due to the lockdown and increase in usage of mobile phones, such crimes may rise further. “There are two ways of approach here. In one case, a fraudster contacts an unknown woman, befriends her and then harasses her. In other cases, a boy or even a girl, who is known to the person, threatens women with morphed photographs,” said SI Ravi Kishore. He also appealed to the youth to watch out for friend requests sent to them from fake profiles created in the name of their acquaintances on social media websites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cybercrimes-decline-by-40-in-2021/article35457703.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No Giri Pradakshina for second year in a row||Keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing night curfew in the State, officials from Simhachalam Devasthanam have cancelled the annual ‘Giri Pradakshana’ of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple, which is scheduled to be held on July 23. This is for the second consecutive time that the annual festival was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, authorities have decided to allow devotees for regular temple darshan on July 23 and 24. Speaking to reporters, Executive Officer of Simhachalam Devasthanam M.V. Suryakala said that the decision to cancel the annual programme was taken following instructions from the State government. Apart from the 32-km Giri Pradakshana, even the 'pradakshanas' on the hilltop have been cancelled, she said. However, the EO added that devotees can have darshan of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy on July 23 and 24 by strictly adhering to COVID-19 protocols. The final round of sandalwood paste, to cover the idol of the deity, would be applied on July 24, she said. Every year, lakhs of devotees from North Andhra and even from Odisha circumambulate the Simhachalam hill range on the auspicious occasion of Aashada Pournami. After around 32 km of trekking from Simhachalam-Arilova-Kailasagiri Road-MVP Colony- Murali Nagar-NAD Junction-Gopalapatnam, devotees return to Simhachalam and walk round the hill to finally offer prayers to the deity. A large number of police personnel are deployed during this annual programme. Officials from Simhachalam Devasthanam said that devotees will be allowed for darshan of Lord Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. on July 24 on the occasion of ‘Aashada Pournami’. Ms. Suryakala said that after 3 p.m., special prayers will be performed to the main deity. After 3 p.m., there will be no entry of devotees to the hilltop. “Buses will run to the hilltop from early morning. Similarly, ‘Kesa Khandanasala’ and other counters will also be opened from the morning,” she said. The EO added that from July 22, devotees can book tickets (Rs. 300, Rs. 100) in advance for ‘Aashada Pournami’ from the ticket counters to avoid rush on the main day. She added that they would increase ‘Prasadam counters’ from four to eight to meet the rush. The EO also informed that the walkway to the temple will be closed on July 23 and 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-giri-pradakshina-for-second-year-in-a-row/article35457643.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Araku deaths: police arrest woman’s husband||The Araku police on Wednesday arrested a man for his alleged role behind the suicide of his wife, who poisoned her three children to death before ending her life four days ago at Similiguda village. The accused was identified as Ch. Sanjeev Rao (35), who works as a salesman at Girijan Cooperative GCC in Similiguda area. Araku Police Station Inspector G.D. Babu said that after a preliminary investigation, they have found that the deceased woman, identified as Surekha (28), had taken the extreme step after harassment by Sanjeev Rao. Mr. Babu did not reveal further details. “We shall ascertain more facts as the investigation progresses and will share the details at a later date,” he said. Surekha had poisoned her daughter Sunasa (9) and sons Sarveen (6) and Siril (4) and hanged herself at her residence in Similiguda on the night of July 16. On July 17, Araku police registered a case. Family members of Surekha lodged a complaint accusing Sanjeev Rao of torturing Surekha for the last two years. They also alleged that Sanjeev Rao had once attempted to murder Surekha and was warned by family elders to mend his ways. Helpline Those battling depression or suicidal thoughts are urged to call 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/araku-deaths-police-arrest-womans-husband/article35457633.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic takes the sheen off Etikoppaka toys||On August 30, 2020 evening, traditional toymakers from Etikoppaka village were in for a surprise as Prime Minister Narendra Modi showered praise on the Etikoppaka toys and gave a call for making India the world’s toy manufacturing hub as part of ‘vocal for local’ slogan. Artisans from the tiny village located on the banks of the Varaha under Yelamanchali constituency felt that this would be a major boost to the craft community, especially at a time when the toymaking industry was struggling due to COVID-19. Barely 10 months down the line, a number of families who are dependant on toymaking are in a financial crisis and are surviving on loans. The craftsmen allege that nothing has changed for them so far, with COVID further worsening things. P. Sarath, a resident of Etikoppaka, whose family has been involved in toymaking for the last four generations, made a video thanking the Prime Minister for throwing light on the craft, and posted it on social media platforms. “Neither the Centre nor the State government has extended any help. We have been recognised by the Ministry of Textiles and the toys were given a G.I tag, but so far nothing has changed for us,” he said. Mr. Sarath, who runs a toy shop on NH-16 near Pulaparthi Junction, says he is unable to pay rent for the shop due to the financial crisis. There are about 150 families, who work on manufacturing Etikoppaka toys and about 100 families who procure raw materials, sell the toys in various markets, trains and public places. Around 250 families and close to 1,200 people are directly and indirectly affected due to tge COVID-19. Most of the Etikoppaka toys are sold in bulk to corporate offices and to be given away as gifts and mementoes at seminars and weddings. Most of these events have been cancelled due to the pandemic situation. Renowned Etikoppaka artist S. Chinnayachari said that they did not receive any help from the government either last year or this year, forcing many into a crisis. Mr. Chinnayachari, who employs 35 women artisans, said that he is unable to pay their salaries. “The government is giving financial aid to auto-rickshaw drivers, weavers and farmers. They should give us some help too in order to enable us to continue the 400-year-old craft. If this situation continues, toymaking may be on the road to extinction,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-takes-the-sheen-off-etikoppaka-toys/article35457698.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to allow LG Polymers to set up home appliances unit opposed||The CPI(M) has opposed the decision of the State government to allow LG Polymers to use the land in its possession in the city for setting up a home appliances manufacturing facility and relocate the polymers plant from the city to Krishnapatnam in Nellore district. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, party State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao and City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded that the government reconsider the decision. Gas leak tragedy The styrene monomer leak at the LG Polymers plant in the city on May 7, 2020, was still fresh in the minds of the people, they said. The accident had resulted in the death of 15 persons, besides triggering health problems in 585 others, they added. “The residents of colonies located around the plant had to flee their homes. Drinking water sources in the area were contaminated. Those affected by the gas leak continue to suffer from various ailments,” the CPI(M) leaders said. “The negligence of the company management was responsible for the accident. The company had restarted production during the first phase of the lockdown without obtaining permission. The storage of huge quantities of hazardous chemicals in the tanks without proper maintenance and inadequate safety precautions were responsible for the accident. The high-power committee constituted by the State government and the NGT had confirmed that negligence of the management was the reason behind the accident,” they said. ‘No environmental clearances’ The CPI(M) leaders further said that the company had run the plant without obtaining environmental clearances from 1996. The company had also failed to implement the safety norms and had even refused to comply with the laws in India, they alleged. “The company had not even provided permanent employment to the workers,” the CPI(M) leaders alleged, and said that permitting the MNC to start a home appliances manufacturing facility at the same place would be detrimental to the interests of the residents. They demanded that the State government take over the land and set up an industry with public investment so that it could provide employment to the local people. They also demanded that some of the victims, who had not been compensated earlier, be given the same now. The government should also bear the cost of medical treatment and also establish a super-specialty hospital in the area, they said, and demanded the implementation of the recommendations of the high-power committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-allow-lg-polymers-to-set-up-home-appliances-unit-opposed/article35457598.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||METRO Cash & Carry opens retail store in city||METRO Cash & Carry, a wholesale company, launched its first Business-to-Business (B2B) store in the city on Wednesday. Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari formally inaugurated the store in the presence of the firm’s managing director Aravind Mediratta, at Paradesipalem on Wednesday. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, in a virtual message, commended the company for creating job opportunities for locals through the store. “Though we are an international wholesale company, only 1% of our products are imported while the remaining 99% are Indian. We also promote regional and local products through our stores across the country. We also help the kirana dealers to upgrade their stores by giving them a new look and adopting technology to attract more customers, under our Smart Kirana programme. We have already remodelled two traditional kirana stores in Vizag city to a modern open format store,” Mr. Mediratta said. “We provide free consultancy service to our retailers to improve their business. The products at the neighbourhood kirana store should reflect the profile of the people living in the surrounding areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/metro-cash-carry-opens-retail-store-in-city/article35457699.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Porata Committee chairmen to meet political leaders in Delhi over VSP||Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee chairpersons Ch. Narasinga Rao, Mantri Rajasekhar and D. Adinarayana left for Delhi on Wednesday to meet the Floor Leaders of various political parties in Parliament and impress upon them the need to protect Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) from privatisation. Trade union leaders Ganapathi Reddy and Varasala Srinivasa Rao accompanied them. The Centre has already announced its decision of going ahead with the strategic sale of VSP. All trade unions have been organising relay hunger strikes and protests for the past several months demanding that the Centre revoke its decision. All political parties, barring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and trade unions including BMS, have been supporting the strike. The Porata Committee had decided to stage a massive protest with scores of steel plant workers in Delhi on August 2 and 3. The meetings with Floor Leaders in Delhi are being coordinated by Rajya Sabha Member and YSRCP general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. A trade union leader said that 1,500 tickets to Delhi were already booked for VSP employees owing allegiance to various trade unions. An additional 300 contract workers were also expected to participate in the protests at Delhi on August 2 and 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/porata-committee-chairmen-to-meet-political-leaders-in-delhi/article35457641.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. forcibly acquiring land of poor: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) on Wednesday accused the State government of forcibly acquiring the land of farmers who were tilling it for several years, in 10 mandals of the district, under the Land Pooling Scheme. Addressing a press meet on Wednesday, CPI(M) district committee secretary K. Lokanadham, treasurer G. Nayana Babu and president Ganta Sriram said that the farmers had opposed the acquisition of their land and expressed their reservations in Form-2. The State government had, however, insisted on acquisition, forcing the victims to approach the High Court and obtain a stay order. They alleged that the State government, however, did not give up and was issuing threats through the officials to make them surrender their lands. The CPI(M) leaders said it was surprising that the State government has declared that the land would be utilised to provide houses and sites to the poor. A majority of the land losers were Dalits and weaker sections. They wondered as to how social justice could be achieved by acquiring land from the poor and giving it to them. They recalled that the YSRCP, when it was in the Opposition, had vehemently protested against the LPS but was now resorting to the same in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-forcibly-acquiring-land-of-poor-cpim/article35457642.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,695 foreign students enrol at GITAM||GITAM Deemed to be University received a record 2,695 applications from foreign students for the 2021-22 academic year, said GITAM International Student Affairs Director KPC Kishan, in a release on Wednesday. Mr Kishan said that out of 2,695 foreign student applications, 105 applications are for Ph.D, 550 applications are for PG and 2,040 applications are for UG programmes from 61 countries. The most popular courses are engineering, pharmacy, paramedical, sciences, management, humanities and law, he said. He added that admissions for foreign students will be based on ‘PRAGATII’ (Performance Rating of Applicants through Global Aptitude Test for Indian Institutes) which is going to be held on July 25 being conducted by National Testing Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2695-foreign-students-enrol-at-gitam/article35457704.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Signature campaigns held against new tax proposals||Members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) and Greater Visakha Resident Colonies Association Federation (NIVAS) jointly organised a signature campaign against the imposition of capital value-based property tax and user charges for garbage collection at two different places — Seethammadhara and at 80-feet road in Akkayyapalem, here on Wednesday. Inaugurating the campaign at Seethammadhara, former DMHO Dr. P. Rama Rao opined that it is meaningless to levy property tax on capital value of assets because capital value has no bearing on regular income. ‘Undemocratic’ He questioned how the government could charge tax on an artificially declared capital value which does not result in rise of income. He also suggested challenging it in the court of law. Vizag Film Society president Narava Prakasa Rao said that the taxes on the basis of capital value is undemocratic. He appealed to people of all sections to fight against the government’s decision. People for India Forum vice-president B.L. Narayana took part in the signature campaign at Akkayyapalem and condemned the change in the method of property taxation. The members also opined that the property tax includes expenses of the GVMC for providing civic services such as garbage clearance, provision of drinking water, maintenance of underground drainage and others. They questioned why people should pay additional charges for garbage collection. VARWA president N. Prakash Rao and others participated in the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/signature-campaigns-held-against-new-tax-proposals/article35457705.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists who survived Teegalametta encounter involved in EoF in Agency?||There was an exchange of fire (EoF) between the security forces and the banned CPI (Maoist) cadre in the forest near Pebbampalle, in Amavari Darakonda panchayat under G.K. Veedhi police station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency, on Wednesday morning. ‘No casualties’ B. Krishna Rao, Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, said there was firing for a brief period when the security forces, led by the Greyhounds, the elite anti-Naxal force, were on a routine combing operation. There were no casualties or injuries on either side. Chintapalli ASP Tushar Dudi said the combing operation was still on and the security forces were yet to return to the base. On what was recovered from the exchange of fire site, he said, “We will come to know of it only when the men return.” Second in 35 days This is the second exchange of fire in the last 35 days. On June 16, there was a major encounter at Teegalametta of Koyyuru mandal, in which six Maoists, including top leaders such as Ranadev, Ashok and Nachike, had been killed. The dead also included three women. As per sources, the Maoists involved in Wednesday’s exchange of fire might comprise the same group that had escaped the Teegalametta encounter. If that were the case, AOBSZC secretary Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, his second in command Aruna, and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan might have been present at the site. Ever since the Teegalametta encounter, the security forces have been in hot pursuit of the fleeing Maoists and stepped up the combing operation. Sudheer’s exit The exchange of fire came close on the heels of a senior tribal leader, Chikudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer, who was heading the Korukonda and Pedabayalu area committee, walking out of the movement citing differences with non-tribal leaders of the party. The police had already appealed to Sudheer to surrender and lead a normal life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-forces-exchange-fire-in-vizag-agency/article35456912.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP officials visit Sankar Eye Hospital||M.S.V. Krishnaiah, Chief General Manager of RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, and T.V. Raman Rao, DGM (CSR) visited Sankar Foundation Eye Hospital on Wednesday and interacted with patients who underwent cataract surgeries under RINL’s Corporate Social Responsibility. Visakhapatnam Steel Plant had contributed Rs. 10 lakh to enable 300 cataract surgeries for underprivileged patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-officials-visit-sankar-eye-hospital/article35457700.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 133 new cases||The district recorded 133 new COVID-19 infections on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 1,51,902. The death toll also increased to 1,044 after one more person succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. As many as 101 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered during the same period. According to an update from the health department, the number of recoveries and active cases stand at 1,48,753 and 2,105 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-133-new-cases/article35457706.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VALC elects new head||Vizag Alpha Ladies Circle-174 at its second annual general meeting elected Nisha Priya as its chairperson on Wednesday. Ms. Nisha Priya took over from Dr. Tripti Yerramilli. VALC-174 is a non political outfit of young women in the city and is affiliated to Ladies Circle International (LCI). As part of its social activities, VALC-174 has donated an ‘incentive spirometer’ to Andhra Medical College (AMC) for use by the ICU patients as its first project of the 2021-2022 financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/valc-elects-new-head/article35457707.ece
22 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apply online for AP Ed.CET by August 17||The Andhra Pradesh Education Common Entrance Test (AP Ed.CET-2021) portal for online submission of applications was made available from July 17, its Convener K. Visweswara Rao said in a release on Wednesday. AP Ed.CET-2021 is a State-wide common entrance test for admission to the B.Ed. regular course (two years duration) in the university / Government / Aided / Un-aided / Private colleges for the academic year 2021-22. “The test will be conducted on September 21 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The last date for submission of applications without late fee is August 17 and with different rates of late fee is August 31,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apply-online-for-ap-edcet-by-august-17/article35457599.ece
22 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slump in demand, pest attack dent coconut farmers’ income||Slump in demand owing to the sluggish market conditions in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, curfew restrictions and pest attack have made a dent on the income of coconut farmers in Vizianagaram district. Coconut farming is a major source of livelihood for the farmers from Pusapatirega, Bhogapuram and other mandals in the district. At present, coconut farming is being done in 15,000 acres in the district and farmers need to invest around Rs. 30,000 per acre to harvest the crop worth Rs. 90, 000 a year. However, the restrictions imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic has put a dent in their income with the drop in demand and rate per coconut. Farmers who used to sell coconut at Rs. 17 a piece are getting Rs. 12 to Rs. 15 and a well-grown coconuts is available at Rs. 10. They could not send coconut to markets elsewhere in the State from April to June due to restriction on transport. Even as the curfew was relaxed in July, the farmers say the demand is yet to pick up. With the closure of temples, and eateries that used to buy coconut in bulk for making chutney, demand has seen a downward spiral, affecting the income of farmers. Further, the pest attack has worsened the situation. “Apart from marketing of the produce, pest problems are causing a tension to farmers. Whitefly, an invasive pest, is damaging coconut trees quickly, despite taking steps to control it. We have requested the Horticulture Department to take the necessary steps,” says Mongam Srinivasa Rao, president of Vizianagaram Coconut Societies’ Federation. Processing units “The government should extend subsidy and financial assistance for setting up processing units as byproducts such as coconut milk, powder and oil will ensure additional income for farmers, apart from creating employment opportunities for villagers,” says Mr. Srinivasa Rao, who is also the president of Vizianagaram District Coir Board. The horticulture officials have been touring in Pusapatirega, Bhogapuram and other mandals to know the grievances of farmers. They are expected to submit a report on the steps to be taken to control the pest problem to the government soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slump-in-demand-pest-attack-dent-coconut-farmers-income/article35457627.ece
22 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 policemen sacked in custodial death case||Three police officers of the Addagudur police station, allegedly involved in the custodial death of Dalit woman A. Mariyamma last month, were dismissed from service on Tuesday following an inquiry, Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said in a brief statement on Wednesday. “Sub-inspector V. Maheshwar, constables M.A. Rasheed Patel and P. Janaiah, who were placed under suspension, were dismissed from service under Article 311 (2) (b) of the Constitution and 25 (2) of the TS Civil Services (Conduct) Rules,” it read. Mr. Bhagwat had placed the officers under suspension on June 22, four days after the 45-year-old woman died in custody allegedly due to torture during a robbery investigation. Her son Uday Kumar and his friend Shankar, who were also picked for the probe, suffered injuries in custody and were later admitted to hospital. Mariyamma, hailing from Chintakani mandal of Khammam, had been a maid at a church father’s residence and church at Govindapuram in Addagudur. She was suspected of theft and based on M. Bala Showry’s petition, a probe was ordered. According to Mariyamma’s daughter Swapna and son, she was picked up by men in plain clothes and beaten up at Chintakani police station. After keeping her overnight at Addagudur police station, where she was not offered any food, and tortured, she collapsed around 10 a.m. on June 18. Following vital signs observed by a local RMP at the station, Mariyamma was taken to Bhongir Area Hospital, where she was declared dead around 11.30 a.m. The incident came to light 12 hours later with the intervention of Pradesh Congress Committee’s (PCC) Scheduled Castes Cell, which protested the police’s alleged torture leading to the death, their high-handedness at the hospital and rushing the body to Khammam for final rites. But soon, with the PCC amplifying the incident, the Telangana High Court hearing a PIL instructed the magistrate of Aler for a probe, and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao too, directed officials for inquiry and announced a job, Rs. 35 lakh ex gratia and house as compensation to the victim’s family. Bhongir DCP K. Narayana Reddy said Mr. Bhagwat’s orders for service dismissal of the officers were based on preliminary findings by inquiry officer Malkajgiri ACP N. Shyam Prasad Rao. However, a full investigation and report were yet to be completed, he said. In addition to the Rachakonda police’s inquiry, judicial probes ordered by the High Court and the District Collector are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-policemen-sacked-in-custodial-death-case/article35456903.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-mood/article35457709.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rained out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rained-out/article35456920.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-mood/article35457686.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-woes/article35457691.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power shut down tomorrow||There will be a power shutdown in parts of the city on Friday (July 23). The shutdown will be from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at Santhipuram, Rama Hospital area and Fourth Town Police Station Road and from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the areas behind NRI Hospital and NE Layout, Seethammadhara, according to EE-Operation Zone-1 G. Satyanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-shut-down-tomorrow/article35457701.ece
22 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||1,005 kg ganja worth Rs. 2 crore seized||Bhadrachalam town police have seized a huge consignment of 1,005 kg ganja worth about Rs. 2 crore from a Madhya Pradesh-bound lorry in the temple town late on Tuesday afternoon. Two government employees belonging to Odisha and Chhattisgarh were allegedly found to be involved in aiding and abetting the smuggling from Agency areas in the border States to various big cities using Bhadradri-Kothagudem district as a transit point, police said. Addressing a press conference in Bhadrachalam on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said a police team found a large consignment of 1,005 kgs of dry ganja in a lorry during a vehicle checking drive at the check post near the bridge centre on Tuesday afternoon. Police seized the lorry along with the contraband and arrested the lorry driver and cleaner. Assistant Revenue Inspector Vishwajith of Odisha and Irshad Khan, a teacher from Konta in Chhattisgarh, were allegedly found to be escorting and supplying ganja, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1005-kg-ganja-worth-rs-2-crore-seized/article35457427.ece
22 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Heavy rains hit mining||Heavy rains continued to lash many parts of the district, mainly the coal belt region, hampering opencast mining operations in the Gouthamkhani Opencast Project (GKOCP) in Kothagudem area, Jawahar Khani-5 OCP (JK-5 OCP) in Yellandu area and other OCPs in Kothagudem region on Wednesday. Sources said that the GKOCP at Rudrampur in Kothagudem area recorded a heavy rainfall of 44 mm in 24 hours, ending at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. The OCP area recorded excess rainfall of 200 mm so far this month as against the normal rainfall for this period, SCCL sources added. With heavy rain pounding the OCP area for the second consecutive day, rainwater stagnated at pit slopes and OB dump slopes on the premises of the project hindering the movement of shovels and dumpers due to slushy conditions. As a result, coal production from the GKOCP fell by 3,000 tonnes as against the daily output target of 10,000 tonnes and also led to slight fall in dispatch of coal, sources said. As many as seven high-capacity pumps were deployed to flush out water from the slopes on the premises of the OCP. Meanwhile, the district received an average rainfall of 45.5 mm in 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rains-hit-mining/article35457430.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Four-tier public health system key to tackling next COVID wave’||Another wave of COVID-19 pandemic may surface whenever there is an increase in the number of vulnerable people either because they did get infected in the past or are not vaccinated. Yet, it can be effectively countered with a revamp of public health surveillance from primary health to State level to reduce the intensity and ensure adequate care is available at an affordable cost at an accessible location, say public health experts. “Public health involves several inter-connected activities conducted simultaneously, starting from the village to the State Health Directorate. At each level, specific skills are required and the complexity increases as one moves higher,” explains Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy.  For instance, ASHAs or Accredited Social Health Activists are the interface between the public health system and the community, with one for every 1,000 persons. With increase in non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like diabetes and hypertension and the challenge of infectious diseases like COVID-19, an additional ASHA will be required for every 1,000 people. “ASHAs are the eyes of the health system in the community and will know of any unusual event like prolonged fever or severe respiratory infections or any other complaints. They can immediately warn the female health workers at the sub centre (Auxiliary Nurse Midwives or ANMs) of unusual incidents. ANMs can report to the medical officer at the Primary Health Centre (PHC). This will improve the speed of response to any outbreak,” he says, in an exclusive interaction. ANMs should be trained to identify danger signals calling for immediate attention, like COVID. They need to be provided tablets or smartphones to communicate with a medical officer who in turn should be trained and made responsible for surveillance of outbreaks. PHCs should have diagnostic facilities, fully functional laboratory, rapid test kits for detecting infections like COVID and isolation facilities for mild presentations of infectious diseases. If necessary, they should be authorised to use local schools or community buildings as isolation centres. Oxygen facilities can be provided for immediate management before transfer, if need be. At the next level, Community Health Centres will continue all PHC activities plus have a trained block level epidemiologist — one who can be chosen from an existing senior staffer to focus solely on public health response. At the district level, an epidemiology and public health surveillance unit should be set up headed by a trained public health professional with all vertical promotional avenues.  Dr. Murthy is clear that ‘clinicians’ should not be allowed to shoulder this responsibility, unless they decide to leave clinical practice and remain in the public health cadre pathway for the rest of their career. At the State level, six to eight public health cadre positions should be created with specific responsibilities for controlling outbreaks, monitoring, surveillance, training of peripheral staff, compiling data and planning the response based on available scientific evidence. “This cadre is the need of the hour and the Director of Public Health should come from these ranks,” adds the director.  PHCs should have diagnostic facilities, fully functional lab, rapid test kits for detecting infections, and isolation facilities for mild presentations of infectious diseases. G.V.S. Murthy, Director, IIPH-Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-tier-public-health-system-key-to-tackling-next-covid-wave/article35457391.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID second wave hits demand for real estate||The second wave of COVID-19 caused a mighty blow to real estate in the twin cities with new launches declining by over 90%, enquiries having dipped by 30% and sales plummeting up to 90% post-March onwards, said real estate website ‘99acres.com’ in a report released on Wednesday. “The economy went through a tumultuous time in April-June battling one of the biggest healthcare crises ushered by the unprecedented second wave of COVID-19. Like most sectors, transactions in the real estate market too came to a grinding halt in April with lockdown restrictions across the country,” said chief business officer Maneesh Upadhyaya. January-March quarter witnessed site visits, home enquiries and sales volume going up in both new home and resale segments but April and May recorded a dip in numbers unheard of. Owner listings, too, saw a 5% de-growth but home enquiries picked up in June with active COVID caseload reducing and lockdown restrictions dropped. Affordable housing within Rs. 40 lakh: Chandanagar Rs. 3,200- Rs. 4,100; average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 13 & rental yield 3.54%. Nizampet Rs. 3,400- Rs. 4,300 average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 11 & rental yield 3.32%. Mid-income housing between Rs. 40 lakh and Rs. 1 crore: Miyapur Rs. 3,500- Rs. 4,500; average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 11 & rental yield 3.10% Kukatpally Rs. 4,300- Rs. 5,500; average rental ask per sq.ft Rs. 15 & rental yield 3.04%. Manikonda Rs. 4,100- Rs. 5,200, average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 14 & rental yield 3.34% Luxury housing - (Rs. 1 crore & above): Gachibowli Rs. 5,600- Rs. 7,800; average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 18 & rental yield 2.98% Kondapur Rs. 5,500- Rs. 6,600, average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 16 & rental yield 3.11%. Hitec City Rs. 6,600- Rs. 8,600; average rental ask per sqft/monthly Rs. 20 & rental yield 3.19%. Rental yield has been calculated for a 1,000 sqft apartment. Property prices in most localities remained stable throughout the quarter. However, Gachibowli, Nallagandla, Manikonda, Pragati Nagar, and Chandanagar posted an appreciation of up to 4%. Ultra-luxury properties, priced above Rs. 2 crore garnered some traction, particularly those reconfigured as 4 BHK units with some deals closed at 5-10% lower than the rates quotes in property listings by owners. Average rental housing market reported a dip of 5% with the exodus of migrant workforce leading to new business model of small and large players offering to store household items at a certain price, usually a fraction of the rent that the tenants pay for a 2 BHK home. Areas in the North and the West, such as Kukatpally, Miyapur, Kondapur, and Madhapur, remained popular among tenants due to their proximity to prominent IT hubs like Hitec City and Gachibowli. Mid-sized 2/3 BHK homes available at a monthly rent between Rs. 18,000-Rs. 30,000 continued being in demand, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-second-wave-hits-demand-for-real-estate/article35457397.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Political activity picks up as second wave eases||The devastating second wave of COVID-19 pandemic may be behind us, but many painful memories are fresh in our minds. Although the infection rate in the State has been arrested to an extent and people are getting back to a slightly lesser restricted life, mass gatherings at various places have emerged as a cause for concern. Currently, political heavyweights in Telangana are organising or have announced plans to hold large scale programmes. Senior Health officials have pointed out that politicians are not maintaining COVID-appropriate behaviour which could lead to further spread of coronavirus. They have also expressed apprehensions that huge gatherings without any regard for safety norms could set off another wave of infections. This is not the first time that political activity has increased amid the ongoing pandemic. The activity was heightened when elections were held to seven Urban Local Bodies (ULB) in the State on April 30 this year. Politicians from all parties, including the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, held election campaigning. This was the time when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak in the State. Now, when the wave is on the decline, there is a definite uptick in political programmes, especially in Huzurabad. Former Health Minister Eatala Rajender launched a 25-day, 270-km padayatra a few days ago. BJP State president Bandi Sanjay has announced that he would hold a ‘Maha Padayatra’ from August 9. Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy had earlier announced that he would hold a padayatra from Alampur to Adilabad whenever the Congress High command clears the proposal. Health officials worried On Tuesday, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao pointed out that the padayatras, rallies, and other activities have picked up in the State and underscored the fact that leaders and political parties have the responsibility of securing people’s health.  He also mentioned that politicians are not wearing masks when they are around karyakarthas and the general people. Coronavirus can spread through droplets when one talks without a mask, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/political-activity-picks-up-as-second-wave-eases/article35457383.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||O2 concentrators conking off during power fluctuation||A problem peculiar to monsoon is troubling post-COVID patients who need oxygen support at home — oxygen concentrators are not working during power fluctuations or outages. The kin of patients in and around Hyderabad who faced the trouble at ungodly hours had no option but to seek hospital admission or send out SOS to voluntary organisations requesting for oxygen cylinder. Since it has been raining intermittently from the past few days, people in some localities of the city have complained of frequent power fluctuation or outage. Even after recovering from COVID, some of the patients need oxygen supply while at home. Some of the post-COVID patients have taken the concentrators on rent. However, these devices are not working when there is disruption of power. “Only the well-to-do can afford power backup at home,” said Sai Teja Katragadda, member of Feed The Needy, an NGO. In such distressing situations, people are requesting oxygen cylinders from OxyCare Centre, a voluntary initiative of Society for Cyberabad Security Council and Cyberabad Police. The service is provided free of charge. “The number of such distress calls in the night or midnight have increased in the past two to three days. So much so that we are getting calls when we are on the job of delivering oxygen cylinder to one patient. Now, we stock two to three cylinders in our vehicle whenever we step out to attend a distress call,” said Chinnam Rajashekar, in-charge of the Oxycare Centre. People can reach out to the centre at 080-45811138, or call 9493678136. A few patients who were in such situations have got admitted at government hospitals.“It is better if post-COVID patients or other patients with lung issues who are on oxygen support at home have a small oxygen cylinder as backup. The cylinder will offer support until the patient is shifted to a hospital or gets some other form of help,” suggested M. Narender, Professor of Pulmonology at Government General and Chest Hospital. Member of Helping Hand Foundation, Mujtaba Hasan Askari said that patients, other than post-COVID ones, who need oxygen support at home have power inverters or oxygen cylinders as backup. “But not all can afford such options. Post-COVID patients or others in need of oxygen can get admitted at our free of charge centre at Masjid Muhammadi in Rajendranagar,” he added. Those in distress can admitted at government hospitals such as District Hospital, King Koti, or Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/o2-concentrators-conking-off-during-power-fluctuation/article35457387.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad art gallery goes ‘phygital’||The pandemic prompted art galleries across India to enhance the virtual experience of viewing and buying art. Some of them upgraded their websites to host virtual exhibitions. Hyderabad-based Kalakriti art gallery is going a step further to give art lovers a ‘phygital’ (physical and digital) experience, incorporating elements of virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR) and artificial intelligence (AI). The gallery established in 2002 recently moved to a new address on Road no. 4, Banjara Hills. The multi-level premises intends to become a cultural hub that hosts art events, talks, book readings and cultural performances. The 4000 square feet gallery space on the ground floor can host three exhibitions simultaneously and offer a seamless digital experience. Currently on view is an exhibition of paintings by the multi-hyphenate artist Muzaffar Ali, titled ‘The Other Side’. At the gallery, scan QR codes to access additional videos delineating the concept of the paintings and their pricing. Those viewing the exhibition remotely (https://terapact.in/kalakriti/), can use a VR headset to walk through the gallery virtually. The layout and display on the virtual gallery is a replica of the real gallery. Kalakriti owners Prshant and Rekha Lahoti state that the phygital transformation is a work in progress and probably the first of its kind in India. In the pipeline is an app ‘Art Cafe’ where viewers can browse through a vast catalogue and place orders. The website (kalakritiartgallery.com) is also being upgraded. The couple had been wanting to enhance the digital experience of viewing and buying art for a few years, and the pandemic hastened the transformation: “We all got used to doing things virtually, the time was right,” says Rekha. With people spending more time at home during the pandemic, the interior design segment witnessed a boom. Paintings, sculptures and installations of master artists are the mainstay of Kalakriti but the gallery is also keen to tap into the segment that looks for curated affordable art as decor or corporate gifting. While an original artwork by a leading artist might cost a few lakh rupees, the affordable art segment opens up new possibilities — tableware, furniture, furnishings, limited edition prints, coffee table books and fashion accessories. Consider tableware with Jogen Chowdhury’s artwork or a stole with Bose Krishnamachari’s artwork, signed by the respective artists. Further, there are limited edition prints of vintage maps of different Indian cities that can be custom framed. A collection of litho prints and vintage posters are also part of the catalogue. Some of these collectibles are on display at the gallery; a visitor can scan the QR code to browse the entire catalogue: “Going digital also helps us in not having to display everything on the shelves. Once people walk in, see the quality and get an idea of the digital interface, they are likely to place online orders the next time. The paintings and sculptures in our inventory have RFID (radio frequency identification),” says Prshant. The soon-to-be launched ‘Art Cafe’ app will also enable users to see how a painting would look in different interior settings: “We are also working on enabling in-built augmented reality so that a user can project a painting on his/her wall at home or office, before making the purchase decision,” says Prshant. Apart from offering a seamless viewing and buying experience, Prshant says the app and the website will analyse buying patterns and use artificial intelligence to market relevant products, depending on whether one is keen on fine art, decor or corporate gifting. The technological transformation, say the couple, was made possible by working with multiple collaborators. The phygital experience might just be the next big thing in India’s art market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-art-gallery-goes-phygital/article35457394.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to post stationary watchmen at vulnerable points during rains||South Central Railway (SCR) has decided to post stationary watchmen along with patrolling teams at ‘vulnerable’ points, including bridges, especially during heavy rains till the weather clears during this monsoon season. Spots identified Vulnerable spots requiring special attention have been identified after taking into account inputs from various sections of multi-disciplinary teams involved in train operations and maintenance, senior officials informed on Wednesday. With the start of running unreserved passenger express trains from this week and more services on the track now, General Manager Gajanan Mallya has called upon his officers to have a close liaison with Irrigation officials on the status of 1,900 water bodies through which the railway lines pass, as these have been inspected jointly. “Bridges connected to dams and reservoirs have been put on constant vigil so that timely action can be taken by the railways in case of release of excess water. Systems have been put in place for real time weather warnings with the meteorology departments to the field staff promptly,” he said. Anemometers installed About 30 ‘Anemometers’ have been installed on station buildings close to the identified bridges to give warning in case of high wind speed and 12 automated water level monitoring devices were installed on the bridges to provide continuous data of water levels at these locations for follow up action on regulating train traffic. Senior officials concerned have been tasked to keep sufficient emergency reserve stock materials to restore track or bridges’ repair. These are being stacked on land and also on goods wagons at nominated places across the zone for any exigencies, he added, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-to-post-stationary-watchmen-at-vulnerable-points-during-rains/article35457412.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dalit Bandhu not for polls: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao defended the introduction of Dalit Bandhu scheme from Huzurabad going for polls soon and said as a political party the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has every right to gain political mileage from it. As a party in power, whose concern is to develop all sections of Telangana, we have every right to introduce such schemes if it gives political mileage, he said, rubbishing the criticism that it was being done to garner mileage in the elections. “If those not in power can announce their schemes, why can’t we do the same despite being in power,” he asked. He said the scheme has to be considered in totality and how it would bring out the SC beneficiaries from poverty for ever. He made these comments while welcoming former Congress leader Padi Kaushik Reddy into the party along with his supporters at the Telangana Bhavan on Wednesday. The Chief Minister said people who were criticising the Dalit Bandhu scheme had similar opinion on the formation of a separate Telangana and also the Rythu Bandhu scheme. But both were realities now. “A lot of thought went into all the schemes launched in Telangana and people criticising the schemes will not understand the effort that went into designing them,” he said. KCR assured that Kaushik Reddy would have a bright future in the party and he would not satisfy him with a small post reminding that Kaushik’s father Sainath Reddy had worked with him during the Telangana agitation. Stating that youngsters would have to carry the Telangana agenda in future as no one would remain in power forever, he recalled that he was elected MLA because the then TDP chief N.T. Rama Rao gave him an opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-defends-dalit-bandhu-scheme-from-huzurabad/article35457424.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS against vote-based politics’||Reiterating that the TRS government is committed to the welfare of all sections, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said his government was against vote-based politics like the past. The Chief Minister recalled that the government initiated sheep distribution within a year on coming back to power after 2018 polls. “Where were elections then?” he asked. The CM was speaking to a delegation of Telangana Kuruma Sangham which called on him at Pragati Bhavan on Wednesday. The delegation met him to thank him for the government’s announcement on the second phase of sheep distribution programme at Rs. 6,000 crore. He asserted that the government was not following policies with orientation towards elections, but was committed for the welfare and development of under-privileged sections. The CM also said that the government was contemplating construction of sheds in villages for their proper upkeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-against-vote-based-politics/article35457422.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor urged to intervene in sarpanches’ suspension||Forum for Good Governance has appealed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday to direct the district Collectors concerned to suspend the sarpanches only in the case of misappropriation of funds or abuse of power for gain by amending Section 37 of Telangana Panchayat Act of 2018 on Wednesday. FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy informed in a written communication that about 150 sarpanches have been removed in the last couple of years ever since the TS government had passed the Act giving powers to Collectors to remove sarpanches for any misconduct, misappropriation of funds and abuse of position. A fee of Rs. 25,000 has to be paid to the Gram Panchayat Tribunal for appeal. Since the fee to appeal to the tribunal is too high, the sarpanches have been approaching the High Court for justice, he said and urged reduction in the fees to Rs. 100. Giving an example of the arbitrariness of the Collectors in suspending the sarpanches, he gave the example of Peddakodepaka village in Warangal district where the village head was suspended for six months for boycotting an official programme along with other ZPTC/MPTC elected members for denial of land for setting up a electric sub-station. “Protest is a democratic right and only the sarpanch was suspended for this act though he did not do anything violating the Act. The boycott was to highlight the problem concerning the entire village and non-cooperation of the Collector. FGG has reason to believe that many are being suspended at the instance of local ministers or MLAs based on political affiliations,” he said. The Governor could advice the Collectors to go slow on suspensions of the sarpanches on flimsy grounds till the amendments to the Act are carried out, he added, in the communication.  FGG has reason to believe that many are being suspended at the instance of local ministers or MLAs based on political affiliations. M. Padmanabha Reddy,Forum for Good Governance secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sarpanches-suspension-arbitrary-fgg/article35457398.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gated community residents ‘killing’ cats, case booked||A resident of Splendid Aparna Palm Meadows, Kompally, raised her voice against the brutal killing of cats and other animals by fellow residents of the gated community and approached Cyberabad Commissionerate’s Pet Basheerabad police. The complainant, Anita Peter, said that on Monday night, a female cat was brutally killed by the residents after tying its legs and paw with an ethernet cable. Head smashed “The animal’s head was smashed. The offence took place in the Avenue 7 of Palm Meadows,” she said. A resident clicked pictures of the cat lying in a hapless state and sent out a WhatsApp message to a few of them. When they got there, a villa owner, with the help of security, removed the cat from the spot, she told police. “It is one of the poshest luxury gated communities in Kompally and a few residents here have been killing cats in the most inhuman manner,” Ms. Peter informed The Hindu about the incident. It was not the only incident that has happened. Residents are throwing boiling water on cats, tying them in bags and slamming them on pavements, poisoning them etc. The manner of killing gets worse by the day, she said. “It is totally inhuman that someone can do this and children who are seeing such things could be either traumatised or maybe even think that this is normal and that there is nothing wrong in doing these barbaric crimes,” the resident said. Based on her complaint, the Pet Basheerabad police registered a case under Sections 428 (Mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of ten rupees) and 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc., of any value or any animal of the value of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code and launched a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/animal-cruelty-alleged-at-gated-community/article35457402.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bakrid celebrated with congregational prayers and ritual sacrifice||An undercurrent of joy was palpable on Eid-al-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid, which was celebrated on Wednesday. Because, for the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic, people were allowed to offer Eid prayers at eidgahs. People converged at eidgahs and also at mosques dressed in traditional attire, despite the gentle rains since early in the morning. Eid prayers began 6.30 a.m. onwards at different venues across the city. Large crowds were witnessed at eidgahs such as Eidgah Madannapet and Eidgah Miralam. A lot of worshippers were seen in several mosques as well. While the management of some mosques were particular about social distancing, others did not seem to pay much attention COVID-19 protocols. The post-namaz sermons at some mosques touched upon the significance of ritual sacrifice, an Abrahamic tradition, of piety and an end to the pandemic. “It feels surreal to be a part of the Eid congregation. We are doing this after such a long time. While we did offer Friday prayers in the mosque ever since the relaxation of restrictions on gatherings, praying Eid namaz is a different feeling altogether,” said S A Siddqiqui, an engineering student. Soon after prayers, the devout headed home and began the ritual sacrifice. They employed butchers from different communities to skin and portion the animal, a portion of which was given to the poor. While some ventured out to meet their friends and extended family to exchange greetings, many other chose to stay at home on account of the rains and also out of a sense of caution. While a majority of those celebrating Eid had bought sheep from different seasonal markets such as those in Mehdipatnam, Toli Chowki and Balapur, some who couldn’t do so headed to the markets either before or after Eid prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bakrid-celebrated-with-prayers-ritual-sacrifice/article35457408.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Srisailam set to swell||Increasing flood into Almatti reservoir in Karnataka with heavy rains in the catchment areas of Upper Krishna Basin is set to swell the water storage in Srisailam project, the common facility of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, over the next few days. Both inflows and discharge of water at Almatti was 77,500 cusecs with the Central Water Commission (CWC) forecasting a rising trend based on the heavy rains in the catchment areas for most part of the last 10 days. During the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on July 21, Mahabaleshwar recorded 14 cm rainfall followed by 10.9 cm at Koyna and 6.8 cm in the Warana valley, all the catchment areas of river Krishna and its tributaries. “Since heavy rains are predicted in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts in Karnataka, rise in water levels is expected in Tungabhadra river. Similarly, rise in water levels is expected in Bhima and Krishna rivers due to heavy rains in Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli of Maharashtra and Belagavi district of Karnataka,” the CWC said in an advisory. Inflows into Almatti dam which were at 42,500 cusecs at noon on Wednesday increased to 77,500 cusecs by evening. With the rise in discharge of flood at Almatti, the authorities at Narayanpur dam downstream have increased the discharge of water to nearly 85,000 cusecs by 8.30 pm from 14 spillway gates and power house and indicated further increase in the outflows. Authorities of Karnataka informed their counterparts of Telangana to caution people of habitations along Krishna river course not to venture into the river as the flood level is set to increase. At Jurala, inflows were recorded at 63,000 cusecs on Wednesday night and discharge of flood was 36,000 cusecs from the six spillway gates and 32,000 more cusecs from the power house. As a result, the storage in Srisailam reservoir was on the rise steadily and crossed 69 tmc ft on Wednesday night. But for the release of water to Nagarjunasagar with power generation, the storage would already have crossed 100 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/srisailam-set-to-swell/article35457428.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie killed at Gachibowli as bike hits road median||A 23-year-old techie was killed in a road accident at Gachibowli here on Tuesday night. The victim, Goutham Misra from Kukatpally, worked at Wabsoc Technologies, Cyber Hills Colony. Around 10.30 p.m. when he was going towards Botanical Gardens, Sriram Nagar Colony on his bike, he lost control of the two-wheeler near Palapitta Park and hit a road median. “As a result he fell on the road, suffered severe injuries and died on the spot,” Gachibowli police said. Based on the complaint lodged by his parents, a case was registered and the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital, morgue for autopsy. Bigamy complaint against Sub-Inspector A woman from Begumpet accused a Sub-Inspector with the Hyderabad City Police of cheating and bigamy, and allegedly attempted to end her life. The accused SI, U. Madhu, was posted at Tappachabutra police station. Recently, she also lodged a complaint with Joint Commissioner of Police (West Zone) A.R. Srinivas, stating that Madhu, who was already married, told the woman that he was unmarried and tied the knot. After an inquiry, the officer was placed under suspension by the Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar and a case was registered against him at the Begumpet police station. A probe is on. Attacked professor succumbs A 55-year-old assistant professor who was attacked by unknown assailants on July 3 succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. The victim is Nazeer Ahmed, was employed at the Koti Women’s College. Sources said that the victim was attacked by persons identified as Rasheed, Amjed, Niaz, Haji and Omar. The reason for the attack is said to be disputes over real estate dealing. The accused have been arrested and sent to judicial remand. Constable shoots himself A constable with Central Reserve Police Force was found dead at their Nadigada Tanda camp under Miyapur police station here on Wednesday. The victim, Tagore Shanker from Gujarat, shot himself with his official firearm allegedly due to family disputes, police said. Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-killed-at-gachibowli-as-bike-hits-road-median/article35457403.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana COVID tally up by 691 cases||Telangana recorded 691 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,38,721. As many as 1,14,260 samples were examined, and the results of 594 were awaited. Of the new cases, the highest of 84 infections were recorded in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, followed by 56 in Khammam, 55 in Karimanagar, 47 in Suryapet, 42 in Pedapalli and 41 in Warangal Urban. No cases were recorded in Kamareddy and there was only one in Medak. Five more COVID patients succumbed to the infectious disease, pushing up the death toll to 3,771. The caseload in the State usually stays around 700 when over 1.1 lakh samples are tested in a day. As of Wednesday evening, there were 9,908 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-covid-tally-up-by-691-cases/article35457384.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Healthcare workers at TIMS felicitated||Members of the Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA) felicitated Health Care Workers (HCWs), including senior doctors and resident doctors at the government-run Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) on Tuesday where thousands of COVID-19 patients were treated during the peak of the pandemic second wave. Doctors from the institute recalled how despite being exhausted and stressed, they attended patients by working for long hours in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Some of the doctors isolated themselves from their families to avoid the risk of passing the virus to them if they happened to contract it themselves. Earlier, HRDA members had felicitated doctors at Government ENT Hospital, Koti, and District Hospital in King Koti.  Doctors recalled how they attended patients by working for long hours in PPE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tims-health-staff-feted/article35457386.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Road on edge of Musi caves in due to rain||A 10-metre stretch of road on the edge of the Musi river caved in following overnight rain in Attapur. The damaged portion abutting a tower of a high-tension power line has been cordoned off by Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited officials who are carrying out repair work. “We are building a wall to protect the road. It will be restored within a day or two,” said officials supervising earthen work at the location. Only one lane of the two-lane road is now operational. The .75 km road connecting Bapu Ghat bridge to Attapur bridge was laid recently at a cost of Rs. 6.6 crore on the southern bank of the Musi by the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited. The HRDCL is a special purpose vehicle constituted in March 2013 to improve road infrastructure in the city. A few yards away on the same road, a heavy-duty truck carrying granite slabs ran into the ground. “It happened at night so we didn’t see it. Through the day, they are unloading the slabs in smaller vehicles and taking them away,” said a resident of an adjacent apartment complex. Busy stretch The road has become a busy stretch for heavy duty vehicles carrying building material and rubble during day time, as it is on the jurisdictional border between Hyderabad and Cyberabad police commissionerates. In October 2020 too when the city experienced unprecedented floods, a section of the road caved in during rains after water was released from the Himayatsagar reservoir. Satellite images from 2003 show that the road had been laid on land reclaimed from the Musi. According to a Municipal Administration and Urban Development report, the State is set to develop a network of bridges, and link roads on the Musi at a cost of Rs. 392.70 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-on-edge-of-musi-caves-in-due-to-rain/article35457406.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC issues notices to govt. on statues at public places||Telangana High Court had sought to know if the government can assure that unauthorised statues were not installed at any public place in the State after the latter issued a Government Order in this regard in 2018. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL petition filed by a resident of Hyderabad on installation of statues at public places in the city, asked the government how many such illegally erected statues were removed. Announcing closure of the PIL plea filed by M.A.K. Mukheed, it said the bench would suo moto take up the matter as PIL plea afresh and take it to logical end. The bench issued notices to principal secretaries of Roads and Buildings, Municipal Administration and GHMC Commissioner having impleaded them as respondents. They were instructed to file counter affidavits on the matter within four weeks. When the petition came up for hearing on Tuesday, Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar informed the bench that a GO was issued in 2018 to curb installation of idols at public places without permission. The government cannot wash off its hands by issuing a GO, the bench observed. It also said the Supreme Court had also issued specific directions on the matter. Not removing unauthorised statues on roads, pavements and intersections despite the apex court orders would amount to contempt of court, the bench said. The plea was posted to September 27 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-issues-notices-to-govt-on-statues-at-public-places/article35457410.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Theatres can collect parking fee||The government has on Tuesday issued orders allowing standalone cinema theatres to charge fee for vehicle parking on their premises. Through the fresh orders, the government amended its earlier order regulating parking fee in commercial establishments, malls and multiplexes so that the visitors to these establishments did not have to pay fee upon producing purchase proof. However, it came to the notice of the government that a lot of vehicles which belonged to other than cinema-goers were being parked in the movie theatres, prompting the fresh orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/theatres-can-collect-parking-fee/article35457395.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Land rates hiked after taking them: TPCC leader||TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud has questioned the rationale behind increasing the registration charges after enhancing the land value for mopping up resources. At a press conference here on Wednesday, he said that when the government is getting huge resources through enhancement of land value, what is the need for increasing the registration charges, putting a burden on the poor and middle class. He demanded that the hiked registration charges be withdrawn immediately. Mr. Goud saw a conspiracy behind not increasing the land value rates over the last few years and increasing them now, though it had the option of enhancing the same every year. He said government refrained from increasing the prices with an eye to procure lands from the poor at a cheaper rate for the projects. After acquiring the same at a very low price, the land value has been increased. “If the land rates were increased earlier, government would have had to pay more money to the farmers,” he claimed. He ridiculed the CM’s claim on Dalit Bandhu and asked if he was so concerned about Dalits’ financial empowerment, why were the Kokapet lands acquired from Dalit families and sold at thousands of crores. “He never takes decisions for the poor but always has a hidden political agenda,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-rates-hiked-after-taking-them-tpcc-leader/article35457425.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Donation to Akshaya Patra Foundation||HyFun Foods, one of the country’s largest producers, exporters, and retailers of premium-quality frozen potato products, has joined hands with the Akshaya Patra Foundation to donate 22,500 kg of ready to cook potato cubes to their ‘Donate Meal’ project in Hydera bad, Delhi, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, for the the marginalized and low-income segment of society like daily wage workers, migrant labourers, construction site workers, and people at old age homes and night shelters, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/donation-to-akshaya-patra-foundation/article35457381.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Constant drizzle drenches capital city||Overcast sky and dim weather with steady drizzle marked the whole of Wednesday in the city of Hyderabad. Though the rain was not heavy at any point of time, it sprinkled continuously across the city since early morning, with no sight of the sun. It being a holiday, people largely remained indoors. It rained the highest in Madhapur, Sardar Mahal and Asifnagar, with the automatic weather stations recording over 10 millimetres of rainfall in all the three areas. Bahadurpura, Shaikpet, Ramachandrapuram, Rajendranagar, Balanagar, Khajaguda, Khairatabad, Patancheru, West Marredpally, Chandangar, Banjara Hills, Kapra, Qutbullahpur, Saroornagar, Secunderabad, Malkajgiri, Ameerpet, Bandlaguda, Uppal, and several other areas recorded considerable rainfall. Cloudy sky Meteorology department predicted generally cloudy sky, light to moderate rain or thundershowers in parts of the city on Thursday too. Heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy rains were forecast in isolated places of districts such as Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial, Jagtial, Peddapally, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem while the remaining districts too may experience heavy rains over isolated places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constant-drizzle-drenches-city/article35457400.ece
22 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Taxi drivers thank TRS leader||Telangana State Taxi Drivers JAC has thanked TRS leader, Marri Rajasekhar Reddy for ensuring that the Reserve Bank of India’s directives on preventing loan recovery agents from confiscating their vehicles for defaulting on EMI payments were fully followed. In a statement here, the JAC chairman Shaik Salauddin said that during the pandemic when their livelihood was severely impacted due to the lockdown, Mr Rajashekhar Reddy with the assistance of D Chandra Sekhar, Additional Industrial Adviser, MSME Development Institute, set up a help desk. The help desk at Narsapur, Balanagar recorded the complaints of drivers and vehicle owners being harassed by the banks and NBFCs who were ignoring the directives of RBI with regard to loan moratorium and rescheduling of payments. With complaints of 800 drivers and owners recorded, pressure was put on the banks and NBFCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/taxi-drivers-thank-trs-leader/article35457662.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Weightage to outsourced nurses a policy decision: DME||Whether or not outsourced nurses who performed duty during the COVID-19 pandemic in the State would be given some form of weightage during regular recruitment is a government policy decision, said Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy. Hundreds of nurses employed on contractual basis have been protesting for over two weeks, demanding that they be absorbed into regular jobs or at least get an extension of their contract. They allege that they were abruptly asked not to attend duty in a few government hospitals from July first week, but Dr Ramesh Reddy said on Tuesday that a government order clearly stated their job contract was only for a year and the nurses were aware of that condition before joining duty. When there were delays in recruiting regular staff nurses, a government order was issued on March 21 last year permitting Director of Medical Education to recruit 1,640 staff nurses on outsourcing basis to various tertiary care hospitals for a period of one year — from April 1, 2020, to March 30, 2021. However, they were given an extension till June, considering the second wave that was beginning to set in then. Stating that they worked despite COVID risk, the nurses said their protest will continue till demands are met.  A govt. order was issued on March 21 last year to recruit 1,640 staff nurses on outsourcing basis to various tertiary care hospitals for 1 year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weightage-to-outsourced-nurses-a-policy-decision-dme/article35457388.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Efforts on for super-speciality hospital in Warangal||The Roads and Buildings department has intensified efforts to finalise the designs for the proposed multi super-speciality hospital in Warangal. Construction of a hospital with international standards would also ease pressure on Hyderabad. R&B Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy conducted a meeting with architects famous for construction of hospital buildings on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/efforts-on-for-super-speciality-hospital-in-warangal/article35457420.ece
22 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Two booked for leaving cattle on road||Nalgonda police on Wednesday booked two town residents for negligent conduct with respect to animals and causing danger or obstruction to public, by leaving their cattle on the roads. IPC sections 283 and 289 were levelled against V. Sathaiah and D. Sailu. Traffic Inspector D. Anil Kumar said cattle left by owners was causing obstruction at junctions and on small roads, besides posing threat to motorists. The cattle were moved to goshalas later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-booked-for-leaving-cattle-on-road/article35457418.ece
22 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Applications invited||Applications are invited from innovators as part of a programme being implemented by the State government. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao said the innovations will be unveiled online on Independence Day in view of COVID-19. Anyone who made innovations are eligible for submitting applications online through WhatsApp to 91006 78543 explaining about their innovation in six lines, a brief two-minute video, four photos, name of the innovator, phone number, place of residence, village name and district. They can contact 77990 42489 or 99634 23691.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited/article35457663.ece
22 July 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Suryapet school students win national quiz contest||Four students of Teja Vidyalaya, Kodad, in the district have won the finals of ‘Young Masters’, the mega online quiz competition by India Today Group, and were declared national champions on Wednesday. The contest, which witnessed participation of several hundred schools in five stages of screening, saw T. Abhirami Reddy and Shaik Abdus Samad of Class 9 and Shaik Awais Nadeem and Chepuri Venugopal of Class 10 from the school in the final round along with seven other teams. Senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai played the quiz master for the finals. The finale had national champions in four categories — GK, Arts, Science and Commerce. Members of the successful teams were presented a home robotic kit worth Rs. 50,000 as the prize.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suryapet-school-students-win-national-quiz-contest/article35457661.ece
22 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||RTC bus tyre comes off||The rear tyre of an RTC express bus came off the wheel hubs while it was moving near Katepally village of Atmakur mandal in the district on Wednesday. There were 45 passengers and bus staff at the time of incident and all of them escaped unhurt. A senior official of the Torrur bus depot, to which the Hyderabad-Torrur bus belongs, told The Hindu that the rear tyre got punctured the previous night when it was halted at Jagadgirigutta. Although the issue was fixed, the wheels were not fastened securely. The single road, filled with cracks and potholes, also caused the bus to loosen its tyre nuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-bus-tyre-comes-off/article35457416.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police escort for farmers||After a series of meetings with farmers seeking to protest near Parliament during the monsoon session, the Delhi police on Wednesday granted permission to 200 farmers to stage protest at Jantar Mantar from Thursday to August 9 between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. A group of 200 farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses with a police escort, sources in the Delhi police said. They said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers’ union which has been spearheading the protest against the farm laws, has been asked to give an undertaking that all COVID-19 norms would be followed and the agitation would be peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-escort-for-farmers/article35457273.ece
22 July 2021||Gondia,||Tiger mauls villager to death||A 60-year-old man was mauled to death by a sub-adult tiger in the jungles of Maharashtra’s Gondia district on Wednesday, an official from the forest department said. The incident took place when a resident of Bhadanga village in Goregaon tehsil, ventured into the forest to gather leaves for his livestock, the official said. A forest guard had allegedly warned the victim about the presence of a big cat, but the latter had ignored her warning, he said. Villagers soon heard a tiger roar and set out into the forest armed with sticks. They spotted the tiger near the victim’s body in compartment number 448 of the Goregaon forest range, the official said. The victim’s body was eventually recovered and sent for post-mortem, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tiger-mauls-villager-to-death/article35457291.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||Porn case: chats suggest Raj Kundra planned another app, say police||Purported WhatsApp chats between businessman Raj Kundra, arrested in an alleged porn films racket, and other members of a group suggested he had a Plan B in place after Google Play took down Hotshots, the OTT app at the centre of the illegal activity, due to policy violations, police sources said on Wednesday. The Plan B involved launching a new application to carry on the illegal business of producing and circulating pornographic content, the police said. Mr. Kundra (45), husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai Crime Branch on Monday night in a case, which it said, related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. He is in police custody till July 23. At least four screenshots of purported WhatsApp chats have surfaced on social media in which Mr. Kundra was allegedly discussing the Plan B with another member on ‘H ACCOUNTS’ group, the sources said. In another screenshot of chat with a member on November 10, the member told Mr. Kundra, “till BF (Bollyfame) is up let’s find out way to sustain HS (Hotshots).” There was also discussion on removing “extremely bold content” for the time being, the sources said. On October 11, members of ‘H ACCOUNTS’ WhatsApp group discussed about live revenue of Rs. 1.85 lakh and movie sale of Rs. 4.52 lakh, which was appreciated by Mr. Kundra and his brother-in-law Pradeep Bakshi, who was also allegedly part of the racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/porn-case-chats-suggest-raj-kundra-planned-another-app-say-police/article35457290.ece
22 July 2021||Nagpur,||IMD issues orange alert for East Vidarbha, warns of heavy rainfall||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office here on Wednesday warned of heavy to very heavy rain in Maharashtra’s East Vidarbha region on Thursday. The IMD issued an orange alert for the region, which includes districts like Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Yavatmal. An IMD release said “a cyclonic circulation lies over Northwest Bay of Bengal and extends between 3.1 km and 7.6 km above sea level tilting southwestwards with height”. “Under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 48 hours. Hence, the monsoon is expected to remain active over Vidarbha from July 21 to 23,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-east-vidarbha-warns-of-heavy-rainfall/article35457293.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Centre is lying about no deaths due to oxygen shortage: Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday accused the Centre of “lying” after Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply in Rajya Sabha said “no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States/UTs” during the second wave of COVID-19. “Thousands of people lost their lives due to oxygen scarcity. This was all caused by imprudent policies of the Central government. Instead of taking responsibility for deaths caused by lack of oxygen, the Centre is shamelessly denying the deaths,” Mr. Sisodia said in a video statement. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the entire country, including Delhi, reported deaths due to lack of oxygen and that the Centre is “completely wrong” in claiming that no one died due to lack of oxygen. “Won’t be surprised if tomorrow the Centre says COVID-19 never came to the country,” he added. Mr. Sisodia said the Delhi government does not have any data on deaths due to oxygen shortage as the Centre did not allow them to form a committee to look into the incidents and give compensation to the families. “From April 15 to May 10, there was oxygen mismanagement by the Centre and due to this there was chaos in hospitals across the country and many people died due to oxygen shortage. When the Delhi government said it was setting up a committee to inquire into allegations of cases of deaths due to shortage of oxygen, the Centre did not allow it to be formed and blocked it through the Lieutenant-Governor,” claimed Mr. Sisodia.  Jaipur Golden Hospital “The State government has to first make a committee, then only there will be a report [on number of death due to oxygen shortage]. Currently, the (Delhi) government does not have any data on deaths due to oxygen shortage,” said the Aam Aadmi Party Minister. In April, the Delhi government had formed a four-member committee to look into 21 deaths in Jaipur Golden Hospital, which the hospital said were “linked” to oxygen shortage. In May, the Delhi government said in a report submitted to the High Court that the 21 deaths were not caused due to shortage of oxygen. “In view of the above observations, the committee was of the opinion that all 21 recorded patients were sick/critical and suffering from COVID-19 infection. As per case records made available to the committee, all the reported patients were getting oxygen therapy/ventilation throughout the hospital stay, including time of resuscitation, and there was no mention of any oxygen shortage in any of the case records. In view of the natural virulent course of the disease and lack of any evidence suggestive of oxygen shortage, the committee is of the opinion that shortage of oxygen as cause of death could not be ascertained,” the report had said. When contacted, the Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on how the government can say there was no data as the Centre did not allow it to form a committee, when one such panel was formed by the government and it had said 21 deaths were not due to oxygen shortage. “Twenty critically-ill COVID-19 patients died last night over oxygen crisis. The oxygen stock was never completely dry, but the pressure was low as we were running out of stock,” Dr. D.K. Baluja, medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi, had said on April 24, adding that the deaths were “linked” to the oxygen shortage. BJP hits back Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana, reacting the Mr. Sisodia’s allegations, said: “This is how [Chief Minister] Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia operate. In their report they will state there was no death due to oxygen shortage. They will not send this report to the Centre, but will go from one news channel to another and claim the Centre has become insensitive.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-is-lying-about-no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-sisodia/article35457283.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. never sought details about oxygen-scarcity deaths’||With the issue of deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second COVID-19 wave snowballing into a political blame game, SCL Gupta, medical director of Batra Hospital — where 12 patients died due to oxygen shortage — said the Delhi government never sought any details related to the deaths. On May 1, the hospital did not have oxygen for more than an hour and the 12 who died, including a senior doctor from the hospital, were undergoing COVID-19 treatment. Delhi had witnessed several deaths of COVID-19 patients “linked” to oxygen shortage in at least three hospitals during April-May. It was only Batra Hospital that had clearly stated that the patients died as the hospital ran out of oxygen. “The Delhi government never sought details or figures about the deaths due to oxygen shortage. If the government now asks us to give details on this, we will definitely share the information with the government," Dr. Gupta told The Hindu . “We ran out of LMO (Liquid Medical Oxygen) at 12.15 p.m. and we received LMO supply at 1.35 p.m. In between, we had some oxygen cylinders, but they cannot support ventilators,” Dr. Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director of Batra Hospital, had said. Dr. Gupta said on Wednesday that there was an oxygen shortage across the country and deaths also happened due to it. “But the Centre has said that health is a State subject and the States have not given them any data on the number of deaths due to oxygen shortage. So, they are also right in a way,” he added.When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the issue. On April 24, Jaipur Golden Hospital had said 20 critically-ill patients had died overnight. The hospital “linked” the deaths to an oxygen crisis. However, the Delhi government submitted a report to the High Court in May stating the deaths were not due to oxygen shortage. D.K. Baluja, medical director of the hospital, did not respond to calls or messages for a comment. On April 23, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, another private hospital, said 25 severely-ill patients had died in 24 hours and that the hospital was facing an oxygen shortage. When contacted, D.S. Rana, chairman of the hospital, said the deaths were not related to oxygen shortage. “We never ran out of oxygen completely. But many times, we did not have reserve stock,” Dr. Rana said. Inquiry can clear doubts Girish Tyagi, Secretary of the Delhi Medical Council, said the cause of death in such cases will not be shown as “lack or shortage of oxygen” anyways, but an inquiry could reveal whether there was an oxygen shortage that could have led to the deaths. “The government could order a postmortem in such cases. But considering the COVID-19 situation, talking to health workers at the hospital is the only practical way,” Dr. Tyagi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-govt-never-sought-details-about-oxygen-scarcity-deaths/article35457286.ece
22 July 2021||new delhi,||South civic body issued over 20K death certificates in April-June||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) issued over 20,000 death certificates between April and June when the city was reeling under the second wave of COVID-19, municipal officials said. According to data provided by the SDMC, the corporation issued 3,351 death certificates in April, 10,209 in May and 6,832 in June. Officials attributed the increase in death registrations to the second wave as well as clearing of backlog of data. “As compared to April, the number of death certificates is about 204% higher in May because of the second wave. While the figure in June is about 103% higher than April. The maximum number of deaths occurred either in May or in the last leg of April. So, kin of most of the deceased who applied for certificates got the documents in May and June,” a senior SDMC official said. Civic officials clarified that these registrations also include normal deaths and they do not necessarily reflect the total death count due to COVID-19 in that particular month. Some civic officials also said that other than the second wave, there was backlog of data due to technical issues and it was cleared in May and June, leading to a rise in the numbers of death registrations. Municipal records also showed that only 4,656 birth certificates were issued in May, while the figure was 5,997 in April and 4,976 in June. Officials suggested that the decline in birth certificates may be due to the reduction in institutional births such as those in hospitals, maternity centres because of the pandemic. “During the second wave, people preferred not to visit hospitals for deliveries due to possibility of getting infected with COVID-19, leading to more home births,” another SDMC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/south-civic-body-issued-over-20k-death-certificates-in-april-june/article35457275.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to float tender for 465 e-buses, eyes becoming largest electric fleet||The Delhi Transport Department is preparing to float a tender for the engagement of over 400 electric buses as it eyes becoming the largest operational fleet of e-buses in the country. According to the department, the tender will seek the engagement of 465 e-buses under the cluster scheme. With the engagement of 300 e-buses already under way by the Delhi Transport Corporation, the engagement of more buses will not only move the Capital a step closer to its target of a fleet of 1,000 e-buses but also becoming the largest fleet of its kind in India after Pune’s estimated fleet of over 600 e-buses, a senior Transport Department official said. Most progressive “Delhi’s Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy is the most progressive of its kind and this bid is another component of it,” said Ashish Kundra, Principal Secretary and Commissioner, Transport, confirming the development. The e-buses are being inducted under the Centre’s ‘Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles in India [FAME] Phase-II’ Scheme. The first phase of the scheme was notified on April 1, 2015, with a total outlay of Rs. 895 crore and its second phase, with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore, was notified in February last year with effect from April 1, 2019, following approval by the Union Cabinet. According to a senior official, with an estimated 800 buses providing mobility to the masses on the Capital’s streets, Delhi would be the leader in this respect, overtaking Pune where 150 e-buses are currently operational and around 500 more are expected to be added to the fleet soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-to-float-tender-for-465-e-buses-eyes-becoming-largest-electric-fleet/article35457280.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||LoP asks Speaker to convene meeting, set agenda for July 29 House session||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Wednesday urged Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel to convene a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee on July 26 to set the agenda for the Vidhan Sabha session beginning July 29. In a letter to Mr. Goel, the LoP said that while it was heartening to know that an Assembly session was being convened “after a long time”, not enough time had been given to the legislative members for putting up questions or topics of discussion during the proposed Question Hour. The LoP termed “strange” the Cabinet decision to convene a session without giving adequate notice to members, which was mandatory. “There is also no agenda outlined for the session being convened after a severe second wave that badly impacted the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lop-asks-speaker-to-convene-meeting-set-agenda-for-july-29-house-session/article35457276.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Microtunneling work at Anand Vihar RRTS begins||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has started microtunneling work at its under construction Anand Vihar RRTS station for utility diversion work. Keeping public convenience in mind, the NCRTC said it had chosen the microtunneling technique for diverting the existing interceptor sewer line of the Delhi Jal Board at the Anand Vihar RRTS (Regional Rapid Transit System) station site, which was infringing the RRTS corridor at the location. Microtunneling is a trenchless underground tunnel construction technique generally used for constructing smaller tunnels for utilities diversion such as drainage pipelines to minimise the public inconvenience caused during the construction. The NCRTC stated it is using a microtunnel boring machine, which follows the proposed diversion alignment with the help of a guidance system and uses pipe jacking method for laying the pipes behind the shield while moving forward. “About 600-metre-long interceptor sewer line of 900 mm diameter high capacity non pressure (NP-4) concrete pipes will be laid at a depth of about 6 metre below the ground surface,” the NCRTC stated. It said that construction activities at Anand Vihar are under way in full swing with the work of launching shaft of tunnel boring machine, measuring 20 m in length and 16 m in width, according to the NCRTC. “Two tunnel boring machines will be lowered in the launching shaft to bore RRTS twin tunnels from Anand Vihar towards Sarai Kale Khan to construct around 3 km tunnels. It will be the longest tunnel section between any two stations amongst the available metro systems in the country,” the NCRTC also stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/microtunneling-work-at-anand-vihar-rrts-begins/article35457279.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 4 more deaths, still facing jab shortage||The number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the city in a day is still low owing to vaccine shortage, as per Delhi government data. The vaccine stock of the city will last for only less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The city has been facing a similar situation for more than 10 days and the Health Minister had said last week that 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage in the city. Only 71,997 doses of vaccine were administered in the city on Tuesday compared to 1,29,054 doses of vaccines on July 13, as per the bulletin. On Wednesday morning, the city had only 1,08,300 doses of Covishield vaccine and 1,84,390 doses of Covaxin, as per the data. 62 new cases Also, the city reported 62 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,35,671, according to a second bulletin. Four deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,039. A total of 65,811 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.09%. Of the total cases, 14,10,066 people have recovered and there are only 566 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-sees-4-more-deaths-still-facing-jab-shortage/article35457284.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands vigilance probe into DJB ‘scam’||The BJP on Wednesday alleged that the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) had become the “most corrupt department” under the Delhi government. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said tenders for work orders were being rejected before being cleared after the receipt of “cut money” by the board and demanded a probe by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) in an alleged scam worth Rs. 280 crore. ‘Rules ignored’ At a joint press conference, Mr. Gupta along with three members of the board, including Vijay Bhagat, Satyapal and Rajiv Kumar, alleged that a tender for a proposed water treatment plant at Dwarka was rejected at the board’s meeting in July last year but awarded earlier this month. No reason was given at the time when the tender was rejected, Mr. Gupta alleged. Later, the tender was cleared and awarded without citing any reason, he pointed out. Mr. Gupta further claimed that “all rules and regulations were ignored” in the process of giving out the tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-demands-vigilance-probe-into-djb-scam/article35457277.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Notice to police over Hauz Khas harassment||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Wednesday issued notice to Delhi Police over alleged sexual harassment of a group of women from northeast at Hauz Khas. In a statement issued, the women’s panel said: “A video is going viral on social media since Tuesday wherein it has been claimed by some women from northeast that they were sexually harassed by a group of men in Hauz Khas area. According to the women, a group of men stopped them and asked them their ‘rate’. The women can be seen confronting the men in the video.” Taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, the DCW wrote to Delhi Police seeking registration of an FIR and asked it to provide a detailed action taken report by July 25. Case registered The police said they have registered a case on charges of insult to modesty of a woman at Safdarjung Enclave Police Station. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said efforts are being made to identify the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/notice-to-police-over-hauz-khas-harassment/article35457287.ece
22 July 2021||Noida,||Teen drowns, friends throw bike and clothes in canal to hide death||A college student has been arrested and a juvenile apprehended in Greater Noida for allegedly hiding the clothes and a motorcycle of their friend, who drowned in a canal five days ago, police said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/teen-drowns-friends-throw-bike-and-clothes-in-canal-to-hide-death/article35457281.ece
22 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra has never hidden or under-reported deaths, says Tope||Stressing that Maharashtra had never under-reported deaths during the pandemic, Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday clarified that the reconciliation of more than 3,500 deaths (carried out by health authorities till July 12) was primarily because private hospitals often failed to give real-time data pertaining to fatalities and cases to State health officials and upload the same information on the Centre’s portal. “Right from the start of the pandemic, I, along with divisional commissioners and district collectors, have been urging hospitals to provide real-time information of fatalities and upload them on the Centre’s portal…but this has not been happening regularly and there is a delay of a week or two in uploading the requisite information. However, we have been regularly reconciling this data and there is no question of hiding anything,” said Mr. Tope, in an interview to a vernacular channel. On Tuesday, the State’s Health Department added 3,509 deaths and 2,479 cases to the cumulative tally. Mr. Tope warned that a ‘third wave’ of the pandemic could be imminent if the public strictly failed to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, after seeing a decline in cases in the last couple of days, Maharashtra’s recoveries dipped on Wednesday with the State reporting 8,159 new COVID-19 cases against 7,839 recoveries causing the active case tally to rise marginally to 94,745. A total of 165 deaths in the last week have pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,30,918 with the case fatality rate standing at 2.09%. The total cases have reached 62,37,755 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 60,08,750 with the recovery rate standing at 96.33%. Pune saw a spike of more than 1,400 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,78,956. As many as 23 deaths were reported as the toll went up to 18,312. As per district authorities, the active cases have crossed 10,000. Mumbai reported 430 new cases to take its total tally to 7,32,582 while the active count dropped to 10,474. Thirteen fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,800.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-has-never-hidden-or-under-reported-deaths-says-tope/article35457506.ece
22 July 2021||Pune,||Authorities free to crack down on illicit hoardings: Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said the Pune Police and civic authorities were free to take action against “unauthorised” hoardings that had come up in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad ahead of his birthday. Scores of “birthday greeting” hoardings from party supporters had mushroomed throughout Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, wishing Mr. Pawar and the Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who share a birthday on July 22, despite both leaders urging their supporters not to do so “Did I ask party workers or anybody else to put up those hoardings? I am a man who always abides by the rules. If these hoardings are illegal, then officials concerned from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation [PCMC], which is ruled by the BJP, should initiate action immediately,” said Mr. Pawar, who is also the Guardian Minister of Pune district. The hoardings refer to Mr. Fadnavis as the “architect of new Pune” and the “development man”. They have been put up by BJP supporters and party workers, while Mr. Pawar’s followers have propped billboards calling him an “administrator par excellence”. With the civic body polls due in February next year, all major parties in the State have geared up for what is expected to be a fierce fight, especially in the crucial Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations. The contest has already heated up with Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole’s repeated declarations that his party, despite being in an alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party in the State government, would go it alone. Recently, Sena MP Sanjay Raut, too, said that the Sena would win the mayoral post in the PCMC (which is considered Mr. Pawar’s bastion) by winning 50 seats in the upcoming election. Reacting to these statements, Mr. Pawar said: “With a few months left for the civic polls, leaders of all parties — the Sena, the BJP or the Congress – will be using all the gimmicks in their bag to galvanise their party workers… Every top leader will make such statements to enthuse their workers. What a leader says to his party workers from their party’s podium is their right.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/authorities-free-to-crack-down-on-illicit-hoardings-pawar/article35457295.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||An unusual sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/an-unusual-sight/article35457289.ece
22 July 2021||London,||U.K. wants new trade deal for N. Ireland||The U.K. government on Wednesday demanded the EU re-negotiate post-Brexit trading arrangements for Northern Ireland after rioting and business disruption hit the restive province. The European Union has long insisted that it is up to London to implement what it agreed in their drawn-out Brexit divorce, and the U.S. administration is also looking on warily at the U.K. manoeuvres. London stopped short of suspending the so-called Northern Ireland Protocol, which requires checks on goods crossing over from mainland Britain. But Northern Ireland Secretary Brandon Lewis told Parliament that while the U.K. had negotiated the protocol “in good faith”, its real-world application by the EU had entailed “considerable and continuing burdens”. “Put simply, we cannot go on as we are,” he said. Rather than ad-hoc grace periods for border checks, Mr. Lewis said the U.K. was seeking a “standstill period” for the protocol, including legal action by the EU. He pressed for a new dialogue “that deals with the problems in the round”. “We urge the EU to look at it with fresh eyes and work with us to seize this opportunity and put our relations on a better footing.” The protocol was painstakingly negotiated to avoid a hard border with Ireland, by effectively keeping Northern Ireland in the EU’s single market. Northern Ireland, which suffered three decades of sectarian conflict until a peace agreement in 1998, has been rocked by violence this year, in part against the protocol. Many pro-UK unionists see it as creating a de facto border in the Irish Sea with mainland Britain and say they feel betrayed. ‘Stop checks’ In its proposals, Britain urged the EU to stop broad checks and focus more squarely on goods “genuinely” at risk of entering its single market via Northern Ireland. The government insisted that for all other goods, a light touch was needed to preserve Northern Ireland’s integral status as part of the U.K. It also wants the removal of any oversight role by the European Court of Justice. Frustrated at the new red tape since the U.K. left the EU fully at the start of this year, several U.K. companies have already suspended sales to Northern Ireland, or are offering a reduced choice.  In a phone call Tuesday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Irish counterpart Micheal Martin the protocol was “causing significant disruption” and changes were essential, according to Downing Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-wants-new-trade-deal-for-n-ireland/article35456852.ece
22 July 2021||Kabul,||Taliban in ‘defence status’ during Id holiday||The Taliban said on Wednesday they would fight only to defend themselves over the holiday of Id-ul-Azha, but stopped short of declaring a formal ceasefire. The militants are waging sweeping offensives across Afghanistan, snapping up territory, seizing border crossings and encircling cities, with the withdrawal of foreign troops all but complete. “I can confirm we are in defence status during Id,” a spokesman for the Taliban said, without offering further details. Pause in fighting Id-ul-Azha is one of the biggest festivals on the Muslim calendar. In Afghanistan, celebrations started this Monday and will run to the end of Friday. For past Islamic holidays, the militants have declared a pause in fighting with government forces, offering a brief respite to Afghans who can visit family in relative safety. But the group has been criticised for using ceasefires to reinforce their positions and resupply fighters, allowing them to attack Afghan security forces once the truce expires. The Taliban comment comes a day after President Ashraf Ghani said in a speech that the Taliban had proved “they have no will and intention for peace”, with negotiations between the two warring sides achieving little. Minutes before his address, at least three rockets landed near the presidential palace where Mr. Ghani held outdoor prayers with top officials to mark the start of Id. The attack was claimed by the Islamic State group. While ideologically different, the much smaller IS has been accused in the past of acting as a proxy for the Taliban. More than a dozen diplomatic missions in Kabul this week called for “an urgent end” to the Taliban’s current offensive, saying it was at odds with claims they want to secure a political deal to end the conflict. That statement followed another round of inconclusive talks in Doha over the weekend between the two sides, that many had hoped would kickstart the ailing peace process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-in-defence-status-during-id-holiday/article35456850.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||25 killed, dams damaged in record flooding in central China||At least 25 people were reported killed and tens of thousands relocated after record flooding in central China caused extensive damage, including to dams that officials fear are on the verge of bursting. Chinese social media on Wednesday circulated horrifying images of flooding in Zhengzhou, the capital city of Henan province, including commuters stuck on flooded subway carriages unable to get out as water levels rose. At least 12 of those killed were reported to have died because of water flooding the city’s subway system as commuters were heading home. Authorities said on Wednesday evening that the toll had risen to 25, with seven missing. That number is feared to increase in coming days as reports come in from elsewhere in the province and with further rainfall forecast. Officials said 1.24 million people had been affected and 1,64,710 people had to be relocated. The flooding followed an extraordinary period of rainfall. Zhengzhou “picked up an incredible 21.75 inches (552.5 mm) of rain over the 24-hour period ending Tuesday. That’s 87% of their average annual precipitation in 24 hours. It’s also equal to their average 7-month total from April-October,” meteorologist Jonathan Erdman said on Twitter. Pressure on dams The biggest concern on Wednesday revolved around damages to several dams in the region. President Xi Jinping said the rainfall “made the flood control situation very severe, causing severe waterlogging in Zhengzhou and other cities, water levels in some rivers exceeding alarm levels, and damages to dams of some reservoirs”. Mr. Xi has ordered the Army to be deployed. The Central Theatre Command of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “sent more than 5,700 soldiers, armed police troops and militias”, the State media reported, to fortify embankments and divert waters to relieve pressure on dams. The rains have led to water exceeding flood season levels in nine large reservoirs and 40 medium-sized ones in Henan, official media reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/25-killed-dams-damaged-in-record-flooding-in-central-china/article35456856.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Climate cooperation depends on overall ties, China tells U.S.||China said on Wednesday its cooperation with the United States on climate change will depend on the overall state of relations between the two countries, warning the Joe Biden administration, which has placed special emphasis on tackling climate change, that working together on this issue may extract a price. “As the largest developing country and the largest developed country in the world, China and the United States share common interests in addressing climate change,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “We should step up communication and coordination, and play an exemplary role in the international community. That said, I want to stress that China-U.S. cooperation in specific areas is closely related to the overall China-U.S. relationship. The U.S. should not, on the one hand, wantonly interfere in China’s internal affairs and harm China’s interests, while on the other hand, ask China to show understanding and support in bilateral and global affairs.” ‘China should do more’ His comments followed a call from the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry, for China to do more. He said Beijing’s commitment to peak emissions by 2030 was not sufficient to ensure a 1.5 degree Celsius global warming target. “If China sticks with its current plant and does not peak its emissions until 2030, then the entire rest of the world must go to zero by 2040 or even 2035,” he said. “There is simply no alternative because without sufficient reduction by China, the goal of 1.5C is essentially impossible.” Mr. Zhao pointed out, regarding China’s efforts, that the country’s national carbon trading market had recently begun trading and carbon emissions by companies in the first batch were “estimated to exceed 4 billion tonnes per year, making the market the world’s largest in terms of the amount of greenhouse gas emissions”. “China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060,” he said. “China will make the stride from carbon peaking to carbon neutrality within a far shorter period than developed countries. This is a major strategic decision made by China... In addressing climate change and successfully achieving emission reduction, China expects the U.S. to match its words with deeds, earnestly fulfil its due obligations and make its due contributions.” U.S. diplomat visit This is expected to be one of the many issues on the agenda later this week when Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman travels to China on July 25 and meets Foreign Minister and State Councillor Wang Yi. The State Department announced in a statement on Wednesday that “these discussions are part of ongoing U.S. efforts to hold candid exchanges with PRC officials to advance U.S. interests and values and to responsibly manage the relationship”. “The Deputy Secretary will discuss areas where we have serious concerns about PRC actions, as well as areas where our interests align,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/climate-cooperation-depends-on-overall-ties-china-tells-us/article35456854.ece
22 July 2021||Paris,||France launches vaccine pass as fourth wave hits||French cinemas, museums and sports venues began asking visitors on Wednesday to furnish proof of COVID-19 vaccination or a negative test as the country, which is in the throes of a fourth wave of infections, rolled out a controversial vaccine passport system. The so-called “health pass” is required for all events or places with more than 50 people before being extended to restaurants, cafes and shopping centres in August. Prime Minister Jean Castex defended the policy, noting that nearly all new infections were in people who had not been immunised. He added that the goal of the pass was to avoid another lockdown. The number of new cases shot up to 21,000 on Wednesday, the highest since early May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-launches-vaccine-pass-for-leisure-venues/article35456846.ece
22 July 2021||Hong Kong,||HK channel restricts staff on Taiwan||Hong Kong’s public broadcaster has banned staff from calling Taiwan’s leader “President” or referring to its “government” in new guidelines that mimic mainland China’s rhetoric. In a memo sent to all staff on Tuesday, the management of RTHK news channel said: “Inappropriate terminology such as ‘country’, ‘Republic of China’, ‘ROC’... must not be used when referring to Taiwan.” Under no circumstances should Taiwan be referred to as a sovereign state or perceived as one, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hk-channel-restricts-staff-on-taiwan/article35456847.ece
22 July 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan blocks TikTok again over ‘inappropriate content’||The popular TikTok video-sharing app was blocked on Wednesday in Pakistan for a fourth time because of “inappropriate content”, the country’s telecommunication regulator said. The Chinese-owned site has fought a series of legal battles with religious activists and authorities in the conservative Muslim nation, and was shut down for two days earlier this month on the order of a provincial court.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-blocks-tiktok-again-over-inappropriate-content/article35456849.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||India must directly engage with Taliban 2.0||With the withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan in process, New Delhi has decided to ramp down its civilian presence in the war-torn country, bracing for a full-blown civil war. India has ‘temporarily’ closed its consulate in Kandahar and evacuated its diplomats and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel stationed there. This follows the decision to suspend operations in the Indian consulates in Jalalabad and Herat. As a result, India today is left with its Embassy in Kabul and the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif. The Taliban’s sway These developments indicate two things: New Delhi’s decision to partially “withdraw” from Afghanistan shows that betting only on the government in Kabul was a big mistake, and that New Delhi realises the threat Taliban poses to Indian assets and presence in Afghanistan. Either way, India’s Afghan policy is at a major crossroads; to safeguard its civilian assets there as well as to stay relevant in the unfolding ‘great game’ in and around Afghanistan, New Delhi must fundamentally reset its Afghanistan policy. India must, in its own national interest, begin ‘open talks’ with the Taliban before it is too late. The time for hesitant, half-embarrassed backchannel parleys is over. However, when I say it is time to ‘openly’ talk to the Taliban, I do not mean according recognition to the Taliban. In any case, what is there to ‘recognise’ at this point as far as the Taliban is concerned? It is only one of the parties in Afghanistan — it is neither the Afghan government, nor a part of it. Not yet. But with over a third of Afghanistan’s more than 400 districts under Taliban control, the talk-to-the-Taliban-option is indeed the best of the many less than perfect options available to India. To be fair, New Delhi has been steadily abandoning its puritanical policy towards the Taliban over the past few years. In late 2018, when Moscow organised a conference which had the Taliban, members of the Afghan High Peace Council, and other countries from the region in attendance, India sent a ‘non-official delegation’ of two retired diplomats to Moscow. Thereafter, in September last year, India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar joined the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha. Last month, reports indicated that India has started reaching out to the Taliban which was indirectly confirmed by the Ministry of External Affairs when it said “we are in touch with various stakeholders in pursuance of our long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction in Afghanistan”. However, such half-hearted, half-embarrassed, ideologically-hesitant meandering outreach to the Taliban is hardly sufficient to safeguard Indian interests in a rapidly shifting Afghan geopolitical landscape. Open dialogue with the Taliban should no longer be a taboo; it is a strategic necessity. Therefore, our outreach must now be direct and unambiguous. But before I explain why I say so, let me briefly analyse New Delhi’s rationale for the indirect approach to the Taliban. Rationale for indirect talks There are at least five possible reasons why New Delhi appears to want to keep the Taliban engagement slow and behind closed doors. For one, if New Delhi chooses to engage the Taliban directly, it could make Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani, thus far India’s trusted partner, uneasy. This could potentially nudge him to look towards China and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) for national security and personal political survival. So, in New Delhi’s calculation, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. Two, decision makers in New Delhi are also faced with the dilemma of who to talk to within the Taliban given that it is hardly a monolith. New Delhi may have little access to the members of the Quetta Shura or the fighters on the ground in Afghanistan. So, the only option might be the Doha-based Taliban negotiators or leaders such as Abdul Salam Zaeef whose beef with Pakistan is well known. Third, given the global opprobrium that Taliban faced in its earlier avatar and the lack of evidence about whether the outfit is a changed lot today, New Delhi might not want to court the Taliban so soon. More so, there is little clarity about what the Taliban’s real intentions are going forward and what they would do after ascending to power in Kabul. Finally, it would not be totally unreasonable to consider the possibility of Pakistan acting out against India in Kashmir if India were to establish deeper links with the Taliban. New Delhi’s rationale is not entirely erroneous. And yet, there are more compelling reasons why India should engage with the Taliban more proactively and openly. For one, whether we like it or not, the Taliban, one way or another, is going to be part of the political scheme of things in Afghanistan, and unlike in 1996, a large number of players in the international community are going to recognise/negotiate/do business with the Taliban. So, basic statecraft requires that we follow that route as well. Making peace with the fait accompli is not always a bad thing especially in the absence of better alternatives. The Pakistan factor Two, the Taliban today is looking for regional and global partners for recognition and legitimacy especially in the neighbourhood. So the less proactive the Indian engagement with the Taliban, the stronger Pakistan-Taliban relations would become. Put differently, and bluntly, letting the Pakistani deep state exclusively deal with the Taliban is an inherently bad idea. Third, even though the Taliban is widely considered to be propped up by Pakistan, it would be a mistake to think that the Taliban will continue to be Pakistan’s servile followers upon gaining power in Kabul. A worldly-wise and internationally-exposed Taliban 2.0 would develop its own agency and sovereign claims including perhaps calling into question the legitimacy of the Durand Line separating Pakistan and Afghanistan, something Pakistan was always concerned about. More so, contrary to what many analysts assume, a Taliban-dominated Afghanistan, next door to its Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan-infested tribal areas, may not really end up becoming a happy space for Pakistan. In other words, the Taliban would want to hedge their bets on how far to listen to Pakistan. That is precisely when New Delhi should engage the Taliban. Four, India needs to court all parties in Afghanistan, including the Taliban, if it wants to ensure its security of its civilian assets there. It makes neither strategic nor economic sense to withdraw from Afghanistan after spending over $3 billion, something the Government seems to be prepared to do. Withdrawing from Afghanistan now because the Taliban is on the rise (and we do not want to have relations with them) will go on to highlight how weak our strategic resolve is. Five, India’s outreach to the Taliban should have started years ago before the Taliban had many suitors as they do today. So, if India is not proactive in Afghanistan at least now, late as it is, Russia, Iran, Pakistan and China will emerge as the shapers of Afghanistan’s political and geopolitical destiny, which for sure will be detrimental to Indian interests there. Open the congested frontier Finally, and perhaps most importantly, opening up the congested north-western frontier is key to bringing India’s continental grand strategy on an even keel, a process New Delhi has already started. Backchannel talks with Pakistan and a consequent ceasefire on the Line of Control, political dialogue with the mainstream Kashmiri leadership, secret parleys with Taliban all indicate that New Delhi is opening up its congested north-western frontier. Proactive engagement of the Taliban will provide this effort with more strategic heft. Consider this. Except for the strategic foray into the Indo-Pacific, India today is strategically boxed in the region and it must break out of it. Afghanistan could provide, if not immediately, India with such a way out. In the end, India’s engagement with the Taliban may or may not achieve much, but non-engagement will definitely hurt Indian interests. In an ideal world, the Taliban, given its bloody past, should not have been anywhere near governing Afghanistan, but it is neither an ideal situation nor is the Taliban stoppable from gaining power in Kabul. So New Delhi must exorcise the demons of IC-814 (the December 1999 hijacking) from its collective memory and engage with the Taliban 2.0 — there is no need to be secretive or embarrassed about it. And yet, open engagement of the Taliban is neither tolerating nor accepting the condemnable atrocities committed by the Taliban. Happymon Jacob teaches at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi and is the founder of the Council for Strategic and Defense Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-must-directly-engage-with-taliban-20/article35456836.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Man cannot live by the Internet alone||The just-concluded initial public offering (IPO) of Zomato, which has successfully raised about Rs. 9,000 crore at an astronomical valuation of Rs. 66,000 crore, makes one believe that money does grow on trees. More than 150 years ago, Leo Tolstoy, one of the greatest novelists and thinkers of the world, writing in his book, What Then Must We Do, wondered and asked: if everything of value and substance is produced in the rural areas, why then are the villages mired in poverty and cities awash in wealth? That question continues to befuddle us. An old conundrum All these thoughts brought back memories of my own life from the 1980s. Those days I struggled as a farmer to make ends meet. I toiled all day, living out of a second-hand Army tent in a remote part of rural Karnataka. One day, after harvesting the banana crop and loading it on to my tractor well before dawn, I drove it to the weekly farmers’ market in Hassan, the district headquarters. As I approached the main road leading to the market, my tractor stopped behind a massive row of trucks and vehicles, hundreds of them, all belonging to other farmers. Walking up a kilometre I came across thousands of agitated farmers. They had unloaded their fresh green chillies and tomatoes on to the road and the black tarmac had turned red and green. The heady pungent fumes from the crushed chillies made it impossible to breathe. Discovering that the prices had crashed, the farmers were up in arms as they were not even able to recover the transportation costs. So, they had blocked the roads. Around noon, finally extricating myself from the melee, unable to sell my produce and crestfallen, I ferried the bananas back to my farm and fed them to my cattle. The IPO event of Zomato also reminded me of those days when banks repeatedly turned down my request for an agriculture loan of Rs. 1 lakh but two decades later, a bank sanctioned an eye-popping amount of Rs. 500 crore on a silver platter to my low-cost airline as the airline was publicly listed and a highly valued stock. The value lay in the mind’s eye of the beholder, who, unbeknownst to me, was in thrall to mythic bears and bulls who swayed the bourses. All these strange phenomena of the modern economy hark back to the old conundrum: how is it that those farmers who own land, toil and till; produce real stuff that we eat and drink and touch and feel; produce things that keep us fed and warm — grains, fruits, vegetables, meat, cotton, wool and silk and so on — live in destitution whereas the merchant who peddles them or the broker who speculates is rich? The multinational behemoths which retail groceries and other products (Kraft Heinz, Cargill, Tyson Foods, Danone, Nestle, Unilever, Walmart, Reliance), those which build solid steel plants, automobiles, buildings, bridges, ships, railways and chains of hotels may in turn wonder why they do all the heavy lifting but are overshadowed in their stock market valuation by Amazon, Microsoft, TCS and Infosys. And now, the new kids on the block — Byju’s, Zomato, and Paytm — are more valuable than those that have been working for decades. The Manipal Group, for instance, runs scores of medical and engineering colleges and hospitals. It owns hundreds of acres of prime land across cities in India and even overseas. It has massive education complexes and impressive laboratories, medical diagnostics equipment, and surgical operation theatres. Despite thousands of crores of investments and hundreds of professors and doctors and nurses, it is valued at a fraction of Byju’s. Similarly, the Taj Hotels, Oberoi Hotels and other five-star hotels own the most expensive real estate. They have luxurious rooms and suites, gourmet restaurants, spas and salons, and swimming pools fit for maharajahs. But they are valued less than a fraction of Zomato. And Zomato, which produces nothing and only purveys the food made by innumerable restaurants across the country, has almost twice the valuation of Jubilant FoodWorks that owns Domino’s Pizza. While others make profits, Zomato and the new unicorns all bleed cash but have dizzying valuations. I met Neeraj Gupta of Meru Cabs, who was the first entrepreneur to launch nationwide GPS-linked radio taxis in India. He revolutionised urban mobility a few years ago. He owned more than 3,000 cars then. His company now has a fleet of 9,000 cars. But Uber and Ola, which manage a few lakh taxis across the metros of India, have upended his business model. These are asset-light companies that only manage the taxis enlisted on their Internet platform. They meet the needs of customers with optimal, effective and timely use of available resources but have heady market caps. I am not discrediting these Internet companies. These are indeed brilliant concepts. A good life Information and data are said to be the new fuel of the modern economy. The Internet makes the world go round and round and the stock valuations of new-age companies can orbit you into space. But there is limited space in that stratosphere. This world, and life on it, cannot be circumscribed in a make-believe cloud. You can’t eat information and everyone cannot live in the Internet bubble. We need food, clothing, water, housing, transportation, electricity and hospitals, and also flowers, poetry and art. We need education in schools and university campuses where there are teachers in flesh and blood and where breezy, invigorating dialogue, debate, bonhomie, music, and laughter reign. We need restaurants and travel, and beaches with sun, sand, and wine and kisses. We need stout hearty men and women who work with their hands to provide for the world. All that makes for a good life. That may not make you a billionaire, which the sterile world of the Internet economy can make you, but don’t be disheartened or discouraged. That real world rooted in the earth and soil I speak of can create wealth too. It can give abundant joy and meaning if you do your job with passion and commitment. Then my thoughts turned to my wife’s 25-year-old Iyengar Bakery tucked away in Malleswaram, Bengaluru. It is a landmark eatery, which is loved and patronised by the local residents. It is part of the cultural landscape. Her wealth has not soared like the stocks of Internet companies. But she is happy and content and loves making breads and buns every day. And she is the master of her own universe. There are countless such people across India in myriad fields — farmers, teachers, doctors, writers, journalists, masons, carpenters, blacksmiths, mechanics, artists, artisans, grocers and vendors — who serve their communities and provide jobs, livelihoods and security. They make this a wonderful world. Man cannot live by the Internet alone. Captain G.R. Gopinath is a soldier, farmer and founder of Air Deccan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/man-cannot-live-by-the-internet-alone/article35456845.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A cardinal omission in the COVID-19 package||Those who are either old enough or have read the history of health services in India, will testify that in the mid-1980s, there were a number of government health-care facilities across the country, with newly constructed buildings, impeccable linoleum floorings, imported state-of-the-art medical equipment such as infant radiant warmers and at times ‘foreign made’ cars/jeeps (for the field visits of health staff). These facilities had benefited from generous financial and commodity assistance as part of the overseas development assistance (ODA) from many well-intentioned international donors. However, in the year to follow, the number of patients attending these facilities continued to be low and the equipment remained packed and stacked in store rooms. Years later, the vehicles were repurposed for use in some national programmes such as polio elimination and blindness control. Most of such upgraded facilities had failed to meet the health needs of the poor people. A key reason was that while infrastructure was upgraded, there was perennial shortage of health staff, i.e., doctors, nurses and others, which was supposed to be recruited by the governments. Four decades later, in the COVID-19 pandemic response, the Indian government appears to repeat the same mistake. Centre’s financial package On July 8, 2021, the Union government announced the “India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package: Phase II” (https://bit.ly/3BpyrHl), with the stated purpose to boost health infrastructure and prepare for a possible third wave of COVID-19. Through this financial package, there is plan to increase COVID-19 beds, improve the oxygen availability and supply, create buffer stocks of essential medicines; purchase equipment and strengthen paediatric beds. However, the package barely has any attention on improving the availability of health human resources. Even before the novel coronavirus pandemic, as reported in rural health statistics and the national health profile (both official government documents), there are vacancies for staff in government health facilities, which range from 30% to 80%, depending upon the sub-group of medical officers, specialist doctors to nurses, laboratory technicians, pharmacists and radiographers, amongst others. In addition, there are wide inter-State variations, with States that have poor health indicators with the highest vacancies. Workforce shortage The Government seems to have recognised the gaps in health infrastructure; however, the shortage in the health workforce is barely being discussed. An intensive care unit bed or ventilator is no use unless there are trained staff to run these equipment and qualified doctors and nurses to attend to patients. Sixteen months into the pandemic, though there has been occasional recognition of the shortage in the health workforce and a few commitments to fill the vacancies; very few are known to fructify, even partially, at both the Union and State levels. As an example, the Union Ministry of Health in May 2020, announced recruiting 300 epidemiologists; it is not known what the status is. Among the States which announced filling vacancies of health staff, attention has mostly been narrow — on select subgroups such doctors or nurses, and not holistic, and promises remain unfulfilled. The COVID-19 package II (which focuses on health infrastructure strengthening) needs to be urgently supplemented by another plan and a similar financial package (with shared Union and State government funding) to fill the existing vacancies of health staff at all levels. Alongside, an objective approach to assess the mid-term health human resource needs could be the Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS), which prescribe the human resources and infrastructure needed to make various types of government health facilities functional. Once such a need is assessed, the Union and State governments would have to come up with another financial package for human resources to complement the COVID-19 health package II. That alone can make health facilities functional in a sustainable manner. The broader picture Second, the COVID-19 pandemic should not be seen in the narrow sense of an infrastructure shortage for the health sector. Even after being supplemented by another package for health human resource, the pandemic should be used as an opportunity to prepare India’s health system for the future. As an initial step in this direction, the new Union Minister of Health should consider getting a comprehensive review of actions taken on the key decisions and Government promises made (to strengthen health services) since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. Alongside, the progress on key policy decisions, for the last few years, to strengthen India’s health system, including those in India’s national health policy of 2017, need to be objectively scrutinised. These two sets of policy decisions and announcements should be reviewed and progress monitored, through a meeting of the Central Council of Health and Family Welfare, of which the Health Ministers of the States are members. This should not wait for the pandemic to get over and should be done now. It is only if the past policy promises and commitments are followed through and implemented that India’s health system could be strengthened from what it is now. India’s health system will not benefit from ad hoc and a patchwork of one or other small packages. It essentially needs some transformational changes. The COVID-19 package II appears insufficient and seems to be based upon a misguided assumption that infrastructure is equal to health services. Governments (both Union and State) seem to be on the path to repeat four decade-old mistakes. While international donors could be excused for being bereft of ground realities, what would the excuse for the Government be? Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-cardinal-omission-in-the-covid-19-package/article35456838.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Prosecutor, not persecutor||Father Stan Swamy’s recent death while waiting for bail has prompted an outcry among lawyers, activists and concerned citizens. While those who admired him were processing their grief, the same National Investigation Agency (NIA) Court rejected bail for one of his co-accused, Anand Teltumbde. Father Swamy’s arrest under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the denial of bail to him and others accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case have highlighted issues related to police power, pretrial detention, and draconian anti-terror legislation. However, the role of prosecutors in perpetuating the dominant attitude towards undertrial detention has been largely ignored. Role of public prosecutors The NIA Court order rejecting Father Swamy’s request for bail stated that the prosecutor submitted various pieces of evidence to prove a prima facie case against the accused. The prosecutor argued that the court must give precedence to the interest of the community/society over the right to liberty even though by this stage, Father Swamy’s need for medical attention was apparent. He had Parkinson’s disease, his hearing was impaired and he had contracted COVID-19. Was an 84-year-old man in such a precarious state of health a threat to the community’s interests? Was there any risk of him absconding or tampering with evidence if released? The prosecutor’s stand in the case as mechanically presenting the investigating agency’s case while zealously demanding prolonged detention of the undertrial throws up vexing questions about the role of public prosecutors in the criminal justice system. Public prosecutors are influential at every stage of a trial. They decide what offences the accused person should be charged with, whether to seek pretrial custody, and what sentence to ask for. However, public prosecutors, unlike defence counsel, have an ethical obligation to seek justice balancing the interests of the victims of crime, society, and those accused of crimes. They represent the public and are not mere mouthpieces for law enforcement agencies. The Supreme Court in Sheo Nandan Paswan v. State of Bihar (1986) cautioned that even though prosecutors have a duty to represent the executive for trying the offender, and it is broadly their responsibility to see that the trial results in conviction, they need not be extremely concerned about the outcome of the case. They act as officers of the court and are obliged to ensure that the accused person is not unfairly treated. The High Court of Delhi, in Jitendra Kumar v. State (1999), warned that, “In performance of his duty he can prosecute the accused, but he cannot assume the role of a persecutor. It is no part of his duty to secure conviction at all costs... The Public Prosecutor should act fairly and impartially and must be conscious of the rights of the accused. He is not only required to conduct prosecution case... but [also] respect and protect the rights of the accused.” The duty of a public prosecutor to not assume the role of persecutor is vital in trials under special statutes like the UAPA, which water down fair trial guarantees. Undertrial detention becomes a convenient means to punish those accused under the UAPA without convicting them. Such trials are long-drawn-out, and the conviction rate is low. In 2019, in 11% of UAPA cases (pending from previous years and filed in 2019), the police closed the case because of insufficient evidence or because the accused was untraceable. Charge sheets were filed in only 9% of the UAPA cases. The conviction rate for UAPA cases was 29.2% compared to an average conviction rate of 50.4% for crimes committed under the Indian Penal Code. Narrative building Public prosecutors also have a role in narrative building. Since they present the state’s case in criminal trials, they build narratives of criminality and criminalisation. Daniel Richman describes them as “adjudicative gatekeepers” who play a key role in translating criminal “law on the books” to criminal “law in action.” Such narratives are especially pernicious in cases involving alleged terrorist activities and “anti-nationals”, where anxieties about the security of the state already haunt the imagination of those in the criminal justice system and ordinary citizens. Thus, public prosecutors who support criminal justice reform can be a powerful force for altering the culture of undertrial detention. The responses of the prosecutors and law enforcement agencies reflect the carceral logic that buttresses undertrial detention. Two-thirds of India’s prison population comprises undertrial prisoners. This reflects the embedding of this carceral logic in the architecture of law enforcement and manifests in prosecutors demanding prolonged custody of the accused. Reversing course will require a re-imagination of the objectives of the criminal justice system and cultural change. Leah Verghese is with DAKSH, a nonprofit based in Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prosecutor-not-persecutor/article35456841.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A compromise amid uncertainty||For now, the risk has receded that the United Arab Emirates (UAE), said to hold the world’s largest untapped crude reserves, might quit the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The end to the UAE’s weeks-long impasse with Saudi Arabia, one of the world’s biggest crude exporters, and Russia, a non-OPEC state, was brought about by Sunday’s deal. Under its terms, the UAE’s demand for an increase in its oil output quotas, in recognition of its higher production capacity, has been conceded. The baselines have also been raised for Saudi Arabia, Russia, Iraq and Kuwait. The compromise The bloc will now step up crude production by 400,000 barrels a day starting in August. The deal will extend until the end of 2022. The output boost is in response to rising oil prices in the wake of the rebound in economic activity following the easing of lockdown restrictions and increased COVID-19 vaccinations in different parts of the world. Sunday’s deal has also extended until the end of next year the broad terms of the unprecedented production cuts the bloc enforced in April 2020. The cartel cut oil production by 9.7 million barrels a day (mbd) as oil demand fell from 100 mbd to 91.1 mbd and prices plummeted from $70 in January 2020 to around $20 in April. The bloc has since gradually rolled back these steep cuts and hopes to return production to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2022. The UAE has played hard ball during the bloc’s attempts to deal with the pandemic-induced price volatility. In December, when OPEC+ tried to ease production cuts, the UAE insisted that members who diluted the original output reductions should compensate through even steeper cuts, following its own example. Thus, while the internal rift has been resolved for now, the danger cannot be ruled out of an increasingly economically and politically assertive UAE flexing its muscle. Any potential break with the bloc would undoubtedly prove far more consequential for the OPEC than the 2019 exit of Qatar. Bilateral relations between the traditional allies, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, have been especially strained since the UAE established diplomatic ties with Israel last year and withdrew troops from the Saudi-spearheaded war in Yemen the year before. A more recent arena of tension is the tariffs Riyadh has imposed on imports from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council. Saudi Arabia will now exclude from the GCC tariff agreement goods made by companies with a workforce of less than 25% of locals and industrial products with less than 40% of added value after their transformation process. Home to a predominantly migrant population, the move could hit the UAE especially hard. Peak in oil demand The latest OPEC compromise echoes growing recognition of the delicate balance between competing domestic and global priorities. Foremost is their eagerness to maximise the returns on their substantial hydrocarbon resources, amid growing speculation of a peak in oil demand within sight. The OPEC, echoing other assessments, forecast in 2016 that a strict implementation of the Paris climate accord could see the demand for oil peak by 2030, owing to the proliferation of alternative fuels and electric cars. Conversely, its report last year pins hopes on population growth and expansion of the middle class for continued increase in oil demand. The International Energy Agency (IEA), which in 2016 forecast a continued rise in oil consumption until the 2040s, has more recently hinted at about 5% rise or fall relative to the demand before the pandemic within a decade. The OPEC’s other concerns are the stabilisation of world oil prices without jeopardising national expenditure programmes, and the diversification of economies in anticipation of the unfolding global energy transition. Unity would be of the essence amid this uncertainty. Garimella Subramaniam is Director - Strategic Initiatives, AgnoShin Tecchnologies Pvt Ltd||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-compromise-amid-uncertainty/article35456842.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Dealing with denial||A touchy topic for the Centre and States has been the counting of the dead from COVID-19. In 2020, as the pandemic ravaged Europe and the U.S., Health Ministry officials would incessantly argue that India had better managed the pandemic because its deaths per million of population were comparatively lower. While factually true, it was always apparent that the argument was specious given the size, demographic difference and India’s per capita access to quality health care. But the ferocious second wave, in April and May, characterised by the very visible scenario of hospitals being overrun, and the sick gasping for a very basic necessity of medical oxygen, revealed a spike in excess deaths, compared to the normal death rate in previous years. Even though independent databases, such as the CRS and State records, show large spikes in deaths, with no other explicable cause other than COVID-19, the Centre continues to be in denial of the mortal scale of the pandemic. Tuesday’s statement by Bharati Pravin Pawar, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, in the Rajya Sabha, that there were no “specific reports” of deaths from States due to lack of oxygen, led Congress leader K.C. Venugopal, to say the party will move a privilege motion against her. Indeed, it is the absolute lack of empathy or acknowledgement of the lived experience of many who have watched their closest suffer and die for want of medical oxygen that makes the Minister’s statement appalling. It is technically true that while no death certificate or medical record would note a COVID-19 patient’s demise as due to “lack of oxygen”, and therefore not causative, the very fact that the Centre moved in April-May to repurpose all its industrial oxygen capacity into producing and transporting medical grade oxygen is itself evidence that the inability to access it must be considered as a probable cause of death. In the early days of the pandemic, a COVID-positive test was necessary to count as a COVID-19 death until the ICMR said it was not always required. It is bewildering why India — with the third highest number of COVID-19 deaths globally, whose oxygen crisis was international news, and mortality figures considered an under-count — sees value in denying oxygen-shortage casualties. Counter-productively, it diminishes public faith in the health-care system. India’s leadership sought to convey the impression that the country had conquered the pandemic and — chastened by the second wave — is now advising abundant caution, with the public messaging focused on the possibility of a third wave, and how nearly a third of the population continues to be vulnerable as per the ICMR’s fourth serology survey. But diminishing the tragedy, especially in Parliament and in its official records, only further erodes the Government’s credibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dealing-with-denial/article35456831.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Water as woe||The revival of the monsoon has overwhelmed Mumbai and its suburbs once again, paralysing life, disrupting drinking water supplies, and exposing the parlous state of its infrastructure. It is clear that the volume and duration of monsoonal rain are turning unpredictable, and intermittent torrents, with crippling impacts on cities will become more frequent, influenced by a warming climate. Strengthening that theory, three weather stations in Mumbai recorded a staggering level of rainfall in one week from July 13, ranging from 628 mm in Mahalaxmi to 958.5 mm in Santa Cruz, the latter experiencing a peak of 234.9 mm on July 18. The inundation has taken a toll of at least 32 lives, and the majority of victims died in landslides that crushed their slum houses at Mahul in Chembur. These deaths of despair recur almost every year, soon to be forgotten in fair weather in a city that prides itself on its enterprise and resilience. In the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic, the monsoon malady poses a double jeopardy, adding to the economic misery of the vulnerable who live in hovels in suburban landslide-prone locations. Such dire conditions stand in contrast to Maharashtra’s keen desire to keep Mumbai as the country’s pre-eminent financial metropolis. The limitations in its infrastructure to accommodate intense monsoons, and its notorious inability to provide affordable inner city housing to the less affluent and even the middle class, are making other cities look more attractive. The catastrophic floods in Mumbai and Chennai in 2005 and 2015, respectively, resulted in the emergence of a management plan drawn up by the National Disaster Management Authority and later, the first dedicated storm water drainage manual by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. But such initiatives can do little if States, which have both power and responsibility over city affairs, do not feel compelled to address the challenges posed by urbanisation. In fact, Mumbai’s inability to manage recurrent floods and the needs of a massive slum population was highlighted by a fact-finding committee appointed by the Maharashtra government after the 2005 deluge, with calls to liberate the city’s rivers and lakes from various impediments, enable perennial flow in the Mithi river, create fresh holding lakes for excess waters, and rehabilitate those who live in risky locations. There is a need to clear the air on the follow-up to these and other expert recommendations, which the State can do through a white paper. Mumbai’s neglect is not unique, though, and most big cities are amorphously expanding to the suburbs where basic infrastructure including drainage is absent, and lakes and rivers are heavily encroached, often with political support. Such unplanned growth, with no defences against weather disasters, is leaving cities a lot poorer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/water-as-woe/article35456832.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||India not alone: Swaran Singh||The External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, to-day [New Delhi, July 21] warned Pakistan against any attack on India on some pretext and said, “we are also not alone.” He was replying to a call attention notice in the Rayja Sabha on President Yahya Khan’s threat on Monday that Pakistan would go to war if India seized “any part of East Pakistan.” Mr. Swaran Singh described the statement of the Pakistan President as “unwarranted and baseless.” Either President Yahya Khan was trying to mislead his people and the world at large or preparing them for an aggression against India by making such a statement, he said. Mr. Swaran Singh advised restraint on the part of members when Mr. N.G. Goray (P.S.P.), who tabled the notice along with others, urged the Government to take possession of some areas in East Bengal to rehabilitate the refugees. He appealed to the members not to say anything which might be quoted against India in international forums. India, he said, had no desire to seize any part of Pakistan. While taking note of the fact that Gen. Yahya Khan’s threat had come in the wake of the announcement of the Sino-U.S. summit meeting, the External Affairs Minister repeated that India was ready to defend itself if Pakistan used the successes of freedom fighters in liberating territory in Bangla Desh as a pretext for attacking India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-not-alone-swaran-singh/article35456839.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Spirit of cooperative federalism is essential for GST to succeed||With States’ finances in the doldrums after the second COVID-19 wave, Kerala Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to allow States to borrow up to 5% of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) this year, without any reform conditions. The GST regime needs urgent fixing as revenues are declining and the structure and functioning of the GST Council needs more democratisation, he said. Excerpts:  The Centre recently released Rs. 75,000 crore of GST dues, of which over Rs. 4,100 crore was to Kerala. Will this alter your borrowing plans? I personally met the Union Finance Minister that day when they released around Rs. 4,200 crore to us. Even though it is belated, it is good. Due to the financial crisis in the State due to the second COVID wave, whatever money we are getting from these means are not enough for facing our requirements. Actually, the financial situation for the last five years has been stagnant, not only for Kerala but other States also. The annual borrowing limit this year has been fixed at 4% of GSDP, but only 0.5% of this is untied. An equal amount is permitted for achieving certain levels of capital expenditure and, separately, for undertaking electricity reforms. We are now discussing the latter but it’s difficult to meet all these formalities. So we have urged the Finance Minister to allow States to borrow up to 5% of GSDP, without any conditions, but they have not accepted that. So our options are limited in this scenario. Our expenditure is increasing because of COVID expenses and special schemes introduced to help people and income has stagnated for the last few years. Without increased borrowings no State can survive, at least in the present situation. Last year’s compensation dues are still pending and the FM had promised a GST council meet to discuss all compensation related issues. What is your stand? The compensation issue is a serious one. We have already asked for States’ protected revenue under GST to be extended for another five years, because there’s actually a very serious fall in income since GST’s inception. There’s a systemic failure; the COVID situation and, for Kerala, floods and other natural disasters have also hit income. Almost all States are seeing a decline in income. So, the compensation should continue for another five years. The GST regime is showing some systemic failure as the income is not going up. Our average income as a percentage of sales has fallen from 16% four years back, to only 11%... prices haven’t fallen for the consumer. This means that if we are getting Rs. 50,000 crore tax now, it would have been another Rs. 18,000 crore in the earlier kind of taxation system and [if] buoyancy had continued. There will be a very serious discussion about the future of compensation and on the taxation policy to see if some more plugging is needed and actual taxes [need to] go up. Moreover, the devolution theory of the Central government would also have to be discussed, separately. Could you explain this a bit? Up to the last Finance Commission, we were getting 2.45% from the divisible pool of taxes. Now, we are getting only 1.92%. In the 1980s, our share was 3.92% so that is the fall now. That means we are not getting our rightful part from the central pool. Earlier, the 1971 population was the base, now it is 2011. Because of our development in education, health... we have some improvement and feel we are being penalised for that. The Tamil Nadu FM has raised concerns about the constitution and functioning of the GST Council. What is your view? The predominance of the Central government in the GST Council’s functioning was expected... Even the AIADMK was very strongly against it. The Central government is getting maximum control in the administration of the Council, and if they’re managing some States [to back them], nobody can change that decision. So, the prerogative of the Central government will succeed. Now, fortunately other parties are understanding or accepting the points which we raised. The GST experiment will not be successful. Brexit happened because Britain wanted to go out of the European Union taxation and migration laws that it felt will not be helpful. United States, which is considered business-friendly, does not have this kind of a tax system. Our counterpart from Tamil Nadu may be speaking from his experience... This is an important debate for the States and more democratisation in the true spirit of cooperative federalism should be there in the GST Council’s functioning. In the last meeting, the Centre said it has the power to tax extra-neutral alcohol...There’s a provision in the constitution that ethanol for human consumption is under States. But they are saying that ENA is not for human consumption, so central GST will be charged. In the Council, there was a very strong protest from almost all States, whether it was BJP [ruled] or Congress [ruled].  GST regime is showing some systemic failure. Our average income as a percentage of sales has fallen from 16% four years back to 11%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spirit-of-cooperative-federalism-is-essential-for-gst-to-succeed/article35456824.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Order book to help HCL Tech tide over third wave, says MD||While the anticipated third wave may have some impact on business, HCL Technologies is confident of registering double-digit growth in the current financial year on the back of a strong deal pipeline and hiring momentum, said C. Vijayakumar, CEO and managing director, HCL Technologies. “I know wave three [of the pandemic] could have some implications, but for the deals which are already booked, they are under execution, I do think we should be fine,” he said, replying to a query on the impact on business due to the anticipated third wave across markets such as Europe, the U.S. as well as India. Mr. Vijayakumar said the IT services firm had seen ‘good’ bookings in the last two quarters and ‘a lot of these’ were under execution. He said HCL Tech had significantly ramped up hiring as well, with the addition of 7,500 people in April-June and about 9,000 in January-March. “Overall booking momentum is very strong, our pipeline is strong, our hiring is strong. So we are looking at good quarters ahead,” he added. The strong deal pipeline was being driven by a rise in digitisation, cloud migration, Industry 4.0, cybersecurity and overall cost optimisation, he said.  On employees coming back to the office post vaccination, he said the work-from-home model would continue for about half of HCL Tech’s employees. “There will be some kind of system... where they come to office on certain days and work from home on other days. I think the hybrid model will be sustainable in the long run,” the MD added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/order-book-to-help-hcl-tech-tide-over-third-wave-says-md/article35456822.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||IBBI amends insolvency rules to help improve transparency||Seeking to enhance transparency in the insolvency process, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) has amended the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations. The IBBI said in a release on Wednesday that the amendments were aimed at enhancing “the discipline, transparency, and accountability in corporate insolvency proceedings”. A resolution professional was duty-bound to find out if a corporate debtor (CD) had been subject to avoidance transactions, namely, preferential transactions, undervalued transactions, extortionate credit transactions, fraudulent trading and wrongful trading, and file applications with the adjudicating authority seeking appropriate relief. This not only claws back the value lost in such transactions increasing the possibility of reorganisation of the CD through a resolution plan, but also disincentivises such transactions preventing stress to the CD, the IBBI said. “For effective monitoring, the amendment requires the RP to file Form CIRP 8 on the electronic platform of the Board, intimating details of his opinion and determination in respect of avoidance transactions,” the board said in the release.  The resolution professional has to intimate details of his opinion via Form CIRP 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ibbi-amends-insolvency-rules-to-help-improve-transparency/article35456828.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,||‘TII aims to bring CG Power back on track’||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII), a Rs. 38,100-crore Murugappa Group company, said its priority is to bring the recently acquired CG Power and Industrial Solutions Ltd. back on track with its post-merger integration model. “We strongly believe that there is a fair amount of value creation opportunity by improving profitability and increasing the company’s growth trajectory,” MD Vellayan Subbiah said in the annual report. He said the rationale for the acquisition of CG Power was not only to drive inorganic growth, but also to de-risk it from the auto business and its cyclicality. This is in alignment with TII’s core strategy to be a leading industrial player in the country, he pointed out. “We strongly believe, our line of prudent financial management, coupled with strong and transparent corporate governance standards, will benefit CG Power in the long-term,” he said. The acquisition was a major step-up in size, scale and scope for TII, accelerating the company’s forward bound growth strategies for redefining the future, said chairman M.A.M. Arunachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-aims-to-bring-cg-power-back-on-track/article35456827.ece
22 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Collection ratios in securitised pools see dip’||Ratings agency Crisil Ratings on Wednesday said collection ratios in securitised pools had seen a dip during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The agency said unlike in the first wave, the decline in the second wave had not been as sharp for two reasons — localised restrictions limited the impact on business activity, and lack of moratorium meant that borrowers could not postpone their debt repayments. Securitisation is the process of pooling and repackaging of homogenous illiquid financial assets into marketable securities that can be sold to investors. Crisil said in a report that while commercial vehicle loans saw a dip in median collection ratios of almost 11 percentage points in May, it expected collections to improve in line with the recovery expected in economic activity. Median collection ratios for pools comprising micro, small and medium enterprises and microfinance fell 12 percentage points and 6 percentage points, respectively, the agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/collection-ratios-in-securitised-pools-see-dip/article35456829.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Byju’s buys U.S.-based Epic for $500 million||Online learning platform Byju’s has acquired Palo Alto-based Epic, a digital reading platform for kids aged 12 and under, for $500 million, said the company on Wednesday. The acquisition would help Byju’s expand its U.S. footprint by providing access to two million teachers and 50 million children in Epic’s global user base. Interactive reading “This partnership will enable us to create engaging and interactive reading and learning experiences for children globally,” said Byju Raveendran, founder and CEO, Byju’s. “Together with Epic, we have the opportunity to create impactful experiences for children to become life-long learners.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/byjus-buys-us-based-epic-for-500-million/article35456817.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti, Intel to collaborate for 5G in India||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday announced a collaboration with Intel for 5G network development by leveraging virtualised radio access network (vRAN) and open radio access network (O-RAN) technologies. “The collaboration is a part of Airtel’s 5G roadmap for India as it transforms its networks to allow its customers to reap the full possibilities of the hyperconnected world where Industry 4.0 to cloud gaming and virtual/augmented reality become an everyday experience,” Bharti Airtel said in a statement.  The company said it will deploy Intel’s latest third generation Xeon Scalable processors, field programmable gate array and eASICs, and Ethernet 800 series across its network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-intel-to-collaborate-for-5g-in-india/article35456819.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Shanthi Gears back in black, nets Rs. 8.58 cr.||Shanthi Gears Ltd. (SGL), a Murugappa group firm, has returned to the black with a standalone net profit of Rs. 8.58 crore for the first quarter, compared with a loss of Rs. 3.58 crore. Revenue from operations more than doubled to Rs. 67 crore, despite disruptions in operations due to the second wave of the pandemic. SGL booked orders for Rs. 84 crore and the pending order book stood at Rs. 235 crore against Rs. 164 crore. The State government had enforced a total lockdown from May 10. Consequently, there was a disruption in operations due to shortage of manpower and non-receipt of raw materials during the period, SGL said in a filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shanthi-gears-back-in-black-nets-rs-858-cr/article35456825.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Videocon lenders to lose only up to 55%’||Lenders to Videocon will eventually take 50-55% haircut and not 95% after considering about Rs. 15,000 crore expected from the sale of the group’s overseas oil and gas assets, said ex-CFO Rajneesh Gupta  “There is a haircut but it is not 95%, it is around 50-55%. Despite the claim of oil and gas being included in the said amount, the said investment of VIL in oil and gas assets, worth about Rs. 15,000 crore, is not forming part of the acquisition by Vedanta Group,” said Mr. Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/videocon-lenders-to-lose-only-up-to-55/article35456830.ece
22 July 2021||Mumbai,||Glenmark Life Sciences unveils IPO||Glenmark Life Sciences Ltd. said its initial public offering (IPO) will open on July 27. The price band is Rs. 695-Rs. 720 apiece. The offer comprises fresh issue of Rs. 1,060 crore and an offer for sale of up to 63 lakh shares by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/glenmark-life-sciences-unveils-ipo/article35456818.ece
22 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘India can return with an improved performance’||London Olympics bronze medallist Gagan Narang reiterated that India can return with an improved performance in shooting in the Tokyo Games given the mix of youth, experience and talent the squad has. “It is a matter of pride that Elavenil Valarivan trained here for one month during the peak of the pandemic. I believe she is one of the strongest medal contenders from India which is fielding some terrific talent — a perfect mix of youth and experience,” Gagan said. Speaking at a campaign launched to cheer the Indian contingent, organised by Gun For Glory Shooting Academy at the Central University SATS shooting range here on Wednesday, Gagan said he was particularly pleased that six shooters from GFG made it to Tokyo, including the Paralympics. “When I won the 2002 National Games gold and then the 2003 Afro-Asian Games at the ranges here, I was one big names from this City. Now, my target is to produce Olympic shooters from Telangana.”  Thanks to support of K.T. Rama Rao, Telangana IT Minister and the MoU with the State Government which facilitated an investment of about Rs. 3 crores so far in the GFG at the ranges here, they could produce a gifted talents like Esha Singh and Dhanush Srikanth, Gagan added. “With the help of the State Government, there is a desire to improve the facilities at this range to higher standards.”  Gagan’s coach Niranjan Reddy and SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-can-return-with-an-improved-performance/article35457376.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sailors primed for their best in uncharted waters||For the first time in the history of Indian sailing at the Olympics, four sailors have qualified in three categories: laser radial (women), laser standard (men) and 49er (men). The four competitors — Nethra Kumanan (radial), Vishnu Saravanan (standard), and the pair of Varun Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy (49er) — booked their Olympic spots at the Mussanah Open championships in Oman in April. Sufficient practice All of them have had sufficient practice at their respective training bases in Spain (Nethra), Malta (Vishnu) and Portugal (Varun-Ganapathy). The 23-year-old Nethra, ranked a career-best No. 54, will definitely have it tough in Tokyo. There are some wonderful sailors in the radial class. Leading the list of favourites is the Netherlands’ Marit Bouwmeester, who won gold at Rio 2016 and silver at London 2012. World No. 1 Emma Plasschaert (Belgium) and the silver and bronze medallists at Rio, Annalise Murphy (Ireland) and Anne-Marie Rindom (Denmark), will fancy their chances as well. Realistic expectations Nethra will be realistic about her expectations. As her coach Tamas Eszes said in April, “We expect her to finish in the top 20 [among 44 competitors] at Tokyo.”  Vishnu, too, is a fighter, as was evident from the manner in which he raced the final round of the Asian Olympic qualifier in Oman, winning it to finish second overall. The standard fleet includes reigning world champion Philipp Buhl (Germany) and the silver and bronze medallists at Rio, Tonci Stipanovic (Croatia) and Sam Meech (New Zealand). Add to that the world’s top two sailors, Charles Buckingham (USA) and Juan Ignacio Maegli (Guatemala). Australia’s Matthew Wearn, who has won medals in three consecutive world championships, is another attraction. The return of 48-year-old Brazilian Robert Scheidt, a veteran of five Olympic medals (including two gold), will be watched with interest. In a competitive 35-boat field, Vishnu, ranked No. 43, will want to do everything in his control to make it a memorable Games.  Top stars The 49er will have a galaxy of top stars, including Rio gold medallists Peter Burling and Blair Tuke (New Zealand), the World No. 1 duo of Bart Lambriex and Pim Van Vugt (the Netherlands) and the pair of Erik Heil and Thomas Ploessel (Germany), who finished third in Rio. Ranked 73 in the world, the Varun-Ganapathy duo, bronze medallists at the 2018 Asian Games, will hope to finish in the top 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sailors-primed-for-their-best-in-uncharted-waters/article35456928.ece
22 July 2021||Chennai,||Trichy Warriors ride on Sathvik’s half-century||Cricket games can change on a moment of inspiration. When Nellai Royal Kings seemed back in the hunt during the chase, Amit Sathvik snuffed out the hopes with a smart pick-up and a direct hit to catch Sanjay Yadav short. Ruby Trichy Warriors eventually won by a whopping 74 runs. Under a drizzle, Nellai fizzled out. Clinical striking It was Sathvik’s night all right in this TNPL game against Nellai Royal Kings at Chepauk on Wednesday. The opener had held centrestage earlier with some clinical striking of the ball with a 52-ball 71. Then the Ruby seamers made serious inroads. A target of 152 appeared miles away when Nellai Royal Kings was reduced to 12/5. Seamer Sunil Sam, his bowling was marked by rhythm and movement, and the nippy P. Saravan Kumar, who cramped the batsman for room, shared four batsmen between them. B. Aparajith, slashing Sam to third man, being the prized scalp. Pradosh Ranjan Paul was a senseless run-out victim. Seasoned campaigner B. Indrajith and Sanjay provided a glimmer of hope for Nellai, with the former catching the eye with nifty footwork. Just as the game was beginning to change its hue, the sharp Sathvik ended Sanjay’s (28) innings. And when Indrajith was leg-before to M. Mathivannan for 32, it was all over. The left-arm spinner cleaned up the tail — Mathivannan grabbed three wickets in the over — to end the contest. Earlier, opener Sathvik lent Ruby momentum and thrust. Nimble footwork The quickness with which he got into position and the manner he transferred his body weight to achieve balance underlined the young right-hander’s innings. He stepped down to pacemen and swatted them over wide long-on for the maximum, and also pierced the off-side field with strokes of authority and timing. The left-handed Adithya Ganesh (33), compact and assured, rotated the strike to provide the in-form Sathvik maximum strike and Antony Dhas (35 not out off 20 balls) delivered a few typically hefty blows in the end overs. Under pressure, the Nellai fielders put down a couple of catches in the closing stages. Then the Ruby pacemen joined the party.  The scores:   Ruby Trichy Warriors 151 for five in 20 overs (Amit Sathvik 71, Adithya Ganesh 33, Antony Dhas 35 n.o., Sharun Kumar two for 39) bt Nellai Royal Kings 77 in 13.4 overs (B. Indrajith 32, Sanjay Yadav 28, Sunil Sam two for eight, P. Saravan Kumar two for five, Mathivannan three for zero). Points: Ruby 2; Nellai 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trichy-warriors-ride-on-sathviks-half-century/article35457170.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,||‘Kamalpreet could produce a big surprise’||She quit sport soon after the 2016 Rio Olympics but now Krishna Poonia is excited with discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur’s stunning progress this year. And she feels the 25-year-old could pull off a big surprise at the Tokyo Olympics. “I was happy when she crossed 65m to break my national record and she has done that twice this year. If she does 66-plus like she did recently, I think she can win a medal in Tokyo,” said Krishna, the first Indian woman to win a Commonwealth Games gold (2010, New Delhi), in a chat with The Hindu from Jaipur. Four discus throwers have crossed 68m this year, two have gone past 70m, and there are many more who have been consistent but Krishna, who was sixth at 2012 London — the best by an Indian thrower ever at the Summer Games, feels the global pandemic could throw up plenty of surprises in Tokyo. Massive throws Surprises were aplenty in India too. While all eyes were on former Asian Games champion Seema Antil-Punia, Kamalpreet, who had a personal best of 61.04m prior to this season, shocked everybody with those two massive throws — 65.06m in March and 66.59m in June — which saw her jump to the sixth spot in the world list. Kamalpreet’s sudden rise has not surprised Krishna. “Every athlete has a time. Seema (the 37-year-old has also qualified for Tokyo) is senior and has had her good time earlier but I think she will find it very difficult to cross 65m. Kamalpreet is a young athlete,” said Krishna.  “If someone young is doing well, I can say my discus throw event is getting recognised and athletes are coming in. If we don’t have people coming, nobody will remember the event.” Virendar Poonia, Krishna’s husband who was also her coach, feels Kamalpreet’s arm length gives her an advantage. “Her strong point may be her arm length, that’s the main thing in discus. I think it is longer than Krishna’s,” he said. “Her only weakness is that this is her first major competition. She has not been to the World championships, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games or the Diamond League.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kamalpreet-could-produce-a-big-surprise/article35457111.ece
22 July 2021||Milwaukee,||Milwaukee Bucks end a half-century title drought||Giannis Antetokounmpo delivered a historic 50-point performance when it mattered most in leading the Milwaukee Bucks to its first NBA title since 1971 by defeating the Phoenix Suns 105-98 on Tuesday. The Bucks captured the best-of-seven NBA Finals by four games to two, becoming only the fifth team to claim the crown after dropping the first two contests. Antetokounmpo, only the seventh player in finals history with a 50-point game, made 17 of 19 free throws while adding 14 rebounds and five blocked shots as the Bucks went a NBA-best 10-1 at home in the playoffs to end a half-century title drought. “I want to thank Milwaukee for believing in me. I want to thank my teammates for playing hard with me,” Antetokounmpo said. “I’m thankful I was able to get it done.”  The 26-year-old Greek forward matched the greatest scoring night in a close-out game in finals history, the 50-point effort by Bob Pettit in 1958 for the St. Louis Hawks over Boston. “He put us on his back. When we needed him, he told us to just feed him,” Bucks guard Khris Middleton said. “It’s amazing to be on this journey with him.” Equals Jordan Two-time NBA Most Valuable Player Antetokounmpo also equalled Michael Jordan and Hakeem Olajuwon as the only players to take NBA Finals MVP and NBA Defensive Player of the Year awards in the same season.   The Suns were foiled in their bid for the first crown in their 53-year history. Phoenix guard Chris Paul, playing in the first NBA Finals of his 16-year career at age 36, led the Suns with 26 points. “It hurts. Badly,” Suns coach Monty Williams said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milwaukee-bucks-end-a-half-century-title-drought/article35457121.ece
22 July 2021||Colombo,||‘Team India responded like a champion’||With its back to the wall, Team India responded like a champion, said coach Rahul Dravid in an inspiring dressing room speech after his young side registered a series-clinching win in the second ODI against Sri Lanka on Tuesday. “Obviously we finished on the right side of the result, which is incredible and fantastic but even if we didn’t finish on the right side of the result, the fight all the way through was absolutely brilliant. So, well done to all of you,” Dravid said in a video uploaded on BCCI.tv.  “We said they were going to respond, we knew we had to respect the opposition.They responded, and we responded back like a champion. With our back to the wall, we found a way to break them. Fantastic job,” Dravid said. “It is not the right time to talk about individuals at this point. Obviously there were some fine individual performances, especially towards the end,” said Dravid. “We had talked about that, we acknowledge and recognise every player’s contribution in this game. If you look at the whole game, it was a very good team performance,” the coach added. One of the best The video also featured Suryakumar Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Deepak Chahar talking about their experiences from the match. “I don’t have words, I think it is one of the best games I have been part of, I have seen live... it is an unbelievable victory,” Suryakumar said. “Bhuvi, our vintage man, and Chahar... we have been talking about his batting, and today he has proved himself. It was something special from him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-responded-like-champions-dravid/article35456924.ece
22 July 2021||DURHAM,||Haseeb, Umesh shine on day 2||Haseeb Hameed celebrated his recall to the England Test team with a century on the second day of the warm-up game between County Select XI and Indians here on Wednesday. Opener Haseeb hit 13 boundaries in his 112 off 246 balls as the hosts made 206 for seven in reply to the visitors’ 311. Haseeb, who shared a 75-run stand for the fifth wicket with Lyndon James (27), was caught behind by K.L. Rahul off Shardul Thakur. Washington Sundar, batting at No. 4, was dismissed for one by Mohammed Siraj. Umesh Yadav was the pick, taking three for 22 in 15 overs. The pacer castled County Select skipper Will Rhodes with a beauty. Jasprit Bumrah and Ravindra Jadeja took a wicket each. Kohli back at the nets Meanwhile, Virat Kohli, who skipped the warm-up game due to a niggle, was back at the nets and was involved in a full-fledged batting session. Shubman Gill, out of the Test series against England with shin splints, has returned home. He is expected to go to the NCA in Bengaluru for rehabilitation.   The scores: Indians 311 in 93 overs (K.L. Rahul retd. out 101, Ravindra Jadeja 75, Craig Miles 4/45) vs County Select XI 206/7 in 79 overs (Haseeb Hameed 112, Umesh Yadav 3/22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haseeb-umesh-shine-on-day-2/article35456926.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A distant dream among constantly moving targets||Last month, Indian swimming witnessed history being made when not one, but two swimmers went under the A-mark Olympic Qualification Time to secure berths for Tokyo 2020. In a span of 24 hours in Rome, first Sajan Prakash in 200m butterfly and then Srihari Nataraj in 100m backstroke came up with record-breaking efforts to become the first two Indian swimmers ever to make the A-cut. That they had to cope with multiple pandemic-triggered lockdowns, injury breaks and personal setbacks made the feat more noteworthy. But to merely bask in the glory of qualification is to miss the forest for the trees. As the duo already knows, and will experience first-hand in Tokyo, Olympic standards are moving targets. A stellar showing will be required to just get out of the heats and reach the semifinals, something no Indian swimmer has ever done. Sajan’s 1:56.38s (A-mark: 1:56:48s) would have placed him in the top eight four years ago at Rio 2016, but this time around, all it earned him was the right to be in Tokyo. Similarly, Srihari’s 53.77s (A-mark: 53.85s) would have earned him a semifinal spot in Rio. A medal is thus a distant dream. In 2016, Tamas Kenderesi’s bronze in 200m butterfly came in 1:53.62s — almost three seconds faster than Sajan’s best — and David Plummer’s bronze in 100m backstroke was earned in 52.40s, more than a second quicker than Srihari’s A-mark. The aim will thus be to make the semifinals, something 20-year-old Srihari is aiming for on his debut. With his best years ahead of him, the youngster is expected to treat this as part of his preparations to excel at Paris 2024. But for 27-year-old Sajan, this may be his last Olympic sojourn at his prime, and he will want to significantly improve on his 28th-place finish out of 29 swimmers at Rio, after having entered via the universality quota. Maana Patel, the 21-year-old National record holder across 50m, 100m and 200m backstroke events, will hope for a good show too, making full use of her universality quota place as she, like Srihari, sets sights on Paris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-distant-dream-among-constantly-moving-targets/article35456937.ece
22 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Would be interested in trying out more No-Castling chess, says Anand||The last time Viswanathan Anand was in Germany, the world was slowly waking up to the reality of a pandemic. He was stuck there for three months before he could finally fly home to Chennai. It was a pleasanter Germany he found when he landed in Dortmund last week for his No-Castling chess match for the Sparkassen Trophy with Vladmir Kramnik. He won the four-game event in convincing style. Less predictable The match was Kramnik’s idea. By doing away with castling — a single move by which you can take your king to safety even as making the rook more active — the Russian wanted to make the game less theoretical and predictable. If the chess played by the two former World champions is anything to go by, the new variant holds promise. “I was surprised to find that the game was much richer and more complex than I realised while I was studying it before the match,” Anand told The Hindu over phone from Germany. “Lots of things change with the king stuck in the centre. Many new plans come in. I would be interested in trying No-Castling more at some point of time.”  He said he was delighted to win the match, especially after defending correctly in the last game. “Considering the fact that Kramnik is the person who had been thinking more about the match, having come up with the idea, it certainly was a good result for me,” he said. About all the four games being played from the English Opening, he said it was a good option with the king not knowing where it wanted to go. “We stuck to the same opening because we had studied it and decided to build on that,” Anand said. Excellent showing It was right after finishing runner-up at the strong Grand Chess Tour that he travelled to Dortmund. The 51-year-old said that the two excellent back-to-back shows motivated him to work harder. “After a long break, I was apprehensive how it would be to return,” he said. “I am open to playing more chess now that travelling has become easier.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/would-be-interested-in-trying-out-more-no-castling-chess-says-anand/article35457113.ece
22 July 2021||Manchester,||England pulls off a tense win||Leg-spinner Adil Rashid posted career-best figures to help England secure a tense three-wicket win over Pakistan in the third Twenty20 and clinch the series 2-1 here. Rashid took four wickets for 35 and Pakistan finished on 154/6 after winning the toss and opting to bat on Tuesday. Jason Roy (64 off 36) gave a good start before the visitors chipped away with wickets, leaving it to No. 8 Chris Jordan to sprint through for the winning runs with just two deliveries and three wickets remaining as England reached 155 for seven.   The scores: Pakistan 154/6 in 20 overs (Mohammad Rizwan 76, Adil Rashid 4/35) lost to England 155/7 in 19.4 overs (Jason Roy 64, Dawid Malan 31, Mohammad Hafeez 3/28).   Toss: Pakistan. MoM: Jason Roy. MoS: Liam Livingstone.   England won by three wickets to clinch 3-match series 2-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-pulls-off-a-tense-win/article35457116.ece
22 July 2021||Los Cabos (Mexico),||Divij & Qureshi out||Divij Sharan and Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi of Pakistan lost 7-6(3), 7-5 to Hans Hach Verdugo and John Isner in the first round of the $694,655 ATP tennis tournament in Mexico.  The results:   First round: Los Cabos, Mexico: Hans Hach Verdugo (Mex) & John Isner (USA) bt Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi (Pak) & Divij Sharan 7-6(3), 7-5; Taylor Fritz & Nicholas Monroe (USA) bt Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji 1-6, 6-4, [10-8].   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, USA: Genaro Alberto Olivieri (Arg) bt Sasikumar Mukund 4-6, 6-2, 7-5; Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Aleksandar Kovacevic (USA) 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Thai-Son Kwiatkowski (USA) 6-3, 3-2 (retired).   Doubles: Lukas Lacko (Svk) & Ramkumar Ramanathan w/o William Blumberg & Ryan Harrison (USA).   $15,000 ITF men, Edwardsville, USA: Bruno Kuzuhara & Christian Langmo (USA) bt Nicholas Bybel (USA) & Sidharth Rawat 4-6, 6-3, [10-8].   $15,000 ITF, Monastir, Tunisia: Men: Valentin Vacherot (Fra) bt Adil Kalyanpur 4-6, 6-3. 6-0.   Doubles: Kody Pearson (Aus) & Adil Kalyanpur bt Jacob Brumm & Joshua Sheehy (USA) 6-2, 6-4.   Women: Nadline Keller (Sui) bt Humera Baharmus 6-4, 6-2. Doubles: Paula Ortega Redondo (Esp) & Lexington Reed (USA) bt Polina Gubina (Ukr) & Humera Baharmus 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Anastasia Sukhotina (Rus) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Bianca Elena Barbulescu & Briana Szabo (Rou) 6-4, 3-6, [10-6]; Ana Lantigua De La Nuez (Esp) & Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) bt Arabella Koller (Aut) & Sathwika Sama 6-1, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-qureshi-out/article35457119.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Arjun, Arvind face upstream battle||The lone Indian rowing pair of Arjun Lal Jat and Arvind Singh face an upstream battle in the men’s lightweight double sculls event at the Sea Forest Waterway in Tokyo Bay. The pair has not had much international exposure after the pandemic changed the world. A proposed five-week trip to Portugal this May was cancelled because of strict quarantine rules. The Army Rowing Node in Pune has been the duo’s base since October 2020. The two-man crew made the cut after finishing second in the Asia/Oceania qualifying event at Tokyo. Arjun (24) participated in the 2019 World Championships without making a big impact in the single sculls, but won silver with Arvind (25) at the 2019 Asian Championships in Chungju (South Korea) in the pair’s only major international event. At the Olympics, the duo is up against quite a few seasoned and top-class rowers. Paul O’Donovan and Fintan McCarthy are widely tipped to bag gold. The Irish duo has been impressive in the lead-up, winning gold at the 2019 World Championships in Ottensheim (Austria) and the European Championships in Varese (Italy) in April this year. It also won the World Cup-II in Lucerne (Switzerland) in May. The German pair of Jason-Toby Osborne and Jonathan Rommelmann will also contend for the top spot. The duo won gold at the World Cup-I in Zagreb in April-May and silver at the European Championships. Realistically, if the Indian pair finishes anywhere between ninth and 14th (among 18), it would be considered a creditable achievement, given the Ismail Baig-coached team is competing in its maiden Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-arvind-face-upstream-battle/article35456933.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Main thing for me is to improve Indian players, says Bandovic||Chennaiyin FC’s new head coach Bozidar Bandovic has his task cut out. Rafael Crivellaro of Brazil, the creative midfielder, has been retained, but there are five slots remaining for foreign players to be filled. Those who will be picked will have to integrate with the Indian players in quick time. The 51-year-old from Montenegro has rich experience in handling top clubs in Eastern Europe and the Balkan region such as Red Star Belgrade and Olympiacos. Considering Chennaiying had a poor season, finishing eighth, it would be huge challenge for Bandovic. In an interview to The Hindu , Bandovic said the team’s priority is to be in the top four. “Yes, the team had a poor season in the last edition. Of course we will now start to bring in players. Will try to improve “They will help the team more and make a difference in the field and of course we will try to improve in both attack and defence and do everything to score more goals and be in the top four on the table,” he said. While refusing to critically analyse the previous coach for the disastrous show, Bandovic said the 17 goals the team scored, of which few were penalties, were clearly not enough if the team needed to win. “I looked at all the games, but I cannot judge my colleagues because every coach is trying his best. The team [Chennaiyin] didn’t win even one game at home. Of the 17 goals, four or five were from penalties, and if you want to be in the top four this is very little,” he said. He welcomed the Indian Super League decision to increase the number of Indian players from six to seven. “For me, the main thing is to improve domestic players. Of course, the change from seven to six is one point, but still the coaches in the team or the academy will have to work very hard and [put] quality work to improve domestic players,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/main-thing-for-me-is-to-improve-indian-players-says-bandovic/article35457166.ece
22 July 2021||Bridgetown,||Starc takes five as Australia wins big||Mitchell Starc took five for 48 and Josh Hazlewood three for 11 as Australia bowled out the West Indies for 123 to win the first One-Day International by 133 runs here on Tuesday. West Indies was struggling at 27 for six in the eighth over and was finally all out in the 27th over chasing a revised total of 257 in 49 overs in a rain-affected match. Captain Kieron Pollard helped the home team fend off the threat of a record low score, making 56 and putting on 68 for the seventh wicket with Alzarri Joseph (17). Earlier, Australia’s stand-in captain Alex Carey also made a half century in a 104-run fifth-wicket partnership with Ashton Turner to lead the team to 252 for nine in 49 overs. Carey took over the captaincy for the first time in a ODI from Aaron Finch who was ruled out of the match with a knee injury. Walsh Jr. excels Leg-spinner Hayden Walsh Junior took five for 39, a maiden five-wicket bag in ODIs, and narrowly missed a hat-trick to limit the Australian total. But the complete failure of the West Indies’ top order in the face of accurate bowling from Starc and Hazlewood gave Australia a convincing win.   The scores: Australia 252/9 in 49 overs (Alex Carey 67, Ashton Turner 49, Walsh Jr. 5/39) bt West Indies 123 in 26.2 overs (Kieron Pollard 56, Mitchell Starc 5/48). Man-of-the-match: Starc. Australia won by 133 runs under D/L method and leads three-match series 1-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/starc-takes-five-as-australia-wins-big/article35457115.ece
22 July 2021||Tokyo,||Sweden ends USA women’s 44-game run||Four-time Olympic champion the United States suffered a first defeat in 45 matches on Wednesday as it lost 3-0 to Sweden in their opening game of the women’s football tournament. Stina Blackstenius scored twice and Lina Hurtig added a third goal to give 2016 silver medallists Sweden a dream start to their Group-G campaign at a Tokyo Stadium devoid of fans due to COVID-19 restrictions. The US, which plays New Zealand and Australia in its next two games, hadn’t lost since going down 3-1 to France in a friendly in January 2019. “We got bopped,” said US forward Megan Rapinoe. “I thought we were a little bit nervous, a bit tight, doing dumb stuff.”  The results: Group E (Sapporo): Britain 2 (White 17, 72) bt Chile 0; Group F (Miyagi): China 0 lost to Brazil 5 (Marta 9, 74, Debinha 22, Andressa 82-pen, Beatriz 89); Group G (Tokyo): Sweden 3 (Blackstenius 25, 55, Hurtig 72) bt USA 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sweden-ends-usa-womens-44-game-run/article35456930.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Not a force to reckon with||Indian swimming has long been in a slumber. It’s not a force to reckon with even at the Asian and Commonwealth Games, let alone the Olympics. In the presence of powerhouses like China and Japan, India has just one silver and two bronze medals to show at the continental level, in 17 editions since the first in 1951. At the Commonwealth Games, it has zero medals, as Australia, England, Canada and South Africa have dominated. At the Olympics, no Indian swimmer has even reached the semifinals. Until Tokyo, India didn’t have a single swimmer who had secured a berth by going under the A-mark Qualification Time. Though India has had continuous participation from 1996 through the likes of Sebastian Xavier and Sangeeta Puri (Atlanta 1996), Nisha Millet (Sydney 2000), Shikha Tandon (Athens 2004), Sandeep Sejwal and Virdhawal Khade (2008 Beijing), it was either through the B-mark qualification route or the universality quota offered to countries from where no swimmer has made the cut. Khade caused a sensation as a 16-year-old in 2008, becoming the youngest Indian swimmer to enter the Olympics. In recent times, Srihari Nataraj has displayed a similar youthful verve and will hope to break India’s duck, alongside Sajan Prakash in Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-a-force-to-reckon-with/article35456938.ece
22 July 2021||CHENNAI:,||Dharshan scalps four||M. Dharshan’s four-wicket haul helped Chengai Kings CC to a 45-run win over All Stars CC in the CDCA second division league on Wednesday.  The scores: Chengai Kings 116/9 in 30 overs (R. Iyyanar 4/17, S. Tharani Dharan 4/27) bt All Stars 71 in 25.5 overs (M. Dharshan 4/6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dharshan-scalps-four/article35457167.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Opening salvo||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/opening-salvo/article35457297.ece
22 July 2021||KOCHI,||Blasters’ ISL pre-season from July 30||The Kerala Blasters FC will start its pre-season preparations for the Indian Super League on July 30. The club’s head coach Ivan Vukomanovic, other coaching staff and players will be in Kochi for the the first leg of their pre-season before flying abroad for the rest of their training. “It is very important for the club to have a long pre-season. I want the players to be in their best form before they boot up for their first match of the season. “Also, it would be helpful for the players as well as the coaching team to find a rapport well ahead of the season,” said Vukomanovic who hails from Serbia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-isl-pre-season-from-july-30/article35457507.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gritty Pragg bounces back||R. Praggnanandhaa, 15, became the youngest Indian to qualify to the fourth round of the chess World Cup in Sochi, Russia, on Tuesday. The youngster, who lost from a winning position in the second game on Monday, bounced back strongly to blank Michael Krasenkow 2-0 in the two rapid tiebreak games.  The results (Third round, tie-breaker): 25-minute Rapid: Vidit Gujrathi drew with B. Adhiban 1-1; R. Praggnanandhaa bt Michael Krasenkow (Pol) 2-0 (Praggnanandhaa wins 3-1). 10m-blitz: Vidit drew with Adhiban 1-1; 5m-blitz: Vidit bt Adhiban 1.5-0.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gritty-pragg-bounces-back/article35457079.ece
22 July 2021||TOKYO,||Tokyo’s COVID cases rise to six-month high||Tokyo’s COVID-19 infections surged to a six-month high on Wednesday with the Olympic host city logging 1,832 new cases just two days before the Games. Under emergency Tokyo is currently under its fourth state of emergency, which will last until August 22, covering the entire duration of the Olympics that starts on Friday and ends on August 8. Fans are banned from all venues in the Tokyo area, with limited audiences at a few outlying sites. Happening now “What we have worried about is now actually happening,” Japan Medical Association President Toshio Nakagawa said. “The surge in cases has been expected whether we have the Olympics or not, and we are afraid that there will be an explosive increase in cases regardless of the Olympics.” Experts warned on Wednesday that Tokyo's infections would only worsen in coming weeks. Dr. Norio Ohmagari, the Tokyo metropolitan government's expert panel member, said that Tokyo’s average daily cases could hit around 2,600 in two weeks if they continue at the current pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyos-covid-cases-rise-to-six-month-high/article35457211.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru,||SAI continues to omit cricket and tennis||Popular sports cricket and tennis continue to be omitted from the disciplines offered by Sports Authority of India (SAI) Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NSNIS) for obtaining a diploma in sports coaching. No space In an invite for applications for the 2021-22 batch, SAI has included 24 disciplines — including yoga, wushu and kho-kho — but there was no space for cricket and tennis. The two sports were last included in the diploma course two years ago. It was learnt that the SAI management had planned to include cricket and tennis once in two years, but it was not to be. The omission comes as a blow to those who want to pursue a career in coaching in these two lucrative disciplines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-continues-to-omit-cricket-tennis/article35457118.ece
22 July 2021||LONDON,||Robinson and Stokes return||Fast bowler Ollie Robinson was recalled to the England Test squad on Wednesday for the first two Tests against India. All-rounder Ben Stokes returns after missing the two-match series against New Zealand in June with a fractured finger.  The squad: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jonny Bairstow, Dom Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Haseeb Hameed, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Dom Sibley, Ben Stokes and Mark Wood .   The schedule:   First Test: Aug 4-8: Trent Bridge; Second: Aug. 12-16: Lord’s; Third: Aug. 25-29: Leeds.   Fourth: Sept. 2-6: The Oval.   Fifth: Sept. 10-14: Old Trafford.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/robinson-and-stokes-back/article35456922.ece
22 July 2021||Tokyo,||Action begins at the Games||The Tokyo Olympics sports programme finally opened after a year's pandemic delay with softball in Fukushima. Japan thrashed Australia 8-1 in the first action of the 2020 Games. Although no fans were present for the softball event in Fukushima, one unexpected spectator was spotted before the game: a bear, which appeared late on Tuesday and early on Wednesday. “We couldn’t find or capture the bear, and while there won’t be any spectators at the stadium, we are on alert,” a police spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/action-begins-at-the-games/article35457094.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sharath and Manika meet third seeds||A. Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra will face Chinese Taipei’s third-seeded pair of Lin Yin Ju and Cheng-I Ching in the mixed doubles first round on July 24. In men’s singles, after an opening round bye, Sharath will play the winner of the match between Tiago Apolonia (Portugal) and Olajide Omotayo (Nigeria). A victory for Sharath will set up a clash with China’s Ma Long, the current Olympic and World champion. Similarly, after a first-round bye, G. Sathiyan will meet the winner of the clash involving Brian Afanador (Puerto Rico) and Lam Siu Hang (Hong Kong). In women’s singles, Manika is due to clash with Great Britain’s Ho Tin Tin. Sutirtha Mukherjee will take on Sweden’s Linda Bergstrom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-and-manika-to-face-third-seeds/article35456931.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Not much to show||Indian rowers have featured in each of the Olympics since Sydney 2000, but without much success. Kasam Khan and Inderpal Singh were the first oarsmen to make it to the Games in 2000, but the challenge proved too strong in both the heats and repechage. They failed to advance to the semifinals in the coxless pairs. At Beijing 2008 and London 2012, the country had three rowers. Bajrang Lal Takhar (21st, men’s single sculls) and the Manjeet Singh-Devender Kumar Khandwal pair (18th, lightweight men’s double sculls) appeared in Beijing. Sawarn Singh Virk (16th, men’s single sculls) and the Manjeet Singh-Sandeep Kumar duo (19th, lightweight men’s double sculls) competed in London. Dattu Baban Bhokanal was the lone Indian rower at Rio 2016, ending 13th in single sculls after promising much.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-much-to-show/article35456934.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Navigating headwinds since Munich||India sent nine male sailors to six editions pre-Tokyo, but — unlike the four who have qualified for the 2020 Olympics — they made it to their respective Games through quotas. Indian sailing made its debut in Munich 1972, with Soli Contractor and A.A. Basith finishing 29th in the Flying Dutchman class. Farokh Tarapore and Dhruv Bhandari finished 17th in the 470 class at Los Angeles 1984. Tarapore then paired with Kelly Rao at Seoul 1988 to place 17th again in the 470 section. Tarapore made his third successive Games appearance at Barcelona 1992, partnering Cyrus Cama. The pair finished 23rd. Malav Shroff and Sumeet Patel represented India at Athens 2004 in the 49er class with a 19th-place showing. At Beijing 2008, Nachhatar Singh Johal finished 23rd in the Finn class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/navigating-headwinds-since-munich/article35456935.ece
22 July 2021||Brisbane,||Brisbane awarded 2032 Olympics||Brisbane was awarded the 2032 Olympics on Wednesday, triggering wild celebrations and fireworks as it became the third Australian city to host the Summer Games after Melbourne and Sydney. IOC president Thomas Bach confirmed the widely expected result after delegates voted 72 to five with three abstentions at the IOC session in Tokyo. The announcement was greeted by cheers from the Australian delegates in Tokyo, while in Brisbane fireworks lit up the skies and crowds who had gathered for the vote went wild. Australia has already hosted the Olympics twice, in Melbourne in 1956 and Sydney in 2000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brisbane-awarded-2032-olympics/article35456929.ece
22 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Fans clash as EB officials refuse to sign final pact||Hundreds of East Bengal supporters representing scores of fan clubs took to the streets flouting COVID-19 protocols to protest against the legacy officials of the 100-year-old club refusing to get into a final agreement with investor. The protest march later took a violent turn as another group of supporters favouring the incumbent administration clashed with the opposing group, forcing police to resort to lathi-charge and disperse the warring factions. The police rounded up 50 persons from the scene of the clash which also left five supporters injured. Around 1000 supporters sporting banners of several East Bengal fan clubs shouted slogans urging the officials to sign the final agreement. The legacy officials of East Bengal had signed the term-sheet with Shree Cement in September 2020, which secured the funds for the club to play in the Indian Super League. The deal happened with the intervention of the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. After playing its first season of ISL, the East Bengal club officials had a change of heart and refused to sign the final or the binding agreement citing discrepancies with the initial term-sheet. Following this episode Shree Cement announced that it will not spend a penny extra if the East Bengal officials do not sign the final agreement. With the team building process yet to take off, the protesting supporters voiced the growing apprehension about the team dropping out of this season’s ISL and other tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fans-clash-as-eb-officials-refuse-to-sign-final-pact/article35457491.ece
22 July 2021||Bengaluru:,||Karthik’s effort in vain||Karthik’s 40-point haul proved inadequate as ASC defeated Rajmahal BC 90-76 in the State A-division basketball championship on Wednesday.  The results: ASC 90 (Saif 22, Manikanta 11) bt Rajmahal BC 76 (Karthik 40); Bank of Baroda 106 (Harissh 33, Arvind 19) bt IBBC 80 (Shiva 23, Suresh 13); DYES Bangalore 86 (Manoj 31, Mohan 10) bt BSNL 38 (Rahul 16); Young Orion's 88 (Tanay 24, Yves 12) bt JSC 39 (Lingesh 10); Beagles BC 83 (Erash 29, Rajeshwar 18) bt Customs & GST 67 (Krishen 13, Prem 10); S. Blues 73 (Abhishek Gowda 30) bt CMP 70 (Rajesh Kumar 25, Alvin Cyril 18) .    Karma Wangchuk Gurung scored a hat-trick as Black Panthers FC thrashed Bangalore Super Sports Academy 5-0 in the BDFA C-division league on Wednesday. Daniel Gangte scored thrice in Mahesh Raj FC's 7-1 win over PASS FC.  The results: Shanthinagar FC 3 (Deepak 26, Ajay 48, 58) bt Jeevan Blues FC 0; Black Panthers FC 5 (Karma Wangchuk Gurung 4, 23, 35, Lumin Romario 8, 12) bt Bangalore Super Sports Academy 0; Mahesh Raj FC 7 (Daniel Gangte 13, 45, 51, Rojois Sindan 26, Rohith Kumar 40, Tamjanthui Kamei 59, Praveen Prajapati 60+2) bt PASS FC 1 (Tarun 45) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthiks-effort-in-vain/article35457117.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 07:31 IST,||Sudoku — July 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-22-2021/article35457733.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Hail a cab for the pigeon||The door to the Audi opens, the seat is readied for the passenger: a pigeon swaddled inside a cardboard box. The injured bird has just been rescued off the street and is quickly being dispatched to the pigeon hospital for medical attention. “A number of rescuers are particular that the bird travels in comfort and often send them in their luxury cars, or the most-high end option that Uber has,” says Vasanthraj Ranka, treasurer of this unique pigeon-only hospital in Rajaji Nagar, Bengaluru. Launched in 2019, this is a project by Shree Shankheswar Parshwanath Jain KabootarDaana Seva Samithi, an NGO that was started in 1990 by Pukhraj Ranka, Vasanthraj’s father. The hospital created a buzz on social media recently when Shishira Suresh of RT Nagar, in Bengaluru, found an injured pigeon by the pavement. When she called the hospital, she was given detailed instructions on how to carefully pack the winged patient in a cardboard box, with ventilation and layers of old clothes for cushioning, before sending them the bird via Dunzo. As it turns out, the hospital regularly tells callers to send injured birds to them via Dunzo, Ola, Uber, or Swiggy Genie. “Sometimes, in the absence of a cardboard box, a handbag works too,” says Shisira, as she discovered recently while rescuing another bird. “The Dunzo professional who came to pick up my delivery had experience in carrying pigeons. He said he had carried one to the same hospital a while ago,” she adds, clearly still fascinated by the whole process. “This arrangement makes things efficient and we are able to help more birds,” says Vasanthraj. Initially, they had a representative who went around town picking up pigeons in need of help. “We get calls from as far as 40 kilometres away and it was not possible for one person to cover such long distances in a day. We ended up saving just one or two birds that way. Then we realised that tying up with service providers is a better idea.” Today, the hospital gets anything from 30 to 500 pigeons a week, including the ‘out-patients’. “Some of them were getting cut by manja , and some were affected by mosquito bites also known as pigeon pox. Sometimes we receive eggs, but we haven’t been able to hatch them artificially,” Vasanthraj adds. There are over 250 cages in the facility, where the birds recuperate for two to three weeks, after which, they can take to the skies again.  How to help an injured bird Call a bird rescue centre in your city. If you’re unsure about picking up the bird and placing it in a box, inform them and they will guide you. Carefully put it in a cardboard box with a lid or a towel over the top. You can use a bag if there are no boxes, but ensure that there is ventilation by poking some holes. Also ensure that the bag is closed fully. Do not force the bird to drink water or eat. Let the rescuers arrive and take care of its recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hail-a-cab-for-the-pigeon/article35457063.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A walk to remember||When Srishti Bakshi trained for her arduous walk from Kanyakumari (Tamil Nadu) to Srinagar (Kashmir) she knew about the physical challenges it would entail. “But I did not anticipate how difficult it would be as an emotional journey,” says Srishti. Everyday she met women from different parts of the country and they broke down as they spoke, narrating tales of abuse and violence inflicted upon them. “And I had to be collected in my response,” she adds. The 230-day walk, spanning 3,800 kilometres was Shristi’s way of creating awareness about violence — acid attacks, dowry, rapes, assaults... — on women, and finding a possible solution. The walk and compelling interactions, are now part of a 90-minute-long documentary titled WOMB - Women Of My Billion . “It captures the authentic voice of the Indian woman; what she feels, how she has tackled violence, how she has emerged victorious or even succumbed to it. All her different interactions with the world of violence is what the documentary puts out there,” says Sristhi. The documentary was showcased at the New York Indian Film Festival last month, followed by the London Indian Film Festival and its sister festivals in Birmingham and Manchester. Next month, it will be screened at the opening night of the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne (IIFM) in Australia. The film is directed by Ajitesh Sharma (who also had the challenging task of condensing 1,000 hours of footage into 90 minutes), produced by Apoorva Bakshi, Emmy-winning producer for Delhi Crime, and Juliet Blake also known for The Hundred Foot Journey.  A marketing professional with stints across India and Hong Kong, Srishti has always been vocal about women’s rights. Every time she read an article about attacks on women, it would anger her enough to post about it on social media.“It was like a coping mechanism,” says Srishti over a call from Edinburgh, United Kingdom, where she now lives. But it was when Srishti read about the Highway 91 rape case in India that she was really shaken and decided to do something about it. She spoke to friends and acquaintances and realised that it is a me-centric society. “Unless it happens to my family or within my society, we don’t wake up and think about the whole race,” says Srishti, who is also the founder of Cross Bow Miles, an organisation that empowers women. The journey “I prepared for the walk for a year,” says Srishti recalling her physical strenuous routine at the gym, where she dived into muscle training and was lifting 100 kilograms. There were days when the training got so intense that she fell ill, but that did not deter her goal. “I was laser focussed on the walk. This did not even compare to the logistical nightmares. I engaged dad (a retired Lieutenant General from the Indian Army) as Operations Head of the movement. He charted out the route, and together we wrote to over 100 officials including District Collectors, women development boards, IAS and IFS officers. Srishti walked 30 to 40 kilometres everyday and realised that one can do only 20% of planning on paper, the remaining 80% happens on ground. She organised workshops, which were attended by 200-300 people everyday, including men and women. People even walked with her a part of the stretch in their villages, towns or districts. “When we were crossing Madhya Pradesh, in Deval, I heard a 13-year-old girl had recently been gangraped and burnt alive. I visited the house where it happened. I felt demotivated and my team was sad,” she says. At that point, she started questioning herself and wondered why she was doing this; what will it change? The next day, she was joined by the ASHA and Anganwadi workers. One of the women looked like she had been beaten black and blue. It was a case of domestic violence. The woman walked in silence. At the end of that day’s walk, she turned to Srishti and narrated what had happened to her. Srishti asked her to join them at the workshop. The woman replied, ‘Just by looking at you doing what you are doing, I feel energised. I will push back and put a stop to what is happening with me.” This incident, Srishti says, made her stop second guessing herself. “I came across horrific stories but also stories of courage. These made me continue my journey.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-walk-to-remember/article35457043.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A little chaos is a good thing’||Josh Peck believes a little chaos is unavoidable and can bring you to a better place in your life if you embrace it. Addressing a virtual press conference, he says, “I have found resistance brings me discomfort.” Josh plays the uptight marshal, Scott Turner Jr, in the spin-off series Turner & Hooch , based on the eponymous 1989 movie starring Tom Hanks. He inherits an unruly French mastiff, Hooch, and his orderly life is turned upside down. “When I welcome chaos, like a gigantic French mastiff into my life with all the drool and accoutrement to follow, some pretty spectacular things happen. That is very true for Scott. When we first meet him, he has a bit too much rigidity. And this dog definitely helps break him out of his shell.” Working with Hooch (five dogs were standing in for Hooch) Josh said was great. “As an actor, whenever something can disrupt my plans and force me at the moment is a gift.” Each episode is a tribute to an action film. “I don’t know what inspired it. I don’t know if it was when our creator, Matt Nix, was pitching episode ideas to Disney Plus, it was easier to use these great action movies as a template for the way he wanted to approach the show. Episode two was Die Hard and episode three was Heat . We have a Taken episode, which has me doing quite an impression of Liam Neeson. I don't mean to brag.”  Die Hard , Josh says, is ripe for intense drama and action. “I am protecting this diplomat's daughter in this hotel. And a third of the way into the episode, the bad guys have taken over. And there is non-stop action till the episode is over. It is definitely one of my favourites and not just because of the number of push-ups I did, knowing that I was going to be in a tank top for most of the episode!” Remembering his audition, Josh says, “They were going to bring a dog in for the audition. They said to be ready to improvise because the creators of the show know that with a dog, it is never going to be precise. You work around what the dog wants to do. While it sounds simple, plenty of people would have been particular that the dog needs to have this look exactly at this moment or we don't have the shot. Our bosses were like ‘if the dog looks cute and gets close to what we want and you guys can handle it, we are in business’.” The 34-year-old actor describes the dogs being a metaphor. “They only respond to love. You will easily lose their trust if you try to overly correct them. It just has to be a small nudging and constant reinforcement.” Turner & Hooch is streaming on Disney+ Hotstar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-little-chaos-is-a-good-thing/article35457047.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||How green is your takeaway?||The lockdowns have not been kind to those of us who enjoy gastronomic expeditions. Takeaway and food delivery have made protracted lockdowns almost bearable. But, with India’s online food delivery market set to grow at a staggering 28.94% during 2020-2026, managing food delivery waste poses problems of its own. In anticipation, restaurants and cloud kitchens are reinventing their branding and packaging game. When dressing to the nines and venturing out is not always an option, restaurants are trying to replicate that experience indoors. For Shaariq Akhtar, resident manager at ITC Grand Chola, Chennai, take-out orders must offer the same luxury as dine-in experiences. Their Gourmet Couch packaging is food specific: ceramic dishes for steaming biryani, corn starch boxes for fluffy kulcha s, and glass bottles for beverages, maintaining freshness and form, across distance and delivery times. With over 50 orders a day, the hotel sees how customers respond positively to sustainable packaging, and that makes it worth the extra cost. Plant-based packaging that uses bagasse, areca leaves or corn starch is typically more expensive than plastic tubs purchased wholesale. But Shaariq opines, “offering biodegradable boxes, or mason jars, allows them to be composted or reused and our patrons appreciate that”. This perspective is everything. Working with hospitality chains like the Taj and Oberoi, coffee majors Starbucks and Blue Tokai, and grocery platforms like Foodhall and Reliance Retail, Pappco Greenware’s products also come at a slightly higher price point. Co-founder Abhishek Agarwal breaks it down: “Each clamshell box today delivers food that is at least worth Rs. 150-200. The bagasse clamshell costs anywhere around Rs. 4-10, depending on the size. So it’s really affordable. Just not at a throwaway price, like plastic.” He adds, “We started out with bagasse, but that was only one piece of the puzzle. We expanded to paper, wood and bamboo, helping brands use 100% eco-friendly packaging that biodegrades in 60-90 days.”  Similarly, Corugami, a Pune-based packaging firm, looks to reduce packaging like plastic tape and superfluous paper bags, by adding handles to boxes. Its focus now is on “custom, local, eco-friendly packaging solutions for Indian favourites such as dosas, where vendors can create boxes that preserve the crispness of a rolled dosa,” says Corugami co-founder Udit Bansal. The past year also saw a jump in the number of kitchens delivering homely fare — an experience that just does not feel as warm when the food offered is ensconced in plastic, points out Mumbai-based Marina Balakrishnan. Marina helms Oottupura, a home-to-table, vegetarian kitchen offering everything Malayali, from puttu to pazham pori . Says Marina, “During lockdown, I had to factor in how long the food travelled and tailor my menus and packaging to suit delivery logistics.” Picking the right packing She adds, “Kerala cuisine is savoured best on a banana leaf, which I include in my boxes. All containers are bagasse or paper -based. My pachadis which use yogurt, are sent out in bottles since a lot of condensate builds up in boxes; it is not a pleasant experience to get a soggy container.” The ability of the material to travel well is another key factor. Shikha Lakhanpal, co-founder and COO at Living Food Company, an online marketplace for fresh produce and artisanal cuisine, says, “It all depends on weight, size, moisture content, shape, climate requirement and hygiene metrics. We use areca bowls for our microgreens, and source directly from farmers on the outskirts of Bengaluru, Salem, Hosur, Mysuru and Ramnagaram.” Choice of packaging also depends on the food. “Greens are packed better in sal leaves, while more delicate produce like pumpkin flowers are packed in castor leaves, as suggested by our farmer partners,” explains Shameek Chakravarty, co-founder of Farmizen, an app that helps Bengaluru’s city dwellers with a community-powered alternative food system. It relies heavily on its farmers to use sustainable agro-based packaging. He points out, “In many cases, natural packaging actually performs better than artificial ones. It lets the produce breathe.”  What is sustainable? Sustainable packaging refers to packaging with an environmental footprint that reduces over time. According to EthicoIndia, this can be achieved in three ways:  1) Material: 100% recyclable and/or eco-friendly packaging raw material  2) Method of production: Production processes and supply chains with smaller carbon footprints  3) Recyclability: A circular economy, wherein the life cycle and usefulness of the package is extended||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-green-is-your-takeaway/article35457071.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ain’t no mountain high enough||‘You raise me up, so I can stand on mountains’ ... Canadian-Italian Natalie Di Luccio’s voice soars over the blue-green baize of Nagaland’s hills. Wrapped in traditional Naga colours, Di Luccio, who found fame as ‘Bollywood’s soprano’ sings the popular Nordic-Irish song ‘You Raise Me Up’ with members of the Phetsukikou Club, Khonoma. By her side, in the video released last week that has garnered over 1.7 lakh views on YouTube, is Naga folk musician and luthier Atso Chasie playing the string instrument he developed, the Gei-Ü (pronounced Jee-uh) — its sound a blend of lilting bagpipes and resonant violins. “The Gei-Ü has three strings, one for plucking and two for bowing. Made from bamboo and local wood, the sound bounces off the top. I use a store-bought bow. The Gei-Ü has a unique sound which represents our Naga musical heritage but can blend in with contemporary songs too. I had made a Gei-Ü cover video of the gospel song ‘Via Dolorosa’ that Natalie chanced upon when visiting Khonoma. That’s how the collaboration happened,” says Chasie over a phone call from Kohima, where he lives. “We started filming in 2019 and the pandemic happened. We had to record some parts again and that delayed it further. I have carried this song with me all this time.” The hills are alive In a place where war, melody and Nature breathe, Chasie has carried the music of his people, the Angami, for longer. Distilled over generations, their music now inhabits his dextrous fingers as he plucks and bows the Gei-Ü. His songs travel over the immodestly green hills as steadily as the monsoon raindrops that rake the earth here. Khonoma, where Chasie was raised, is India’s first green village. Known for its successful conservation projects, Khonoma is around the bend from Kohima, where British, Indians and the Japanese fought a savage, heroic battle during the Second World War. Now, beyond the cordite and crackle of guns that have peppered this anthropological paradise, music has helped hold together a fraying society. “I have been practising music professionally for 15 years now,” says Chasie. “It is my passion, honed from a childhood spent listening to songs on tape-recorders and radios. For my first formal music classes I saved coins to pay the fees. Later I attended a short music course at Patkai Christian College, Chümoukedima. Under the guidance of Nibanuo Swuro and Christine Iralu, I completed the Trinity Guildhall ATCL graded exam at Shillong in 2009 and ended up a classical guitarist.” In the years since Chasie has taught the violin and guitar to people across ages, tuned pianos and repaired bikes. But it is as a luthier that he has come into his own. “I’m currently focussed on the production of the Gei-Ü. I started making one in 2014; it was formally introduced in 2017,” says Chasie. “It now takes about three weeks to make one and is a refined version developed from our old instruments — the nraiibu and marok kongki. I hope to start making it commercially so that it brings our musicians a step closer to our culture where western influence is at its peak.” Chasie has mirrored the Gei-Ü’s unusual sound in two music videos — ‘Via Dolorosa’ and ‘The Grand Bison’. Both are rites of passage to the cultural grandeur of Northeast India. So is ‘You Raise Me Up’ , in which Chasie performs wearing the colours of the Phom tribe “to promote inter-tribal harmony”. The video has stunning visuals of the chorus by young adults of the Phetsukikou Club that preserves Angami cultural songs, games and practices. The phrase ‘Ra kemo lhenu zivi‘ sung by them means “never-fading everlasting beauty” in the Angami language. As it rises above the halo of clouds and settles on listeners worldwide, it is as much a tribute to the beautiful music as it is to the spirit of the Angami people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/aint-no-mountain-high-enough/article35457074.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Life in motion||When riding public transport, you are, at once, both in motion and sitting completely still. It is in this dual state that Aditi Saigal (DOT) immerses herself in music, coming up with new song ideas. In 2017, DOT took the indie music world by surprise with raw recordings of herself, singing ditties on the piano. And now, the 22-year-old is back with her first EP, Khamotion . Comprising songs such as ‘Taxi Fare’, ‘This Train’ and ‘Sultry Town (Ship’s Got No Sail)’, the album is dedicated to the concept of motion; the idea came to her on the daily commute to her college campus in Bangor, Wales, UK. It is a contemplation on being forced to stay still and wanting to keep moving. Their release now, after a year in standstill, is appropriate. “I first wrote these songs as a final year project at Bangor University in 2019, and I thought why not polish them,” she says, on a call from Wales.  Khamotion sees DOT enter into what she calls her “new sound”: jazzy, occasionally vintage, and added layers of brass — from clarinets and woodwinds to trumpets and saxophones. DOT wants to retain her organic songwriting approach even while producing polished songs. “I hate going to the studio with a click track already in mind. I like to slow down, speed up, without keeping time with clicks. To me, that is what jazz is,” she says. And that is how it was recorded, with the piano and the drums playing together, in adjacent rooms with the door left slightly ajar. The album culminates in ‘Rush’, a series of grooves put together from all the other songs. It is an attempt to break free of the verse-chorus-bridge structures of pop. Yet, songs like ‘Taxi Fare’ are still reminiscent of the ‘Everybody Dances to Techno’ days. The latter was DOT’s breakout song as an 18-year-old, who was then just recording songs on her piano and putting them up on YouTube. As the daughter of musician Amit Saigal, founder of Rock Street Journal , DOT was no stranger to the music world, but after ‘Techno’, fame came knocking overnight. DOT moved to Bangor to study Music and Creative Writing, and then took up a job as a teaching assistant for special needs students. Her stay in Wales, and its proximity to concerts and open mics in Manchester and Liverpool, also allowed her to collaborate with musicians. “But the main thing I have picked up here is a longing to go back home and continue making music,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-in-motion/article35457040.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The return of Jalaja||It is another milestone in the star-studded career of yesteryear actor Jalaja. The veteran actor recently made a quiet comeback after 26 years in Mahesh Narayanan’s magnum opus, Malik . As Jameela, the tough mother and school teacher who refuses to condone her son’s nefarious activities, Jalaja stands her ground amidst new-gen stars such as Fahadh Faasil and Nimisha Sajayan. “It was Mahesh who persuaded me to don the greasepaint again. I was not keen to do a character that was more like a prop. But when I read the script, I knew Jameela has an important part in the story and the arc was interesting. It was not just another ‘mother’ character usually reserved for senior women actors. However, I was quite nervous about facing the camera after such a long interval,” says Jalaja. She says that another reason for her second innings was her daughter Devi; she makes her debut in Malik as the younger version of Jameela since it is a film spanning two decades. “After completing her post-graduation in International Studies and Economics from Wharton Business School, Devi decided she wanted to act. Mahesh offered her the part and though it is not a significant character, I thought it would be a good break for her,” she says. The face of parallel cinema during her heyday in the late ‘70s and ‘80s, Jalaja made a mark in mainstream cinema as well. After working with legendary actors and directors, she left tinsel town to settle down as a homemaker in Bahrain. Discussing what has changed in the industry, she says there wasn’t a wall between actors and technicians earlier. “We used to spend time together and there was no star system on the set...no caravans. We would give our shot and hang out together. For women, changing costumes or finding a washroom used to be tough, especially when we were shooting in remote locations. We had to depend on the goodwill of people or travel all the way back to our hotels,” she recalls. The veteran actor asserts that she is happy that women are asking for and getting the space they deserve — both inside and outside of cinema. She says she is not in a hurry to take on projects and would rather wait for the right one. “Though plenty of Bollywood actresses are now working after marriage and motherhood, that hasn’t happened yet in Malayalam cinema. Senior women actors there are also getting characters of substance too, wherein they play characters their age. I hope the Malayalam industry starts writing scripts for senior actors too,” she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-return-of-jalaja/article35457045.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Pootham descends from the sky||It is like a half-remembered dream. A sickle-wielding oracle, a school-going boy, a cluster of areca nut trees and leaping roosters on either side. Artist Vimal Chandran plucks memories from a childhood in Palakkad and places them in a world where extra-terrestrial creatures rise from the seas and descend from the skies. When the pandemic hit last year and Vimal moved from Bengaluru back to his hometown in Kerala, he was reacquainted, after a break of 15 years, with village folklore, myths, temple characters and superstitions he had heard as a child. These vivid visuals creep into his ongoing art series, Folk SciFi. “I am reimagining characters from our native traditions in a Science Fiction environment. These are unreal stories about real people in real places,” he says. The artworks are 12-second animations, blinking like glitches in the matrix to ominous music. The colours — dreamy and surreal — stay in the spectrum of blues and greys. In The Visit, Vimal tells the story of Pootham, a poltergeist who goes from house to house looking for a little boy he has become attached to. Performing artistes in Kerala enact this character, visiting homes in villages after the summer harvest, and it is the memory of meeting one such ‘Pootham’ on a summer evening by the river Nila that Vimal captures. In his rendition, the Pootham hovers miles above the child, as if broken away from a passing UFO. This perspective — of a large mythical creature gazing down on a child — carries forward in all the works; whether it is the enormous wooden horses of Kuthira Vela or the character of Darike, from the traditional theatrical battle between Darike and Kali. “As a child, these characters would seem scary and fascinating to me at the same time,” he says. Vimal clubs these memories with his interest in sci-fi — something that bloomed thanks to the Russian magazine Misha in the 1990s. Four of the seven artworks have been released and sold so far, as NFTs, on WazirX marketplace. “Stories of these characters have been passed on for generations,” says Vimal. “These are 4,000-year-old tales on the blockchain for the first time, and that is interesting because once up there, they will live forever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pootham-descends-from-the-sky/article35457067.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A leaping Tequila fish||A vampire flying frog sticks its tongue out from a labyrinth of what appear to be creepers. Did you know that as tadpoles, this species has ‘fangs’? This is also from where they get their name. But here, the critically endangered frog, web of creepers, and bed of green it perches on, are all made of paper. It is one of the creations from a handmade, pop-up book that dedicates its pages to 30 critically endangered species. On the spine of this colourful book are the words: ‘My Friends are Missing’. Once open, the combination of thick and thin-cut pages seamlessly morph into shapes and forms of flora and fauna — some recognisable, while others, not so much. Made in 30 days by Chennai-based design researcher and paper artist, Keerthana Ramesh, the book invites readers to understand the behaviour of critically endangered species like the marine otter, staghorn coral, Antiguan racer and many more. It wouldn’t be wrong to call this a lockdown project, Keerthana says. It began with a 30-day Instagram art challenge posed by One Million One Month, a non-profit art project to raise awareness about endangered species. They sent out a list of critically endangered species. “It seemed like a good time to revisit the obsession with pop-ups that I had during my undergraduate years. Moreover, it seemed like the right project to learn more about wilderness and Nature,” says Keerthana adding, “Another intention was to learn as many mechanisms as possible.” The project was completed on June 20. The style used for this book is called papercut, says the artist, explaining, “It’s essentially cutting out small bits of paper using a craft knife.” For this book, she set aside five to seven hours a day, mostly at nights, to finish pages in 30 days, including the research for each species. “I had to figure out how they move, so that I could translate the movement into paper. After making prototypes, I cut out the final forms and assembled them into pop-ups,” Keerthana recalls. But the dearth of information on some endangered species posed challenges. “About 50% of the research was very hard to carry out, because many of the animals that are mentioned in the list have not been studied at all. I had very little information to draw from,” she says. She cites an example: the New Caledonian owlet nightjar. “It is a bird found in the island nation of New Caledonia near New Zealand. There are assumptions that the population size of these birds is about 50 and they are nocturnal, but no one knows for sure. The only reason it is believed that they are not extinct is because every 10 to 15 years, there is a spotting.” The fact that these birds are hidden away, intrigued Keerthana. Which is why, when the pop-up page first opens, the bird is visible. But once it falls fully open, a mount closes over the bird. She is also working on a series of isometric artworks that explore self-identity during isolation, where lacy artwork is created by cutting into a sheet of paper.  View her work on Instagram @keerthanalikestodraw||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-leaping-tequila-fish/article35457078.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sankalp Reddy to helm Vidyut Jammwal’s ‘IB 71’, inspired by true events during the 1971 Indo-Pak war||Hyderabad-based filmmaker Sankalp Reddy, who made his directorial debut with the Hindi-Telugu film The Ghazi Attack (2017), will be helming the Vidyut Jammwal-starrer IB 71 . The Hindi espionage thriller will be Jammwal’s first as a producer, and the story written by Aditya Shastri, is inspired by true incidents that unfolded during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. The actor will play an intelligence officer and according to the film’s team, “The story recounts the tale of how Indian intelligence officers outwitted the Pakistani establishment and gave the Indian Armed Forces the required advantage they needed to face a two-front war. Not all victories are won on the battlefield.” Sankalp’s debut film The Ghazi Attack won the National Award for the Best Feature Film and was based on true incidents that led to the sinking of the PNS Ghazi submarine during the Indo-Pak war of 1971. He then directed the Telugu space thriller Antariksham 9000 kmph and a segment for Netflix’s Telugu anthology film Pitta Kathalu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sankalp-reddy-to-helm-vidyut-jammwals-ib-71-inspired-by-true-events-during-the-1971-indo-pak-war/article35457049.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||How green is your takeaway?||The lockdowns have not been kind to those of us who enjoy gastronomic expeditions. Takeaway and food delivery have made protracted lockdowns almost bearable. But, with India’s online food delivery market set to grow at a staggering 28.94% during 2020-2026, managing food delivery waste poses problems of its own. In anticipation, restaurants and cloud kitchens are reinventing their branding and packaging game. When dressing to the nines and venturing out is not always an option, restaurants are trying to replicate that experience indoors. For Shaariq Akhtar, resident manager at ITC Grand Chola, Chennai, take-out orders must offer the same luxury as dine-in experiences. Their Gourmet Couch packaging is food specific: ceramic dishes for steaming biryani, corn starch boxes for fluffy kulcha s, and glass bottles for beverages, maintaining freshness and form, across distance and delivery times. With over 50 orders a day, the hotel sees how customers respond positively to sustainable packaging, and that makes it worth the extra cost. Plant-based packaging that uses bagasse, areca leaves or corn starch is typically more expensive than plastic tubs purchased wholesale. But Shaariq opines, “offering biodegradable boxes, or mason jars, allows them to be composted or reused and our patrons appreciate that”. This perspective is everything. Working with hospitality chains like the Taj and Oberoi, coffee majors Starbucks and Blue Tokai, and grocery platforms like Foodhall and Reliance Retail, Pappco Greenware’s products also come at a slightly higher price point. Co-founder Abhishek Agarwal breaks it down: “Each clamshell box today delivers food that is at least worth Rs. 150-200. The bagasse clamshell costs anywhere around Rs. 4-10, depending on the size. So it’s really affordable. Just not at a throwaway price, like plastic.” He adds, “We started out with bagasse, but that was only one piece of the puzzle. We expanded to paper, wood and bamboo, helping brands use 100% eco-friendly packaging that biodegrades in 60-90 days.”  Similarly, Corugami, a Pune-based packaging firm, looks to reduce packaging like plastic tape and superfluous paper bags, by adding handles to boxes. Its focus now is on “custom, local, eco-friendly packaging solutions for Indian favourites such as dosas, where vendors can create boxes that preserve the crispness of a rolled dosa,” says Corugami co-founder Udit Bansal. The past year also saw a jump in the number of kitchens delivering homely fare — an experience that just does not feel as warm when the food offered is ensconced in plastic, points out Mumbai-based Marina Balakrishnan. Marina helms Oottupura, a home-to-table, vegetarian kitchen offering everything Malayali, from puttu to pazham pori . Says Marina, “During lockdown, I had to factor in how long the food travelled and tailor my menus and packaging to suit delivery logistics.” Picking the right packing She adds, “Kerala cuisine is savoured best on a banana leaf, which I include in my boxes. All containers are bagasse or paper -based. My pachadis which use yogurt, are sent out in bottles since a lot of condensate builds up in boxes; it is not a pleasant experience to get a soggy container.” The ability of the material to travel well is another key factor. Shikha Lakhanpal, co-founder and COO at Living Food Company, an online marketplace for fresh produce and artisanal cuisine, says, “It all depends on weight, size, moisture content, shape, climate requirement and hygiene metrics. We use areca bowls for our microgreens, and source directly from farmers on the outskirts of Bengaluru, Salem, Hosur, Mysuru and Ramnagaram.” Choice of packaging also depends on the food. “Greens are packed better in sal leaves, while more delicate produce like pumpkin flowers are packed in castor leaves, as suggested by our farmer partners,” explains Shameek Chakravarty, co-founder of Farmizen, an app that helps Bengaluru’s city dwellers with a community-powered alternative food system. It relies heavily on its farmers to use sustainable agro-based packaging. He points out, “In many cases, natural packaging actually performs better than artificial ones. It lets the produce breathe.”  What is sustainable? Sustainable packaging refers to packaging with an environmental footprint that reduces over time. According to EthicoIndia, this can be achieved in three ways:  1) Material: 100% recyclable and/or eco-friendly packaging raw material  2) Method of production: Production processes and supply chains with smaller carbon footprints  3) Recyclability: A circular economy, wherein the life cycle and usefulness of the package is extended||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-green-is-your-takeaway/article35457493.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ain’t no mountain high enough||‘You raise me up, so I can stand on mountains’ ... Canadian-Italian Natalie Di Luccio’s voice soars over the blue-green baize of Nagaland’s hills. Wrapped in traditional Naga colours, Di Luccio, who found fame as ‘Bollywood’s soprano’ sings the popular Nordic-Irish song ‘You Raise Me Up’ with members of the Phetsukikou Club, Khonoma. By her side, in the video released last week that has garnered over 1.7 lakh views on YouTube, is Naga folk musician and luthier Atso Chasie playing the string instrument he developed, the Gei-Ü (pronounced Jee-uh) — its sound a blend of lilting bagpipes and resonant violins. “The Gei-Ü has three strings, one for plucking and two for bowing. Made from bamboo and local wood, the sound bounces off the top. I use a store-bought bow. The Gei-Ü has a unique sound which represents our Naga musical heritage but can blend in with contemporary songs too. I had made a Gei-Ü cover video of the gospel song ‘Via Dolorosa’ that Natalie chanced upon when visiting Khonoma. That’s how the collaboration happened,” says Chasie over a phone call from Kohima, where he lives. “We started filming in 2019 and the pandemic happened. We had to record some parts again and that delayed it further. I have carried this song with me all this time.” The hills are alive In a place where war, melody and Nature breathe, Chasie has carried the music of his people, the Angami, for longer. Distilled over generations, their music now inhabits his dextrous fingers as he plucks and bows the Gei-Ü. His songs travel over the immodestly green hills as steadily as the monsoon raindrops that rake the earth here. Khonoma, where Chasie was raised, is India’s first green village. Known for its successful conservation projects, Khonoma is around the bend from Kohima, where British, Indians and the Japanese fought a savage, heroic battle during the Second World War. Now, beyond the cordite and crackle of guns that have peppered this anthropological paradise, music has helped hold together a fraying society. “I have been practising music professionally for 15 years now,” says Chasie. “It is my passion, honed from a childhood spent listening to songs on tape-recorders and radios. For my first formal music classes I saved coins to pay the fees. Later I attended a short music course at Patkai Christian College, Chümoukedima. Under the guidance of Nibanuo Swuro and Christine Iralu, I completed the Trinity Guildhall ATCL graded exam at Shillong in 2009 and ended up a classical guitarist.” In the years since Chasie has taught the violin and guitar to people across ages, tuned pianos and repaired bikes. But it is as a luthier that he has come into his own. “I’m currently focussed on the production of the Gei-Ü. I started making one in 2014; it was formally introduced in 2017,” says Chasie. “It now takes about three weeks to make one and is a refined version developed from our old instruments — the nraiibu and marok kongki. I hope to start making it commercially so that it brings our musicians a step closer to our culture where western influence is at its peak.” Chasie has mirrored the Gei-Ü’s unusual sound in two music videos — ‘Via Dolorosa’ and ‘The Grand Bison’. Both are rites of passage to the cultural grandeur of Northeast India. So is ‘You Raise Me Up’ , in which Chasie performs wearing the colours of the Phom tribe “to promote inter-tribal harmony”. The video has stunning visuals of the chorus by young adults of the Phetsukikou Club that preserves Angami cultural songs, games and practices. The phrase ‘Ra kemo lhenu zivi‘ sung by them means “never-fading everlasting beauty” in the Angami language. As it rises above the halo of clouds and settles on listeners worldwide, it is as much a tribute to the beautiful music as it is to the spirit of the Angami people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/aint-no-mountain-high-enough/article35457494.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Pootham descends from the sky||It is like a half-remembered dream. A sickle-wielding oracle, a school-going boy, a cluster of areca nut trees and leaping roosters on either side. Artist Vimal Chandran plucks memories from a childhood in Palakkad and places them in a world where extra-terrestrial creatures rise from the seas and descend from the skies. When the pandemic hit last year and Vimal moved from Bengaluru back to his hometown in Kerala, he was reacquainted, after a break of 15 years, with village folklore, myths, temple characters and superstitions he had heard as a child. These vivid visuals creep into his ongoing art series, Folk SciFi. “I am reimagining characters from our native traditions in a Science Fiction environment. These are unreal stories about real people in real places,” he says. The artworks are 12-second animations, blinking like glitches in the matrix to ominous music. The colours — dreamy and surreal — stay in the spectrum of blues and greys. In The Visit, Vimal tells the story of Pootham, a poltergeist who goes from house to house looking for a little boy he has become attached to. Performing artistes in Kerala enact this character, visiting homes in villages after the summer harvest, and it is the memory of meeting one such ‘Pootham’ on a summer evening by the river Nila that Vimal captures. In his rendition, the Pootham hovers miles above the child, as if broken away from a passing UFO. This perspective — of a large mythical creature gazing down on a child — carries forward in all the works; whether it is the enormous wooden horses of Kuthira Vela or the character of Darike, from the traditional theatrical battle between Darike and Kali. “As a child, these characters would seem scary and fascinating to me at the same time,” he says. Vimal clubs these memories with his interest in sci-fi — something that bloomed thanks to the Russian magazine Misha in the 1990s. Four of the seven artworks have been released and sold so far, as NFTs, on WazirX marketplace. “Stories of these characters have been passed on for generations,” says Vimal. “These are 4,000-year-old tales on the blockchain for the first time, and that is interesting because once up there, they will live forever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pootham-descends-from-the-sky/article35457492.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A leaping Tequila fish||A vampire flying frog sticks its tongue out from a labyrinth of what appear to be creepers. Did you know that as tadpoles, this species has ‘fangs’? This is also from where they get their name. But here, the critically endangered frog, web of creepers, and bed of green it perches on, are all made of paper. It is one of the creations from a handmade, pop-up book that dedicates its pages to 30 critically endangered species. On the spine of this colourful book are the words: ‘My Friends are Missing’. Once open, the combination of thick and thin-cut pages seamlessly morph into shapes and forms of flora and fauna — some recognisable, while others, not so much. Made in 30 days by Chennai-based design researcher and paper artist, Keerthana Ramesh, the book invites readers to understand the behaviour of critically endangered species like the marine otter, staghorn coral, Antiguan racer and many more. It wouldn’t be wrong to call this a lockdown project, Keerthana says. It began with a 30-day Instagram art challenge posed by One Million One Month, a non-profit art project to raise awareness about endangered species. They sent out a list of critically endangered species. “It seemed like a good time to revisit the obsession with pop-ups that I had during my undergraduate years. Moreover, it seemed like the right project to learn more about wilderness and Nature,” says Keerthana adding, “Another intention was to learn as many mechanisms as possible.” The project was completed on June 20. The style used for this book is called papercut, says the artist, explaining, “It’s essentially cutting out small bits of paper using a craft knife.” For this book, she set aside five to seven hours a day, mostly at nights, to finish pages in 30 days, including the research for each species. “I had to figure out how they move, so that I could translate the movement into paper. After making prototypes, I cut out the final forms and assembled them into pop-ups,” Keerthana recalls. But the dearth of information on some endangered species posed challenges. “About 50% of the research was very hard to carry out, because many of the animals that are mentioned in the list have not been studied at all. I had very little information to draw from,” she says. She cites an example: the New Caledonian owlet nightjar. “It is a bird found in the island nation of New Caledonia near New Zealand. There are assumptions that the population size of these birds is about 50 and they are nocturnal, but no one knows for sure. The only reason it is believed that they are not extinct is because every 10 to 15 years, there is a spotting.” The fact that these birds are hidden away, intrigued Keerthana. Which is why, when the pop-up page first opens, the bird is visible. But once it falls fully open, a mount closes over the bird. She is also working on a series of isometric artworks that explore self-identity during isolation, where lacy artwork is created by cutting into a sheet of paper.  View her work on Instagram @keerthanalikestodraw||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-leaping-tequila-fish/article35457495.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protesters reiterate demand to repeal farm laws||Five days short of completing eight months at the Singhu border, protesting farmers on Wednesday reiterated their stance of not leaving the site unless the three farm laws are repealed. With a protest scheduled at Jantar Mantar on Thursday, organisers said that lists of farmers had already been prepared and identity cards made to ensure their protest isn’t breached by “miscreants.” Farmers from the Capital’s neighbouring States have been stationed at the city’s borders for the last several months demanding a complete repeal of the three controversial agriculture laws brought in by the Centre last year. Identity cards Roldu Singh, from Punjab’s Mansa district said, “Around 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar on Thursday. Lists have been drawn up to decide who all will be attending the protest there and identity cards have also been distributed. There will be farmers from the various unions. People are going to assemble at the Singhu border and will travel in designated buses.” “Even after all of these preparations from our side, outsiders and miscreants breach our protest and some mishap takes place, then the onus cannot be on us,” said Mr. Singh. Rain adds to woes With incessant rains over the past few days, several of the makeshift houses and langar tents were damaged and farmers were seen rebuilding the structures. Ajeetpal Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Anandpur Sahib district said, “Every time it rains heavily or there is a storm, there is bound to be damage as the rainwater starts entering our structures. Even this time there were leakages, the bamboo structures broke and several of the tents also came off. We will have to purchase everything again and set it up. But we are here in service of humanity so we will continue doing so no matter what the hurdle is.” The rain has also affected the langars that have been at the forefront in feeding the thousands of farmers at the borders, in the past several months. Rebuild structures Manjeet Singh, a volunteer at one of the langars at the border said, “Over the last few days, there have been heavy rains and we have tried to save as much of the raw materials possible. Despite that we lost a lot of it as well. The tarpaulin sheets gave in due to the incessant showers and now it is a matter of great expense also to rebuild the entire thing. We have to now wait for people from our village in Punjab to come to the border with all the material. As of now we have stored the remaining ration in our trolleys.” Avtar Singh Mehlno, another farmer added, “I have been at the border since Day 1 and have not gone home at all. The rain have of course done some damage, but we are farmers and we know how to handle these situations. The agitating farmers are equally dedicated to the movement and we are going to overcome all hurdles. We will continue with our movement no matter what and the three farm laws have to be repealed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protesters-reiterate-demand-to-repeal-farm-laws/article35457268.ece
22 July 2021||Sirsa,||Farmers block national highway in Haryana||Farmers on Wednesday blocked a national highway here at three different points to demand the release of five protesters who were arrested last week following an attack on Haryana Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmers’ unions, spearheading stir against the farm laws, has also demanded the withdrawal of cases including sedition charges against over 100 protesters booked in connection with the incident involving the attack on Gangwa'’ car on July 11. Meanwhile, the indefinite fast of farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, as a protest against the arrests and registration of cases, entered the fourth day on Wednesday. A team of the health department conducted SMr. irsa’s medical checkup at the protest site. The protesters blocked the highway for two hours at different points, including Khuian Malana toll plaza and Panjuana village. While emergency vehicles were allowed to pass, the blockade, however, resulted in traffic jams on both sides of the road.  Police deployment Police in strength had been deployed to prevent any untoward incident. Many passengers, including some students, were seen getting down from the buses and walking on foot and using other means to reach their destinations. The police have booked over 100 people, mostly unidentified, for sedition, obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative and damaging public property after the attack on the Deputy Speaker’s vehicle. The protesting farmers had earlier claimed that the administration has not been able to show any video or other evidence to prove that the farmers indulged in violence on July 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-block-national-highway-in-haryana/article35457259.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC transfers Tihar jail inmate death inquiry to CBI||With the Delhi police unable to make much headway into the investigation behind the mysterious death of an inmate inside Tihar Jail in May this year, the Delhi High Court has transferred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Injury marks Justice Mukta Gupta noted that there was glaring variance in the Superintendent Jail’s report and the version of the deceased’s mother over the manner in which the death of the inmate has been caused. As per the status report filed by the Superintendent Jail, there was no apparent injury on the deceased, Srikant, however, the case of the mother is that there were deep injury marks on his body. Srikant was taken into custody in connection with three FIRs on June 13, 2019, and since then, he was in judicial custody. As per the Jail Superintendent, on the day of the incident on May 14, 2020, the officers on duty heard some hue and cry in one of the barracks at 7 a.m. When the officers rushed to the spot, four inmates were beating Srikant with a cricket bat. The officials intervened and separated the group. Later that day, Srikant complained of trepidation and pain in the body. Taking note of his injuries, he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital, where he succumbed to death. The Delhi police said that Srikant used to bully other inmates and also demanded money from them. It said that Srikant was targeted by some of the harassed inmates. Mysterious calls from jail In its status report, the police stated that PCR calls were also received from unknown numbers that inmate Srikant has been assaulted by a senior jail official. The sister of the deceased has also claimed that she had received a call from her brother, a day prior to the incident, expressing apprehension of being murdered by the jail officers. “It has been two months since the FIR in question has been registered,” the judge said, noting that the investigation based on calls “appears to be incomplete”. On previous hearing, the HC had enquired about the CCTV footage of the ward where the incident took place. However, the jail authorities said that the CCTVs in ward are not in working condition. Considering all the details, the High Court said, “an in-depth investigation is required to be conducted to find out the circumstances under which the deceased made a phone call to his sister expressing his apprehension of death and his subsequent death in the judicial custody”. The court has called for a status report from the CBI by next date of hearing on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-transfers-tihar-jail-inmate-death-inquiry-to-cbi/article35457262.ece
22 July 2021||New Delhi,||Paralympian shooter moves HC seeking selection in Tokyo Games||Five-time Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma has approached the Delhi High Court seeking his selection in the upcoming Tokyo Games. Mr. Sharma, an Arjuna Awardee and Rajiv Gandhi State Sports Awardee, alleged that the selection panel, Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), deliberately and arbitrarily ignored his name for the Paralympics in spite of him fulfilling all the eligibility criteria. Court to hear plea today The High Court will hear Mr. Sharma’s plea, seeking a direction to the PCI to include his name in the list of selected shooters for the R7 event, on July 22. Mr. Sharma has claimed that the selection process was not fair and transparent and that the committee was biased against him. He said the selection process was in violation of the National Sports Development Code of India, 2011 which mandates judicious and meritorious selection of players to represent India at major international events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/paralympian-shooter-moves-hc-seeking-selection-in-tokyo-games/article35457263.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for making, supplying heroin||Two Bareilly-based cousins have been arrested from east Delhi’s Gazipur for allegedly supplying heroin, the police said on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Chinmoy Biswal said that the accused have been identified as Sajid Khan (24) and Wajid Khan (28), both residents of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. A total of one kg heroin worth around Rs. 2 crore in the international market has been seized from them. “On July 13, the police received information that two persons, involved in supply of heroin, would come near Shamshan Ghat in Gazipur to supply drug after which a trap was laid and the accused were apprehended with two parcels of heroin,” Mr. Biswal said. Since last 5 years During interrogation, the police said the accused disclosed that they are cousins and involved in drug trafficking for the last five years. In 2016, they were caught by Uttar Pradesh Police with heroin. “It was revealed that they are experts in making heroin by using crude [poppy head extracts] and various chemicals. They used to purchase the crude and chemicals from Bareilly and manufacture the heroin,” the officer said. They also revealed that they make the drug in the forest of Bhaira village on the banks of the Ganga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-making-supplying-heroin/article35457264.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hit by piece of wood, two minors stab boy||Two minors have been apprehended for allegedly stabbing another boy after being hit by a piece of wood by the victim who was playing tip-cat ( gilli danda ) in Outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri area, the police said on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that information was received on July 18 from Sanjay Gandhi Hospital that a boy has been admitted with stab injuries. When the police reached the hospital, the victim stated that he is a student of Class 11 and has been stabbed six times on the neck. The police said that he told them that he was playing tip-cat near his residence and the tip hit a minor who got enraged and called another minor. Both the accused stabbed the victim mercilessly, the police said, adding that the victim is undergoing treatment. Case registered A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered and teams were formed to nab the accused who had fled their houses. The two were apprehended later. The accused allegedly told the police that one of them was taking a stroll in the park when he was hit by the piece of wood. When he asked the victim about it, an argument broke out between them after which the accused called his friend. Losing their temper, they brought a kitchen knife from their house and stabbed the victim. The knife and bloodstained clothes have been recovered, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hit-by-piece-of-wood-two-minors-stab-boy/article35457265.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 friends fall to death at construction site||Two friends fell to their death from the fourth floor of an under-construction building in Shahdara’s Krishna Nagar on Wednesday morning, the police said, adding that inquest proceedings have been initiated. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said that the deceased have been identified as Rajesh Rastogi (46) and Amit Malhotra (47), both residents of Krishna Nagar. A PCR call was received regarding two persons falling from a building in East Krishna Nagar behind a hospital. When the police reached the spot, they were both shifted to a nearby hospital where they were declared brought dead. During enquiry, the police said the security guard of the building, Gaya Prasad, stated that the two had visited the property with the intention to purchase it. It was revealed that the duo had visited the terrace first and then came down to the fourth floor of the building. “It is suspected that they fell down while looking out of the balcony which was open and without walls, railing or fencing. Even the flooring was incomplete and filled with bricks,” the DCP said. “No foul play has been suspected or reported so far. We are looking for CCTV footage and other eyewitnesses,” Mr. Sathiyasundaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-friends-fall-to-death-at-construction-site/article35457266.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||HC stays Arunachal’s entry permit notification||The Itanagar Bench of the Gauhati High Court has stayed the Arunachal Pradesh government’s June 30 notification prescribing temporary entry permits for “developmental works in public and private sectors” only to those vaccinated against COVID-19. Hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Dibang Valley district resident Madan Milli on July 19, Justice Nani Tagia said the notification classifying people into the vaccinated and the unvaccinated for the purpose of issuance of temporary permit “violates Articles 14, 19 (1) (d) and 21 of the Constitution of India”. Indians who intend to visit Arunachal Pradesh — as in three other north-eastern States — for business or tourism need to possess an Inner-Line Permit (ILP), a British era system. “Tourist ILPs shall remain suspended during the period of this order [till August 1]. However, for developmental works in both public and private sectors, temporary permits may be issued, provided such persons are vaccinated for COVID-19,” Clause 11 of the government notification read. Representing the State, Additional Advocate General R.H. Nabam said the restrictions were placed due to the rising cases of COVID-19 with the sole objective of checking the spread of the pandemic in the State. ‘No evidence’ Examining the plea for staying Clause 11 of the government order, Justice Tagia noted: “There is no evidence available either in the record or in the public domain that COVID-19 vaccinated persons cannot be infected with COVID-19 virus, or he/she cannot be a carrier of COVID-19 virus and consequently a spreader of COVID-19 virus.” It observed that even a vaccinated but COVID-infected person can be a super-spreader. Restrictions based on a person’s vaccination status did not hold any water and that there was no justification for discrimination, it stated. Staying the operation of the impugned Clause 11, the court issued notice on the matter returnable on July 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-stays-arunachals-entry-permit-notification/article35457256.ece
22 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Doctor turning away rape victim serious’||Meghalaya’s Social Welfare Department has taken “serious note” of a doctor’s refusal to medically examine a minor rape victim on the grounds that the place of the incident was beyond his jurisdiction. The State’s Assembly Committee on Women Empowerment (ACWE) has also decided to hold a meeting on the issue and asked all officials concerned to depose before it. Social Welfare Minister Kyrmen Shylla condemned the gang-rape of the 14-year-old as well as the insensitivity of the doctor at the Williamnagar Civil Hospital in East Garo Hills district for citing a jurisdictional reason to decline treatment to her. Four men were arrested for sexually assaulting the girl who had gone out on Sunday evening to buy candles in the Nangalbibra area of South Garo Hills district. “Jurisdiction should not be an issue in such cases. I won’t mind if rules are broken to save a life and for the sake of humanity. We will take up the doctor’s issue with the Health Department,” Mr. Shylla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctor-turning-away-rape-victim-serious/article35457260.ece
22 July 2021||Guwahati,||Another police encounter in Assam, smuggler hurt||A suspected supari (betel nut) smuggler was injured in a police encounter in Bongaigaon district when he tried to escape from custody, police said on Wednesday. With the latest number, at least 15 suspected militants and criminals were shot dead in police encounters in the State since May as they reportedly tried to snatch service weapons or attempted to escape from custody, while 25 others were injured. Senior police officers in Bongaigaon said that the alleged supari smuggler was nabbed in Golaghat and was brought to Bongaigaon on Monday. “Yesterday, he took us to show his godown storing illegal supari. While returning, the police stopped at a place to have some tea. At that moment, the accused tried to escape and a scuffle broke out,” a senior officer said. The police at first fired one round in the air to stop him, but the accused was still trying to flee, police said. “Left with no option, our team fired him on the leg. He was sent to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital for treatment. In the scuffle, two of our police officers were also injured and were treated in hospital in Bongaigaon,” the senior officer said. The rising number of shoot-outs has whipped up a political furore with the opposition alleging that the Assam police has turned “trigger-happy” and is indulging in “open killings” under the Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma-led regime, which assumed charge on May 10. ‘Full liberty’ Unfazed by criticism of his government over recent encounter killings, Mr. Sarma on July 15 had said in Assam Assembly that the State police has “full operational liberty” to fight against the criminals within the ambit of law. On the previous day too, the chief minister told the assembly that the Assam police would retaliate against criminals trying to snatch service weapons of its personnel and attacking them or fleeing from their custody, thereby defending the series of encounters in the last two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/another-police-encounter-in-assam-smuggler-hurt/article35457500.ece
22 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||No more avian flu cases in Gurugram: health dept.||The district health department of Gurugram on Wednesday said that none of the close contacts of the minor boy, who had tested positive for avian flu and died earlier this month, was found to have symptoms of the disease. Civil Surgeon Virender Yadav said the health department had examined the close contacts of the 11-year-old, a resident of Chakkarpur village, but none had the symptoms of avian flu. The 11-year-old, suffering from blood cancer, had died at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi on July 11. A report six days later confirmed that he suffered from avian flu. “We have been carrying out survey for the past four days in the village and the close contacts of the deceased have also been examined. None of them are found to have the avian flu symptoms. Also, no new such cases were reported in the district,” said Dr. Yadav. He added that the Animal Husbandry department too had carried out a survey among birds, but no case of avian flu was detected. “The survey will continue to cover the entire village. The Primary Healthcare Centres have also been alerted to report any case with symptoms of avian flu,” said Dr. Yadav. Death certificate He, however, said the AIIMS was yet to issue death certificate to the deceased’s family citing the cause of death. “The boy had tested positive for avian flu, but the cause of death would be established only after a death certificate is issued. The death could have been caused due to fungal pneumonia as well. If death due to avian flu is confirmed, it would be country’s first such case,” said Dr. Yadav.  Health department had examined the close contacts of the 11-year-old victim Virender YadavCivil Surgeon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-more-avian-flu-cases-in-gurugram-health-dept/article35457257.ece
22 July 2021||Dehradun,||150 people stranded due to Uttarakhand landslides||Landslides triggered by heavy rain along the Tanakpur-Ghat national highway in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district have left around 150 people stranded, an official said on Wednesday. As traffic remained blocked at Vishramghat on the highway till late Tuesday night, the district administration made arrangements for the stay of the stranded people in Champawat, District Disaster Management Officer Manoj Pandey said. Landslides occurred at eight points along the highway on Tuesday bringing mounds of debris onto the road. Though the debris was cleared at seven points by Tuesday evening, the rocks and boulders in Vishramghat could not be cleared till midnight despite efforts, Mr. Pandey said. ‘Rubble being cleared’ Efforts to clear the rubble on the road in Vishramghat were resumed on Wednesday morning with the help of earth moving machines and a loader, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/150-people-stranded-due-to-uttarakhand-landslides/article35457501.ece
22 July 2021||Guwahati,||Probe ordered into Assam bird deaths||The wildlife wing of the Assam Forest Department on Wednesday ordered a probe into the death of a large number of birds due to suspected poisoning of an agricultural field in Barpeta district. The poison was sprayed apparently to prevent the birds — sparrows and doves — from damaging the crops. Locals said more than 300 birds had died. Chief Wildlife Warden M.K. Yadava gave Assistant Conservator of Forest Ranjit K. Dutta a week’s time to submit a report after investigating the deaths in Bohori Silagaon village under Sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Case registered “A case has been registered by the ranger concerned and a man named Mannan Ali has been arrested in this connection. We are awaiting the autopsy report on the birds to ascertain the exact cause of the death,” State Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-ordered-into-assam-bird-deaths/article35457254.ece
22 July 2021||Panna (M.P.),||Man killed in bear attack||A 55-year-old man was mauled to death by a wild bear in the Panna Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh, a senior official said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-killed-in-bear-attack/article35457255.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Python stuck in AC unit, rescued||An Indian rock python was rescued by the Wildlife SOS NGO after it was found entwined inside an air conditioning unit at a home in Chattarpur. It was later released into the wild. After receiving a call from a family who found the snake, the team from the NGO found that the two-foot long juvenile snake had entered the unit through the exhaust tube and was trapped inside. The rescue operation lasted 45 minutes. The reptile was examined for injuries and was then released into the wild. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “We are very grateful to the family for contacting the Wildlife SOS and having faith in our team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/python-stuck-in-ac-unit-rescued/article35457269.ece
22 July 2021||July 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A laborious task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-laborious-task/article35457271.ece
22 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain intensity to reduce over next two days||The India Meteorological Department on Wednesday said there may be a reduction in the intensity of rainfall over the next two days in the Capital while the sky is likely to stay overcast. No rain was recorded in the city between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. on Wednesday but 60.3 mm or rain was recorded in the 24-hours ending at 8.30 a.m. The maximum temperature settled at 34.7° Celsius which was normal for the season. The minimum settled at 22.4 degrees Celsius which was five degrees below normal. The forecast for July 22 reads “partly cloudy sky with very light rain/thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 35 and 24 degrees Celsius respectively. Since June 1, the city has received 315.5 mm of rain which is 62% more than normal for the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rain-intensity-to-reduce-over-next-two-days/article35457272.ece
22 July 2021||Agartala,||Several TMC leaders, workers held in Tripura||Several Trinamool Congress leaders and activists, including the party’s Tripura unit president Asish Lal Sinha, were arrested on Wednesday in the Unakoti district as they gathered, violating the COVID-19 restrictions, the police said. The TMC leaders gathered at Gournagar to pay homage to the Youth Congress activists allegedly killed in police firing in Kolkata on this day in 1993 during a rally led by then Congress leader Mamata Banerjee. “Twenty-one people were arrested as they violated the COVID restrictions and made an unlawful gathering,” said Parth Munda, the officer-in-charge of the Kailashahar police station. “They were put in a temporary jail. The arrests were made in presence of an Executive Magistrate,” he added. However, Mr. Sinha claimed that 82 activists and leaders, including him and TMC’s Unakoti district president Anjan Chakraborty, were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/several-tmc-leaders-workers-held-in-tripura/article35457252.ece
