23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Parliament paralysed over Pegasus, farm laws||The proceedings of both Houses of Parliament continued to remain paralysed on Thursday as Opposition members staged protests over a number of issues, including the Pegasus snooping controversy, and made a fresh pitch to repeal the three controversial farm laws. The Rajya Sabha witnessed some ugly scenes and tense moments when it met at 2 p.m. after two adjournments as Trinamool Congress member Santanu Sen snatched and tore the statement being read out by Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus spyware episode. The Minister, who had already made the statement in the Lok Sabha on Monday, tabled his statement in the House after unsuccessfully trying to read it from another copy. Minutes later, the House was adjourned for the day but that did not bring an end to the hostilities. Threatened by Minister Trinamool members in the Rajya Sabha alleged that Mr. Sen was threatened by Union Minister Hardeep Puri, who summoned the former with a gesture, once live transmission of the proceedings had stopped. “When I went to Mr. Puri, he started threatening and abusing me. I was gheraoed by BJP MPs. Mr. Puri was about to assault me. Thank God my other colleagues noticed and rescued me in time,” Mr. Sen later told the media. Countering the allegations, BJP sources said they would move a motion to suspend Mr. Sen for targeting a Minister. Trinamool Parliamentary Party leader Derek O’Brien said the party wanted a “structured debate” on the snooping issue, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi should reply to the questions raised by the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parliament-paralysed-over-pegasus-farm-laws/article35480812.ece
23 July 2021||AHMEDABAD/NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. raids Dainik Bhaskar premises across the country||The Income Tax Department on Thursday conducted extensive raids on more than 30 premises of the Dainik Bhaskar media group across several States for alleged tax evasion, drawing sharp criticism from the Opposition parties. Officials searched the offices of Dainik Bhaskar , one of the largest media houses in the country, in Delhi, Bhopal, Indore, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Mumbai and a few other locations, sources said. The Bhopal residence of Sudhir Agarwal, the group’s promoter, was also raided. Dainik Bhaskar and its other publications have been aggressively reporting on the scale of devastation during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The department also raided the office of a local news channel in Uttar Pradesh, Bharat Samachar, which has been critical of the State government’s handling of the pandemic. The residence of its editor, Brajesh Misra, was also searched by tax officials. The Opposition parties termed the raids an attempt to intimidate the media from reporting the truth. Responding to the Congress’s remarks that it was an attack on democracy, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the “agencies do their work, there is no interference from us on that”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-t-dept-raids-dainik-bhaskar-premises-across-the-country/article35480810.ece
23 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Pegasus is worse than Emergency: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raised the Pegasus spyware controversy for the second day on Thursday. Instead of giving a statement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are targeting those raising the issue, she said. “In the name of democracy, dangerous autocracy is going on. Pegasus is worse than Emergency,” the CM told journalists. She also condemned the Income Tax raids on theDainik Bhaskargroup and said the country could not be run on ‘ jumlabazi ’ [rhetoric]. “Even if you are able to record everything, you cannot change the truth.” She again urged all Opposition parties to come together against the Bharatiya Janata Party. The Chief Minister, who was speaking after a Cabinet meeting, said August 16 would be observed as ‘Khela Hobe Divas’. About one lakh footballs would be distributed to children and youth across the State. She also said that conditional cash transfer under the “Lashmi Bhandar” scheme would begin on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pegasus-is-worse-than-emergency-mamata/article35481221.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,||DVAC searches premises of former T.N. Minister||In the first major operation after the DMK returned to power, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday launched simultaneous searches on the premises of former Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar of the AIADMK. After registering a disproportionate assets case against Mr. Vijayabhaskar, his wife Vijayalakshmi and brother Sekar to probe the allegation that the former Minister “intentionally enriched himself during his tenure of office as Minister for Transport”, DVAC officials conducted searches at 26 places, including in Karur and Chennai. Mr. Vijayabhaskar’s house at Andankoil and his dyeing unit in Karur were also searched. Kin’s houses searched The residences of the former Minister’s parents and his brother at Andankoil, too, were searched. The case was registered by the DVAC’s Karur detachment. During the searches, Rs. 25,56,000 in cash was seized by the officials, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dvac-searches-premises-of-former-tn-minister/article35480879.ece
23 July 2021||Pune,||Five die as rain continues to pound Maharashtra||Incessant showers over the last 24 hours across Maharashtra, particularly coastal Chiplun and Mahad in Konkan and Kolhapur and Satara in western Maharashtra, caused floods in several places leaving thousands marooned. At least five people were reported dead in rain-related incidents including three in a rockfall in Chiplun’s Parshuram Ghat. A 50-year-old man fell was swept away by floodwaters after he fell from his terrace in Mahad, and a rickshaw driver in Latur after a tree collapsed on his vehicle.  Nine National Disaster Response Force teams — four in Mumbai area and five in Konkan and Kolhapur regions — have been pressed into action. With the India Meteorological Department forecasting more rain over the next three days, a ‘red alert’ has been issued for the Konkan region and an ‘orange alert’ for Kolhapur. Late on Thursday evening Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted he had spoken to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and assured all possible support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-die-as-rain-continues-to-pound-maharashtra/article35481282.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM: no need to extend rank lists beyond Aug. 4||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly that the government saw no reason to extend the validity of PSC rank lists beyond August 4. It hoped to fill all available vacancies from the current list before it expired. The government had extended the validity of lists by six months on February 5. Mr. Vijayan was replying to a submission moved by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. His statement came against the backdrop of a fresh round of protests by PSC rank holders who feared the expiry of the rank lists on August 4 would extinguish their hope for a government job. The Chief Minister said the pandemic had hobbled the PSC's ability to conduct competitive tests in a time-bound manner. However, the PSC's delay would not affect reporting of openings caused by retirement and promotion. Meeting held Mr. Vijayan had chaired a meeting of government secretaries to ensure that vacancies are reported punctually. The administration would penalise department heads who failed to report openings to the PSC in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-no-need-to-extend-rank-lists-beyond-aug-4/article35481165.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Israel panel to review NSO||Israel has established a commission to review allegations that NSO Group’s Pegasus phone surveillance software was misused, the head of Parliament’s Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee said on Thursday. “The defence establishment appointed a review commission made up of a number of groups,” lawmaker Ram Ben Barak said. “When they finish their review, we’ll demand to see the results and assess whether we need to make corrections,” the former deputy head of the Mossad spy agency added.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/israel-panel-to-review-nso/article35480802.ece
23 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder to attend Sidhu’s induction||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will participate in the function on Friday where Navjot Singh Sidhu will take charge as State Congress president, along with four working presidents. Ahead of the function, the Chief Minister has invited all Congress legislators, MPs and senior party leaders to Punjab Bhavan on Friday, asking them to leave together for the installation of the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee team at the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-to-attend-sidhus-induction/article35480954.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||SRSP becomes surplus 2 months early||Heavy to very heavy rains in catchment areas both in Telangana and in upstream Maharashtra have resulted in huge flood to Sriramsagar project in Nizamabad district from the early hours on Thursday allowing the authorities to start discharge of flood through the spillway, almost two months in advance. Except Singur and Nizamsagar, all other major reservoirs in the Godavari Basin were receiving heavy flood as of Thursday evening, allowing similar discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/srsp-becomes-surplus-two-months-early/article35481141.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Inter final year results today||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh will release the IPE 2021 second (Intermediate final) year results on Friday at 4 p.m. In a press release issued here on Thursday, Secretary, Board of Intermediate Education V. Ramakrishna said that the results would be hosted on the internet and parents and students could access the results immediately after their release by the Minister. The results would be available on the following websites: http://examresults.ap.nic. in, http://results.bie.ap.gov.in, http://results.apcfss.in and http://bie.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-final-year-results-today/article35480807.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘UPSC aspirants can seek second chance from govt.’||NEW DELHI The Supreme Court on Thursday empathised with the plight of aspirants forced by COVID-19 restrictions to stay away from their final shot at civil services exams in 2020 and gave them the liberty to approach the Union government for a second chance in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upsc-aspirants-can-seek-second-chance-from-govt/article35481222.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,||Sowing higher than last year due to copious rain||The State’s overall sowing is higher this year compared to the same period last year with more than 44.18 lakh hectares under cultivation. This is higher than the normal coverage of 39.06 lakh hectares that is brought under cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sowing-higher-than-last-year-due-to-copious-rain/article35481285.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Students brave rain to get to SSLC exam centres||Students in many parts of Karnataka braved heavy rain to reach their examination centres to sit for the SSLC exam, which concluded on Thursday. In some districts roads leading to the exam centres were submerged or blocked because of landslips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-brave-rain-to-get-to-sslc-exam-centres/article35480843.ece
23 July 2021||Pune,||Recoveries outpace new COVID-19 cases in State||Maharashtra’s recoveries barely outweighed the case surge on Thursday with 7,756 people recovering as against 7,302 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally has fallen to to 94,168. With 120 deaths the number of fatalities reached 1,31,038.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recoveries-outpace-new-covid-19-cases-in-state/article35481283.ece
23 July 2021||BELAGAVI,||Heavy rain raises flood scare in North Karnataka||Heavy rain across the region raised a flood scare on the riverbanks in North Karnataka on Thursday. In Belagavi and Bagalkot, officers asked farmers and inland fishermen not to venture into rivers, even as 16 bridge-cum- barrages submerged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-raises-flood-scare-in-north-karnataka/article35481091.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unlikely to set aside order on activists’ bail: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was “very unlikely” that the Delhi police would be able to “persuade” it to set aside the bail granted to activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha. The three students were granted bail by the Delhi High Court after a year’s incarceration in Tihar Jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unlikely-to-set-aside-order-on-activists-bail-sc/article35480949.ece
23 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmer leader Sirsa ends his fast unto death||Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa on Thursday ended his fast unto death after five protesters arrested last week in connection with the attack on Haryana Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwar’s car were released. Senior SKM leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal offered coconut water to Mr. Sirsa to break his fast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-leader-sirsa-ends-his-fast-unto-death/article35480950.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC tells CM to ‘live up to promise of rent for poor’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to live up to his promise made at a press conference last year that his government will pay rent for those who are unable to do so due to poverty in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-tells-cm-to-live-up-to-promise-of-rent-for-poor/article35480952.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Abduction of Afghan envoy’s daughter in Pak. shocking: govt.||The reported abduction of the daughter of the Afghan Ambassador to Pakistan is a “shocking incident”, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday. MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi reminded that India considered it fair to comment on the issue concerning two other countries as the authorities in Pakistan had dragged India into the incident. “This is, of course, a shocking incident. This involves two other countries, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and usually we would not comment on it. However, since the Interior Minister of Pakistan has dragged India into it, I would only like to say that even by their standards, Pakistan’s denial of the victim’s account is stooping to a new low,” said Mr. Bagchi, referring to the July 16 incident in Islamabad. Selsela Alikhil, 26, daughter of Ambassador Najibullah Alikhil, was abducted for nearly five hours by unknown persons who physically assaulted and left her near her home. Afghan protest The issue acquired a serious shape with a strong protest from the Foreign Ministry of Afghanistan. Pakistan has sent out mixed signals on the issue till now. Islamabad initially began an investigation, but later, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid urged the victim to join the investigation. Afghanistan has since withdrawn the envoy from Islamabad in protest. Mr. Sheikh Rashid also denied that the incident did not amount to an attempt of abduction and accused India and Afghanistan of “distortion” of facts to defame and destabilise Pakistan. The MEA spokesperson said India stood beside Afghanistan to ensure the “peaceful” future of the country, which had witnessed a dramatic increase in territorial control by the Taliban in recent weeks as the U.S. forces were pulling out of the country after the post-9/11 two decades-long mission. Mr. Bagchi’s comments came in response to reports that Afghanistan has sought military assistance from India. Backs govt. “As a contiguous neighbour, India supports the government and the people of Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future where the interests of all sections of Afghan society, including women and minorities, are protected,” said Mr. Bagchi, laying out India’s position on the current situation in Kabul. India has pulled out personnel from its mission in Kandahar, shutting down operations temporarily. It now operates all Indian visa related works in Afghanistan through the Indian Embassy in Kabul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abduction-of-afghan-envoys-daughter-in-pak-shocking-govt/article35480555.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers hold a ‘Kisan Sansad’ in Delhi||Outnumbered by both the police and mediapersons, a group of 200 farmers reached Parliament Street on Thursday to begin their Kisan Sansad protest, running parallel to the proceedings at Sansad Bhavan barely a km away. “We are showing them how to conduct a Parliament with knowledgeable discussions. The government says the farmers are uneducated, they say they need to educate the farmers about the impact of these three farm laws. Listen to the debates here. Is it not clear that the farmers have understood how their lives and livelihoods will be hurt by these laws?” said All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah. “These laws will lead to the end of the existing mandi system and MSP procurement. It will result in farmers, agricultural labourers and mandi workers being deprived of their jobs. And when the private mandis come, replacing the government mandis, their infrastructure will only benefit Ambani and Adani, not farmers,” said Jasbir Kaur, committee member of Punjab Kisan Union, speaking during the first hour of the Sansad. She was one of only seven women among the protesters on Thursday. “If the fields and crops of this country go into the hands of corporates, if they take control of our harvests and our grain, then it is the people who will go hungry and face starvation. That is why this is the protest not just of farmers, but of the people. This is a jan sansad,” said Raminder Singh Patiala, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union. “These laws are actually dead already, but we still need the government to issue the death certificate,” said Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, referring to the fact that the Supreme Court suspended implementation of the laws six months ago. He warned Opposition MPs, who have been issued a “voters whip” by the farmers that if they fail to take up the issue continuously in Parliament, they will face the same farmers’ boycott as BJP MPs. Even as the Parliament session was ongoing, more than 20 MPs from Kerala arrived at the Kisan Sansad to express their solidarity, but were not allowed on the farmers’ stage. Regarding the Pegasus issue that has consumed much of Parliament’s time so far, several farm leaders worried they may also be targets of surveillance. “We suspect that our numbers are also on the list of those being snooped on. The government is behind the snooping. We know that they are keeping an eye on us too,” Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh president Shiv Kumar 'Kakkaji' Sharma told journalists. Stating that the massive police presence on the blockaded stretch of Parliament Street may be larger than within Parliament itself, he asked: “Where is the need for this kind of security? For just 200 farmers, there are 50 companies of police.What are they afraid of?” Rakesh Tikait, who heads a large faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in western U.P., told presspersons that the arrival of farmers at Jantar Mantar was a sign of progress. “The distance between us and Parliament is constantly reducing; we are just a few hundred metres away now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-hold-a-kisan-sansad-in-delhi/article35480731.ece
23 July 2021||Chennai,||Support for orphans sees varying progress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced in May that the government would launch a slew of welfare measures for children who had lost their parents to COVID-19. The elaborate plan had components of the setting up of a corpus, ensuring their education requirements, and other health and social support. This was followed by similar announcements by different State governments. Nearly two months down the line, the project is in varying levels of implementation in the States, with respect to enumerating the children and sanctioning the funds for their upkeep. Maharashtra has identified 482 children in the age group of 0 to 18 who lost both their parents in the pandemic, till July 21. Out of these, 264 are boys, while 218 are girls. The government said it had allocated Rs. 10 crore for the scheme as of now, and that the allotment would be increased as per requirement. The benefits would accrue both for children who lost both parents or one parent due to COVID-19 and the other due to some other reason, the State government said. On July 6, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna, under which Rs. 50,000 would be given as a one-time compensation to all families who lost someone to COVID-19. Additionally, children who were orphaned because of COVID-19 would get Rs. 2,500 every month, till they turn 25-years-old, under the scheme and receive free education. The registration for the scheme has started online via a government portal, as per officials. “After registration, verification will be done by the SDM [sub-divisional magistrate] office, following which money will be given to the beneficiaries. The government is yet to start distributing Rs. 50,000 or the monthly assistance. It is expected to start from next month,” a Delhi government official said. In the first phase, the Tamil Nadu government has sanctioned Rs. 33.37 crore under the scheme to benefit a total of 1,045 children (including 101, who lost both their parents, and 944 minors, who lost either of their parents) so far. Under the scheme, children who have lost both parents (Rs. 5 lakh) or even one parent (Rs. 3 lakh) would have a corpus set up in their name to draw when they turn 18 and a monthly maintenance amount for children not housed in government homes. The scheme is ongoing and officials are involved in identifying the children from various districts. In Karnataka, it has been estimated that as many as 89 children who were orphaned after their parents died of COVID-19 would be beneficiaries of the Chief Minister’s Bala Seva Yojana. Under this scheme, the children would get Rs. 3,500 a month. Out of 89 children, 67 had been sent Rs. 3,500 in their bank accounts. “The data of the remaining children is under verification by the district-level committees,” an official said. The Andhra Pradesh government has estimated that 241 children lost both parents to COVID-19. Of this, 142, who were from below poverty line families, also received an ex-gratia amount of Rs. 10 lakh, according to Women Development and Child Welfare Department Director Krithika Shukla. As many as 5,888 children lost at least one parent due to COVID-19 in the State, she said. The amount has been deposited in joint bank accounts held by the beneficiaries and the government. Interest accrued on the amount would be given monthly or quarterly to the guardian of the beneficiary till they turn 25. The State has also formed mandal-level committees headed by tahsildars to ensure the well-being of the children. Kerala data In Kerala, the government has identified 74 children who have been orphaned by the pandemic. As per data collected by the Women and Child Development Department, the number of children who have lost a parent to COVID-19 is 2,488, while six have been abandoned. Verification of children who have lost both parents has been completed, Women and Child Development Director T.V. Anupama said. Preparation of a social investigation report was being carried out simultaneously in the case of such children. Since the verification of children who had lost both parents was complete, the disbursal of the money could begin right away. Telangana has not adopted any special policy or funding to support the children orphaned by COVID-19, instead choosing to help them with existing schemes under the Women and Child Welfare Department. The government has identified 206 children. The number is being reverified for a final decision. According to confidential sources, the number of those who lost one of the two parents could hover around 5,000 to 6,000 as per conservative estimates. ( With inputs from New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Hyderabad )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-support-for-orphans-sees-varying-progress/article35480749.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Missing out on COVID-19 deaths unlikely, says govt.||Given the robust and statute-based death registration system in the country, while some cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on the deaths was unlikely, said the Union Health Ministry in a release issued on Thursday in response to allegations of “missing COVID-19 deaths”. “This could also be seen in the case fatality rate, which, as on 31st December 2020, stood at 1.45% and even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34%,” it stated. It noted that the reporting of daily new cases and deaths followed a bottom-up approach, where districts reported the number of cases and deaths to the State governments and to the Union Ministry on a continuous basis. As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued the ‘Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 related deaths in India’ for correct recording of all deaths by the States and Union Territories as per ICD-10 codes recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for mortality coding. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had refuted allegations of hiding COVID-19 deaths. The Union government only compiled and published data sent by the State governments, the Ministry pointed out. “States have been advised to conduct thorough audits in their hospitals and report any cases or deaths that could have been missed with a district and date-wise details so as to guide a data-driven decision-making,” it said. During the second wave, the entire health system was focused on effective clinical management of cases requiring medical help, and correct reporting and recording could have been compromised, which was also evident in a few States such as Maharashtra, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh reconciling their number of deaths recently, it stressed. There had been some recent media reports alleging that India’s toll of excess deaths during the pandemic could be in millions, terming the official COVID-19 death toll “vastly undercounted”, it stated. In these news reports quoting findings from some recent studies, the U.S. and European countries’ age-specific infection fatality rates had been used to calculate excess deaths in India based on the sero-positivity. The Ministry said the extrapolation of deaths had been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying was the same across countries, dismissing the interplay between various direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population, previous exposure levels to other diseases and the associated immunity developed in that population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/missing-out-on-covid-19-deaths-unlikely-says-govt/article35480751.ece
23 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder to attend Sidhu’s induction||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will participate in the Congress function on Friday where Navjot Singh Sidhu will take charge as State Congress president along with four working presidents. Ahead of the function, the Chief Minister has invited all Congress MLAs, MPs and senior party leaders to Punjab Bhavan on Friday, asking them to leave together for the installation of the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee team at the party office. After Mr. Sidhu’s elevation as Punjab Congress chief, Capt. Amarinder has been maintaining that he would not meet the former unless he Mr. Sidhu publicly apologised for his personally derogatory social media attacks. The All India Congress Committee on July 18 appointed Mr. Sidhu president of the Punjab Congress Committee, along with Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel, and Kuljit Singh Nagra as working presidents. Mr. Nagra and Mr. Gilzian extended the invitation to the Chief Minister, which was signed by over 50 legislators, including Mr. Sidhu. The move is being seen as a show of strength and a pressure tactic against the backdrop of Capt. Amarinder’s continued opposition to Mr. Sidhu’s elevation as the party’s State chief . The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) hit out at the Congress, saying that the Congress high command had already accepted that its government had “failed Punjabis miserably” and the party was now trying to wash away its non-performance by bringing about a change of face in its Punjab unit. Former Minister and senior SAD leader Daljit Cheema said, “It is a fact that Congress legislators had informed the party high command that they would not be able to enter villages because the State government had not fulfilled any of the promises made to the people. The high command admitted this failure by handing over an 18-point to-do list to the Chief Minister. It simultaneously appointed Navjot Sidhu as the Pradesh Congress President to shift the blame for the party’s non-performance on Capt Amarinder.” Mr. Cheema said such “cheap political moves” by the Congress would not work with Punjabis. “Mr. Sidhu was part and parcel of the non-performing Congress government. Mr. Sidhu should first admit his failure to do anything for the welfare of the people and tell Punjabis when they would get a Rs. 85,000 crore farm loan waiver as promised by his government and party. He should also disclose when the promised 25 lakh jobs would be given to youth,” Mr. Cheema said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-to-attend-sidhus-induction/article35480563.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘There can’t be parallel legal systems’||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that the bail granted to the husband of a legislator in Madhya Pradesh is an example of two “parallel systems” of justice — one for the rich and the other for the poor — at work. “India cannot have two parallel legal systems, one for the rich and the resourceful and those who wield political power and influence, and the other for the small men without resources and capabilities to obtain justice or fight injustice. The existence of a dual legal system will only chip away the legitimacy of the law,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah observed in a 33-page judgment. The court quashed the bail granted to Govind Singh, husband of Rambai, BSP MLA. It ordered that Singh be shifted to another jail. A ‘grave error’ The Bench termed the High Court’s grant of bail to a man with criminal antecedents who has been evading arrest a “grave error”. Singh is accused of murdering Congress leader Devendra Chaurasia in 2019. Shocked by the “machinations” at work even within the police force to protect Singh, the Supreme Court drew the spotlight on an order passed by the trial court judge in February, bringing on record the fact that he is being targeted for standing up to a “politically influential accused”. The apex court asked the Madhya Pradesh High Court Chief Justice to launch a time-bound probe into the trial judge’s order. The Supreme Court said the “independence of the judiciary is the independence of each and every judge”. The case pointed to a larger malaise of application of political pressure on trial judges. A judge expressing fear for his own safety in a case involving the husband of a powerful person did not bode well for the entire judiciary. “A judiciary that is susceptible to such pressures allows politicians to operate with impunity and incentivises criminality to flourish in the political apparatus of the State,” Justice Chandrachud wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/there-cant-be-parallel-legal-systems/article35480737.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘HC appointments an ongoing process’||The Supreme Court Collegium, in the past one year, has recommended 80 names to be appointed judges of various High Courts, out of which 45 were appointed as judges and the remaining are under various stages of processing, the Law Ministry informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, in a written reply, said between July 1, 2020 and July 15, 2021, the collegium made 80 recommendations for appointment of judges. He said while 45 “recommendees” had been appointed to various High Court judges, the “remaining proposals were under various stages of processing with the government and the SC Collegium”. Filling of vacancies The Minister pointed out that filling of vacancies in the higher judiciary was a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the Executive and the Judiciary, requiring consultation and approval from Constitutional authorities at the State as well as Central levels. “Hence, the time needed for filling up of vacancies of the judges in the higher judiciary cannot be indicated. While every effort is made to fill up the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies of judges in High Courts do keep on arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation of judges and also due to increase in the strength of judges,” Mr. Rijiju said. The total sanctioned strength of judges across the 25 High Courts is 1,098 but the working strength was only 645, a shortfall of 453 judges. According to a chart shared by the Law Ministry along with Mr. Rijiju's written reply, of the 10 recommendations made by the collegium for the Madras High Court in the past one year, all were notified by the government. Eight names On the other hand, eight names were recommended by the collegium for the Calcutta High Court but no appointment was notified in that one-year period. For the Allahabad High Court, the collegium recommended 11 names out of which seven appointments were notified. In Delhi High Court too, of the six recommendations, so far only two appointments have been notified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-appointments-an-ongoing-process/article35480739.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks SIT probe into Pegasus||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into reports of government using Israeli software Pegasus to spy on its critics, Opposition leaders, activists, journalists and even on its own Ministers. The petition filed by Supreme Court advocate Manohar Lal Sharma asked “whether the Constitution allows the Prime Minister and his Minister to snoop on citizens of India for their vested political interest”. “Pegasus is not just a surveillance tool. It is a cyber-weapon being unleashed on the Indian polity. Even if authorised [which is doubtful], the use of Pegasus poses a national security risk,” Mr. Sharma, who is petitioner-in-person, submitted. If Pegasus is used in India, Mr. Sharma contended, India would be known to be part of a club of authoritarian States. “If Pegasus is present in India, we stand out because we are part of a club of mostly authoritarian and semi-authoritarian states using this technology. It does not speak well of us as a democracy. It also does not speak well of us as a capable State. If our capabilities are so low that private foreign contractors are rampant, it is probably also an indication that we have no means of protecting ourselves,” the petition, filed on Wednesday, said. The petition asked the court to examine if snooping in this case does not attract offences under the Official Secrets Act, Information Technology Act besides violating Article 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-seeks-sit-probe-into-pegasus/article35480567.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unlikely to set aside order on activists’ bail, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was “very unlikely” that the Delhi police would be able to “persuade” it to set aside the bail granted to activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha. The three students were granted bail by the Delhi High Court after a year’s incarceration in Tihar Jail. They were accused of offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the north-east Delhi riots last year. The High Court had accused the police of blurring the line between a “terrorist act” under the UAPA and the students’ right to protest against a law. “It is very unlikely, but you can try,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul replied to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Delhi police. The judge was responding to Mr. Mehta’s submission that he would “persuade” the court to set aside the High Court order. The court asked the Delhi police what it really wanted by filing this appeal against the bail order of the High Court. “What do you really want? You want to again take them into custody?” Justice Kaul asked Mr. Mehta. The Bench, also comprising Justice Hemant Gupta, chastised the Delhi Police lawyers for repeatedly interrupting Justice Kaul. At one point, the court, annoyed by the interruptions from the police side, referred to the case as a “political matter”. “Do not make me lose my patience in the middle of the day. Please listen to our questions… Do not presume we are going to say something against you,” Justice Kaul addressed Mr. Mehta and Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi. Mr. Mehta apologised to the court. He said the appeal was filed strictly on law and there was nothing “political” about it. Mr. Lekhi said the High Court order was “ex facie wrong”. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the activists, said the police had filed a 20,000-page chargesheet. “I really do not have the wherewithal to print 20,000 pages… I need more time and please do allow me to place on record a pen-drive with the contents of the chargesheet,” Mr. Sibal said. The court scheduled the case after four weeks. Justice Kaul told the Delhi Police that it did not intend to hear long drawn-out arguments spanning over two hours or more in the next hearing on the legal merits and facts of the case in an appeal against a bail order. The court said the police appeal highlighted two points; one, the setting aside of the bail order itself; and the other, the observations made by the High Court in its order. The High Court had made stinging remarks about the casual use of the UAPA by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unlikely-to-set-aside-order-on-activists-bail-says-sc/article35480735.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Keep promise to pay rent for poor: Delhi HC||In a landmark verdict, the Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to live up to his promise, made in a press conference last year, that his government would pay rent for those who are unable to do so due to poverty in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The promise/assurance/representation given by the Chief Minister clearly amounts to an enforceable promise, the implementation of which ought to be considered by the government,” Justice Prathiba M. Singh ruled. Justice Singh remarked that the Chief Minister could not first make a “clear and unequivocal oral assurance” and then fall silent when it came to its implementation. The judge directed the Delhi government to take a decision within six weeks on whether to implement the promise made by Mr. Kejriwal on March 29, 2020, bearing in mind the larger interests of the persons to whom the benefits were intended to be extended. If a decision was made to implement the promise, the Delhi government should frame a clear policy, the High Court said. The High Court’s decision came on a clutch of petitions by several daily wage labourers, who said they were tenants unable to pay their monthly rent, and a landlord who has not been able to receive the monthly rent from his tenant. They had sought enforcement of the promise made by the Chief Minister. “Law has evolved the doctrines of legitimate expectation and promissory estoppel to ensure that promises made by the government, its officials and other authorities are not broken and are, in fact, judicially enforceable, subject to certain conditions,” the court highlighted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keep-promise-to-pay-rent-for-poor-delhi-hc/article35480744.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Celebrity moves HC for online content removal||The Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre on a petition by reality show celebrity Ashutosh Kaushik seeking to remove some of his videos, photos and articles from various online platforms claiming “people should not be indefinitely reminded of their past mistakes”. Justice Rekha Palli also issued notices to Google, Press Council of India and Electronic Media Monitoring Centre on Mr. Kaushik’s plea in which he invoked the “right to privacy” and the “right to be forgotten”. Mr. Kaushik, who had won MTV Hero Honda Roadies 5.0 in 2007 and second season of Bigg Boss in 2008, urged the High Court to safeguard his reputation and dignity by removing his videos, photos and articles from online platforms as they have a “detrimental effect” on his life. Some of the online articles relate to Mr. Kaushik’s arrest in a drunk driving incident in 2009. The plea has also asked for removal of some articles relating to Mr. Kaushik creating ruckus at a Mumbai cafe in 2013. He has also sought removal of a controversial video on YouTube. The plea said right to be forgotten entitles individuals to have information, videos or photographs about themselves deleted from Internet records so that search engines cannot find them. The plea stated that the origin of this right can be traced back to the French jurisprudence on the ‘right to oblivion’ or Droit à l’oubli . The rationale behind it was to allow offenders who had served their sentence to object to the publication of information regarding them. It pointed out that Justice B.N. Srikrishna Committee, which drafted Personal Data Protection Bill, 2018, introduced a new right called the ‘right to be forgotten’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/celebrity-moves-hc-for-online-content-removal/article35480965.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ousted CBI Director’s number on Pegasus list||News website The Wire on Thursday reported that hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi acted to oust Alok Verma from his post as head of the Central Bureau of Investigation at midnight on October 23, 2018, an unidentified Indian agency, known to be a user of Pegasus spyware, made a note of three telephone numbers registered in his name. Very soon after the decision, Verma’s number was added to the list of numbers “of persons of interest”, claimed the report. Along with Verma, the personal telephone numbers of his wife, daughter and son-in-law were also added to the list, with eight numbers from the family on it, the report said. It added that: “Also added to the list of numbers at the same time as Verma were two other senior CBI officials, Rakesh Asthana and A.K. Sharma...” “NSO insists the leaked database has nothing to do with the company or with Pegasus. Verma was unwilling to participate in this story, so forensics on the telephones linked to him — the only way of conclusively establishing whether they were targeted or infected with Pegasus — could not be carried out,” The Wire said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ousted-cbi-directors-number-on-pegasus-list/article35480795.ece
23 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Pegasus is worse than Emergency: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raised the Pegasus Spyware controversy for the second day in a row on Thursday. Instead of giving a statement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are targeting those raising the issue before the public, she said. “In the name of democracy, dangerous autocracy is going on. Pegasus is worse than Emergency,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists at the State Secretariat. She condemned the Income Tax raids on the Dainik Bhaskar Group and said the country could not be run on ‘Jumlabazi’ [rhetoric]. “Even if you are able to record everything, you cannot change the truth.” She urged all Opposition parties to come together to form a front to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party. ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ Speaking to media persons after a State Cabinet meeting, Ms. Banerjee said it had been decided to observe August 16 as ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ and about one lakh footballs would be distributed among kids and youths across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-is-worse-than-emergency-mamata/article35480957.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Analysis by NGO reveals microplastics in Ganga||An analysis of the stretches of the river Ganga by a Delhi-based environment NGO, Toxics Link, has revealed pollution by microplastics, defined as synthetic solid particles sized ranging from 1 micrometre to 5 millimetre (mm), which are insoluble in water. The Ganga flows across five States and has been at the centre of a massive multi-crore undertaking by the Union government, in the form of the National Mission for Clean Ganga, to rid it off contamination. Microplastics are recognised as a major source of marine pollution. Untreated sewage from many cities along the river’s course, industrial waste and religious offerings wrapped in non-degradable plastics pile pollutants into the river as it flows through several densely populated cities. The plastic products and waste materials released or dumped in the river break down and are eventually broken down into microparticles. The river finally transports significantly large quantities downstream into the ocean, which is the ultimate sink of all plastics being used by humans. “Essentially, all along microplastics are flowing into the river system. It does reflect or suggest a direct linkage between the poor state of both solid and liquid waste management; hence it is critically important to initiate steps to remediate it,” Priti Mahesh, chief coordinator at Toxics Link, said in a statement. The study, ‘Quantitative analysis of Microplastics along River Ganga’, was based on an analysis of water samples at Haridwar, Kanpur and Varanasi. The highest concentration of such plastic was found at Varanasi, comprising single-use and secondary plastic products. The water testing was carried out in collaboration with the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in Goa. The samples were tested to identify the exact type or resin core and the results show the presence of at least 40 different kinds of polymers as microplastics. The shapes and nature of the observed resins ranged from fibres to fragments, films and beads. Fragments were the predominant shape in all locations, followed by film and fibre. Microbeads were observed in Varanasi and Kanpur, while no beads were found in Haridwar. “The most frequent size range observed in all the samples was <300 micrometre,” said Dr. Mahua Saha, the lead researcher from NIO. “We need to address the threat of plastic on aquatic life more realistically and with a futuristic eye. Various stakeholders, including industries, governments and civil society organisations, need to join hands for improving plastic waste management and the reduction in microplastic pollution,” said Satish Sinha, associate director at Toxics Link.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/analysis-by-ngo-reveals-microplastics-in-ganga/article35480553.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghan President calls Danish Siddiqui’s father||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Thursday described the death of noted photojournalist Danish Siddiqui as a “great loss to the journalism fraternity”. The Afghan leader conveyed his thoughts regarding the slain, award-winning photojournalist in a telephone call to his family in Delhi. Siddiqui was killed near Kandahar during a fight between the Afghan special forces and the Taliban militants. “President Ashraf Ghani called Prof. [Akhtar] Siddiqui, father of Reuters journalist the late Danish Siddiqui, and conveyed his condolences over the death of his son to his family, friends and colleagues. The President termed his death as a great loss for the journalism fraternity,” said Aziz Amin, Special Secretary to the Afghan President. The Afghan President was among the first to condole the killing of the Pulitzer Prize winning photojournalist, who was known for his photographic reports of evolving human tragedies like the Rohingya displacement and COVID-19 devastation in India. The precise details of the conversation between the President and Siddiqui’s family is not yet known. Siddiqui was killed on July 16 in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar, near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. He was flown back to Delhi to his family home and was buried in the graveyard of Jamia Milia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-president-calls-danish-siddiquis-father/article35480556.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Eight students to match wits in CMA online quiz||Eight students will battle it out in the grand finale of the CMA Online Business Quiz 2021, organised by The Institute of Cost Accountants of India (ICAI) in association with The Hindu . The finals of the all-India quiz will be held on July 25 from 11 a.m. onwards. The eight participants who made it to the finals are Sanvedi Rane, Bhagyashri Taparia, Edde Nikil Kumar Reddy, T.P. Rakesh, Priyanka Surana, Amandeep Singh, Riya Chandak and Yash Kansal. The finalists were selected from the 263 students who made it to the qualifying round. More than 10,000 students participated in the preliminary round. ICAI president Biswarup Basu, vice-president P. Raju Iyer and Chairman of Placement Committee Balwinder Singh, would be the special guests for the final round. Debasish Mitra, Chairman Board of Advanced Studies and Research, will be the quizmaster, said a release. Visitors can register for the event at https://bit.ly/THICAIE or by scanning the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-students-to-match-wits-in-cma-online-quiz/article35480559.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||President-elect of UNGA to meet PM Modi today||Maldives Foreign Minister Abdullah Shahid, who is also the President-elect of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar on Friday, ahead of the UNGA session in September, which Mr. Modi is expected to address. After bilateral talks, India and the Maldives will sign a new development partnership agreement (MoU) and review previously announced projects. Mr. Shahid, who won the election for the President of the next General Assembly in June, had thanked India for being the first to support his candidature publicly in an interview to The Hindu , and has made New Delhi his first stop in a string of visits ahead of the session. On Thursday, he met Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla where, the Ministry of External Affairs said, they discussed his plans for a “Presidency of Hope”, which is expected to focus on global post-COVID-19 recovery and equitable distribution of vaccines, and U.N. reforms and countering radicalism and terrorism. Mr. Shahid said he would support India’s ongoing campaign for U.N. Security Council (UNSC) reform and for a permanent UNSC seat, a process that is stuck at the UNGA in Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) at present. “Exchanged views on multilateral issues, my priorities for UNGA 76 (2021-22), and India’s priorities as the President of UN Security Council for August,” Mr. Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-elect-of-unga-to-meet-pm-modi-today/article35480561.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||I-T Dept. raids Dainik Bhaskar premises||The department also raided the office of a local news channel in Uttar Pradesh, Bharat Samachar. The channel has been critical of the State government’s handling of the pandemic. The residence of its editor, Brajesh Misra, was also searched by tax officials. The Opposition parties termed the raids an attempt to intimidate the media from reporting the truth. Responding to the Congress’s remarks that it was an attack on democracy, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the “agencies do their work, there is no interference from us on that”. More than 100 officials were involved in the raids on Dainik Bhaskar , one of the largest circulating Hindi dailies, that began in the morning. On its website, the group said the government launched the raids as it was “scared of its coverage of floating dead bodies in the Ganga during the pandemic”. It added that besides the offices, the I-T officials also raided the residences of key personnel of the group. “The taxmen seized mobiles of employees,” it claimed. There were no women in the I-T teams that raided the group’s offices and other premises, it added. Sources in the I-T Department maintained that the raids were carried out after the department was tipped-off about alleged tax evasions by the group and its various companies. Headquartered in Madhya Pradesh, the Dainik Bhaskar group has more than 60 editions operating in a dozen States in multiple languages. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, and several other political leaders condemned the raids. Congress Rajya Sabha member and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh tweeted that tax officials “are present” at half a dozen premises of the group, including its office at Press Complex in Bhopal. “The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another BRUTAL attempt to stifle democracy,” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted. The Dainik Bhaskar group had “bravely” reported the mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic by the Central government, she said. “I strongly condemn this vindictive act that aims to suppress voices that bring out the TRUTH. It’s a grave violation that undermines the very principles of democracy,” she added. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the “misuse” of Central agencies for intimidation was condemnable. “Modi government’s raid raj won’t work. Trying to scare and muzzle the truth from surfacing. But like the dead bodies floating in the Ganga, Modi government cannot hide,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-raids-dainik-bhaskar-premises/article35480564.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC notice to Centre on plea against IT Rules||The Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the Union government on a fresh petition against certain provisions of the IT Rules, 2021, saying they give excessive powers to social media platforms to voluntarily remove content and place users under constant surveillance. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to reply to the petition filed by advocate Uday Bedi by September 13, the next date of hearing. Mr. Bedi has challenged Rules 3 and 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-it-rules/article35480565.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Chhattisgarh orders inquiry into Israeli firm||Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Wednesday that the Israeli tech firm NSO that manufactured the Pegasus spyware had visited the State during BJP rule. At a press conference in Raipur, he said a committee would be constituted to investigate who the NSO representatives met and what deal they struck with the BJP government. “Raman Singh [former CM] has to explain what the deal was about and whom they met,” he said. In 2019, WhatsApp had informed several Dalit rights lawyers and activists in the State that their phones had been infected with Pegasus. Three-member panel A three-member committee, comprising the Principal Secretary (Home), the Inspector-General of Police, Raipur, and the Secretary, Department of Public Relations, was constituted for the investigation. The committee is yet to submit a report. Chhattisgarh will be the first State to order investigations into the latest revelations. At least 300 Indian citizens are said to be spied upon using the spyware. The Indian government so far has denied its involvement, though has not emphatically said they do not own or use Pegasus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-chhattisgarh-orders-investigation/article35480732.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. portal for children orphaned by COVID-19||If you know a child who was orphaned by COVID-19, you can now share his or her details with the Union government on a web portal and help the child claim benefits under the PM CARES scheme announced earlier. The website can be accessed at https://www.pmcaresforchildren.in. The government introduced the portal to all the States and Union Territories on July 15, Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. “Any citizen can inform the administration regarding a child eligible for support under this scheme through the portal,” Ms. Irani said. In May, the Prime Minister approved a scheme under the PM CARES fund for children who have lost both parents or the lone surviving parent or a legal guardian or an adoptive parent due to COVID-19. The scheme provides a corpus of Rs. 10 lakh to each child when he or she turns 18. This corpus will be used to give a monthly stipend from the age of 18 for the next five years to help with higher education. At the age of 23, the beneficiary will get the entire corpus in lumpsum. The government will also help with school education and extend a health insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. According to data shared by the Minister before the House, a total of 645 children were orphaned by COVID-19 between April 1, 2021 and May 28, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-portal-for-children-orphaned-by-covid-19/article35480743.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. nod for Central university in Ladakh||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved the establishment of a Central university at a cost of Rs. 7,500 crore and an integrated multi-purpose infrastructure development corporation in the Union Territory (UT) of Ladakh, a government statement said. The corporation would have an authorised share capital of Rs. 25 crore and a recurring expenditure of Rs. 2.42 crore a year. “The approval has an inherent potential for employment generation as the corporation will be undertaking various kinds of developmental activities,” it noted. Addressing a briefing, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the university would fill the gaps in higher education as the UT did not have any Central varsity when it was carved out of the then State of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-central-university-in-ladakh/article35480752.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘UPSC aspirants can seek second chance from govt.’||The Supreme Court on Thursday empathised with the plight of aspirants forced by COVID-19 restrictions to stay away from their final shot at the elite civil services exams in 2020 and gave them the liberty to make a representation before the Union government for a second chance in 2021. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna observed in its order that both the final attempters who were compelled to stay away from the exams and those who attended the exams despite being ill-prepared due to the pandemic were at liberty to urge the government to take a “lenient view” in their cases and give them another opportunity. The court did not intervene any further, reasoning that a three-judge Bench had, in February, declined similar pleas by aspirants for a second chance in 2021. “We cannot interfere in a policy decision of the government unless it is unreasonable or arbitrary,” Justice Khanwilkar stated. Justice Khanna said the decision to not intervene was not an easy one. “We also feel the heartbreak. We have compassion for you,” he observed. The Bench initially asked Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati whether the authorities could give another opportunity to the aspirants. Senior advocates Gopal Sankaranarayanan and Krishnan Venugopal argued that the February judgment did not provide for aspirants who had lost their final chance in 2020 simply because they chose to comply with the law and COVID-19 restrictions. The court was dealing with the submissions made by two categories of civil services aspirants. The first concerned those who were unable to take their final attempt on October 4, 2020, due to the COVID-19 situation. The second group comprised aspirants who managed to take their final attempt on October 4. These applicants claimed that they were compelled to risk their health during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/upsc-aspirants-can-seek-second-chance-from-govt/article35480754.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Parliament paralysed over Pegasus, farm laws||“Our straight forward question is, did you [the government] or did you not use the Pegasus spyware? Trinamool will not let it sweep under the carpet,” Mr O’Brien said, adding, “When the government is using military grade spyware, the supposition that this is a question that the IT Minister can answer is preposterous.” Unlike the Lok Sabha, the Upper House members get a chance to seek clarification in response to a Minister’s statement, but it was lost in the commotion. The Lok Sabha too witnessed multiple adjournments before being adjourned for the day as Opposition members protested over the farm laws and the Pegasus spyware. However, two Bills — Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 and Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 — were introduced in the House amid the din. Even before the Lok Sabha proceedings began, Congress members from both Houses, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, protested in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue on the Parliament complex to express solidarity with farmer organisations that were protesting at Jantar Mantar, barely 500 metres from Parliament. “They are adamant on falsehood, injustice and arrogance. We are satyagrahis standing united and fearlessly. Jai Kisaan ,” Mr Gandhi tweeted and tagged a photo of himself along with other MPs holding a banner that said “We demand repeal of anti-farmer laws’. As soon as Lok Sabha proceedings started at 11 a.m., Opposition members trooped into the well of the House and started raising slogans. Several of them were displaying placards, forcing Speaker Om Birla to take note. “The House is for discussion and answering questions and if you [protesting Opposition members] want to raise slogans and show placards, you can do so outside the House,” he said before adjourning the House until noon. The House was adjourned twice after noon, before Biju Janata Dal MP Bartuhari Mahtab adjourned the House for the day at 4 p.m. since the Opposition protests continued. In between adjournments, Congress’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, interacted with the media to put their demands on the farm laws. “When Ministers stand up, they say they are ready for discussion but when we move motion to adjourn usual business and discuss farm laws, they don’t accept. The government is indulging in the politics of doublespeak. Inside the House, we don’t have the microphones turned on to put across views and even cameras are not allowed to show us,” Mr. Chowdhury alleged. Pointing out that the farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November 26 last year, Mr. Kharge said, “We are with the farmers and will keep fighting for them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-paralysed-over-pegasus-farm-laws/article35480550.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Interpreting Rama’s lament||Valmiki showcases Rama’s equanimity of mind when Kaikeyi tells Him that she is conveying His father’s orders, namely, that the Pattabhishekam is cancelled and that He has to go into exile for fourteen years. In this context, Rama exemplifies the ideal reaction to strive for when people have to face unexpected crisis and turns in life, which is not easy for the majority in samsara. But the same Rama gives vent to His feelings as any normal human being when the three of them are alone in the forest for the first time. In a discourse, Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal drew attention to the fact that one should read this situation in a matter of fact manner and understand that the words spoken by Rama at this juncture typify a mind very upset with sorrow at the lot that has befallen Him. Rama points out that while Dasaratha will surely be uncomfortable in Ayodhya, Kaikeyi will be happy that her desired object is accomplished. She should be extremely satisfied when Bharata returns and takes charge of the kingdom. Dasaratha is aged and helpless, and is now totally under Kaikeyi’s control. How could His father, who doted on Him and had desired to hand over the kingdom to Him, give up all this for the sake of a woman, Rama wonders. He says that one who gives up dharma and wealth and is a slave of indriyas is sure to face a dilemma like Dasaratha. Rama foresees that His departure to the forest will be the cause of His father’s death. When representing such sentiments of anguish in heightened form as when enacting a play, the actor, whatever be his role, a comedian, villain, etc, should never forget it is only a role he is playing. Rama is most admirable playing the role of a human being and hiding His Paratva in the entire Ramayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/interpreting-ramas-lament/article35480741.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35480552.ece
23 July 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata govt. gets time to file affidavit||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday allowed the West Bengal government and other parties time till July 26 to file affidavits in response to the National Human Rights Commission ( NHRC) committee report on allegations of post-poll violence in the State. “Request has been made by State to give them further time to file response to NHRC report. “One last opportunity is granted to file affidavit of any before July 26. Matter to be taken up on July 28 at 11 a.m.,” the Calcutta High Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-govt-gets-time-to-file-affidavit/article35480740.ece
23 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Panel hopes to bring Naga groups for talks||The Core Committee on Naga Political Issue led by Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and comprising all the MLAs in the State expects to bring two rival groups on the same talks table. The committee members had a meeting with leaders of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland , at the Chümoukedima Police Complex near Dimapur on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the committee members met the leaders of the Working Committee of the Naga National Political Groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-hopes-to-bring-naga-groups-for-talks/article35480955.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress has a new team for its Uttarakhand unit||The Congress announced a new team for its Uttarakhand unit by appointing Ganesh Gondiyal as the new Uttarakhand Pradesh Congress Committee chief. While there will be four working presidents, former Chief Minister Harish Rawat will be the chairman of the Campaign Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-has-a-new-team-for-its-uttarakhand-unit/article35480793.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||House panel nod for Bill to club airports||A Parliamentary Standing Committee has approved the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021, without any changes. The Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture tabled its report on the Bill in Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The Bill proposes to amend the definition of “major airport” to include a group of airports. The amendment will allow The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) to regulate tariff and other charges for aeronautical services for not just major airports with annual passenger traffic of more than 35 lakh, but also a group of airports. Once the Bill is passed by Parliament, the government will be able to club profitable and non-profitable airports as a package for privatisation. The AAI Board in its meeting in September 2019 approved leasing of six airports which include Bhubaneshwar, Varanasi, Amritsar, Raipur, Indore and Trichy. The government has proposed to club each of these airports with nearby smaller airports, which can be developed jointly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-nod-for-bill-to-club-airports/article35480734.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. schools record rise in enrolment||Schools run by the Greater Chennai Corporation have seen a sharp rise in enrolment this year with the total number of students enrolled reaching the highest in 10 years. According to officials, as of early this week, the total strength in the Corporation schools had touched 1,01,757. The last time the strength was above one lakh was in 2010-11. Since then, it declined over the years to 83,098 in 2019-20 before marginally rising again to 88,084 last year (2020-21). Since admissions were opened in mid-June, the Corporation schools have seen 27,311 new enrolments so far. While 30% of these enrolments were students who had come from within Corporation schools, the remaining 70% had come from private and aided schools. Acknowledging that the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent impact on household incomes could have been a key factor in pushing many parents to admit their wards into government-run schools, D. Sneha, Deputy Commissioner, Education, GCC, said that a number of steps taken by the civic body played a significant role in such a sharp increase. She highlighted that the teachers and headmasters in the schools carried out door-to-door campaigns by identifying prospective students from feeder schools in every locality. “We are focusing more on improving the infrastructure. Our teachers are being trained further in ICT (Information and Communications Technology) tools. When parents were explained about all the facilities and other advantages of studying in GCC schools, they were convinced,” she said. P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, who works in one of the Corporation schools, said that the door-to-door campaigns and spot admissions made a significant difference in increasing enrolment. Pointing out that there was a lot of focus from senior officials towards schools, he said, “Parents also see the news and feel that there is a lot of focus to improve government schools. Hence, they feel more comfortable putting their wards there,” he said. Fees and online class Several parents he met felt that private schools had become unaffordable and it was unnecessary to pay fees during the pandemic. “There is no significant reduction in fees charged by private schools. When classes are happening only online, they feel that instead of paying that fee to a private school their children could get the same education from a government school,” he said. With admissions open till the end of August, the enrolments could go up further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-schools-record-rise-in-enrolment/article35480894.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain likely in Western Ghats today||With the southwest monsoon becoming vigorous, isolated heavy rain has been forecast in the Western Ghats on Friday. While parts of north Tamil Nadu may experience light to moderate rainfall, the India Meteorological Department has warned off landslips in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts, which are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places. A low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and the neighbourhood will trigger isolated heavy rain over the Western Ghats. As the circulation is tilting southwest, it would have an impact over Rayalaseema and north Tamil Nadu districts such as Erode, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Vellore, Chennai, Kancheepuram and Krishnagiri districts. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said north coastal areas may experience light to moderate rain due to wind convergence. Moisture-laden southeasterlies coming into coastal areas would bring rain. “We expect a dip in rain on Saturday and thunderstorms will return particularly over northern parts of the State and Puducherry from Sunday following convective activity,” he said. Chennai may continue to enjoy generally cloudy skies and thunderstorms with light to moderate rain in some areas during the evening hours till Saturday. On Thursday, the city experienced pleasant weather with the day temperature remaining at 33 degree Celsius, which is 2.1 degree Celsius below normal for the period. Surplus rainfall Most districts have recorded good rainfall that is in excess or largely excess so far this season. The State has recorded an average rainfall of 17 cm, which is 68% more than its normal rainfall since June 1. This month’s rainfall has contributed immensely to the overall monsoon rainfall as Tamil Nadu has received 10.7 cm of rainfall so far from July 1. Chennai has registered one of the highest July rainfall in the decade with 14.9 cm, which is 94% excess than its monthly average. The city previously recorded the highest July rainfall of 20.5 cm in July 2015, according to IMD data. Mr. Puviarasan said the State is considered a rain shadow region during the southwest monsoon. A weak southwest monsoon till last week had benefited the State with excess rain in July so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-likely-in-western-ghats-today/article35480918.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases dip to 1,872 in T.N.||Fresh COVID-19 cases dipped to 1,872 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. Chengalpattu became the latest district where the daily case count dropped below 100, taking the total number of districts with fewer than 100 cases to 33. In Coimbatore, 180 persons tested positive, followed by Erode with 137 cases. There were 133 cases in Chennai and 113 in Salem. Thanjavur recorded 102 cases, a day after fresh cases dropped to 90. There were 98 cases in Chengalpattu and 94 in Tiruppur. The State has so far recorded 25,43,040 cases. Another 2,475 people were discharged after treatment, while the active cases stood at 25,526. Among the active cases, Coimbatore accounted for 2,388 patients, followed by Chennai (1,658). The State recorded 29 deaths — 10 at private and 19 at government hospitals. This took the toll to 33,838. Coimbatore recorded six deaths, while there were three deaths in Thanjavur. Chennai recorded a single fatality, while there were nil deaths in 22 districts. A total of 26 of the 29 persons who succumbed to the infection had co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a 47-year-old man from Krishnagiri who had diabetes. He was admitted to the Krishnagiri Medical College Hospital on July 12 and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on July 20. In the last 24 hours, 1,45,584 samples were tested. So far, 3,61,13,750 samples have been tested in the State. As on date, there were 73,166 vacant beds — 39,742 oxygen beds, 25,792 non-oxygen beds and 7,632 intensive care unit beds — at COVID-19 hospitals and health centres in the State. Over 2 crore jabs given The total number of vaccine doses administered so far in the State crossed two crore on Thursday. Over three lakh people were vaccinated through the day. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters that 2,00,05,367 doses (till the time of the meeting) had been administered so far. “A total of 1,11,026 differently-abled people in Tamil Nadu have been inoculated. As many as 79,585 pregnant women and 73,726 lactating mothers too are among those immunised,” he said. By late evening, when the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine released the daily vaccination report, the coverage had reached 2,01,54,909 — 1,88,23,296 in government centres and 13,31,613 in private ones. A total of 3,17,168 people, including 1,81,287 in the 18-44 age group and 97,278 in the 45-59 age group got the jabs. With this, a total of 70,33,503 people in the 18-44 age group and 62,10,173 people in the 45-59 age group have been administered doses so far. Vaccination was held in 2,197 sessions. The State received another 69,970 doses of Covaxin. According to the DPH, this lot will be utilised only for giving second doses. The allotment based on second dose due was distributed to health unit districts in the northern region, including Chennai, Vellore and Tiruvannamalai. Chennai was alloted 42,290 doses, Vellore 7,200 and Chengalpattu 5,280.  A total of 3,17,168 people, including 1,81,287 in the 18-44 age group and 97,278 in the 45-59 age group got vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-infections-drop-to-1872-in-tamil-nadu/article35480890.ece
23 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Speed up thermal power projects: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has directed officials of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to speed up thermal power projects which were started in 2010 and other power projects being executed in the State. Mr. Stalin, who chaired a review meeting of the Energy Department at the Secretariat on Thursday, advised the officials to study the viability of long-term coal import agreements instead of the annual agreements to reduce the import cost. He also wanted the officials to study the handling of coal so as to reduce the cost of transport. An official release said Mr. Stalin pointed out that the State was able to receive only 71% of the coal quota because of the bottlenecks in transport. He wanted the Energy Department to tie up with power plants functioning near coal mines to generate electricity for the State. He congratulated the department on executing cost-cutting measures that had helped to save Rs. 1,593 crore in two months. He also wanted the department to have a billing software in which the assessors reading the meters at every home generated the details of consumption, and the charges were immediately uploaded for consumers to view them on their smartphones. Mr. Stalin asked Tangedco officials to achieve the target of 20,000 megawatt of renewable energy. Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji, Energy Secretary Dharmendra Pratap Yadav and Tangedco Chairman and Managing Director Rajesh Lakhoni participated in the meeting.  The CM pointed out that the State was able to receive only 71% of the coal quota because of bottlenecks in transport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speed-up-thermal-power-projects-stalin/article35480916.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Glucagon can impact Type-2 diabetes: study||A recent study has found that glucagon, one of the two hormones produced by the pancreas, plays an important role in the development of Type 2 diabetes. In the study done on a group of 81 persons in a tertiary care centre for diabetes in Chennai between September and November 2019, candidates aged over 25 of both sexes and without a history of diabetes were selected. The study titled, “Hyperglucagonemia and impaired insulin sensitivity are associated with development of prediabetes and type 2 diabetes — A study from South India”, was published in the peer-reviewed journal Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews.   Influence of glucagon The aim was to assess the influence of glucagon in persons with normal glucose tolerance, pre-diabetics and newly diagnosed diabetes. “The pancreas has alpha cells and beta cells. Alpha cells produce glucagon and beta cells, insulin. This is for the first time in India glucagon level has been studied. So far, we were thinking insulin is the main culprit but here we have shown that glucagon levels are elevated especially in pre-diabetics and early, newly diagnosed diabetics. We found that glucagon level is high especially in the newly diagnosed and pre-diabetic people,” Vijay Viswanathan, chief diabetologist, M.V. Hospital for Diabetes, said. The findings could change how diabetes is treated as till now it was believed to be caused due to the impaired capability of beta cells that produce insulin. Although in the west glucagon is included, across the world data on glucagon was low, he said. “This has a lot of implications for treatment. Usually people are treated with metformin but this finding is going to change that. People will have to talk about reduction of glucagon levels from the beginning,” Dr. Vijay said. Satyavani Kumpatla, lead researcher, said the kit to measure glucagon had to be imported from Sweden as it was not even measured in India. “There was limited data on glucagon levels. From this study, we conclude that hyperglucagonemia may contribute to development of type 2 diabetes. The levels of glucagon was higher in pre-diabetes and newly diagnosed diabetics than normal subjects. All the three groups had elevated fasting glucagon levels,” she said. Dr. Vijay said the study indicated that diabetologists should urge people to do aerobic and muscle strengthening exercises. “Women should build muscle mass to improve insulin sensitivity. Resistance training is need to improve insulin sensitivity,” he said.  We found that glucagon level is high especially in the newly diagnosed and pre-diabetic people Vijay Viswanathan Chief Diabetologist, M.V. Hospital for Diabetes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glucagon-can-impact-type-2-diabetes-study/article35480911.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC asks govt. to spell out fees schools can collect||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to spell out its stand on the quantum of fees that private schools were entitled to demand for the current academic year since the educational institutions were continuing to conduct only online classes ever since COVID-19 was reported in March 2020. Justice D. Krishnakumar granted time till July 29 for Advocate General R. Shunmugusundaram to appear in a batch of pending cases with regard to the collection of school fees, and explain whether schools in the State could be allowed to collect 85% of the fees as ordered by the Supreme Court in May this year. Passing interim orders on the batch in November last year, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh had permitted the private institutions to collect only 75% of the fees, determined for individual schools by the Tamil Nadu Private School Fee Determination Committee for the academic year 2019-20, in instalments. When the matters were listed again before Justice Krishnakumar on Thursday, senior advocates R. Silambanan, Fr. Xavier Arulraj and Godson Swaminathan, representing various private schools and their associations, told the court that they were agreeable to following the Supreme Court order permitting them to collect 85% fees. They also assured the court that no student, who could not pay the fees for genuine reasons, would be asked to leave the institution and that a decision on granting them time would be taken by the schools on a case-by-case basis. The judge recorded their submission and directed the government to submit its response. When advocate M. Purushothaman, representing a section of the parents, stated that the government could also consider providing some financial assistance to needy parents to pay school fees, the judge directed government counsel Selvendran to get instructions on this issue too when the matter appears next. Referring to news reports that nearly 7 lakh out of around 40 lakh students in private schools had shifted from private institutions to government schools during the pandemic, the judge suggested that the government could come up with some solution to support children who could not continue their education in private schools. The judge said the government was obligated to pay the fees for 25% of students admitted in private schools under the provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act of 2009. Since it may not be paying the fees for entire 25% of students in all schools, the money saved thereby could be utilised to help other needy children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spell-out-fees-schools-can-collect-hc-tells-state-govt/article35480913.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Direct benefit transfer in PDS should continue’||Since mid-February, Tamilisai Soundararajan has been wearing two hats — Telangana Governor and Puducherry’s Lieutenant-Governor. In an interview at her Chennai residence on Thursday, Dr. Soundararajan, 60, defends direct benefit transfer (DBT) in the public distribution system (PDS), a concept being implemented in Puducherry. On many issues, including the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, her views were different from those of Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao or the government but they were “all sorted out smoothly”. She explains how Telangana and Puducherry are complementing each other in tackling COVID-19. Edited exercepts.  How do you manage the dual role that you are playing since February? As a gynaecologist, I had handled the delivery of single babies as also of twin babies. Now I have twin babies [Telangana and Puducherry]. As a political leader, I had done multi-tasking. So, handling them [a State and a Union Territory] is almost easy for me. Being a doctor and the Telangana Governor, I have been able to link the two and this has helped them in the COVID-19 management. When there was scarcity of Remdesivir in Puducherry, I spoke to the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Telangana and got the supply of 1,000 vials immediately. Also, I have been able to facilitate the exchange of views between the two on matters such as treatment modalities. There have been suggestions from JIPMER [Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research] [for Telangana]. I spend four days in Puducherry and three in Telangana. I am providing care to both equally. I had my first dose of the vaccine in Puducherrry and the second in Telangana. You will be completing two years in office as Telangana Governor by early September. How has been your experience? When I went there first, dengue was prevalent. Not just as a Governor but as a doctor who had done work in paediatrics and dengue, I had given my views but the government was initially reluctant to hear me, thinking that having come straight from being the leader of a party [president of the BJP in Tamil Nadu], I would be politically inclined. The PRO from the Chief Minister’s Office had written an article [in the press], quoting the Sarkaria Commission’s report, arguing that a politician should not be made a Governor. In my rebuttal, I said a politician could be a Governor but the Governor should not do politics. Afterwards, I explained to them [the government] that my views were for the benefit of people and gave them a list of 15 points. Then, they understood my position. From then on, it has been a balanced relationship. After the pandemic broke out, I had continuously written to the government, giving my suggestions, but I did not publicise them. The Hon’ble Chief Minister came to the Raj Bhavan and held discussions with us. Later, he sent the Health Secretary for another round of discussions. Initially, there was only one hospital for COVID-19 patients, but I requested that each district have one hospital for such patients. There should be more testing. I can understand their [the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti’s] position, it being a regional party and an Opposition party [to the Centre]. On the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, they had initially wanted critical references to be included in the Governor’s address to the legislature but when I raised the matter with them, they magnanimously told me that they did not want the Governor to be put to embarrassment. Likewise, the State government was originally not for Ayushman Bharat, as it had its own scheme, Aarogyasri. I had called Ayushman Bharat officials from New Delhi and along with them, I explained to the Chief Minister why Ayushman Bharat should be opted. Later, he [the Chief Minister] told the Assembly that he was going to accept Ayushman Bharat as the Governor herself explained the reasons. Do you feel that the concept of DBT in the PDS will be beneficial to people? Or is the Puducherry administration planning to revert to rice distribution? The issue is not over rice but ration shops. Certain sections of the population have got used to having ration shops in their neighbourhood. After the DBT was introduced, the shops were closed. Some people are talking only about the closure of the shops, but they do not notice Rs. 2,000 getting deposited in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. At the same time, because of DBT, there has been huge savings. No leakage. It is a very good scheme and has benefited people. The main point is that the scheme should be implemented in a manner acceptable to people. I think the DBT should continue. When the COVID-19 financial assistance of Rs. 3,000 each was given to the holders of the red [family] cards, the payment was made through DBT and not through ration shops. As for the future of the ration shops, they can be turned into general provision stores, selling various commodities at nominal charges. You have been talking about vaccinating all the eligible people in Puducherry by August 15. Is it a realistic goal? Yes. It is a herculean task but doable. When I assumed charge, only 4,000 persons were vaccinated. In the last three months, a number of activities were taken up. Acting on the announcement by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of ‘vaccination utsav’, we had a ‘utsav’ for seven to eight days. I have been urging people to go for vaccination, giving them data to drive home the point that a negligible section had adverse reaction. Targeted camps have been held. So far, we have crossed the six lakh- mark, accounting for 55% of the population. I can also say with a sense of pride that not on a single day have we run out of stock. How do you think the problem of vaccine hesitancy can be addressed? People should know their responsibility. The main feature of vaccination is that when they are vaccinated, they help their family members get protected, and society, too. In Puducherry, at the peak of the second wave, we did a survey among ICU patients at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute. We found that 95% of the patients did not take vaccine. What we have been telling people is how vaccination protects people. There has been a long-standing demand that Puducherry be given Statehood. Any initiative? It is a political and policy decision to be pursued by the governments of India and Puducherry. At present, all I want is that people of Puducherry should get all the amenities. Let us concentrate first on improving revenue, livelihood and infrastructure. There is enormous scope in this regard.  Some people are talking only about the closure of ration shops, but they do not notice Rs. 2,000 getting deposited in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/direct-benefit-transfer-in-pds-should-continue/article35480887.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inclusive housing project announced in Chennai||An inclusive housing initiative has been announced in the city, with 58 modern conveniences, caregiver support for persons with disabilities, and managed services for food, housekeeping and maintenance. On Thursday, Akshaya, a leading real estate developer, signed an MoU with Special Child Assistance Network (SCAN), a Chennai-based NGO, for the inclusive housing initiative, in partnership with Vidya Sagar. A unique feature of the SCAN Inclusive Housing initiative at Akshaya Today is the ‘Group Homes’ that would be managed by SCAN in partnership with Vidya Sagar. These are shared accommodations, co-living, for adults with special needs. The aim is to offer care that is similar to the one they will get at home, when that option ceases to be available, when parents are not able to take care of them any more. Speaking at the launch, actor Suhasini Maniratnam said at least 200 persons will be housed here. “The luckiest are the 1,900 families, because there is so much they will learn about life, that society cannot teach them. Something wonderful happens to people when they are completely hopeless. This is an amazing project. I think it is going to be a model project. This pandemic has taught our society the importance of being together, as well as being inclusive in our approach by accepting different people from various walks of life. This initiative has given me a lot of hope for humanity and for our country and the city,” said Ms. Maniratnam. SCAN will also offer a vocational centre with a range of self-employment and supported employment options, and a therapy centre to provide required therapies for persons with special needs as well as all others on the Akshaya Today campus. This enables families with special children or any person with special needs to live life to the fullest. People booking a home in the project will become an integral part of a 21-acre mini-township with 2,134 homes, and will have options of 1, 2 or 3 BHKs at preferential prices. In addition, they can get customised modifications, if any, specific to their requirement like wider doors for wheelchair access and customised bathrooms. Chitty Babu, chairman & CEO of Akshaya, said, “Akshaya is honoured to be a partner in this first-of-its-kind housing initiative. We have been a pioneer of cutting-edge ideas and have achieved several firsts in the real-estate category. In our 26 years, Akshaya is well-known for offering differently-abled and elder-friendly homes, as well as kids-friendly communities. These initiatives have been well-received and appreciated by homebuyers across different age groups. We intend to provide SCAN members with a holistic housing solution supported by various amenities.” True inclusion Gopinath Ramakrishnan, managing trustee of SCAN, said the initiative was the first of its kind in the country. “We embarked on an extensive selection process and zeroed in on Akshaya after wide consultations with our members. The aim of this initiative, which has been our dream for many years, is true inclusion where families with special needs are a part of the social fabric as equal citizens, supported with services focused on their unique requirements. Even more important than physical accessibility is the psychological accessibility and acceptance by the larger societal networks as a full member of the community,” he said. Poonam Natarajan, founder of Vidya Sagar, said, “It will manage to create a supportive community for adults with disabilities, without developing an exclusive facility. I believe that SCAN’s inclusive model, and SCAN’s partnership with Akshaya will be a pioneering initiative in India.” Actor Babloo Prithiveeraj said, “As the father of a special child, my wife and I were concerned about my son’s future. I was on the lookout for the right home that offered inclusive living for some time now, and when I came to know about this initiative by Akshaya and SCAN, I decided to purchase a home.” The Akshaya Today project offers a full range of amenities, such as a clubhouse, swimming pool, and a 2-acre garden with aesthetic walkways with several disability friendly features. The project will be ready by March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inclusive-housing-project-announced-in-chennai/article35480907.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘India chose right path of action after 1971 war’||India chose the correct path of action after the big victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war that led to the creation of Bangladesh, which is now a flourishing nation, and he was proud of the path, said Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit. “The victory did not come easy and we had to pay a heavy price, foremost amongst which are sacrifices made by our defence forces in attaining the national objective,” Mr. Purohit said, participating in the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ ceremony organised by the Dakshin Bharat Area. Around 20 veterans of the 1971 war were felicitated at the event. Following the arrival of the ‘Swarnim Vijaya Varsh’ victory flame, the forces put up a show of flame drill, band concert, martial activity display and equestrian display. The Governor said the victory in 1971 Indo-Pak war was a great milestone in India’s military achievements and its Golden Jubilee had provided an opportunity to the people to thank and honour the bravehearts who made the victory possible. Mr. Purohit further said the good work of the 1971 war had continued and our defence forces endure to rise to the challenges of nation building, be it in war, internal crises, national calamities or assistance to our neighbouring countries. “I exhort all members of the defence forces to continue with their good work so that all of us sleep peacefully and safely,” he said. Lieutenant General Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat Area, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-chose-right-path-of-action-after-1971-war/article35480921.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Athlete undergoes cyberknife radiosurgery in city hospital||A 34-year-old patient of epilepsy underwent non-invasive cyberknife radiosurgery at Apollo Cancer Centre early this year. The patient, an athlete and software professional working in New Zealand, used to have occasional attacks, after which he would become unconscious. After initial diagnosis in 2009, he underwent treatment in New Zealand. But his condition deteriorated, leading to multiple seizures. An imaging revealed Medial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (MTLE), a rare type of epilepsy. As the frequency of seizures increased and could not be controlled with medication, he was advised to undergo surgery. On consulting with Shankar Vangipuram, senior radiation oncologist and cyberknife expert, Apollo Cancer Centre, he underwent neuropsychological assessment which showed that he had visual memory scores at the 90th percentile. S. Muthukani, senior epileptologist, Apollo Hospitals, said that MTLE affected the inner part of the temporal lobe of the brain — in an area called hippocampus that processes memories. “Nearly 30% of patients with epilepsy are resistant to medication. This is called refractory epilepsy, in which two properly chosen anti-epileptic drugs do not work,” he told presspersons on Thursday. “In surgery, resecting the area of the hippocampus can significantly impair memory — visual or verbal memory depending on the side,” he said. This was where cyberknife radiosurgery came in. “We recommend non-invasive procedures when our goal is to preserve memory. It is a daycare procedure and is done in 30 to 40 minutes. However, this is not for all patients. There are specific indications such as young patients with high neuropsychological scores,” Dr. Shankar said. The procedure involves delivery of x-ray/gamma rays with accuracy. “We localise the area that needs to be treated. We use multiple tools, such as high resolution MR scan and PET CT, and plan the treatment as it is close to critical parts of the brain, such as the visual apparatus and brain stem,” he said. The patient said that after treatment, the frequency and magnitude of episodes had reduced considerably. “I had several major episodes in which I have fallen on the road and collapsed in the gym. It affected my attention span and memory,” the patient said. Doctors said his major seizures were under control and he continued to be on a reduced dose of medication.  It is a daycare procedure and is done in 30 to 40 minutes. However, this is not for all patients Shankar Vangipuram, Senior radiation oncologist and cyberknife expert, Apollo Cancer Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/athlete-undergoes-cyberknife-radiosurgery-in-city-hospital/article35480902.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital forms task force for treating paediatric patients||Gleneagles Global Health City (GGHC) hospital here has constituted a multi-disciplinary task force to provide care to paediatric patients in the eventuality of a third wave of COVID-19.  A release from the hospital said that the task force was formed due to the relatively high vulnerability of the paediatric population as they had not been vaccinated yet. Alok Khullar, CEO, GGHC, Chennai, said that the challenges faced during the sudden spike in the second wave motivated the hospital to be prepared for a possible third wave. “The task force consists of doctors from across a wide range of paediatric specialties that will only focus on paediatric COVID care. We have excellent evidence-based protocols in place,” he said. Perumal Karnan, senior consultant and clinical lead, Department of Paediatrics, Shreela Sherine Pauliah, senior consultant, Department of Neonatology, Mohan Babu Kasala, consultant paediatric intensivist, Ponni Sivaprakasam, senior consultant paediatric haematologist, and J. Rajkumar, consultant, Paediatric Infectious Diseases, will be the key members of the task force. Dr. Karnan, who will be leading the task force, said the second wave of COVID-19 had provided more insights on patient management strategies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-forms-task-force-for-treating-paediatric-patients/article35480910.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC agrees to hear actor Vijay’s appeal||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday allowed a petition filed by actor C. Joseph Vijay to dispense with the production of a certified copy of a highly critical order passed against him recently by a single judge of the court on his 2012 writ petition seeking exemption of entry tax for a Rolls Royce Ghost car imported from England. Justices M. Duraiswamy and R. Hemalatha permitted the actor to file a writ appeal with a web copy of the single judge’s order after his counsel S. Kumaresan told the judges that he had applied for a certified copy, but it was yet to be provided by the High Court Registry. The counsel urged the court to hear the appeal on July 26 since there was an urgency. He said Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the High Court had imposed costs of Rs. 1 lakh on the actor while dismissing the 2012 writ petition and ordered that the money be paid to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The single judge had directed the High Court Registry to list the petition on July 28 for reporting compliance. Justice Duraiswamy told the counsel that the appeal would get listed before the Bench immediately after the Registry numbers it if the papers, except for the certified copy of the order, were otherwise in order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-agrees-to-hear-actor-vijays-appeal/article35480919.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||29 saved following fire in Anna Salai complex||Fire broke out on the third floor of the five-storey Gee Gee Complex on Anna Salai on Thursday. Twenty-nine persons caught on the fourth floor of the building were rescued by the Fire and Rescue Services and the police. The Fire and Rescue Services received an alert around 11.45 a.m. about the blaze on the third floor of the complex on Bangaru Naicker Street, Anna Salai, which houses hardware and software firms, shops and other commercial establishments. Personnel from the Triplicane and Egmore fire stations rushed to the spot with fire tenders and two sky lifts. A blanket of thick smoke covered the third floor and a few persons, who were working in an office, rushed to the fourth floor. Firefighters from other stations were also pressed into service. Senior police officers coordinated the rescue effort. “Using the sky lift, we immediately reached the fourth floor, where employees working in a company were caught. They were not able to reach the terrace. We safely rescued nine persons, including a woman, her six-month child and a differently abled person, using the lifts. Later, we broke open air-conditioning ducts and rescued 20 more persons,” said an officer of the Fire and Rescue Services. The police regulated the crowd that thronged one of the busiest places in the city. The fire was put out after two hours. Preliminary investigation revealed that an electric short circuit caused the blaze. A senior police officer said, “We quickly cordoned off the area. Arrangements were made to rescue the persons in association with other line departments. No one was injured in the fire.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-saved-following-fire-in-anna-salai-complex/article35480897.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect Ambattur lake||Ambattur lake continues to be vulnerable to pollution despite the improvement work undertaken in the recent past. The government has decided to chalk out an action plan in coordination with various agencies to address the long-pending issues affecting the lake. On Thursday, a team of officials from the Water Resources Department (WRD), the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the Avadi Municipal Corporation and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board conducted a joint inspection of the lake. This follows a directive of the National Green Tribunal, Southern Bench, to file a report on the status and action taken to address the problems. Spread over 156.55 hectares of land, the Ambattur lake has a capacity of 232 million cubic feet, and the surplus water is diverted to Korattur lake. Officials of the WRD said sewage was let into the lake from surrounding areas, such as Moontru Nagar, Ganapathy Nagar, Sivasakthi Nagar, and Thirumullaivoyal that fall under the Avadi Municipal Corporation and also from the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, Ayapakkam. Similarly, the lake was misused for dumping garbage from areas such as Sathya Nagar and Periyarnagar. The Water Resources Department completed a Rs. 59.18 crore ecorestoration project at Ambattur lake last year. The action plan would include various projects, including the construction of an underground drainage project and sewage treatment plant, and coordination with various stakeholders to raise funds to preserve the lake, a major source of drinking water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-inspect-ambattur-lake/article35480891.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Departments sit for review meetings with SDPC||The State Development Policy Council (SDPC) under the DMK government has resumed meetings with government departments to review their functions and schemes ahead of the Budget session of the Assembly. This is in addition to the review meetings of each department chaired by the Chief Minister. When the AIADMK was in power, suggestions from the SDPC would be sent to the Chief Minister’s Office directly. There were occasional meetings with the heads of the departments but they were not review meetings, involving other officials, with the Vice-Chairperson. A total of 24 departments have completed their review meetings with the SDPC so far, and the meetings have been scheduled for the remaining 10, a source at the Secretariat told The Hindu . The Ministers and Secretaries of the departments are also attending the meetings. “About 20 Ministers came for the department-wise review meetings, and only a few could not take part,” the source said. Short, medium- and long-term plans are reviewed, new ideas are put forth and areas for improvement are spotted. “Earlier, department heads would sit for review meetings only with the Chief Minister and the Chief Secretary... The meetings with the SDPC offer a fresh perspective, which seems to be the primary idea,” an official said. The SPDC is also asking the departments for future plans. “The feasibility of the plans, the resources required to implement them and the way forward are discussed,” another official said. For instance, when the plan to give millets to school children under the nutritious meal scheme was discussed, it emerged that the shelf life of millets was less and students could not digest them easily. Largescale procurement would be impossible too, the official said. An informed source told The Hindu that the DMK government might rename the SDPC as the State Planning Commission or Board. “The AIADMK government renamed the State Planning Commission just because the Union government renamed the Planning Commission as NITI Aayog. There were no consultations. It just issued a government order,” the source pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/departments-sit-for-review-meetings-with-sdpc/article35480883.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri wants Modi to quit over Pegasus scandal||The Modi government should resign over the Pegasus hacking scandal, demanded Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Thursday. He charged that the BJP has dismantled the very foundations of India’s democracy. Leading a protest of Congress cadres to “lay siege” to the Raj Bhavan in Chennai, Mr. Alagiri said the snooping scandal had proved that the Modi government was a dictatorship and that Home Minister Amit Shah should have taken responsibility and resigned; Mr. Modi must submit a White Paper on the floor of Parliament. “They have gone against the basic principles of the Constitution. India’s security itself has become a question mark,” he said. Mr. Alagiri claimed this type of activity could compromise India’s security as even the Army chief’s conversations could be intercepted and might be given to China and Pakistan. Nearly 500 Congress cadres tried to march to the Raj Bhavan from Chinna Malai after garlanding the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s statue but were prevented by the police from reaching the Governor’s premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-wants-modi-to-quit-over-pegasus-scandal/article35481365.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class XII provisional marksheets out||The provisional marksheets for 8.16 lakh Class XII students of the State board schools were made available on Thursday for downloading online by the Directorate of Government Examinations. Some schools called students to the campus in small batches to give them the printouts of the marksheets as well as their transfer certificates. After the board examinations were cancelled, the State government said 50% weightage would be given to the Class X public examination marks (an average of the top three subjects); 20% to the Class XI public examination theory marks; and 30% to the Class XII practicals/internal assessment marks. While the Department of School Education has said that students who are not happy with these results can sit for the examinations along with 39,000 private candidates, schools say a majority of the students are not inclined to go for the examinations. The Department has made it clear that the marks scored in the examinations will be final. College admission “One parent told us that he was unhappy with his daughter’s marks as she had scored low in Class X, and we have informed him of the option of the examinations. Over 95% of the students seem satisfied with the results, and even those who are considering taking up the examinations have begun to gear up for college admission,” said A. Ramu, State president, Directly Recruited Post Graduate Teachers Association, of the mood among the students of his school in Namakkal. G.J. Manohar, correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School, Chennai, said no student had so far come forward to appear in the examinations.  Over 95% students seem satisfied with the results, and even those considering to take up the exams have began to gear up for college admission A. Ramu State president, Directly Recruited Post Graduate Teachers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-xii-provisional-marksheets-out/article35480884.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man with multiple disorders undergoes procedure||A 59-year-old man was recently treated in a city hospital for multiple disorders, including aneurysm, seizures and thrombus. The man had speech impairment, expressed a pulling sensation in his right hand and his tongue was folding inwards, indicating that he was undergoing a seizure, which an ECG confirmed later. Bhuvaneshwari Rajendran, consultant neurologist at the Neurology and Neurophysiology Department of Kauvery Hospital here, said an MRI revealed a 5 mm cerebral aneurysm caused by a weakening in the walls of the main blood vessel and a clot (thrombus) in a major artery feeding the left brain. “The patient was treated with a minimally invasive procedure involving coiling and administered blood thinners post-endivascular coiling procedure,” Dr. Bhuvaneshwari said. When the patient was discharged four days later, he was able to move his hands and speak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-with-multiple-disorders-undergoes-procedure/article35480901.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deal firmly with those spreading hate: Alphonse||The government should deal with an iron hand with those who spoke against religious sentiments in a derogatory manner and disturbed harmony in society, said State Minorities Commission chairperson Peter Alphonse on Thursday. “We do not expect leniency from the government. Communal harmony should not be disturbed,” said Mr. Alphonse when asked about the comments of a Christian priest against Hindus and Bharat Mata in Kanniyakumari. Though the priest had expressed regret for his comments, his speech, which was shared widely on social media, has caused anger and Hindu organisations have demanded his arrest. Mr. Alphonse, who met reporters in Chennai along with Minorities Welfare Minister Gingee K.S. Masthan and other members of the Commission, requested the government to give powers to the commission to classify and certify “genuine minority educational institutions” in the State. “There is a need to differentiate genuine institutions from others who make use of the minority status for their own benefits,” he said. Explaining a resolution adopted in the meeting, he sought Bharat Ratna to be posthumously conferred on former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, who he said prevented the entry of fascist forces in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Masthan said in the last 10 years vacancies for minorities in government jobs were not filled and there was a need to do it immediately to give effect to the 3.5% reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deal-firmly-with-those-spreading-hate-alphonse/article35480914.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Study on to restore elephant corridors in the Nilgiris, govt. tells High Court||The State government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that it has undertaken a comprehensive study with the assistance of international elephant experts and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) for the purpose of ensuring that elephant corridors and habitat belonging to the elephants in the Nilgiris area, if invaded, are restored to the forests and to the animals. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were informed that the Forest Department would submit a detailed report before the court, after four weeks, on the basis of the findings of the study. The report would assist the court in passing necessary orders on a public interest litigation petition alleging large-scale encroachments in elephant corridors. Animal lover S. Muralidharan had filed the PIL petition complaining about presence of illegal brick kilns around the elephant corridor in Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district. Taking serious note of such a complaint, the court had directed the government to act against the illegal kilns and also called for reports on restoring the elephant corridors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-on-to-restore-elephant-corridors-in-the-nilgiris-govt-tells-high-court/article35480925.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps being taken to make Tamil the official language at govt. offices’||Urgent measures are being taken to make sure Tamil is used as an official language for communication at government offices, Minister for Tamil Official Language, Tamil Culture and Archaeology Thangam Thennarasu said on Thursday. Addressing reporters after reviewing the functioning of the Department of Tamil Development here, he said steps were also being taken to ensure Tamil translation of government files. “The Chief Secretary has ordered translation of government files in Tamil. Officials would be appointed for the purpose, and there would be a nodal officer to monitor the progress,” he said. Under the Central Institute of Classical Tamil, an endowment was created by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi for giving away Rs. 10 lakh in cash awards to Tamil scholars every year. But this was discontinued by the AIADMK government, he said. The DMK government will restart the awards, and a committee was formed to recommend names. Grant of assistance to Tamil scholars without delay and proper maintenance of statues of Tamil scholars were the other issues discussed at the meeting, he said. The Central Institute of Classical Tamil will continue to work as an autonomous institution. “Its building in Taramani is not in a good shape. A new building is being constructed in Perumbakkam. Once the construction is over, it will be shifted there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-make-tamil-the-official-language-at-govt-offices/article35480880.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No elevated platforms in Sub Registrar Offices||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy on Thursday directed officials that elevated platforms on which Sub Registrars are seated at Sub Registrar Offices across the State should be removed. An official release said the Minister made the decision to ensure that those visiting Sub Registrar Offices are treated with respect. The Minister also ordered the removal of structures preventing the general public from getting close to Sub Registrars. “The Minister has said that senior officials should not be seated on elevated platforms, but along with other officials, to serve the people,” the release said. Since all services offered by Sub Registrar Offices are computerised and payments are made electronically, there was no need for elevated platforms for Sub Registrars to sit, the Minister said. A circular has been issued by the Inspector General of Registration to all Sub Registrar Offices. Some ago, a similar decision was taken but was subsequently withdrawn by the State government, after the Tamil Nadu Registration Department Officials’ Association represented stating that Sub-Registrars had judicial powers under law while conducting enquiries on certain documents. An elevated platform, like in courts, helps have a clear view while examining registrants, witnesses and other respondents, an official said. He added that under Section 347 of the CrPC, when the State government so directs any Registrar or Sub-Registrar appointed under the Registration Act, 1998, shall be deemed to be a Civil Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-elevated-platforms-in-sub-registrar-offices/article35480905.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stringent steps planned to make T.N. free from banned tobacco products’||Stringent measures have been planned for two months to make Tamil Nadu completely free from banned tobacco products, such as gutka and pan masala, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. A three-pronged strategy is being put in place for the same — checks on shops selling the banned items, spreading awareness on the ill-effects of tobacco use and roping in traders to take a pledge not to sell banned tobacco products. Shops found selling the products will first be served a notice, followed by the imposition of fine, and later, sealing of the premises if they continue to violate norms, he told reporters on the sidelines of a State-level coordination meeting held with food safety officers, the police and the Local Administration Department on tobacco control. In every district, awareness on the ill-effects of tobacco use will be created, he said, adding, “Mannequins depicting the effects of tobacco on one’s health and the damage it can cause will be installed in at least 50 places, such as entrances to schools and colleges and places where people converge, like markets. Collectors can bring traders together and make them take a pledge not to sell these products that pose health hazards to the people,” he said. All three departments will work together for two months. District-level officials who ensure that their district is free from banned tobacco will receive appreciation certificates from the Chief Minister, he said. He said action would be taken on officials responsible, after due inquiry, if they are unable to keep a check on banned tobacco items. Speaking at the meeting, he told food safety officers to hold coordination meetings with the Local Administration and Police departments in their respective districts. Coordination committees could be formed at the block and taluk levels, he said. Soon after news spread about the meeting, the Minister said he received messages on WhatsApp, providing information about shops selling the banned tobacco products. He said the identity of those who share information would be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stringent-steps-planned-to-make-tn-free-from-banned-tobacco-products/article35480888.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Buy buses only if they are differently abled friendly, HC tells govt.||The Madras High Court on Thursday restrained the State government from adding any new bus to its fleet used for public transport unless such vehicle was disabled-friendly as mandated under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act of 2016 and the statutory rules framed thereunder in 2017. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the interim injunction on three writ petitions seeking universal use of differently abled friendly buses. While the latest case had been filed by cross disability rights advocate Vaishnavi Jayakumar, the other two were pending since 2005 and 2007. The petitioners’ counsel and an A micus Curiae told the court that, for decades together, the State government had been shirking from its responsibility to facilitate free movement of the differently abled people despite successive Central legislations having batted in favour of making public transport easily accessible to them. Ms. Jayakumar's counsel said, even the latest Government Order (GO) issued on February 24, 2021 stated that the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) would be procuring only 10% of low floor buses and 25% of buses fitted with lift mechanism or any other suitable method to provide easy access to wheelchair bound passengers. It was brought to the notice of the court that the State could not choose to use only a small percentage of differently abled friendly buses when the law mandates 100% compliance. On the other hand, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram told the court that there were certain practical difficulties in introducing low floored buses. The A-G said that the roads in the city were very bad and that plying the low floored buses on such bad roads would damage the vehicles. Nevertheless, agreeing that the State was bound to implement the law and the courts orders passed so far, he said the government would introduce low floored buses in phases. Advocate Rita Chandrasekar, representing MTC, said the cost factor was also one of the reasons for the corporation not being able to purchase low floored buses alone. She said, each low floored bus costs Rs. 58 lakh as against Rs. 26 lakh for which a regular bus could be purchased and therefore the budget does not permit purchase of such expensive buses. “We are living in a poor country. The pandemic has made us even poorer,” she said evoking a strong remark from the Chief Justice who asked: “How many of our legislators are poor?” As long as the law was in force, the State was bound to follow it in letter and spirit. “If you cannot implement it, then get it amended. Say this will not apply to Tamil Nadu,” the Chief Justice said. He granted four weeks' time for the State government to indicate a roadmap on how it intended to ensure that 100% of the government buses were differently abled friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-restrains-govt-from-buying-buses-unless-they-are-disabled-friendly/article35480909.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man, 73, held for raping 88-year-old woman||A 73-year-old man was arrested on Thursday on charges of raping an 88-year-old woman in Nerkundram in the All-Women Police Station limits of Thirumangalam. The police said the victim was staying with her 43-year-old son. When she was alone in her house, the accused assaulted her on Wednesday night. After she raised an alarm, neighbours rescued her and thrashed the accused. The accused was identified as M. Balasundaram, 73, a Sri Lankan, employed as a security guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-73-held-for-raping-88-year-old-woman/article35480898.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Clarify on availability of oxygen’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday wanted Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to clarify about the actual position on the availability of oxygen in the State. In a statement, he recalled Mr. Stalin’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the day of his assuming office as Chief Minister (May 7) wherein he mentioned that 13 persons died in Chengalpattu a few days earlier. He referred to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian’s recent claim that not a single person died due to oxygen shortage. Pointing out that there was a contradiction between the two statements, Mr. Panneerselvam said the State government was duty bound to explain the real position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarify-on-availability-of-oxygen/article35480903.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials asked to provide data on unauthorised flats||The State Information Commission, which has the powers of a civil court, has directed the Revenue and Disaster Management Department to provide all information sought by an RTI applicant on land grabbing cases filed in Kancheepuram, Vellore and Tiruvallur districts, pattas granted to unauthorised residential apartments in Perambur and Purasawalkam taluks and registration details. P. Kalyanasundaram, a senior citizen and social activist, filed an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act with the public information officer (PIO) of the Revenue Department, State Secretariat, in April 2019. He sought details on the number of land grabbing cases filed in Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore districts in the last three years and action taken on them. He sought to know the action taken on complaints about obtaining patta in a fraudulent manner for government and public lands in these districts. In another application, which was sent to the PIO of the Land Administration and Disaster Management department, he wanted to know on what basis pattas had been issued to unauthorised residential apartments in Perambur and Purasawalkam taluks of Chennai district. He sought details relating to the land classification in these two taluks and the building plan approved by the CMDA and the Greater Chennai Corporation. In another application before the PIO, Public Department, Mr. Kalyanasundaram sought to know on what basis the registration of unauthorised apartments were allowed. In all, he filed four applications in 2019. Aggrieved over not being given any information, he filed an appeal before the State Information Commission. Information Commissioner S. Selvaraj, in his order, said to ensure furnishing of complete information to the appellant, the appellant authority/Joint Secretary of the Revenue and Disaster Management Department had been appointed as legal officer to take all steps to furnish information under Section 18(3)(b) of the RTI Act. The information should be furnished within 21 days to the appellant without any charges from the date of order through registered post. Mr. Selvaraj said a copy of the response should be communicated to the Commission through email before August 10. For failing to adhere to this order, Rs. 25,000 penalty will be imposed on the past/present PIOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-asked-to-provide-data-on-unauthorised-flats/article35481364.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary exam schedule for Class XII||The Directorate of Government Examinations has asked private candidates and students of Class XII, who are not satisfied with their results and want to take up board exams, to apply for the same online. An announcement was made on Thursday and the DGE has released the exam schedule for the supplementary exams to be held from August 6 to 19. Apart from 39,000 private candidates, the State had announced that Class XII students would be given the opportunity to take up the exams again if they are not satisfied with the results. The DGE has asked such candidates to approach district-level Government Examination Service Centres and submit applications online. This can be done from July 23 to 27. For further details, log ontowww.dge.tn.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supplementary-exam-schedule-for-class-xii/article35480885.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, grandson suffocate to death at home||A 55-year-old woman and her 11-year-old grandson died of suffocation at their home in Pammal under the Shankar Nagar police station limits on Thursday. They had lighted coal to repel mosquitoes and choked due to the smoke in a closed room. Her husband and daughter were found in an unconscious state and have been hospitalised. The police gave the names of the victims as Pushpavalli and Vishal. Pushpavalli, her husband Chokkalingam, 60, an employee of the Government Hospital, Chrompet, daughter Mallika and grandson Vishal were staying on the ground floor of the house on Thiruvalluvar Street, Ponni Nagar, Pammal. They went to sleep on Wednesday night and did not respond to calls of Subramani, a tenant who knocked on the door to switch on the water pump. Later, their son, who was staying in an adjacent portion and neighbours broke open the door and found all four in an unconscious state. They were rushed to the Government Hospital, Chrompet, where Pushpavalli was declared brought dead and others referred to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children. Vishal died in hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-grandson-suffocate-to-death-at-home/article35480899.ece
23 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||All aged above 18 get their first dose of vaccine in this tribal settlement||Nedungundram, a tribal settlement located around 15 km off Valparai in the Anamalai hills, had its first vaccination camp on July 14 when 60 persons had their first dose of Covishield. On Wednesday, 40 more residents received their first dose and the settlement achieved the feat of having all its residents aged above 18 receiving their first jab. “This is the first tribal settlement in the district where all persons aged above 18 got their first dose of vaccine,” said S. Senthil Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services. Like many other settlements in the Valparai region, the villagers were initially hesitant towards receiving vaccine. It gradually faded through the efforts of health workers. “We created awareness among the residents before conducting the camp. All the elders came forward to receive vaccine in the two camps” said Babu Lakshman, Block Medical Officer, Valparai. The medical team led by Dr. Lakshman distributed provisional certificates to those who got vaccinated on July 14. Certificates of others will be distributed later. K. Rathinasamy, head of the Kadar settlement, said that some persons from the village who had gone to other places for works have also been vaccinated.“The medical team visited every house in the settlement on Wednesday and confirmed that all the people aged above 18 had their first dose,” he said. Dr. Senthil Kumar said that countering vaccine hesitancy was a big challenge in conducting vaccination camps in remote locations. Residents of some of the tribal settlements in Coimbatore district had run away when health workers visited their places. In one settlement, a few men climbed trees to avoid the vaccination. “Now camps are conducted in tribal settlements after creating awareness among them and getting their consent in advance. We are trying for complete coverage in all remote settlements in the district,” said Dr. Senthil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-aged-above-18-get-their-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-this-tribal-settlement/article35480938.ece
23 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore rural tops in sexual abuse cases amid lockdown||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police registered 115 cases for sexual assault on minors from January 2020 to June this year and the maximum cases were reported during the COVID-19-induced lockdown period, showed statistics provided by the police.  According to the Rural Police, 205 cases were registered under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act from 2018 to June 2021 and more than half of these cases were reported in the last one-and-a-half years. Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam said that some children became victims of sexual offences during the lockdown when they remained at their homes. At the same time, reporting of sexual assaults increased in the district due to the increase in the awareness, he said. “The Rural Police conducted 100 camps this year to create awareness on the POCSO Act and offences against children. Forty such camps were held in the last 10 days,” he said. To tackle the threat of children being lured to offenders and offensive contents while attending online classes, Rural Police are conducting online awareness programmes for students through the School Education Department. “Head of the schools can contact Rural Police for resource persons to conduct such online classes which will be very useful for children and parents,” he said. He said that Rural Police will explore the possibility of invoking provisions of the Goondas Act against persons arrested in POCSO Act cases. Procedure for slapping Goondas Act on six offenders were under way, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-rural-tops-in-sexual-abuse-cases-amid-lockdown/article35480940.ece
23 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Parents now enrol children in govt. schools||With her son studying till Class V at a private school here, Devi (name changed), a resident of Saibaba Colony, decided to change school for her son for Class VI this year. Employed as a nurse at a dental clinic and her husband working for a food delivery aggregator, the COVID-19-induced lockdown impacted the financial situation of the family to the extent that they could no longer afford to pay the fees at the private school, she said. Hence, the couple decided to enrol their son at a government-aided school for the current academic year. “Government schools have now come on a par with private schools,” Ms. Devi told The Hindu on Thursday. She also plans to shift her younger son currently studying Class IV at a private school to a government school. With the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns affecting many families, several parents are opting to shift their children from private schools to government and aided schools in Coimbatore district. As per data from the Coimbatore Chief Educational Office, enrolment at the 1,208 government schools in the district for the academic year 2021-22 stood at 1,75,873 students as of Wednesday, surpassing the total number of admissions of 1,68,645 students in 2020-21. With the admission process yet to be completed, the enrolment in government schools is expected to increase further, according to officials. G. Ramesh, headmaster of Government Higher Secondary School at Othakkalmandapam, said the new admissions in his school for 2021-22 academic year was 451 as of Thursday, which was already higher than the total number of new admissions in the previous year (398 students). “Many parents say that they are unable to pay the fees in private schools,” he said, noting that many of the new admissions were that of students from private schools. Amid the increasing enrolment, T. Arulanandam, State auditor of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers’ Association, suggested that the government schools in the district must improve their facilities to meet the demands of the newly-enrolled students. The Department of School Education must appoint additional teachers to both Tamil and English medium subjects for the current academic year at the earliest, he urged. Conservancy workers must be appointed in government schools to ensure cleanliness of the premises and night security guards must be present to prevent entry of miscreants, he said. Coordinator of NGO Save School Education Movement S. Chandrasekar said that the Department of School Education must improve the infrastructure of government schools in view of increased enrolment to ensure that basic needs of the students, such as water supply, toilets and electricity, are addressed. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer M. Ramakrishnan told The Hindu that the needs of government schools in the district such as additional teachers and infrastructure-related needs will be addressed by the Department of School Education once the admission process were completed. “This is a healthy period for government schools,” he said regarding the increase in enrolment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-now-enrol-children-in-govt-schools/article35480931.ece
23 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Job working powerloom weavers demand wage hike||Job working powerloom weavers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have submitted demands to the Collectors of the two districts seeking revision of wages. The job working weavers submitted their demand to Coimbatore Collector on Thursday and to Tiruppur Collector two days ago. In Tiruppur, the Labour Department officials have called for first round of talks on July 29. The Coimbatore Collector has assured that he will take necessary steps, said C. Palaniswamy, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Job Working Powerloom Owners Association. The wages for the job working weaving units were revised in 2014. The master weavers and job working units used to have three year wage agreements. However, there is no revision of wages after 2014 and the job working units are not getting the wages agreed in 2014 too. The wages are just 50 % of what was agreed in 2014. The job working units have demanded 60 % hike from the wages in 2014 agreement for all varieties of fabrics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-working-powerloom-weavers-demand-wage-hike/article35480929.ece
23 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Master Plan work to be fast-tracked||Coimbatore’s need for a revised Master Plan is likely to be addressed soon as the State government and the district administration aims to finalise the revised plan in 18 months. Efforts to finalise the revised Master Plan for Coimbatore will be fast-tracked, Collector G.S. Sameeran told The Hindu . The Collector said that he had asked for a dedicated team to take up the revision work and all changes in land use patterns will be incorporated. The government is expected to issue a set of instructions soon regarding the revision work. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the need to revise the Master Plan for Coimbatore is pending from 1994. The public have been demanding for revision of the plan and the State government has also realised the need to do it. The government should also constitute the Greater Coimbatore Authority as in Chennai, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-master-plan-work-to-be-fast-tracked/article35480927.ece
23 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Smartphones given to differently abled||As many as 210 differently abled persons received smartphones from the Department of Welfare of Differently Abled Persons during a special camp held at the Collectorate here on Thursday. According to District Differently Abled Welfare Officer (DDAWO) G. Vasanth Kumar, this was the second phase of distribution under the State government scheme as around 150 differently abled beneficiaries received the smartphones during the first phase in 2020. “The distribution got delayed due to the [Assembly] election,” he said. Each of the smartphones cost around Rs. 11,000.As per the eligibility criteria for this scheme, the beneficiaries must be 18 years of age or above and should be either studying, a working professional, self-employed or unemployed, Mr. Kumar said. For the current year, application for this scheme will be issued soon and a committee chaired by the District Collector will choose the eligible beneficiaries, the DDAWO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smartphones-given-to-differently-abled/article35480933.ece
23 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Theni natives held with 44 kg ganja||The Crime Detection and Prevention Squad of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) arrested two persons with 44 kg of ganja on Thursday. T. Chelladhurai (51) and M. Kathiresan (35), both from Uthamapalayam near Thevaram in Theni, were arrested by a team led by Sub-Inspector Dharam Singh Meena, and head constables E. Marimuthu and K. Inbaraj at the Coimbatore Railway Station. The duo had arrived at the station on Secunderabad – Thiruvananthapuram Express around 8.15 a.m. The RPF team found the duo carrying two white polythene bags in a suspicious manner. The personnel checked the bags and found that each bag contained 22 kg of ganja. The seized ganja was valued at around Rs. 4.4 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-natives-held-with-44-kg-ganja/article35480941.ece
23 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AUT branch opened||The Association of University Teachers has opened its branch at Bharathiar University. A release from the organisation said the branch was started with 50 members. Professor P. Christopher would be the president, P. Guru Saravanan secretary and Prabha treasurer. Former Association members N. Senthamarai, C. Pichandy and K. Pandian offered their fecilitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aut-branch-opened/article35480926.ece
23 July 2021||cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||74 COVID cases in Cuddalore||The COVID-19 toll in Cuddalore district rose to 803 on Thursday, with one death reported in Parangipettai. Seventy-four fresh cases took the infection tally to 59,824. A 59-year-old woman from the district died of the disease at a private hospital in Thanjavur on Thursday. The district has seen 58,100 recoveries so far, and currently has 832 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/74-covid-cases-in-cuddalore/article35481366.ece
23 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Selfie spot in run-up to Olympics||To encourage sportspersons from the district headed to participate in the Olympics in Tokyo, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inaugurated a selfie spot at the sports complex here. The Collector said the State government was providing all kinds of support from training to funds to inspire sportspersons preparing for the international event. The district was sending 11 sportspersons to participate in 400 m. relay, 400 m. mixed relay, table tennis, sword fight and rowing competitions to be held between July 23 and August 8. Each participant has been given Rs. 5 lakh by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, the Collector said. The selfie spot was also an effort to inspire budding sportspersons to contest at the district, State and national level competitions with the goal of preparing for the 2024 Olympics, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selfie-spot-in-run-up-to-olympics/article35481071.ece
23 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Forester injured while arresting two persons||Two persons were arrested with country-made guns intended for poaching in Morappur, on Thursday. A forester and an accused were injured during the arrest, after one of the country-made guns went off. A team under Morappur forest ranger Sivakumar was on night patrol around Kevaramalai reserve forest area. Early on Thursday morning, two men were spotted loitering in the forest with country-made guns for hunting animals. Kumar and Sakthivel were intercepted by a forest patrol team deployed to curb poaching. The men, according to Forest Department sources, made a bid to escape before they were encircled. A country-made gun held by one of the men accidentally went off injuring a forester and Kumar. The injured men were taken to the Harur government hospital. Special patrol teams have been deployed to curb poaching in Morappur, Gowgampatty, Ramiyanahalli and Kevaramalai reserve forests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forester-injured-while-arresting-two-persons/article35481073.ece
23 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Kids of police personnel in Dindigul district get a creche||Ravali Priya, Superintendent of Police, Dindigul district, inaugurated a creche, first of its kind in the south zone, for kids of police personnel in the district at the Armed Reserve Police campus here on Thursday. According to the officials, there are a little over 2,000 police personnel in the district. Out of this, 30% were women personnel. On most days, they go for work early in the morning and return late at night. After the SP took over, the enumeration exercise revealed that a creche would be ideal for children in the age group of 1 to 4 years to spend their time in a useful way. With COVID-19 cases declining, the police personnel were encouraged to start using the creche, which was being manned by a team of women police, officers said. At the inaugural function, the officers said that the children would not only be safe in the creche, but also get an opportunity to spend time ideally in a protected environment. For the benefit of the parents, the police have developed an app that can be downloaded on their android mobile handsets and can chat with their children at the creche through video call. ADSPs Lavanya and David, DSP Sam Vedamanickam and other officers were present on the inaugural function. The SP also inaugurated a sanitary vending machine at the All Women Police Station, Dindigul. Out of the 36 police stations in the district, 27 among them would have the facility soon. With more women police working in police stations, this facility would spread the message of hygiene and cleanliness. The machines would be installed on the premises and the upkeep would be taken care of by the personnel, Inspector Amudha and Sub-Inspector Latha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kids-of-police-personnel-in-dindigul-district-get-a-creche/article35481048.ece
23 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Banned plastic products seized||The corporation authorities seized 30 kg of banned plastic bags and tumblers from some shops and tea stalls in the Kamarajar bus stand here on Thursday. Following complaints that many shops were using the banned plastic items, Commissioner Siva Subramanian ordered the officials to check. In a raid, the teams led by Health Inspector Suresh seized the banned plastics from tea stalls, sweet shops and flower vendors. After a warning, the shopkeepers were told that they should not indulge in such offence in future and any failure to adhere to the law would attract stern action. The officials said that the public can share information with the authorities and the details would be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-plastic-products-seized/article35481057.ece
23 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Ensure equal pay for workers in local bodies: AITUC||Members of the Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association, affiliated to AITUC, have urged the district administration to ensure equal pay for workers working in various local bodies in the district. The association meeting, led by its president S. Chinnasamy was held here in which various resolutions were passed. The resolution said that the district has one corporation, four municipalities, 42 town panchayats and 225 village panchayats where over 10,000 workers involved with conservancy, public sanitation, drinking water distribution, maintenance of street lights, and office works were employed. Of this, 75% of the workers were appointed through self-help groups, on contract basis and by outsourcing who were paid daily wages. The resolution said that the Collector fixes the minimum wages for workers every year which is implemented by the local bodies. However, many local bodies fail to implement the order and continue to pay lower wages than fixed by the district administration. Also, the jobs of the workers were not regularised as per the norms. Since each local body pays different wages for the workers, there is no uniformity and hence, equal pay should be ensured, the resolution said. The resolution urged abolition of the contract and outsourcing system and wanted the government to recruit workers directly. The job of existing temporary workers in local bodies should be regularised and time-scale should be given to them. Another resolution wanted the minimum wages for 2021-22 be fixed immediately and implemented by all the local bodies. Also, conservancy workers should be paid a monthly consolidated pay of Rs. 10,000 instead of the existing Rs. 3,600. A resolution wanted an incentive of Rs. 15,000 to each of the workers in local bodies who worked during COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-equal-pay-for-workers-in-local-bodies-aituc/article35481074.ece
23 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Accused arrested twice under POCSO to be detained under Goondas Act||Persons arrested twice under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), 2012, would be detained under Goondas Act and recommendations had been made in that connection, said S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore Range, here on Thursday. Addressing the media after inaugurating a sensitisation programme on juvenile justice system, POCSO and Child Marriage Acts, for police officers in the district, organised by the District Child Protection Office (DCPO), Mr. Muthusamy said crime against children was reducing in Coimbatore, Erode, The Nilgiris and Tiruppur and lauded the efforts of the police in creating awareness among people. Pointing out that Kakkum Karangal, an initiative of the Erode district police by which 34 teams comprising officials from 10 departments were visiting the places where crime occurred frequently and educating the public to prevent further happenings, he said the initiative led to drop in crime against children in the district in July when compared to last month. “The teams had conducted 450 awareness meetings in rural areas,” he said and added that 15 child marriages were stopped recently. He also said people were coming forward and lodging complaints if they found crime taking place against children and women. The DIG said cases registered under POCSO Act had reduced from nine in June to six in July and warned that if an accused was arrested under the Act twice, he would be detained under Goondas Act. V. Sasi Mohan, Superintendent of Police, P. Priyadevi, DCPO and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-arrested-twice-under-pocso-to-be-detained-under-goondas-act/article35481075.ece
23 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Train ticket reservation at post offices||The Department of Posts is offering train ticket reservation service at its sub-post office at Pallipalayam and head post office at Gobichettipalayam, a release from Stefan Simon Tobias, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode Division, said. For details, contact Pallipalayam post office at 04288-242777- and Gobichettipalayam 04285-241028.   A 36-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for murdering a 52-year-old man. A charred body was found near a graveyard at Nanjappa Nagar at Karungalpalayam on Wednesday and the victim was identified as Azaenset of Palakattur. The police picked up K. Prakash of R.N. Pudur who confessed to have committed the crime as the victim had spit on his face six months ago and a dispute prevailed between them. He was lodged at prison.   In separate incidents, two youths were arrested by the police and cases were registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, on Thursday. Mani alias Manikandan (22) of Bargur Hills, a construction worker, lured a 17-year-old girl and abducted her. The Bhavani police arrested him and rescued the girl. In another incident, Gowrishankar (21) of Chennampatti was arrested for abducting a 15-year-old girl. The girl was rescued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-ticket-reservation-at-post-offices/article35481077.ece
23 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||As Tangedco has planned to carry out works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas:  Ondikaranpalayam line, 10 a.m. to noon, July 23: Karamadai, Vettuvapalayam and Blessing Avenue.  Gangapuram line, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., July 26: Thottampatti and Al Ameen Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35481078.ece
23 July 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Illegal arms seized||In a crackdown on illegal arms, the police teams seized 24 country-made guns and arrested 19 persons here. In a slew of raids in Denkanikottai, Thally, Rayakottai, Kelamangalam, Udhanapalli and Anchetty, the guns were seized from over 19 persons. According to sources, the police have asked persons owning illegal country-made guns to handover them, failing which action would be taken against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-arms-seized/article35481072.ece
23 July 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Karur District Museum to be shifted to own building soon||Steps would be taken to shift the Karur District Government Museum to a government-owned building in the district, Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji said here on Thursday. Mr. Balaji, who inspected the District Museum on Old Dindigul Road along with Collector T. Prabhushankar, pointed out that the district museum and another repository of ancient artefacts of the Department of Archaeology were functioning at two different places in the town. Both were functioning from rented buildings, he added. Hence, steps would be taken to integrate the two and shift them to a government-owned building. Since the Karur Municipal office had been shifted to a new building, the museum could be shifted to the old municipal office premises, he said. Mr. Senthil Balaji also assured steps to improve infrastructure and amenities at the district museum so as to showcase the ancient history and glory of Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-district-museum-to-be-shifted-to-own-building-soon/article35481006.ece
23 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai to get three flyovers: Velu||Proposals were being prepared to construct three flyovers in Madurai to reduce traffic congestion. These plans would be announced in the State assembly after receiving the Chief Minister’s approval, said Public Works Department Minister E. V. Velu here on Thursday. He was addressing mediapersons, along with Food and Civil Supplies Minister R. Sakkarapani, Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan and Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy. He chaired a meeting with PWD officials from Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul, Theni and Sivaganga districts. Mr. Velu said that the six spots which were earlier shortlisted for building the Kalaignar Memorial Library had several drawbacks. Hence, a PWD land on New Natham Road was found to be suitable for building the library. “I inspected the site and will brief the Chief Minister, who will make the final announcement of the location for constructing the library,” he added. Grievances about slower execution of road projects were discussed. The problems in land acquisition was one of the major reasons which caused delay in laying roads. “Hence, a committee with five DROs will be formed to solve the issues related to land acquisition at a faster pace,” said Mr. Velu. The department will also work towards the request of laying a highway from Palani to Kodaikanal. Similarly, steps will be taken to lay a road between Kodaikanal and Munnar in Kerala to promote tourism activities between the two States. Approach roads would also be laid to the excavation site at Keeladi and the cluster of villages, said the Minister. Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekar, Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy, Ramanathapuram Collector J. U. Chandrakala, Dindigul Collector S. Visakan, and Madurai Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan attended the meeting.  A road will be laid between Kodaikanal and Munnar in Kerala to promote tourism between the two States E. V. Velu PWD Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodaikanal-munnar-road-to-be-laid/article35481049.ece
23 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take action against Commissioner under SC, ST Act, says panel chief||Chairman of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan has written to the Chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes Vijay Samplan alleging that Madurai Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan behaved in a ‘discriminative and insulting manner’ during his recent visit to Madurai. Mr. Venkatesan was in Madurai earlier this month to visit a conservancy worker who had lost his left hand in an accident while at work. He also listened to the grievances of conservancy workers, who were protesting on Arignar Anna Maligai premises, the corporation headquarters, pressing for many demands, including service regularisation. He claimed that though he made several calls to the Commissioner, he refused to attend them and meet the conservancy workers. “His behaviour was disrespectful and uncooperative. The Commission has taken a very serious view of the behaviour,” he said. He urged Mr. Vijay to take action against the Commissioner under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act), 1989. He said that this complaint was not filed for a personal reason but for disrespecting a person holding a post equivalent to that of a Union Minister of State. When The Hindu contacted Mr. Karthikeyan, he said that all the official protocols were followed during the visit of Mr. Venkatesan. “There has been some miscommunication, because of which he has filed this complaint,” he said. Mr. Karthikeyan said that he and Collector S. Aneesh Sekar were waiting at the residence of the conservancy worker who had lost his hand, as per the official tour programme of Mr. Venkatesan. However Mr. Venkatesan changed plans and went to meet the protesters on Madurai Corporation office premises. “While I was travelling from the conservancy worker’s home to the Corporation office, it was wrongly communicated to Mr. Venkatesan that I was in my chamber and did not come to meet him,” he said. He had requested the Chairman to have a meeting at the conference hall as the protesters had gathered in violation of the COVID-19 safety protocol. “A meeting was held for 1.5 hours and all the instructions of the Chairman were followed. There has been some miscommunication during the incident,” said the Corporation Commissioner.  There has been some miscommunication, because of which he has filed a complaint K. P. Karthikeyan Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-action-against-commissioner-under-sc-st-act-says-panel-chief/article35481253.ece
23 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lock and seal shops: court||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has stayed the resolutions passed to transfer the licence of some of the shops belonging to Usilampatti panchayat union to third parties. Prima facie, the transfer was illegal and without jurisdiction, the court said. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that startling facts were brought to light. It was not clear on what basis such a transfer of licence was done. The local bodies had constantly taken a stand that the licence or lease was not transferable to third parties. Contrary to this, the resolutions were passed, the judges said. In order to ensure that transparency was maintained, the court stayed the proceedings of the resolutions till further orders. Further, the court directed the Assistant Director of Panchayats to lock and seal all the shops. The court ordered notice and adjourned the hearing. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by V. P. Ammavasai, a ward member of Usilampatti panchayat union. He sought a direction to cancel the transfer of licence to the third parties and said that this would cause revenue loss to the local body. Without inviting tenders, resolutions were passed to transfer the licence of the shops. Some of them had indulged in falsification of documents in order to get the transfer of licence. Taking into account the illegalities and violations, the shops must be locked and sealed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lock-and-seal-shops-court/article35481258.ece
23 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Remove encroachments from tank, file report: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai district administration to remove government buildings, offices of political parties, places of worship and commercial buildings that were constructed by encroaching upon the BB Kulam tank. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the authorities to take action and file a status report. The court was informed by the State that 100 shops that were constructed on the tank were already demolished as part of the eviction drive. Several people who had constructed the houses on the water body had rented it out to third parties. The third parties were convinced that they could no longer continue in the said premises and had vacated. But those persons who had rented the premises were keeping it under lock and key. Taking note of the submission, the judges observed that if this was the case, the authorities should take steps to demolish those houses immediately. Further, the court took note of the fact that the occupants also comprised people who were below poverty line. Some of them were eligible for allotment of houses constructed by Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board in Rajakoor. With regard to the other set of people, it was not clear whether they were eligible to get those houses. There was also a group of people who had made payments to the TNSCB and ex-servicemen. In order to ascertain their status, the court directed the authorities to form a committee with Revenue, Public Works Department and Slum Clearance Board members who will enumerate the details. The court also directed the shifting of a liquor outlet. The court directed the authorities to file the report, following which it would take a decision. The court adjourned the hearing in the petition filed by BB Kulam - Mullai Nagar Kudiyiruppor Nala Sangam. The secretary of the sangam, S. Pandia Raj, said that the authorities were going ahead with the demolition drive without rehabilitating them. The demolition drive started after the High Court directed the authorities to remove the encroachments on the tank.  Those who constructed houses on the water body have rented them out to third parties State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-from-tank-file-report-hc/article35481251.ece
23 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||GI tag applied for Ambasamudram toys||Ambasamudram Bharani Mara Varna Kadasal Artisans’ Welfare Association has applied for a Geographical Indication (GI) tag for Ambasamudram Choppu Saamaan (wooden toys). The MSME Intellectual Property Facilitation Centre of NABARD's Madurai Agri Business Incubation Forum acted as the facilitator for filing the GI tag. According to the application, the Ambasamudram toys are known for the vibrant colour, smooth texture, and simplicity of design. ‘Choppu saamaan' are wooden toys, including miniature kitchen utensils, tables and chairs. The craft is said to have been in practice since the 18th century. The toys are made using seasoned wood, natural colours and screw pine leaves. Earlier, these wooden toys were made from trees such as Neolamarckia cadamba, teak and rosewood. Since there is a shortage of these trees, the toy makers have shifted to making toys from rubber wood and eucalyptus wood that are brought from places such as Pudukkottai district. These toys are popular for their vibrant colours and low price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-applied-for-wooden-toys-from-ambasamudram/article35481257.ece
23 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Thursday stood at 130.25 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,315 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.44 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,011 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,071 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday was (in mm): Thekkadi 14, Periyar dam 11, Gudalur 2.3, and Uthamapalayam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35481059.ece
23 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Work on fishing harbour picks up pace||Work on construction of a fishing harbour at Arcottuthurai village in Vedaranyam Taluk initiated at the start of this year at a cost of Rs. 150 crore has gained momentum gradually. Construction of north and south breakwater structures is in progress, official sources said. On Monday, Minister for Fisheries - Fishermen Welfare and Animal Husbandry Anitha R. Radhakrishnan took stock of the progress of the harbour project designed to handle an annual fish catch of 7,200 tonnes. The project has been planned for completion within two years from the date of start, sources said. The harbour facilities project encompass construction of an auction hall, two net mending yards, an administrative building, ice plant-cum-chilled storage, fuel station, sloping slipway, radio and communication tower, overhead tank with 43,000 litre capacity, security kiosk, surveillance cameras, sewage treatment plant, internal roads/ pavements, truck loading platform, vehicle parking area, construction of compound wall and a marine police station. Waterfront infrastructure facilities include breakwaters, diaphragm wall, slipway, dredging for berthing and for safe navigation of fishing vessels, and construction of quay at a length of 700 metre are proposed as part of the developments. The breakwaters have been constructed to a length of 400 metre out of 1,650 metres on the northern side and 430 metre out of 2,000 metre on the southern side, a senior official said. A diaphragm wall to a length of 220 metre is to be constructed for berthing of fishing boats. The project with a capacity to handle 64 mechanised boats and 376 fibre boats will obviate the need for fishers in Kodiakarai, Maniantheevu, Pushpavanam, Arcottuthurai and other villages to utilise facilities in other harbours. The government is in the process of scaling up infrastructure facilities for handling deep sea catches to dissuade fishers from bottom trawling operations considered to be an unsustainable and unviable fishing practice and simultaneously manage fisheries resources in inshore waters, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-fishing-harbour-at-arcottuthurai-picks-up/article35481003.ece
23 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Poultry farmers oppose online sale of eggs||Poultry farmers here raised concerns about move to sell eggs online at cheaper price and demanded State government’s intervention in this regard. K. Singaraj, president of Tamil Nadu Egg Poultry Farmers Association told presspersons that the production cost of an egg is Rs. 4.50, including cost of feed and other rearing costs. However, some online firms are saying that they would sell eggs for Rs. 2.24. It is impossible to provide eggs at this rate, he said. Mr. Singaraj said the State government should take necessary action to prevent such sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poultry-farmers-oppose-online-sale-of-eggs/article35481085.ece
23 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lorry driver ends life||A lorry driver immolated himself near Pallipalayam here on Wednesday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as S. Senthilkumar (37). He had recently taken a load to Odisha. He allegedly did not handover a payment of Rs. 1.5 lakh to his owner and was absconding. The owner, Manickam, came to know that Senthilkumar was in Veppadai, and he allegedly brought Senthilkumar to his office forcibly and locked him on Tuesday. Senthilkumar immolated himself on the office premises. The police recovered the body. A case has been registered.  Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-driver-ends-life/article35481081.ece
23 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits vaccination centres in Namakkal||District Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected vaccination centres and reviewed the arrangements on Thursday. Ms. Singh visited the Panchayat Union Primary Schools at Karadipatti and Tho.Jedarpalayam and checked the arrangements made for vaccination. On Wednesday, the Collector discussed with private hospitals and IMA representatives the arrangements to face the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Twenty-four private hospitals had been permitted to provide COVID-19 treatment. She advised the private hospitals to allot 50% of beds for COVID-19 treatment and to allot 10% of it for treatment under the Chief Minister’s medical insurance scheme. Considering reports that the third wave could affect children more, Ms. Singh advised the hospitals to make arrangements for paediatric treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-vaccination-centres-in-namakkal/article35481087.ece
23 July 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Sorcerer, two others arrested for cheating in Perambalur district||An alleged sorcerer and two others were arrested by Perambalur police on Thursday on the charge of cheating an ice cream seller claiming that there would be treasure in the latter’s house for which they demanded Rs. 50,000. The arrest was made on a complaint lodged by the ice cream seller, P. Prabhu, of Vilamuthur. Police sources said Prabhu, who faced financial problems, approached S. Prabhakaran who was known to him in order to find a solution. Prabhakaran, in turn, introduced Prabhu to ‘sorcerer’ A. Krishnamurthy, 51, of Paramathi Velur. The sorcerer reportedly told Prabhu he could find treasure in his house if he dug up his residence and allegedly demanded Rs. 50,000 from him. Believing Krishnamurthy’s words, Prabhu dug his house but could not find any treasure as claimed by Krishnamurthy. Prabhu reported the matter to Perambalur police. Acting on the complaint, police arrested Krishnamurthy, Prabhakaran, 31, and A. Velliangiri, 36. A case was registered against them under IPC Sections including 420 ( cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 109 (abetment).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sorcerer-two-others-arrested-for-cheating-in-perambalur-district/article35481025.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress holds protest against Pegasus spying controversy||Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president A.V. Subramanian on Thursday slammed the BJP government at the Centre for its alleged involvement in the surveillance of prominent politicians, journalists and activists using the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli company, NSO Group. At a protest by the Congress as part of a nationwide stir, Mr. Subramanian said the scandal exposed how the BJP government undermined national security and sabotaged the fundamental right to privacy. Mr. Subramanian also issued a statement pointing out that this sort of surveillance endangered national security, especially when sensitive data is accessed by a foreign firm. “Why was the Modi government spying on its citizens and political leaders before and during the run-up to the 2019 general election and thereafter? Does this not warrant a full investigation of the role of the Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister and others involved?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-holds-protest-against-pegasus-spying-controversy/article35481371.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 68 COVID cases, 2 deaths||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 1,783, even as 68 fresh infections were reported on Thursday. Puducherry and Mahe reported one death each. The cumulative toll by region is Puducherry 1,418, Karaikal 224, Yanam 104 and Mahe 37. Puducherry reported 59 new cases, which were confirmed from 4,631 tests, while Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe reported three cases each. The test positivity rate was 1.47%, the case fatality rate was 1.49% and the recovery rate was 97.72%. With 72 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 955, including 147 in hospitals and 808 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,20,003 cases and 1,17,265 recoveries. Of an estimated 14.5 lakh tests administered till date, over 12.38 lakh returned negative. Vaccination drive The number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory at 6,54,510. The Health Department will organise a fourth mass vaccination campaign over the two days at more than 100 session sites from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-68-covid-cases-2-deaths/article35481369.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No Zika case reported in U.T. so far, says L-G||No case of Zika has been reported in Puducherry so far, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Thursday. Addressing the media, the Lt. Governor said the Union Territory, however, remained on alert against all mosquito-borne diseases, especially dengue. Vector-control measures being taken as part of the Dengue Prevention Month would also help prevent Zika, she added. Vaccination coverage against COVID-19 was about 55%, and the goal was to reach the fully vaccinated status by August 15, Dr. Soundararajan said. Appeal to public She reiterated her appeal to the public to get vaccinated amid reports of the onset of a third wave of the pandemic. Schools would be reopened only after assessing the situation and attaining full vaccination of teachers and other staff, she said. Pointing out that one school of thought was that a third wave could impact children while another was that children would not be seriously affected, the Lt. Governor said nonetheless, the administration had raised its level of preparedness by establishing paediatric facilities. She also underscored the importance of vaccination and continued adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-zika-case-reported-in-ut-so-far-says-l-g/article35481374.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Reopen ration shops: Siva||Opposition leader R. Siva has urged the government to reopen all ration shops, as promised by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy during the Assembly election campaign. In a statement, the Opposition leader said it had been almost three months since the new government came to power. The Chief Minister had promised that he would open the shops after coming to power. But it had not materialised, he said. The shops were closed after the former Lt. Governor decided to opt for transferring money to the beneficiaries' accounts. The decision led to the closure of as many as 510 ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-ration-shops-siva/article35481372.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews industrial activity||Home Minister A. Namassivayam on Thursday reviewed industrial activity in the Union Territory. Mr. Namassivayam, who also holds the Industrial and Commerce portfolio, held a meeting with officials to understand the industrial scenario and future requirements in Puducherry and to add firms to create jobs locally. This is his first meeting after taking over the Industries portfolio. The Minister enquired with officials about the kind of industries that could potentially create jobs and revenue for the Union Territory in the future. He also heard the grievances of the Department staff, his office said. Industries Secretary E. Vallavan, Director Yasam Lakshmi Narayana Reddy, administrative director of Anglo French Textiles Sivakumaran, Deputy Director Chandra Kumar and General Manager of the District Industries Centre Anbazhagan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-reviews-industrial-activity/article35481368.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Mentally ill destitutes reunited with families, thanks to official efforts||Joint efforts by Health, Police and Revenue officials have enabled in reuniting 24 rescued mentally ill persons with their families in the last six months. The rescued persons comprising 13 men and 11 women were provided shelter and treatment at Emergency Care and Recovery Centre (ECRC) established by the Department of Health in Pudukottai. The centre serves as home for mentally ill persons rescued in the district until they are reunited with their family. Fifty-five persons, including 27 women, have been rescued based on information from taluk-level teams consisting of officials from revenue and police departments and local bodies, besides a government doctor, over the last year during the pandemic. The teams were entrusted with the task of facilitating the safe rescue of and getting them accommodated at ECRC. The basic needs of the rescued people were addressed and was followed by medical and mental health care using ‘Bio-Psycho-Social’ approach, says R. Karthik Deivanayagam, District Psychiatrist and the nodal officer of the District Mental Health Programme, Pudukottai. Sustained care and treatment coupled with constant communication with the rescued persons at ECRC began to yield positive results and some of the patients slowly began to divulge details about their home and family members, Dr. Karthik Deivanayagam said. Based on the information given by the patients, a search was launched involving the police to trace the whereabouts of the family members. Thanks to excellent inter-department coordination and joint efforts, 24 rescued persons had been reunited with their family members so far. Field-level verification by police and revenue officials were done and evidence was collected to ascertain the genuineness of the family members before reunification, Dr. Karthik said. The reunited patients had their family members residing at Madurai, Chennai, Peravurani, Thanjavur and Pudukottai. Regular follow-ups are being carried out by social workers attached to the Emergency Care and Recovery Centre with the patients and their family members, he further said. There are 31 patients at present at the ECRC and efforts are on to trace the whereabouts of their family members.  Field-level verification was done by police and revenue officials R. Karthik Deivanayagam District Psychiatrist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-mentally-ill-destitutes-reunited-with-families/article35481004.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DPCs at 99 places in Pudukottai’||Collector Kavitha Ramu on Thursday said direct purchase centres for paddy procurement from farmers were functioning at 99 places in the district. Officials had been instructed to procure paddy bags brought by farmers to the centres at once. About 31,000 metric tonnes of procured paddy had been moved to godowns over the past week to prevent damage due to rain, a press release said. The Collector inspected the procurment process at DPCs at Kalingapatti and S. Kulavaipatti in Alangudi taluk on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpcs-at-99-places-in-pudukottai/article35481010.ece
23 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for poaching||Forest officials have arrested a 36-year-old man on the charge of poaching seahorses and sea cucumbers at Palakkudi fish landing point in Manamelkudi taluk in the district. Thirty-five seahorses and eight sea cucumbers were seized from S. Vellaisamy of Ayyampattinam in Manamelkudi taluk on Wednesday. He was involved in the sale of conch shells, a release from the Forest Department said. Vellaisamy was produced before a court at Aranthangi and remanded to judicial custody. He was lodged in Tirumayam sub jail. A case was registered against him under the The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-poaching/article35481011.ece
23 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Phase-II of IT park to be developed in Salem: Minister||Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj said phase-II of IT park would be developed near Ammapet here. Mr. Thangaraj along with IT Secretary Neeraj Mittal, Collector S. Karmegham and other senior officials inspected e-service centres and the IT park in Jaggir Ammapalayam here on Thursday. He told reporters, “phase-II of IT park is a need in Salem. The department is looking at taking over 30 acres of a defunct cooperative spinning mill near Ammapet from the respective department. There are about 6,000 small entrepreneurs here and they complained about lack of proper space for conducting business.” After seeking permission from the Chief Minister, measures would be taken to develop the IT park, he added. Mr. Thangaraj said the previous government did not take measures to improve IT infrastructure in the State. Bharatnet project, a scheme by the Central government, would be implemented at Rs. 1,800 crore. He said the website of Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund had been made transparent. While the AIADMK government was able to collect only about Rs. 400 crore in 1.5 years, the DMK government collected Rs. 412 crore in two months. The Minister said about 4.5 lakh graduates and 1.5 lakh students in the State were from IT-related studies and measures were being taken to create job opportunities for them and prevent brain drain. He said steps were being taken to regularise issues in e-service centres. There were 122 e-service centres and 13 Aadhaar centres in the district and measures would be taken to increase the Aadhaar centres. They were working on creating a scenario where the public could get all government services online. Regarding TACTV, Mr. Thangaraj said it had 76 lakh subscribers and during the previous regime it reduced to 22 lakh and TACTV also had loans to the tune of Rs. 400 crore. Owing to immediate action taken by the government, the subscriber base had slightly increased. They were aiming at providing good service with quality content, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phase-ii-of-it-park-to-be-developed-in-salem-minister/article35481080.ece
23 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for murder||The Salem district court on Thursday sentenced a man to life imprisonment in a murder case. According to the police, Selvam (35) a construction worker, was found dead in December 2017. The Ammapet police registered a case. On inquiry, the police found that Mohan, who used to work with Selvam, murdered him following a quarrel in an inebriated condition. Hearing the case on Thursday, Additional District Judge-III Ilango sentenced Mohan to life imprisonment and imposed a penalty of Rs. 5,000 on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-murder/article35481084.ece
23 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Assistance to deceased police officer’s family||Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav on Thursday handed over Rs. 21.42 lakh to the family of a police officer who died recently. According to officials, Ramachandran from Karumandurai joined the force in 2011 and was attached to Greater Chennai Armed Reserve police. He died in a road accident recently. He is survived by his wife and two sons aged four and one. To support the family, the officer’s batch mates collected funds that was handed over to the family.    The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption here registered a case against four engineers of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board for misappropriating funds under Pradhan Manthri Awas Yojna scheme. According to official sources, the case was booked against an executive engineer and three assistant engineers for allegedly providing loans to the tune of Rs. 14.7 lakh to seven persons who were found to be ineligible to benefit under the scheme. Officials found that the beneficiaries already had concrete roof houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-to-deceased-police-officers-family/article35481086.ece
23 July 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Teams formed to nab driver of sand-laden lorry: Sivaganga SP||Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar has said that he has formed three special teams to secure the driver of a sand laden lorry and two persons who had prevented the police from arresting the driver. A video, which went viral in social media, has now been doing the rounds. The video showed two policemen - Feroze Khan and Diwakar - who were on duty at the Thiruvegamathur checkpost near Devakottai stopping a sand laden lorry. Since the driver did not stop the vehicle, the police chased it. Even as they were on a two-wheeler chasing the lorry for about three km, a car intercepted and parked it in such a way that the two-wheeler could not proceed. With a DMK party flag, two persons, who alighted from the car, gave their mobile phone to one of the policemen and asked him to speak. They claimed that their superior officer was on the line. While, the conversation was going on the sand laden lorry had vanished. Though the incident had happened on July 1, the issue came to light two days ago. A revenue official said that the Devakottai block was a hotbed for sand smugglers as the location was between Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts When reporters met the SP, he assured to nab the lorry driver and also the two persons and take stern action. Only last week, the Director General of Police Sylendra Babu, who was in Madurai to take stock of the law and order issues, told reporters that the police have been instructed to be firm against usury menace, sand mining and anti social elements. A few days ago, a woman DSP was allegedly threatened by a DMK functionary in Manaparai in Tiruchi district when he was smuggling sand from the riverbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teams-formed-to-nab-driver-of-sand-laden-lorry/article35481050.ece
23 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||14 bonded labourers rescued||Fourteen bonded labourers, including three girls, from north Indian States, were rescued from two polybag manufacturing units here on Thursday evening. Acting on a complaint received by Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, a team of officials led by Assistant Collector, Sivakasi, M. Birathiviraj, raided the Kanmani and Kavitha polybag units. The officials found that children from Odisha, Bihar and Chhattisgarh were employed by the unit, owned by S. Dhanapal (64). “We have taken the children to the Government hospital to assess their age to verify whether they were child labourers or not. However, enquiry has revealed that they are bonded labourers,” Mr. Birathiviraj, said. The children were brought by an agent, Naveen Kumar of Bihar. The children were promised Rs. 8,000 wages per month, but they were not paid salary for the last six months. “They complained that they were just supplied ration, including rice and dal, and not allowed to go out,” the Assistant Collector said. The children had asked the contractor to allow them to go home to meet their parents but were denied permission. Besides, they were over-exploited and were forced to work for a minimum of 12 hours. Poor living condition “The children were living in a cramped shed within the units,” he said. The officials have been instructed to book the owner of the unit and the agent under the provisions of Bonded Labourers Act, the Assistant Collector said. “After verification of age of the children, provisions of Child Labour Act will also be invoked,” Mr. Birathiviraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-bonded-labourers-rescued/article35481007.ece
23 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||11,750 kg of ration rice seized||Revenue officials seized 11,750 kg of ration rice being smuggled in a truck on the way to Madurai here on Thursday. Sivakasi Tahsildar S. Rajakumar and Taluk Supply Officer R. Jayapandi intercepted the truck near a college on Sivakasi-Madurai highway at around 9.30 a.m. Upon noticing the officials, two persons jumped out of the lorry and attempted to flee. The official team nabbed one of them, identified as B. Malaimannan of Madurai. He had reportedly told that ration rice was being smuggled. The officials found 250 bags of rice, meant to be distributed through Public Distribution System, in the lorry. The officials handed over the rice to Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation godown. The driver of the truck and the vehicle were handed over to Civil Supplies – Criminal Investigation Department for further enquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11750-kg-of-ration-rice-seized/article35481051.ece
23 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Congress stages protest||Condemning the snooping of phones of several persons, including political leaders from opposition parties, Youth Congress members here staged a demonstration and broke telephone instruments as mark of their protest. The protest, led by Virudhunagar East district Youth Congress president, M. K. M. Meenakshisundaram, was held in front of the BSNL office here. “Telephone tapping using Pegasus spyware is illegal and is in violation of right to privacy,” the Youth Congress leader said. Stating that spyware is used by nations to intercept conversations of terrorists, he said why should the phone of Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi, and other political leaders from the opposition parties be tapped. He said even former judicial officer and the Election Commissioner were on the list of those persons who were under the surveillance of Pegasus spyware.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-stages-protest/article35481054.ece
23 July 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Man murders former wife near Alangulam||The Veerakeralampudhur police are on the lookout for a youth who allegedly murdered his ex-wife near Alangulam on Thursday. Police said V. Mahalakshmi, 23, of Arunachalapuram near Vickramasingapuram in Tirunelveli district was married to one Kannan, 25, of Vaagaikulam near Ambasamudram two years ago. Following frequent domestic quarrel, Mahalakshmi was living with her parents. After repeated talks with Kannan failed, Mahalakshmi was again married to one Ponraj of Kallooththu near Alangulam two months ago. Agitated over this, Kannan, who came to Kallooththu on Thursday on a bike, inquired the villagers about the house of Mahalakshmi in the guise of inviting the couple for a wedding. On reaching the house, Kannan allegedly hacked to death his ex-wife on the spot and escaped. A 10-year-old boy, who was playing in front of the house, reportedly saw Kannan entering the house with a machete and alerted Mahalakshmi’s father-in-law Ganesan working in the field nearby. Even before Mr. Ganesan could reach the house, Kannan allegedly murdered Mahalakshmi and escaped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murders-former-wife-near-alangulam/article35481438.ece
23 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers worry over lack of crop insurance details||The non-declaration of crop insurance details for the current kharif season has worried farmers who have taken up cultivation in delta districts. Expressing concern over the delay in announcement of crop insurance details, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has forwarded a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the District Revenue Department urging the Centre to expedite the process of crop insurance for the current kuruvai season. Pointing out that normally the farmers would be directed to apply for crop insurance for kuruvai on or before July 31, association secretary Sundara Vimalanathan has said the inordinate silence over the crop insurance process this season has worried farmers since they are in the dark about the premium amount and the last date for applying for crop insurance. Almost five weeks have elapsed since the lifting of the shutters of Mettur dam for release of water to irrigate about 3.50 lakh acres in delta district and another 1.75 lakh acres in other districts located along the Cauvery below the Stanley Reservoir. Hence, the Centre and State must expedite the process and alleviate the trepidation over crop insurance among the farmers and also extend the last date for premium payment to August 31 for the current season.  The Centre and State must expedite process and alleviate the trepidation over crop insurance Sundara VimalanathanThanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-worry-over-lack-of-crop-insurance-details/article35481015.ece
23 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Stop issuing notices under HR and CE Act, says tenants association||The Tamil Nadu All Religious Land Holdings Lessees/Tenants Protection Association has called upon the State government to stop issuing notices to lessees/tenants under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act. Speakling to reporters here recently, State organiser Sami Natarajan said that during the previous AIADMK government the rent was hiked steeply under the guise of’fixation of fair rent’ in major cities such as Chennai. As the revised rent was unbearable for the lessees/tenants, it was opposed and several demonstrations were held urging the then government to reduce the lease amount/rent. Making a plea to the present DMK government to consider the demand positively and fix a fairly minimum lease amount/rent, he urged the State government to waive them for temple lands/properties for the entire COVID-19 pandemic period. Exhorting the government to refrain from issuing notices to the lessees/tenants under Sections 78 and 79 of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act, Mr. Natarajan wanted eviction of tenants from temple properties to be suspended. People who took temple lands on lease or rent and constructed buildings on them with their own funds must be permitted to sell them, he said. He also sought waiver of antedated rents/lease amounts and issuance of no-objection certificates to avail electricity connection and repair old buildings. Insisting that the government-sponsored housing schemes should be altered in such a manner that the lessees/tenants of temple lands/properties also benefitted, Mr. Natarajan exhorted the State government to initiate steps to fix a fair amount for the temple lands/properties under Section 34 of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act so that those using them for several generations could become owner of such properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-issuing-notices-under-hr-and-ce-act-says-tenants-association/article35481012.ece
23 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Private finance company raided in Thanjavur||Special police teams that were formed to probe a couple’s complaint of cheating against a private finance company at Kumbakonam raided the residence-cum-office of its owners on Thursday and impounded a dozen luxury cars and several documents. In their complaint to Superintendent of Police Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay last week, Jabarullah and Fairosbhanu said the company failed to repay Rs. 15 crore to them. Meanwhile, posters alleging that the finance company had cheated investors to the tune of Rs. 600 crore appeared all over Kumbakonam town. Subsequently, police raided the company and impounded the documents and a dozen luxury cars on Thursday. A staff of the company was arrested by the special police team on Wednesday night, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-company-raided/article35481009.ece
23 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Welfare schemes will be implemented in a fair and transparent manner’||The DMK government would implement all its welfare programmes in a fair and transparent manner, said Rural Industries Minister T. M. Anbarasan here on Thursday. Accompanied by senior officials, he inspected a couple of ongoing development works in Periyakulam and other towns. Collector K. V. Muralidharan and MLAs were present. Speaking to reporters, he said that they review meetings revealed that the previous government had not adhered to the rules. “For the benefit of some people in power, they had neglected the norms. We will give a report to the Chief Minister for action”, he said and added that the scheme would be made more transparent. There were discrepancies in the construction, choice of beneficiaries and the quality of building materials used in the ‘concrete dwellings for all’ scheme, he said and added that his interactions with some of the beneficiaries were being compiled. The officials said that under the scheme, the Centre would give Rs. 1.50 lakh, the State government would contribute Rs. 6-7 lakh and from the contribution of each beneficiary, the dwelling would be constructed and handed over to them in Thappukundu and Appiapatti measuring about 400 square feet. Similarly, they also explained about other housing schemes coming up under the TN Slum Clearance Board. The objective of the government was to ensure that people, especially, those in the BPL category, did not encroach and build their homes on poromboke sites belonging to the government or railways, which were rampant in many municipal and town panchayat limits. Under the scheme, the district has 5,244 beneficiaries from six municipalities and 21 town panchayats in Cumbum, Periyakulam and Uthamapalayam respectively. The Minister also visited the SIDCO industrial estate and interacted with a few entrepreneurs who were benefitted under the NEED scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-schemes-will-be-implemented-in-a-fair-and-transparent-manner/article35481053.ece
23 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Prevent water theft, Minister tells farmers||Cooperation Minister I. Periasami has asked farmers to cooperate with the Tangedco officials in preventing theft of water meant for irrigation from Mullaiperiyar dam. He was presiding over the farmers’ grievances meeting here on Thursday. Explaining to the farmers’ representatives from the Cumbum Valley and other places, he said that the Tangedco officials had implemented a High Court order to seize illegal motors fitted by some people. “The government is fully aware of the farmers’ interests. However, the water intended for irrigation should not be stolen by any person,” he stressed. The DMK government had been instrumental in protecting the farmers’ rights and explained at length about late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s initiatives. Though the farmers said that they were upset and insisted that Tangedco desist from implementing the High Court order, the Minister said that he would convey their views to the Chief Minister. The officials, who were present at the meeting, said that out of 626 connections, the vigilance teams from Tangedco made a spot inspection of around 200 electricity connections recently and found that 18 among them were illegal. They said that as per the law, water cannot be pumped from a stream or river into the wells by farmers, who claimed that they did so for irrigation purposes. More checks would be conducted, they added. Recently, at a meeting in Madurai attended by Collectors, Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiagarajan had shared a data given to him by the farmers from the district that water theft from Mullaiperiyar dam was rampant in the past. “At least 100 cusecs of water was pumped into private wells by people who were close to some elected representatives in the AIADMK regime,” he said. This amounted to a huge loss to the exchequer and urged the officials to examine them as thousands of farmers in the southern districts were deprived of their share of water from the reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cooperate-with-tangedco-to-prevent-water-theft-minister/article35481056.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Opposition seeks ouster of Kerala Forest Minister||Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition legislators walked out of the Assembly on Thursday demanding the resignation of Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran for allegedly using the heft of his office to shield a sex offender from police prosecution. Outside the Assembly gates, the police fired water jets to disperse Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha protestors clamouring for Mr. Saseendran’s ouster. They arrested two Mahila Morcha workers who tried to push past officers into the Assembly precincts. On the floor of the House, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan berated the police “for sitting on the victim's complaint for 22 days.” In the meantime, her molester, an NCP leader, had disparaged the woman on social media. Mr. Satheesan linked the “police inaction” to the Minister’s “interference at multiple levels” to protect the accused. Mr. Satheesan said Mr. Saseendran had brazenly asked the victim's father, an NCP worker, to prevail on his daughter to withdraw the complaint. He had lost the moral right to continue in office. “The government is with the predator. A Minister had obstructed justice in a sexual assault case. A helpless Chief Minister misled by the police sits on the treasury benches with his head bowed in shame. His defence of Mr. Saseendran is at best half-hearted,” Mr. Satheesan said. Earlier, Congress’s P.C. Vishnunath had moved an adjournment motion to discuss the issue. He said rampant victimisation of women had forced the Governor to observe a day’s fast. He read out a word-for-word transcript of the alleged conversation between Mr. Saseendran and the victim’s parent. CM’s response Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State Police Chief (SPC) would investigate the delay in the registration of FIR. “This Minister (Saseendran) thought it was a party dispute. He did not call any officer and withdrew the moment he realised the nature of the complaint,” Mr. Vijayan said. Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied leave for adjournment motion and ruled the Chief Minister’s reply satisfactory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-seeks-ouster-of-kerala-forest-minister/article35480767.ece
23 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Our Lady of Snows Basilica festival to be televised live||The 439th annual festival of Our Lady of Snows Basilica, which will start on July 26 with flag-hoisting, will be conducted without participation of the parishioners this year also due to COVID-19-induced lockdown restrictions. The annual feast that would start with the flag-hoisting on July 26 would culminate with the High Mass to be celebrated on August 5. Since the lockdown restrictions were imposed in March 2020, the celebrations were organised last year without participation of the devotees. However, all the celebrations were televised live on YouTube and local television channels. Since the COVID-19 restrictions are still in place with the ‘third wave’ threat looming large, District Collector K. Senthil Raj chaired a meeting at the Collectorate on Thursday which was attended by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan and Bishop of Thoothukudi RC Diocese Most Rev. Fr. Stephen Antony. Ms. Geetha, while addressing the meeting, said all prayers and celebrations would be conducted in the Basilica as government had given a few relaxations, but without the participation of the parishioners, who could view and participate in the prayers and Holy Masses to be televised live. “We seek everyone’s cooperation in this connection,” she said. Speaking to reporters after emerging from the meeting Most Rev. Fr. Stephen Antony said the flag-hoisting would be conducted without people’s participation on July 26 and the holy masses would be held as usual and the parishioners would not be allowed to participate due to the COVID-19 restrictions. The flag procession, eucharistic procession and car festival would not be conducted this year. “We appeal to everyone to devoutly participate in these celebrations through online platform as we’ve made extensive arrangements for televising the holy events online. Let us pray together to the Blessed Holy Mother to assuage this pandemic situation,” Most Rev. Fr. Stephen Antony said. However, the devotees may visit the church in regulated fashion to offer their prayers when there was no holy event, he noted. District Revenue Officer Kannapiraan, Rector of Our Lady of Snows Basilica Rev. Fr. Kumar Raja and parish council members were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/our-lady-of-snows-basilica-festival-to-be-televised-live/article35481441.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi’s Smart City projects move at a snail’s pace||The slow progress of smart city projects has caused concern among residents of Tiruchi. While Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai were selected for Smart City Mission in 2016, Tiruchi got its place in the next list released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in 2017. Tiruchi is among the 11 cities in the State, which made it to the list of Smart Cities Mission. It took nearly a year for the Corporation to short-list the projects to be taken up under the mission. The civic body finally unveiled a set of projects in 2018 after getting clearances from the State government. The Rockfort Tourism Development Project and the Uyyakondan River Front Development Project were among the first projects unveiled. The civic body subsequently came up with a few more proposals including the remodeling of Chathiram Bus Stand and construction of a commercial complex at Thillai Nagar. Though the implementation of the projects got off to a good start in the beginning, they did not make progress as expected due to various reasons. According to sources, about 20 projects are under progress in the city. But, it is said that most of the projects have been making slow progress. The Uyyakondan River Front Development Project and the re-modelling of Chathiram Bus Stand, which were supposed to have been completed much earlier, have just now reached the final stages of construction. The Rockfort Tourism Development Project has not been taken off. The slow pace of implementation of the projects reflected in the recent declaration of Smart Cities ranking awards for 2020 announced by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) as well. The Tiruchi Corporation got none of the awards instituted by the Ministry on various heads. “Almost five years have gone by since Tiruchi was selected for the implementation of the Smart City Mission. But, it is appalling to note that none of the major projects has been completed yet,” says N. Jamaludeen, a civic activist. There were voices that some of the ongoing projects had not matched the motto and aims of the Smart City Mission. M.A. Aleem, Member, District Welfare Committee, says special attention must be paid to implement all smart city proposals. “It is happy to note that K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, had conducted review meetings on the progress of the projects. The resources of Smart City Mission must be tapped well to transform Tiruchi as a model city on various aspects of civic and basic infrastructure,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchis-smart-city-projects-make-slow-progress/article35481019.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown aid: Gramalaya hands out free cloth pads||Gramalaya, a Tiruchi-based voluntary organisation working towards public sanitation and hygiene, has distributed cloth pads to nearly 5,000 women amid the lockdown as a precautionary measure against COVID-19 this year. The pads were given to households with menstruating women along with other items of personal hygiene including soaps, face masks and sanitisers. A pack of four cloth pads, made by women in the NGO’s manufacturing unit in Musiri were given to each of the 5,500 houses in Tamil Nadu, predominantly in Pudukottai and Tiruchi districts. Another 5,500 more were given out in Puducherry. Rebranded as Giocare Reusable Cloth Pads, the feminine hygiene products are also being sold on their website at Rs. 600. “Use and throw sanitary pads contain toxic chemicals, pesticides, perfumes and adhesives and we designed an alternative which is washable and reusable,” J. Geetha, Executive Director, CSR of Gramalaya, said. In the last year alone, they have sold 15,000 packs, which contains four pads. “While the entire country shut down during the lockdown, our field-level staff continued to go door-to-door to create awareness on menstrual hygiene,” she said. In many villages, both in Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts, toilets were constructed but were in disuse. Girls, who had to say at home along with other male members of the family during the lockdown, would go into bushes and thickets to change their sanitary napkins only once or twice a day. “This caused rashes, infections and other problems. When our field-level staff told them about our pads, they gladly took them,” she said. K. Saroja, Marketing Manager, Gramalaya, conducted a comparative study of all cloth pads available online. “We found that many were reusable but had some flaws. Some were made of material that was not breathable, while others were too small for prolonged use. We have also utilised this information to make changes to our product,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-aid-gramalaya-hands-out-free-cloth-pads/article35481431.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Move to relocate fish market runs into opposition||A plan to temporarily relocate the city’s fish market on East Boulevard Road by Tiruchi Corporation to a space opposite to Viscountess Goschen Government Muslim Girls Higher Secondary School (VGGMGHSS) in Tharanallur has run into opposition from locals. Mooted as part of the Corporation’s redevelopment project under the smart cities mission, the century-old fish market is to be demolished and reconstructed as a double-storey structure with cold storage facilities. Fish vendors in the existing market will be expected to function from a yard earmarked opposite the Goschen School, while the new building gets ready. However, the announcement has not gone down well with residents in the area, particularly from the 111-year-old VGGMGHSS, that is one of two State Government-run institutions (along with Government Hobart Higher Secondary School in Chennai) dedicated to the education of Muslim girls. “We already have a major traffic management problem due to our proximity to Gandhi Market. Many transport companies park their heavy vehicles outside our gate, making it difficult for students to enter the campus. Besides this, the strong smell of the karuvattu pettai [dried fish market], especially during their stock loading days, has already affected air quality in our neighbourhood. Now, a fresh fish market will only add to our problems,” Khaja Mydeen, president, Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) of VGGGMHS, told The Hindu . The PTA has also given a petition to the authorities, said Mr. Mydeen. Besides the school, the Sri Bhoologanathar Temple and a ‘paalvadi’ (elementary school) are also located in the vicinity, locals point out. A senior official of Tiruchi Corporation toldThe Hindu that the relocation project had been put on hold momentarily. “A proposal was drawn up but it is yet to be approved. Since then, we have had a new Corporation Commissioner take charge. We will apprise him of the details and will make a decision soon," they said. “We have taken into account the complaints of the nearby residents and other stakeholders and will also provide information on this to the Commissioner,” they added.  (With inputs from Kathelene Antony)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-relocate-fish-market-runs-into-opposition/article35481433.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Training on labour rights for women in textile sector||Tirupur Peoples Forum for Environment and Labour rights (TPF), which comprises civil society organisations working for the rights of children, women and labour, recently organised block-level programmes to create awareness of labour laws and rights among women employed in the textile sector. The programme was conducted at Budalur block in Thanjavur district and Ponnamaravathi, Annavasal and Viralimalai blocks in Pudukottai district. The programme also attempted to create awareness of the importance of education and prevention of dropout among girls. The dropouts are recruited in textile and garments industries in Dindigul, Coimbatore and Tiruppur, violating child labour laws of the country. Speaking at the event, S. M. Prithiviraj, convener, Tirupur Peoples Forum, said there was a need to fully realise the promise of the International Labour Organisation’s convention on elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work, implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Tamil Nadu Hostels and Homes (Regulation) Act 2014. India has committed to implementation of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals, especially Gender Equality, Decent Work and Economic Development, Reducing Inequalities and Peace and Justice. Keeping these in mind, TPF volunteers teach women workers of textile industries to understand labour laws, gender equality in the workplace and legal frameworks in place for their protection. In Pudukottai district, the awareness programmes were organised by Rural Education and Development Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-on-labour-rights-for-women-in-textile-sector/article35481002.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Very few takers for seats in private ITIs this year||While Government Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) are not unduly worried about the pandemic impact on admission, private ITIs have their fingers crossed. A majority of the 90 government ITIs made spot admission for 2020-21 session even till February. On the other hand, 476 private institutes had fewer takers and many are on the verge of closure, sources said. This year, the last date for applying for the first round of admission counselling is July 28. If necessary, more rounds of counselling will be conducted to fill seats, said the head of a government ITI. Also, admission is being made on the basis of marks scored by students in class IX. The online admission process has necessitated guidance to applicants, most of whom are from rural areas, through facilitation centres. There is no dearth of placements. However, the pandemic has prompted students passing out from ITIs to look for jobs within daily commuting distance from their homes, heads of institutions said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/very-few-takers-for-seats-in-private-itis-this-year/article35481429.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In limbo for four years||Four years have passed since the much-touted Rockfort Tourism Development Project, planned to be executed around Rockfort Temple and Teppakulam, was mooted by Tiruchi Corporation. But, the project is yet to come to fruition. It is among the first projects initiated by the civic body under the Smart City programme. Considering the importance of attracting domestic and international tourists to Rockfort Temple — an iconic and historic landmark in the city — and to add beauty to the Teppakulam, the Corporation proposed a number of developmental programmes under the project in 2018. Illumination of the 83-foot tall Rockfort hillock and the Main Guard Gate, a makeover of the Teppakulam with a laser and sound show, development of the War Memorial and establishment of a Heritage Park are among the components of the project. Boating service and restructuring roads around the Teppakulam tank are other features. The civic body allotted Rs. 39.10 crore for the project. Since clearance from ASI to carry out any work in protected monuments is mandatory, the Corporation sought clearance from it. And as per ASI suggestions, a few modifications have been carrried out. Despite this, the project still remains on paper. “The project must have been cleared by the government after the laborious paperwork for months by Corporation officials. But the project is yet to take off. It is disappointing,” says Kannan N. Ramakrishnan, a civic activist. There is speculation that the inordinate delay may have been prompted by indecision over relocating pavement traders on NSB Road, Nandhi Koil Street and other business streets around Teppakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-limbo-for-four-years/article35481017.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||330 new cases, 7 deaths in central region||The central region reported 330 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. According to data published by the Department of Health, seven people succumbed to the illness in the region. In Thanjavur district, three patients died of the viral infection, while it was two in Tiruchi. One patient each died in Pudukottai and Tiruvarur districts. The remaining five districts of Ariyalur, Karur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, and Perambalur reported no deaths on Thursday. Thanjavur continued to report the highest number of cases among the central districts. A total of 102 patients reported COVID-19 positive in the district, while Tiruchi reported 68. All other districts in the region reported 35 or lesser cases. In Nagapattinam, 32 fresh cases were reported. Pudukottai recorded 31, Tiruvarur 27, Mayiladuthurai 24 and Ariyalur 23. In Karur, 14 patients tested COVID-19 positive, Perambalur continued to report the lowest number of fresh cases in the region with nine fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/330-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article35481021.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IG issues warning to tobacco sellers near schools, colleges||Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan has instructed petty shop owners and small retail sellers operating within 100-metre radius of educational institutions in the region not to sell tobacco products or psychotropic substances. The objective is to prevent school and college students from getting addicted to such products. Cases will be registered against traders found selling such products to students below the age of 18 years under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, which would attract punishment up to seven years and Rs. 1 lakh fine, the senior police official warned. ‘Create awareness’  Mr. Balakrishnan asked traders’ associations to advise petty shop owners and those indulging in retail sales of tobacco products and create awareness among them in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ig-fiat-to-petty-shop-owners/article35481022.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister hopes for cent per cent literacy in T.N.||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has exuded hope that cent per cent literacy in the State could be made possible from the present level of 81% through non-formal and adult education programme. Inaugurating the programme at Kallikudi village in Manikandam block in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu and other senior officials on Tuesday, Mr. Mahesh stressed that literacy was a dire necessity for elders. The elderly population needed to know how to read and write to submit petitions to the government authorities, and to inscribe their signature on the petitions. Onus on CEOs The onus was on Chief Educational Officers to foster the reading habit and writing capability, the Minister said. At least one crore adults needed to be covered under the adult education programme in Tamil Nadu, the School Education Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-hopes-for-cent-per-cent-literacy-in-tn/article35481016.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boys and Girls Club at refugee camp||Tiruchi city police have started Police Boys and Girls Club for children in Sri Lankan Tamils refugee camp at Kottapattu here. The club will have books and play material. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) S. Sakthivel inaugurated the club on Thursday in the presence of police personnel and representatives of service organisations. Those housed in the refugee camp thanked the city police for starting the initiative for the benefit of children, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boys-and-girls-club-at-refugee-camp/article35481428.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Indian Gaur falls into open well, dies||A male Indian Gaur, which fell into a dry open well at Muthalagampatti village in Manapparai Forest Range in the district on Tuesday evening, died in the early hours of Wednesday. Acting on information from locals, Forest officials visited the spot to launch an operation to rescue the animal that was alive at that time. However, the rescue operation could not be carried out due poor light. When the Forest officials returned to the spot on Wednesday, they found that the animal had died. Firefighters were roped in to remove the dead animal from the well with a crane. During the post-mortem conducted at the spot by a veterinarian, the animal was found to have suffered severe internal injuries, said a Forestofficial. The carcass was later buried nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-gaur-falls-into-open-well-dies/article35481014.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination at UPHCs today||Covishield doses will be administered at urban primary health centres at the following places in the city on Friday: Srirangam, Thiruvanaikovil, Teppakulam, East Boulevard Road, Beerangikulam, Irudhayapuram, Thennur, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Subramaniapuram, Kamaraj Nagar, Edamalaipattipudur, Bheema Nagar, Periya Milaguparai, Ramalinga Nagar, Gandhipuram, Woraiyur, Kattur and Tiruverumbur. The vaccination camps will begin at 9.30 a.m. and tokens will be issued by medical officers from 8.30 a.m., an official press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-at-uphcs-today/article35481434.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat secretary transferred||Collector S. Sivarasu on Thursday ordered transfer of the secretary of Karaipatti Panchayat in Marungapuri union after an audio clip of a purported conversation between a few elected representatives and the panchayat secretary discussing the ‘commission’ to be paid to them by the contractor for executing a work went viral on social media. As soon as the issue was brought to his attention, Mr. Sivarasu directed officials of rural development department to ascertain the veracity of the audio clip. It was found that the president, vice-president and secretary of Karaipatti Panchayat figured in the conversation. They were demanding commission for executing a work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Hence, the secretary of the panchayat was transferred with immediate effect. Similarly, action would be taken against the president of the panchayat under Section 205 of the Panchayat Act, 1994. In addition to them, the administrative sanction accorded for the said work had also been cancelled, Mr. Sivarasu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-secretary-transferred/article35481435.ece
23 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||KKNPP urged to execute lift irrigation project||Speaker M. Appavu has urged the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP), which is constructing 4 X 1,000 MWe VVER reactors on an outlay of Rs. 89,000 crore with Russian assistance, to execute the lift irrigation project to take the surplus water of Pazhaiyaar in Kanniyakumari district to Radhapuram channel, which is now going waste into the sea. He has also urged the KKNPP to construct groynes in all coastal hamlets that are situated close to the KKNPP to protect the fishermen’s country boats and their houses built close to the shoreline. In a separate memorandum submitted to KKNPP Site Director Manohar Godbole in the presence of Collector V. Vishnu recently, he said the surplus water of Pazhaiyaar entering the sea via Manakkudi near Kanniyakumari could be pumped to the Radhapuram Channel which is feeding water to 52 irrigation tanks in the rain-shadow Radhapuram taluk. If these waterbodies are filled with water, it would ensure cultivation of crops on over 17,000 acres of land in this region. The KKNPP, which is situated at Kudankulam in Radhapuram taluk, should allocate special funds for executing the lift irrigation project and bear the recurring operational cost. “Since this project will ensure continuous cultivation of crops in the dry region of Radhapuram, the farmers will be benefitted,” he said. He said the KKNPP should construct gryones in the coastal hamlets such as Koottapuli, Perumanal, Idinthakarai, Kooththenkuzhi, Uvari, Michael Nagar, George Nagar and Kooduthaazhai. “Though the KKNPP sponsored the construction of groyne in Uvari on an outlay of Rs. 65 crore, the wrong design and illogical execution of the groyne have defeated the very purpose of the project. So rectification has to be done to make the groyne effective,” he said. Both the memorandum submitted by the Speaker would be forwarded to the Nuclear Power Corporation of India for final approval. “If it gets the official nod, we’ll execute these projects,” said the KKNPP sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kknpp-urged-to-execute-lift-irrigation-project/article35481437.ece
23 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for murder||Tiruppur City Police on Thursday arrested three persons, including a mother and a son, on the charges of murdering a 36-year-old man, whose charred body was found in a stone quarry near Veerapandi. The arrested were Arokiadass (21), his mother Murugeswari (46) and his friend Balasubramanian (21) from Thiruvalluvar Nagar. The deceased Santhosh Kumar and the woman were working together in a garment company and were allegedly in a relationship. On July 17, the two youth allegedly attacked Santhosh Kumar with an iron rod, dragged him to the quarry in Kallangadu and set him ablaze. Following a complaint from the deceased’s wife that her husband was missing, the Veerapandi police began investigating, during which the two youth confessed to the murder. The three accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-murder/article35480935.ece
23 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sentenced||The Second Additional District Judge on Thursday sentenced four of a family, including a woman, her son and two daughters, to seven years of imprisonment on charges of murdering a family member. Legal sources said that Pandiyammal (64), her son Asaipandi (37) and two daughters Mallika (49) and Pandimeena (38) murdered Saravanan (35) on October 27, 2017. The deceased was the husband of Pandiyammal’s third daughter. The Judge V. Anuradha also imposed a fine of Rs. 8,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sentenced/article35480924.ece
23 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 31,000 petitions from Tiruppur for CM’s outreach programme||As many as 31,659 petitions were received from Tiruppur district under the Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar (Chief Minister in your constituency) programme as of July 16, District Collector S. Vineeth said on Thursday. According to a press release, this was the third highest number of petitions in the State received under the Chief Minister’s outreach programme. Of the 31,659 petitions, 5,491 were accepted, 11,296 were rejected and the remaining petitions were under consideration, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-31000-petitions-from-tiruppur-for-cms-outreach-programme/article35480934.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Request Kerala’s support on Mekedatu dam issue, says farmers’ association||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has urged the Tamil Nadu government to request the support of Kerala in order to add strength to its opposition to Karnataka’s move to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. Talking to reporters at Mannargudi on Thursday, association general secretary P.R. Pandian exhorted the Tamil Nadu government to make all-out efforts to stall the ‘nefarious’ intentions of Karnataka to impound the entire Cauvery river water for its use by constructing the dam. ‘Right to share of water’ As part of the exercise, the State government should mop up support to its objection to the Karnataka government’s proposal to construct the dam at Mekedatu by requesting the backing of the Kerala government, which too had the right to share the river water along with Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Claiming that the Ministry of Jal Shakti had forwarded the detailed project report of the proposal, submitted by the Karnataka government, to Cauvery Water Management Authority, Mr. Pandian called upon the Tamil Nadu government to pass a resolution on the floor of the State Assembly objecting to the construction of the dam and forwarding it to the Authority. ONGC CSR fund issue Pointing out that the Centre had reportedly directed Oil and Natural Gas Corporation to divert its entire corporate social responsibility fund amount of Rs. 300 crore to the Union government’s kitty, Mr. Pandian said the CSR fund should be utilised for development/restitution of basic infrastructure in the Cauvery delta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/request-keralas-support-on-mekedatu-dam-issue-farmers/article35481008.ece
23 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rain in the Nilgiris leads to traffic jams on highways||Heavy rain continued across the Nilgiris on Thursday, leading to gridlocked highways and parts of Udhagamandalam town affected by water-logging in low-lying areas. An average of 27.61 mm rain was recorded throughout the district, with more than 100 mm rain in Avalanche, and heavy rainfall in Kundah, Glenmorgan, Pandalur, Upper Gudalur and Naduvattam. The rain in the district has continued for over a week, with power outages being reported in many parts. Power outages were reported in parts of Udhagamandalam and Coonoor towns on Wednesday night and Thursday morning. According to officials from the State Highways Department, three trees uprooted along the Udhagamandalam to Gudalur road and blocked traffic. Officials used earthmovers and heavy equipment to remove the trees. On Thursday, traffic came to a standstill along the Mettupalayam to Coonoor to Udhagamandalam Road as a heavy vehicle broke down during the downpour. Vehicles from Udhagamandalam proceeding to Coimbatore were asked to take a detour via Kotagiri to reach their destinations. Water-logging was reported in a few places in low-lying areas of the town, while flooding of agricultural field in a few areas, such as Ketti Palada and Muthorai Palada was reported. There was also heavy traffic in Udhagamandalam and Coonoor towns. Fire and rescue service teams remained in a state of preparedness to attend to emergencies. No major damage to public infrastructure, nor were any injuries reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-in-the-nilgiris-leads-to-traffic-jams-on-highways/article35480923.ece
23 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||New bus bays to ease traffic in Vellore||Traffic on the busy Anna Salai in the Fort Town is set to ease in the coming days as the Vellore District Police have planned to set up bays on the stretch to allow buses to halt at specified spots near the stops. A request to set up bays on the stretch was made by the district police to the Vellore Corporation, which maintains the stretch, a few days ago. At present, buses halt in the middle of the carriageway, resulting in traffic chaos along the 3-km-long Anna Salai, especially during rush hours. Interestingly, the stretch between Thorapadi and Green Circle, which connects the Fort Town with the Benguluru Highway (NH 48), accounts for more than 60% of the total vehicular traffic every day. Other key routes like Fort Round Road, Court Road and Azad Road witness less vehicular movement daily. Currently, Fort Town has more than 30,000 autorickshaws with a majority of these vehicles plying on Anna Salai due to its connectivity between the town and the Benguluru Highway. Short route Also, the stretch is a short route to reach Katpadi from Vellore via Green Circle. "Once the Corporation gives its nod, we will set up bus bays on the stretch to regulate traffic there in the next few days. More traffic police personnel will also be deployed to ease the traffic especially during rush hours," Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Vellore, told The Hindu . Initially, three bus stops between Thorapadi and Green Circle have been selected to create bays due to the narrow carriageway at these stops. Vacant space near these stops has also been identified to provide adequate space for buses to pick up and drop commuters, without affecting the traffic on the route. Most of the buses use the stretch to reach other neighbourhoods, like Katpadi, Satuvacheri and also Rangapuram. Key bsuildings uch as Vellore Collectorate, the Superintendent of Police’s office, the local court and bus terminus are mainly reached through Anna Salai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bus-bays-to-ease-traffic-in-vellore/article35481447.ece
23 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||37 test positive in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,792 with 37 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total 46,287 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 414. The district's death toll is 1,091. In Ranipet district, 25 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,758. In Tirupattur district, 29 new cases were reported and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,035. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 60, taking the total to 51,553. Of this, 50,084 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 834.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-test-positive-in-vellore/article35481445.ece
23 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine introduced||The district has introduced pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for infants vulnerable for lung-infection at all Government hospitals and Block Primary Health Centres Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inspected the free vaccination programme that began at Palavanatham primary health centre on Thursday. In a statement, he said that the State Government has introduced the new vaccine for the benefit of malnourished and pre-term babies and to those infants whose birth weight is less than 1.5 kg. Such infants have under-developed organs including the lungs and were vulnerable to lung infection. These infants would be given three doses of injection at the age of 1.5 months, 3.5 months and 9 months. The vaccine can protect the children from pneumonia and brain fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccine-introduced-in-phcs/article35481058.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 180 cases, six deaths||A total of 180 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The district had 2,388 active cases of the disease while 312 persons recovered. The district’s death toll increased to 2,147 after six persons died of COVID-19 in the last few days. The daily COVID-19 caseload of Tiruppur district stayed below the 100-mark for the second consecutive day as 94 new cases were reported on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 87,015 cases. The Health Department reported no new deaths as the toll remained as 815. The district reported 1,535 active cases and 126 new recoveries on Thursday. The Nilgiris district reported 60 cases, taking the total number of confirmed to 30,073. The number of deaths stood at 173, while 816 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-180-cases-six-deaths/article35480943.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches premises of former T.N. Minister||Sale deed documents, papers pertaining to insurance policies and transactions in firms where Mr. Vijayabhaskar is a partner and other incriminating documents were also seized, sources said. Mr. Vijayabhaskar lost to Senthilbalaji of the DMK in the Karur Assembly constituency. ‘Political vendetta’ AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday said the searches were carried out due to political vendetta. Speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting with party functionaries, along with co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Mr. Panneerselvam said the ruling DMK was not able to face the AIADMK politically, and was resorting to DVAC raids. “The AIADMK is prepared to face anything. The raids were only due to political vendetta. This is anti-democratic and the DMK should stop this. We will face it legally,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. The former AIADMK regime protected livelihoods and the rights of Tamil Nadu for 10 years, he said, adding that the people were aware of the steps taken by the AIADMK government for their welfare. When asked about the DMK’s promise on NEET, he said the question should be asked to the Chief Minister, as the AIADMK had, on multiple occasions, raised questions over the issue. “We have not received any reply from the DMK so far,” he said. At the meeting, both Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami discussed the steps to be taken for the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-premises-of-former-tn-minister/article35480881.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||137 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 137 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total count to 92,452. While 205 persons were discharged, 1,858 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 113 persons tested positive Thursday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Namakkal reported 52 indigenous cases. Krishnagiri reported 22 fresh cases and the active cases stood at 431 as of Thursday. A total of 41,076 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri saw 40 new cases. There were 440 active cases and 25,814 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/137-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article35481076.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No power||Sengadurai sub-station (10 a.m. to 2 p.m.- July 23): Aero Nagar, Bharathi Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power/article35480928.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Hindusthan College of Arts and Science: Webinar on Placements, 10 a.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting on communication skills, 6.30 p.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Virtual Faculty Development Programme, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article35480936.ece
23 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain raises flood scare on riverbanks in North Karnataka||Heavy rain across the region raised a flood scare on the riverbanks in North Karnataka on Thursday. In Belagavi and Bagalkot, officers asked farmers and inland fishermen not to venture into rivers. As many as 16 bridge-cum-barrages were submerged. Approach roads to Jatrat, Bhivashi, Bhoj, Karadaga, Akkol, Sidnal, Naganur, Gotur, Mamadapur, Bhojwadi, Kunnur, Mallikwad and Dattawad and surrounding villages were cut off due to submergence of bridge-cum-barrages. However, there were alternative routes and commuters did not suffer, officers said. The police had to struggle for hours to clear the traffic jam on the Belagavi-Kolhapur National Highway after parts of it were submerged in water. An abandoned house collapsed in Khade Bazaar after heavy rain. No one was injured. A passer-by who was nearby was saved as he heard the sound of falling stones and ran to safety. The Belagavi District Police pulled out a car that was stuck in a ditch on the Kolhapur highway near Rani Channamma University on Thursday. The driver lost control of the car as rainwater flooded the highway. The car slowly slid to the left side of the road. The driver ran to safety. Heavy rain had filled the ditch with water. Commuters who saw the car slid into the ditch called the police. Kakati Police went to the spot and used a jeep to pull the car out. No one was injured, Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe said. Heavy rain in Belagavi and parts of South Maharashtra led to an increased inflow into the Krishna and its tributaries. However, there was no immediate threat of a flood as inflow into the Krishna was less than two lakh cusecs, officers said. Maharashtra released over 77,000 cusecs of water into the Kallol Barrage. Inflow and outflow in the dam was 77,768 cusecs. Inflow into the Alamatti Dam was 66,936 cusecs and outflow 65,238 cusecs. Inflow at the Narayanpur Dam was 69,782 cusecs and outflow 84,680 cusecs. Inflow and outflow at Rajapur Barrage was 58,000 cusecs. There was 33.77 tmcft water in the Raja Lakhamagouda Reservoir on the Ghataprabha that has a total capacity of 51 tmcft of water. Inflow was 17,467 cusecs and outflow 134 cusecs. In the Renuka Sagar Dam on the Malaprabha, there was 21 tmcft of water out of the gross capacity of 37.73 tmcft. Inflow was 1,317 cusecs and outflow 194 cusecs. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol announced that the State government has given administrative approval to construct a wall to stop the flooding of the Malaprabha at Hampiholi near Ramdurg in Belagavi district. This is to be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 126 crore. The State Cabinet has granted administrative approval to the project for which demand was long pending. This will raise the wall to stop flooding of the Malaprabha that tends to flood and damage crops and property in Ramdurg taluk. The Deputy Chief Minister’s office released a press note saying that the project would be completed in time. The project aimed at halting the river from flooding due to excessive rainfall will also help in reducing damage due to flooding in the surrounding areas. The Cabinet okayed the transfer of three acres of land owned by Karnataka Neeravari Nigam to the Revenue Department for the construction of a Mini Vidhan Soudha at Badami in Bagalkot district. This will help people by bringing all government offices in one building, the Deputy Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-raises-flood-scare-on-riverbanks-in-north-karnataka/article35481116.ece
23 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE’s Lingaraj PU College students do well in exam||Students of KLE’s Lingaraj PU College of Arts and Commerce have done well in the II PU examinations. All the students of both the streams have passed the examinations, pushing up the pass percentage to 100. As many as 22 of the 146 students have passed with distinction, 87 with First Class and 37 students with Second Class. Pallavi Navalyal scored 567 and stood first in the college in the Arts section. Chandu Pujari scored 565 and stood second, while Saima Mujawar scored 564 and stood third. In the Commerce section, 42 obtained distinction, 164 First Class and 24 students cleared with Second Class. Fasiha Akbarali scored 600/600 and stood first in the college in the Commerce section. Khushi Patil scored 594 and stood second, while Pranjal Jambrekar scored 589 and stood third. As many as nine students in Kannada, six students in Hindi, five students in Accountancy, four students in Statistics, two students in Business Studies, two students in English, one student in Economics and one student in Sociology secured 100 marks. Akash Sontakki, a visually challenged student, scored 479 marks (79.83%). College principal, teachers and staff have congratulated the students. Raja Lakhamagouda Meanwhile, students of KLE Society’s Raja Lakhamagouda PU College of Science have done well in pre university examinations. Of the 608 students, 178 students have obtained distinction, 428 First Class and two cleared the examinations in the Second Class. As many as 127 have secured 100% marks, incuding 22 in Mathematics, 13 in Chemistry, 10 in Physics, nine in Computer Science, seven in Biology, 34 in Hindi, 19 in Kannada and 13 in English. Mohammad Kaif Mulla and Tarun Kaulgod stood first in the college by scoring 600 out of 600. Ambuja Bamane stood second with 599 out of 600 and Parvati Halase came third with 598 marks. Society management has congratulated principal V.C. Kamagol teachers, staff and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kles-lingaraj-pu-college-students-do-well-in-exam/article35481118.ece
23 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Samarth students fare well in II PU||Students of Samarth Independent PU College in Gadag have done well in II PU exams. In the Science stream, Gayatri Saishreeja Pittal stood first with 600 marks, Manjunath Malkhed second with 598 and Neha Chillur with 597 came third. In the Commerce stream, Swati Padaki stood first with 600 marks, Abhishek Pammar second with 553 and Manjula Pillai stood third with 552 marks. As many as 110 students obtained distinction and First Class in the Science stream, while 81 Commerce students obtained distinction or first class. Akshay Angadi, Srihari Hampiholi, Rachita Rao, Apoorva Aneppagol, B.K. Kartikeya, Sana Maniyar, Sachin Gombi, Anusha Naikar, Sanjana Kumbar, Bhavana Kaddi, Chetana Badiger, Jasmit Hundal, Sanjana Hubballi, Chinmay Kulkarni, Nidhi Devale, Megharaj Godkar, Sooraj Mensinkai and Aishwarya Kori have scored above 500 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samarth-students-fare-well-in-ii-pu/article35481111.ece
23 July 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Rain disrupts life in Hubballi-Dharwad||Heavy rain disrupted life in Hubballi-Dharwad. The district received around 47 mm of rain this week against the periodical average of 36 mm. Kalghatgi received the highest of 11.44 mm rainfall. Farmers complained of heavy losses to green gram, black gram, soya and groundnut crops if it continued to rain. A government school compound Murkatti village in Dharwad taluk collapsed due to heavy rain. Inflow at Huliamman Kere, Kelegeri Lake and Tupparihalla and other local tanks increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-disrupts-life-in-hubballi-dharwad/article35481119.ece
23 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||SWR to run special train to Agartala||South Western Railway will run holiday special superfast trains between Bengaluru and Agartala. The train will have 20 coaches with 18 AC 3-Tier coaches, two luggage-cum-brake vans with generator. Being a special train, it has a fare of 1.3 times the normal fare. Train No 05488 Agartala-Bengaluru Cantonment Special Express will run from Agartala on July 31, while Train No 05487 Bengaluru Cantonment-Agartala Special Express will run from Bengaluru Cantonment on August 3. It will pass through Ambasa, Dharmanagar, New Karimganj, Badarpur, New Halflong, Guwahati, Kamakhya, New Bongaigaon, New Jalpaiguri, Kishanganj, Malda Town, Rampur Halt, Dankuni, Andul, Kharagpur, Bhadrakh, Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Berhampur, Palasa, Srikakulam Road, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Duvvada, Vijayawada, Perambur, Katpadi and Whitefield. Bridges replaced Railway officials have replaced two British-era stone masonry bridges with modern RCC boxes in the Bengaluru division. Officials worked overnight to replace two stone masonry in the Bengaluru-Jolarpettai section of Bengaluru Division of South Western Railway. These two bridges have been replaced with RCC boxes, in the last two days. They are expected to provide stability, safety and strength for the track which passes upon the bridges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-run-special-train-to-agartala/article35481126.ece
23 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Chetan Kulkarni passes away||Chetan Kulkarni, senior photo journalist, died in Belagavi on Thursday. He was 48. He is survived by his wife and a son. He was suffering from some ailments for sometime. He had served in several publications, including The Indian Express, Kannada Prabha, Deccan Herald, Prajavani, Tarun Bharat and other Kannada and Marathi newspapers, as photographer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chetan-kulkarni-passes-away/article35481117.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Expert committee wants lower primary classes to reopen first||The expert committee established by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education to look into the reopening of schools wants all pre-primary and lower primary classes opened from August 2. Committee members have suggested that all classes on campus should resume at the earliest. However, a source in the committee said that if the government is keen on a phased reopening, then classes I to V should be prioritised. “We have suggested that students in classes I to III should attend school in the morning, while those enrolled in classes IV and V can come to school in the afternoon. After a week, physical classes for students in classes VI to second pre-university can be reopened,” the source said. The committee has suggested that classes on campus be held at least six days a week for three hours every day. “Classes should be held every day so that there is continuity in learning. Young children learn best through face-to-face interactions with adults and online learning should be the last resort,” the source added. Schools with a low number of students can resume classes in full strength. But in cases where the number of students enrolled is high, classes have to be conducted in multiple batches. As schools will function for limited hours, homework material can be given to students, the committee has suggested. Vaccination An interim report drawn up by the committee, which is yet to be submitted to the government, stated that all teachers, non-teaching staff, and School Development and Monitoring Committee members should be vaccinated with at least one dose before school commences. Members will be meeting the Commissioner for Public Instruction, who heads the committee, on Friday to discuss the recommendations. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the committee would submit its report on Monday or Tuesday. However, despite the committee’s recommendations, the government is not keen on restarting primary classes. “We are considering starting high school and PU classes first,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/expert-committee-wants-lower-primary-classes-to-reopen-first/article35480849.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six Ministers huddle with Yediyurappa||Soon after the State Cabinet meeting on Thursday, at least six Ministers, whose resignations were responsible for bringing down the previous Congress–JD(S) coalition government and putting the incumbent government in power, were huddled with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. This gained significance with news running thick and wild about the possible resignation of Mr. Yediyurappa and when it would happen. Among those present were N. Nagaraju (MTB), K. Gopalaiah, K. Sudhakar, Shivaram Hebbar, Byrathi Basavaraj, and B.C. Patil. However, they took pains to explain that their visit was not political but administrative. They rubbished rumours of them being ready to resign. “If the Chief Minister himself is stepping down, the Cabinet will be dissolved and a new Council of Ministers will come. There is no reason for us to resign now,” a Minister explained. On their plan if Mr. Yediyurappa resigned, Dr. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare Minister, speaking on behalf of Ministers who came from other parties, said, “We came to the BJP by accepting Mr. Yediyurappa’s leadership as well as the party ideology. We will abide by whatever the high command decides with respect to the leadership change issue.” When asked if they would go to Delhi to plead their case with the central leadership, he said, “We will go to Delhi if there is a need.” Meanwhile, against the speculation that the Chief Minister would discuss the current political climate in the State during the Cabinet meeting, the discussions did not digress away from the agenda, it is learnt. “We did not digress into political issues,” said Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Three other Ministers also said that Mr. Yediyurappa did not bring up the topic. “Whatever he had to say, he had already spoken before the media. There was nothing much he could speak in the Cabinet,” a senior Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-ministers-huddle-with-yediyurappa/article35480868.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New insights into birth and death of stars||An international team of astronomers carried out an extensive new survey of the Milky Way that has revealed previously unseen signatures with unprecedented sensitivity and details that hint at how stars form and die. The results were published in a series of papers on Astronomy & Astrophysics by the team, which includes scientists from theIndian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru, and the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Thiruvananthapuram. The research team also included scientists from Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy (MPIfR), Germany, and National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO), USA, and collaborators from institutions in the United Kingdom, South Africa, Mexico, France, and Australia. According to an IISc release, information for the survey, which spanned a large part of the Milky Way, was gathered using two powerful radio telescopes: the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) at the NRAO and the Effelsberg 100m radio telescope operated by the MPIfR, as part of the GLOSTAR (Global View on Star formation in the Milky Way) project. Nirupam Roy, assistant professor in the Department of Physics, Rohit Dokara, his former undergraduate student from IISc, Jagadheep D. Pandian, associate professor in the Department of Earth and Space Sciences at IIST are among the Indian scientists who are part of the GLOSTAR project. A release said Mr. Dokara, now a Ph.D student at MPIfR, is the first author on one of the papers, which reports the detection of new supernova remnants (SNRs) — structures born from the explosive death of massive stars — in our galaxy. “Previous surveys have detected only about one-third of the expected number of SNRs in the Milky Way (which is nearly 1,000). The GLOSTAR team has now discovered 80 new SNR candidates in the VLA data alone. They were also able to confirm the presence of 77 previously discovered SNR candidates and reclassify a few that were misidentified,” stated the release, also quoting Mr. Dokara as saying that this was an important step towards solving the long-standing mystery of missing supernova remnants. The researchers were able to detect other traces of star formation, one of them radio emission from methanol molecules in a nearby large star-forming complex called Cygnus X.These, the release said, are typically emitted from massive stars in very early stages of formation. The team was also able to detect dense pockets of ionised hydrogen,another telltale sign of the presence of massive young stars, the release added. Mr. Roy said young stars are usually surrounded by thick clouds of dust and gas. Because visible light gets absorbed in this dense cloud around stars, most optical telescopes don’t reveal much. What people look for, instead, are radio emissions. “Since the GLOSTAR survey detects a wide range of radio emissions such as that from methanol molecules to ionised hydrogen, it is able to probe the formation of massive stars from very early to relatively late stages, which is important to get a complete picture of star formation in the Milky Way,” Mr. Pandian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-insights-into-birth-and-death-of-stars/article35480865.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. given 3 months to set up night shelters for the homeless||Expressing shock over the establishment of only a meagre number of night shelters for the urban homeless as against the required number of shelters, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday set a deadline of three months to put up at least 42 night shelters within the limits of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The court also directed the government to set up the remaining 32 night shelters in BBMP limits within six months, while giving three months to set up night shelters in other urban areas of the State as per the requirement. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties-Karnataka. The Bench, from the statement filed by the State government, noted that the government should have set up 166 night shelters across the State at the rate of one night shelter per one lakh of population, as per the government’s commitment made before the apex court. However, the data submitted by the government disclosed that only 46 night shelters have been set up across the State so far. As per the data, the government is required to set up 84 night shelters in the limits of BBMP alone, but only 10 shelters have been set up in Bengaluru city so far of the 15 approved. While giving three months’ time to set up at least 42 shelters in BBMP limits within three months, the Bench said the remaining shelters will have to be set up within six months. Meanwhile, the Bench directed officials of the District Legal Services Authorities to conduct surprise visits to verify the conditions of the existing night shelters and the facilities required to be provided at the night shelters as per the revised operation guidelines of 2018, framed under the scheme for shelters for the urban homeless.  Woefully short The Bench noted that the government should have set up 166 night shelters across Karnataka at the rate of one night shelter per one lakh of population, as per the government’s commitment made before the apex court. However, the data submitted by the government disclosed that only 46 night shelters have been set up across the State so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-given-3-months-to-set-up-night-shelters-for-the-homeless/article35480847.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elderly men constitute a big percentage of COVID deaths||Always warned about beingone of the most vulnerable groups susceptible to infection, senior citizens have been the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The proof is in the numbers: of the 15,815 COVID-19 deaths in Bengaluru as on July 21, more than 10,000 were men. Of these, 3,425 were above the age of 70, while 2,458 were in the 60-69 category. As many as 1,983 were aged between 50 and 59, while 1,318 were men between the age of 40 and 49, and 639 were in the 30-39 bracket. Even among the younger age groups, more men lost their lives. Most female fatalities too were in the over 70 age group (1,811), followed by those in the 60-69 and 50-59 brackets. Dominic Benjamin, head of the Department of Medicine, Bangalore Baptist Hospital, said the fatalities were the result of a lower immune system. “People in this part of the world are frail. Chronic diseases are not taken care of. A lot of factors have contributed, including not being aware and not getting vaccinated against other viruses. Most of those who died were obese or their BP was not under control. In India, the biological age is more than the chronological age. So someone who is 60 may be going on 70, and not resilient enough to bounce back,” he said. He highlighted another important aspect: mental health. “People are already down because of fear and loneliness. They see the news and think corona means death. So there is fear even before infection,” he said. Dr. Benjamin recommended that senior citizens try to get chronic diseases under control, especially as a lot of people are eating more because of stress. “There are simple things to do: not be fearful, get in touch with a doctor, get organised for the storm if it comes, stay connected with people willing to help. Thehuman body is so strong, it can fight a lot of viruses. But people are sceptical about vaccination. Encourage them to nourish themselves and keep their mind positive,” he added, apart from prescribing the very basics such as wearing mask and maintaining social distancing. S. Premkumar Raja, co-founder, Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), said the pandemic affected more senior citizens during the first wave, as by the second many had received vaccination. Radha S. Murthy, managing trustee, NMT, attributed the higher fatalities in the age group to the elderly having comorbidities, lower resistance, and a weaker immune system. “Diabetes, hypertension, COPD are among the many reasons. Vaccination is key. Keep sugar and BP under control, and get regular check-up,” she said, also advocating preventive care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elderly-men-constitute-a-big-percentage-of-covid-deaths/article35480851.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On day 2, students brave heavy rain and landslips to get to SSLC exam centres||Class X students in many parts of Karnataka braved heavy rain to reach their examination centres to sit for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exam, which concluded on Thursday. In some districts such as Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru, roads leading to the exam centres were submerged or blocked because of landslips and fallen trees. Despite this, 99.65% of the students reported to their centres and took the exam. Department officials swung into action to arrange transport facilities for the students. For instance, in Chikkodi, around 44 students almost did not make it to their exam centres as the road was blocked by a huge tree that had fallen. “We immediately alerted the local police as well as the Fire and Emergency Services. They managed to clear the road in time and all 44 students gave the exam,” said an official. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar lauded the efforts of the authorities. The SSLC examination was conducted over two days with core subjects on July 19 and the languages on Thursday. A total of 67 students who tested positive for COVID-19 answered their papers at COVID Care Centres across the State. Another 152 candidates who were experiencing symptoms sat in isolated rooms at their respective exam centres. With all students deemed as passed, Mr. Kumar said there were around 12 lakh seats available in PU colleges. In instances where colleges see more demand than seats, the department will look into the feasibility of increasing student strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-day-2-students-brave-heavy-rain-and-landslips-to-get-to-sslc-exam-centres/article35480856.ece
23 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa, Rayaraddi question seers’ stand on political developments||Senior BJP leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa on Thursday took on the seers who had publicly warned that the BJP would bite the dust if Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was replaced. “It was MLAs from Lingayat community who were launching an offensive against Mr. Yediyurappa. Why did the seers not advise their community MLAs to mend fences then?” he asked, speaking to reporters. Mr. Eshwarappa also expressed happiness over the Chief Minister’s statement that he would abide by whatever decision was taken by the party high command over leadership change. “Since the time of the party having only four MLAs to a position of occupying the chief ministerial post now, he has abided by the decision of the party high command,” Mr. Eshwarappa said. ‘Insulting devotees’ Meanwhile, the former Minister and Congress leader Basavaraj Rayaraddi has taken objection to Lingayat seers openly taking the stand in favour of Mr. Yediyurappa. “What is happening with Mr. Yediyurappa is an internal issue of the BJP. Religious mutts have nothing to do with it. Why are the seers who have renounced worldly affairs saying that the BJP will be destroyed if Mr. Yediyurappa is replaced?” the former Minister told The Hindu on the phone from Delhi. “By doing so, the mutts are actually insulting the devotees.” Mr. Rayaraddi, also a Lingayat, said, “The religious mutts are not there for the BJP alone. If so, which mutt should Congress workers or leaders go to? What is unfolding is a bad culture.” ‘Why Cong. leaders?’ Taking objection to his party colleagues and former Ministers M.B. Patil and Shamanur Shivashankarappa coming in support of Mr. Yediyurappa, he said, “They should not interfere in the internal politics of the BJP. They may have said it emotionally, they should not have said it. They are the assets of the Congress. I urge them to withdraw their statements.” However, show of strength by seers continued on Thursday too, with around 250 of them from Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts meeting Mr. Yediyurappa to express their support to him. But other seers, who had earlier sharply reacted to the speculation of leadership change, appeared to have mellowed their stand.  It was MLAs from Lingayat community who were launching an offensive against Yediyurappa. Why did the seers not advise their community MLAs to mend fences then?  K.S. Eshwarappa,Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister   What is happening with Yediyurappa is an internal issue of the BJP. Religious mutts have nothing to do with it. Why are the seers who have renounced worldly affairs saying that the BJP will be destroyed if Yediyurappa is replaced? Basavaraj Rayaraddi,Congress leader and former Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eshwarappa-rayaraddi-question-seers-stand-on-political-developments/article35480866.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet approves Rs. 8,000 cr. to build houses||The State government on Thursday approved spending of Rs. 8,000 crore to build about 5 lakh houses in urban and rural areas across the State over the next two years. “One of the major decisions taken today is to construct four lakh houses in rural areas and one lakh houses in urban areas under various housing schemes. The houses will be completed in two years at an expenditure of Rs. 8,000 crore,” Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters after the Cabinet meeting here. Further, the Cabinet approvedRs. 500 crore towards creation of basic infrastructure, including building culverts, drainage, and electrical and water connections to one lakh houses being built in the BBMP limits. Innovation centre The Cabinet has also approved setting up of the Centre for Innovation and Development for Smart Agriculture in agricultural universities in partnership with Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence. The centre will have drone labs, agriculture labs, equipment design, and manufacturing and incubation facilities. “Each centre will cost about Rs. 110 crore. Seven such centres have been planned,” Mr. Bommai said. To enhance organic carbon in soil, the State has decided to set aside Rs. 75 crore to be spent over next five years. “A sum of Rs. 3,000 per hectare and limited to two hectares would be given to farmers to enhance organic carbon,” said Mr. Bommai. Among other decisions, the State has asked the Backward Classes Welfare Department to issue an order to bring 10% reservation for economically weaker sections as per the guidelines of the Union government in civil services recruitment and educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-approves-rs-8000-cr-to-build-houses/article35480869.ece
23 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cancel holidays: panel||The committee has also suggested that the government should reduce and revise the curriculum and modify the academic year to bridge the learning gap so as to achieve minimum learning outcomes. The interim report recommends that holidays be cancelled or shortened to achieve this goal. The committee has also suggested considering the next two years as an emergency “build back” period. It has batted for active learning from August 2021 to May 2023. A minimum of 300 actual teaching and learning days is necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cancel-holidays-panel/article35480853.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cars vandalised by gang of three||A gang of three youngsters vandalised five cars, smashing their windshields and windows on RPC Layout late on Wednesday night. The gang was armed with wooden sticks and went on a random spree vandalising cars parked outside homes at around 11 p.m. When the residents they tried to apprehend them, the gang fled. Using CCTV footage, the police have identified two of the three miscreants as Naveen and Mahendra, both residents of the same area. The police are on the lookout for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cars-vandalised-by-gang-of-three/article35480860.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,653 new cases in State||Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,653 new COVID-19 cases, a marginal increase from the 1,639 on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases in the State rose to 28,89,994. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of new cases (418), followed by Dakshina Kannada (229). A few districts such as Yadgir and Bidar reported no new cases. There were 31 deaths reported on Thursday, taking the toll to 36,293. As many as 2,572 people were discharged on the day, taking the total to date to 28,28,983. The number of active cases in the State dropped to 24,695. While the positivity rate for the day was 1.17%, the case fatality rate was 1.87%. As many as 1,40,343 tests were conducted on Thursday, including 1,16,588 RT-PCR tests. Meanwhile, Victoria Hospital announced that all non-COVID-19 services including OPDs, wards, ICUs and emergency operation theatres, have resumed functioning. Elective operations will also resume soon, as the fungal culture reports of these operation theatres are awaited, said the hospital in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1653-new-cases-in-state/article35480859.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. has hurriedly approved works worth Rs. 12,000 crore: Kumaraswamy||The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday alleged that the State government, amid speculation of leadership change, had approved Rs. 12,000 crore worth of works in the Water Resources Department. “There is speculation that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will resign in a couple of days. The government approved works worth Rs. 12,000 crore in four irrigation corporations at a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister today [Thursday]. He has approved the works in a hurry,” Mr. Kumaraswamy told reporters at Malavalli in Mandya district. Board meetings The former Chief Minister’s statement came after Mr. Yediyurappa chaired the 130th board meeting of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam, 19th board meeting of Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam, and 96th board meeting of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam, all of which are importing water resources implementing bodies in the State. “If the Chief Minister is to be replaced in two days, why was Rs. 12,000 crore worth of works approved in a hurry? What is the reason for the decision? This is a money-making exercise,” he alleged, asking the government if it was serious about the irrigation works in north Karnataka. ‘Discrimination’ The Old Mysore region gave the highest taxes to the State, he said, and added, “Why is there a discrimination against the Old Mysore region? Treat all the regions equally.” He pointed out that Cauvery Neeravari Nigam has been given just Rs. 1,000 crore out of Rs. 12,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-has-hurriedly-approved-works-worth-rs-12000-crore-kumaraswamy/article35480870.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe into Babli murder case widened||The city police have intensified the probe into the murder of rowdy-sheeter Joseph Babli who was hacked to death inside a bank at Koramangala on Monday. “We have detained over 10 rowdy-sheeters from Adugodi and are questioning them in connection with the case,” said a police officer. The Koramangala police had fired at and arrested two rowdy-sheeters, Pradeep and Ravi, who were part of the gang of assailants on Wednesday. However, other key suspects are still at large and the motive behind the murder is unclear so far, sources said. Babli, a rowdy-sheeter from Adugodi, had no criminal cases registered against him since 2011 and was believed to have turned a new leaf, working as a contractor. However, initial investigation into his murder has indicated he was active in several intricate issues between rowdy gangs and was also behind a recent attack on another rowdy-sheeter, which may have pushed others to attack him as a form of revenge, sources said. The Adugodi police have now detained several rowdy-sheeters from the area and are looking into Babli’s activities for more leads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-into-babli-murder-case-widened/article35480852.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. ties up with Unacademy on online training||To facilitate the placement of Kannadigas in administrative and public domain services, the Higher Education Department has entered into an agreement with the educational technology firm Unacademy to impart online training. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the agreement is expected to better prepare students to benefit from the opportunities of around three lakh jobs every year for which government departments issue notifications. A press release said that under this MoU, coaching for competitive exams would be given to 1,500 students every year for a period of three years, and 4,500 students will be trained in total. It also added that students would be selected for the training program based on their performance in an online exam conducted twice a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-ties-up-with-unacademy-on-online-training/article35480861.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medicinal plants||South Western Railway (SWR), in association with Koti Vruksha Sena and Rotary Bengaluru, has taken up an initiative of planting medicinal plants in the vicinity of the newly built Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal near Baiyappanahalli in the city. A press release from SWR stated that 4,400 sq.m of land within the railway station area, main entrance and other spots would be utilised to increase green cover. There is a proposal to plant 2,000 saplings to create an “Eco Theme Park”. Along with medicinal plants, measures will be taken to plant aromatic and ornamental ones. On Thursday, Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma inaugurated the initiative by planting a sapling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medicinal-plants/article35480862.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CLAT today||The Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) will be held online on Friday. The entrance exam is the gateway for admissions to UG and PG law programmes applying to 22 National Law Universities across India. The test will be organised by the Consortium of National Law Universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clat-today/article35480844.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidance value to be revised?||The State Cabinet on Thursday agreed to visit revision of guidance value of properties. Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there was a proposal seeking revision of the guidance value, and it had been decided to ask the valuation committee to look into it. Meanwhile, the State has decided to reduce stamp duty from 5% to 3% on flats valuing between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 45 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidance-value-to-be-revised/article35480872.ece
23 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heavy rains lash 3 districts, roads damaged||Heavy rains lashed several parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts on Thursday, leaving many roads damaged, rivers swollen, and low-lying areas flooded. A portion of the National Highway 75 connecting Bengaluru and Mangaluru caved in near Donigal in Sakleshpur taluk, forcing the local administration to stop the movement of vehicles. Near Kalasa in Chikkamagaluru district, a temporary road bridge that connected Kalasa with Abbudugi collapsed. Many students, who had taken SSLC examination on the day, had difficulty in reaching the exam centres in Sringeri, N.R.Pura and Koppa taluks. Many villages of Hosanagar taluk received heavy downpour, throwing normal life out of gear. Nittur in Hosanagar taluk recorded the State’s highest rainfall of 174 mm and Shankar Shanbhag in Sagar taluk recorded the second highest of 173 mm. The Malnad region registered an average of 37 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours against the normal of 19 mm. The rivers in three districts are in spate. The inflow into Hemavathi, Tunga and Sharavathi reservoirs has been increasing. Jog Falls in Sagar taluk is regaining its glory with the increase in rainfall in Sharavathi valley. After a portion of NH 75 caved in near Donigal on Wednesday night following incessant rains, the officers of Sakleshpur taluk administration rushed to the spot on Thursday morning and stopped the movement of vehicles, to avoid any untoward incident. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish instructed the National Highways Division of Public Works Department to take up restoration of the stretch immediately, as it is the main road connecting Dakshina Kannada with other parts of the State. Vehicles headed to Mangaluru have been diverted via Belur-Mudigere-Charmadi Ghat temporarily. Shivamogga district received an average of 45 mm of rainfall against the normal of 24.2 mm. Chikkamagaluru recorded 38.9 mm against the normal of 17.7 mm and Hassan recorded 21.1 mm against the normal of 8.1 mm. Hettur in Sakleshpur taluk recorded 129 mm of rainfall, the highest in Hassan district. Marasanige in Mudigere taluk registered 116 mm of rainfall, the highest in Chikkamagaluru district.  Student receives help Sringeri Block Education Officer P. Nagaraj, while on duty, noticed a student struggling to cross Kikre Halla. He helped the student cross the stream and reach the examination centre in time. A photo the officer took with the student has gone viral on social media platforms in Chikkamagaluru district. Many people have appreciated the officer for his gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rains-lash-3-districts-roads-damaged/article35481296.ece
23 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two KRRS leaders killed, one hurt in road accident||Two prominent leaders of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) were killed and another injured in an accident at Ramanahalli near Chikkamagaluru on Thursday. They met with the accident while returning after a programme organised by KRRS at Naragunda in Dharwad district. The deceased are G.T. Ramaswamy, 72, vice-president of the sangha, and Ramanna, 65, working president. Ravi Kiran Poonacha of Bantwal taluk suffered serious injuries. Their car hit a tree. Ramaswamy, who served in the army, had been a government officer and took voluntary retirement. Ramanna, a native of Channapatna, was with the Raitha Sangha for the last four decades. The Chikkamagaluru Traffic Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-krrs-leaders-killed-in-accident/article35481136.ece
23 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||My father is a disciplined soldier of BJP: Raghavendra||B.Y. Raghavendra, Shivamogga Lok Sabha member and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son, on Thursday said his father was a “disciplined soldier of the party” and would stand by the party high command’s decision. Interestingly, Mr. Yediyurappa’s younger son and party vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra has hardly spoken ever since their return from New Delhi, as speculation around leadership change has gathered momentum. Mr. Raghavendra told reporters on Thursday that his father had clarified two months ago that he would resign if the party directed him to do so. “I don’t think the party has asked him to resign. If the party gives him an instruction, he will obey it as a disciplined soldier,” he said. Responding to a question on whether the Chief Minister had discussed future plans with the family, Mr. Raghavendra said his father hardly discussed such issues in recent days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/my-father-is-a-disciplined-soldier-of-bjp-raghavendra/article35480871.ece
23 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Farmers may face crop damage due to rainfall in excess||The incessant downpour in the last two weeks has left farmers worried. Short-term kharif crops, including black gram and green gram, are said to have been flattened in several areas of the district due to rainfall in excess across the district. Kalaburagi district recorded 327.4 mm rainfall as against a normal average of 191.9 mm from June 1 to July 21. Kalagi taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 455.3 mm against a normal rainfall of 187 mm followed by Chittapur taluk with 397 mm rainfall against a normal rainfall of 194 mm. Chincholi received 365.9 mm rainfall against a normal of 237.2 mm rainfall, Shahabad taluk recorded 357 mm rainfall against a normal of 187 mm rainfall. Kalaburagi recorded 321.7 mm rainfall, Kamalapur taluk 317 mm, Sedam 318 mm, Afzalpur taluk 315.6 mm and Jewargi taluk received 307 mm rainfall. Aland and Yadrami taluks received 255 mm rainfall each. Around 90% of the targeted area for kharif crops, both in rain-fed and irrigated areas, has already been covered in the district. According to the Department of Agriculture, farmers have completed sowing in more than 6,79,710 hectares of land against the fixed target of 7,55,130 hectares for the kharif season. Among foodgrains, pulses dominated the scenario with farmers completing sowing in 5.68 lakh hectares (93%) of land against a target of 6.12 lakh hectares. Crops such as black gram and green gram have already exceeded the targeted area with sowing completed in 30,235 hectares (101%) and 53,892 hectares (110%), respectively. The sowing area of black gram and green gram goes up to 140% of the targeted area every season, but this time farmers have stopped sowing operations fortnight earlier than usual due to heavy rain across the district. Cereals have been sown in 3,996 hectares (23%) as against a targeted area of 17,280 hectares and oilseeds in 19,531 hectares (50%) as against a targeted area of 39,400 hectares. Data from the Agriculture Department revealed that Chittapur taluk has completed sowing on 95% of the targeted area, while farmers in Chincholli and Sedam taluks have covered 94% of the targeted area under kharif cultivation. Kalaburagi taluk has achieved 89% coverage and Afzalpur taluk 88% of the targeted area, while Jewargi and Aland taluks have covered 86% each of the total targeted area, as on Tuesday. District president of the Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha Sharanabasappa Mamshetty said that heavy rain over the past fortnight has caused extensive damage to standing crops of black gram, green gram and red gram in the district. Farmers in Chittapur, Chincholi, Kalagi and Shahabad taluks will be the worst affected. Mr. Mamshetty also demanded that the district administration take up a crop damage survey immediately and extend relief to farmers. Aland taluk president of the Sugarcane Growers Association Dharmraj Sahu said that damage could increase as rainfall is expected to last till the end of the week. Yield will also be lower this year owing to damage, he added. A farmer from Chincholi taluk Vitalrao Kulkarni said that rain has destroyed standing crops on 60 acres of land. The farmer has cultivated red gram on 60 acres. Around nine acres of black gram and green gram have also suffered damage as the entire field remained inundated with rainwater.  Heavy rain in the past fortnight has caused extensive damage to standing crops of black gram, green gram and red gram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-may-face-crop-damage-due-to-rainfall-in-excess/article35481123.ece
23 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||AIDSO seeks postponement of VSKU degree, PG exams||Considering the second wave of COVID-19 and the resultant lockdown that had affected academic activities in the State, the Ballari district unit of All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) has demanded that the Vijayanagar Sri Krishnadevaraya University (VSKU) postpone its undergraduate and postgraduate examinations scheduled to begin on Monday. Office-bearers of the organisation met the university authorities on Thursday and expressed their opposition to what they called “rigidity and hurriedness of the university in conducting the examinations without giving enough time to students for preparations”. “All the universities in the State have scheduled the examinations for the undergraduate and postgraduate degrees for August and the VSKU is displaying its rigidity and hurriedness in conducting the examinations from July 26. Students could not attend classes during the lockdown and many of them even lost their close relatives and parents to the pandemic. Those who worked as agricultural labour and construction workers for the last two-three months owing to the closure of educational institutions have just now resumed their studies after the academic activities began. They cannot go and write the examinations right away. The VSKU should conduct revision classes for them and then conduct the examinations,” said district president of the organisation Guralli Raja. Stating that vaccination for students has not been completed yet, he said that the authorities should first vaccinate all students before conducting examinations. “Only 65% of the students have got their vaccination for COVID-19. It is not right on the part of the university to conduct examinations before all of its students are vaccinated. Moreover, transportation services have not completely resumed in rural areas and students from rural areas would find it difficult to come to the examination centres. The government has not yet reopened hostels and students from faraway places may find it difficult to stay in cities and towns while attending the examinations,” district secretary of the organisation J. Soumya said. The students representatives then submitted a memorandum demanding that the examinations be postponed while listing out the reasons for their demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aidso-seeks-postponement-of-vsku-degree-pg-exams/article35481131.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Underground drainage to be revamped in five months||The revamping of underground sewage network and associated facilities in Surathkal area, built more than a decade ago by availing of loan from Asian Development Bank (ADB), is expected to be completed by this year-end, according to Mayor Premananda Shetty. The Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) took up the Rs. 59-crore revamping project for Mangaluru City Corporation in October 2018. It is going on under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme of the Union government. Mr. Shetty, who reviewed the progress of the project on Wednesday, told The Hindu that of the 856 laterite stone manholes that are being converted into RCC manholes, 644 are ready. They are on the sides of storm-water drains. The Mayor said that of the nine missing link works (where underground drainage network is not linked), six works have been completed. The four wet wells, at Munchur, Hosabettu, Kulai and Idya, are linked to the 16.5 million litres-a-day (MLD) capacity sewage treatment plant (STP) in Surathkal. The pumpsets in the wet wells and the STP are not in order. Hence, the KUIDFC has been instructed to change them. Orders have been placed to purchase pumpsets and other equipment required for the replacement. Necessary approvals for additional works were given on March 26. All wet wells, except the one at Idya, will be made operational by October-end. He said that many manholes in the Surathkal area are overflowing. The corporation officials have been instructed to clean them using machines. The Mayor said that the total project cost also comprised building a 13-km approach road to access manholes. Mr. Shetty said that the KUIDFC has been instructed to complete all project works, except the Idya wet well work, by this December to enable people to get connections for their houses later. There are issues related to blocking the trunk line linked to the Idya wet well by residents. Hence, they will have to be sorted out first. The Mayor said that though constructed more than a decade ago, people have not been able to connect sewer lines of their houses to the underground draiange network due to various issues that cropped up later. Now, the KUIDFC has been asked to complete the revamping project within a time frame, i.e., by this year-end. Of the 360-km-long network laid at an estimated cost of Rs. 218 crore in the city under Phase I of the ADB-funded project, 90-km-long underground pipelines from Hosabettu, Kulai, Katipalla and Surathkal areas have been connected to the STP in Surathkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/underground-drainage-to-be-revamped-in-five-months/article35481268.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||28,995 SSLC students write first language examination in Dakshina Kannada||A maximum of 28,995 SSLC students wrote their first language papers in Dakshina Kannada district, while the highest of 13,274 students wrote the second language papers in Udupi district on Thursday. The students answered multiple choice questions related to languages between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. It covered eight first language papers that includes Kannada, English, Urdu and Sanskrit, two second language papers Kannada and English, and nine third language papers that includes Kannada, English, Hindi, Arabic, Konkani and Tulu. In Dakshina Kannada, while 28,995 wrote the first language papers, 25 remained absent. While 28,799 wrote the second language papers, 27 students were absent. A total of 28,790 wrote the third language papers, while 29 students were absent. As many as 15 students, who tested positive for COVID-19, wrote the exam in COVID Care Centres in Dakshina Kannada. A total of 37 students, who were unwell, wrote in the designated rooms at the examination centre. While 116 students wrote in hostels, 161 students from outside the district wrote the examination in centres in Dakshina Kannada. Students were happy with the multiple choice questions in language subjects. “The questions were easy. I could finish answering questions well within the stipulated time,” said Chaitrashree, a student from St. Gerosa High School. Ramlath Ashoora from Capitanio School said that the question bank was helpful in the preparation for the new multiple choice question paper format. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that a total of 331 students from Kerala wrote the examination. Nearly 100 students stayed back with their relatives in the district after the exam on July 19 and they came on their own to the examination centres on Thursday. A ferry was used to bring 50 students from Bengre to Old Port from where they went to a nearby examination centre. In Udupi, 13,274 wrote the second language papers and 16 remained absent. While 13,140 wrote the first language papers, 16 students were absent. As many as 13,224 wrote the third language papers and 15 were absent. Five students, who tested positive for COVID-19, wrote the exam in COVID Care Centres. On Thursday, Udupi Deputy Director of Public Instruction N.H. Nagur and Byndoor Tahsildar Shobha Laxmi went on a boat to Kiru Island and brought SSLC students Shilpa and Sanjana to the main land. The two officials then took the students in their vehicle to the Government PU College Navunda examination centre. Mr. Nagur said that the examination was held in a smooth manner and there was no inconvenience to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/28995-sslc-students-write-first-language-examination-in-dakshina-kannada/article35481273.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Brand Mangaluru award presented||Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane on Thursday said that when journalists being a main part of democracy voice people’s concern, other departments too can discharge their work effectively. He was speaking after inaugurating Pathrika Dinacharane and presenting Brand Mangaluru award jointly organised by Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists, Mangaluru Press Club and Patrika Bhavana Trust here. The medium of positive reaction would go a long way in developing society and journalists have to work in this direction, Mr. Sonawane felt. On the occasion, the Brand Mangaluru award was presented to senior reporter of Kannada Prabha daily, Sandeep Wagle. Senior journalist Girish Rao Hathwar (Jogi) said journalism has seen unprecedented changes in the last two years. The developments that were expected in the next decade happened during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Many publications had to stop printing and go online. The print medium had been facing the threat of being wiped out since several years. However, it is adapting to new challenges through new design and dimensions in reality, Mr. Jogi said. This was solely because of the faith people have on the print media than any other platform, he said. Information and Public Relations Department senior assistant director H.G. Raviraj, Press Club president Annu Mangaluru, president of Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists Srinivas Nayak Indaje were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brand-mangaluru-award-presented/article35481275.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beary folk certificates||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy will on Saturday distribute certificates to students of its Beary Duff, Kolkali, Oppane Paat and Kaikot Paat folklore courses introduced at St. Aloysius College. The certificates will be given away at a function at St. Eric Mathais Hall in the college at 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-folk-certificates/article35481263.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Swollen Vashishti affects train movement on Konkan Rly. network||Several trains were detained on the Konkan Railway network in Maharashtra as the Vashishti was in spate between Kamthe and Chiplun railway stations in the Ratnagiri region since Thursday morning. The authorities concerned discharged excess water from the Kolkewadi Dam near Alore as the Konkan region of Maharashtra was receiving heavy rain that resulted in the Vashishti overflowing. The river was flowing at the level of the bridge at km 130/7 and 130/10 between Chiplur and Kamthe. A communique from Konkan Railway Corporation here said that train services in the region had to be suspended as the river water was flowing above the danger level. Train No 06338 Ernakulam-Okha Bi-Weekly Special of Wednesday was diverted via Madgaon, Londa, Miraj, Jalgaon and further on the regular route. Rescheduling Train No 06345 Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Special Express of Thursday was rescheduled to leave at 4.40 p.m., a delay of five hours. Train No 02619 Lokmanya Tilak (T)-Manguluru Central Daily Special Express scheduled to leave at 3.20 p.m. on Thursday was rescheduled to leave at 4.30 p.m. Earlier in the day, several trains were regulated at stations en route . Train No 01134 Mangaluru Jn.-Mumbai CSMT Special of Wednesday was regulated at Kamthe at 5.17 a.m.; Train No 02617 Ernakulam-H. Nizamuddin Daily Special of Wednesday was regulated at Sangameshwar Road at 07.36 a.m.; Train No 04695 Kochuveli-Amritsar Weekly Special of Wednesday was regulated at Ratnagiri at 07.17 a.m.; Train No 06346 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak (T), Mumbai, of Wednesday was regulated at Vilavade at 8.06 a.m.; Train No 06072 Tirunelveli-Dadar Special of Wednesday was regulated at Rajapur Road at 8.24 a.m. and Train No 06001 Thiruvananthapuram Central Hazrat Nizamuddin Special of Wednesday was detained at Verna at 9.06 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swollen-vashishti-affects-train-movement-on-konkan-rly-network/article35481265.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corporation to appoint one more surveyor||A meeting called by Mayor Premananda Shetty to discuss issues related to delay in issuing TDR (transferable development rights) certificates and projects related to premium FAR (floor area ratio) funds here on Thursday decided to appoint one more surveyor to hasten the process of issuing the certificates. The surveyor should be either recruited or appointed on temporary basis by outsourcing manpower. As there is only one surveyor in the city corporation now, the process of issuing TDR certificates is getting delayed. Hence, there is a need to have one more surveyor, the meeting decided. The meeting, which discussed in detail the issues related to registering property handed over to the corporation under TDR, decided to write to the government to simplify the process of registering such property. It discussed issues related to use of FAR funds in developing roads. Deputy Mayor Sumangala Rao and Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corporation-to-appoint-one-more-surveyor/article35481271.ece
23 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Oscar Fernandes under observation for 3 days||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah said here on Thursday that doctors treating Rajya Sabha Member Oscar Fernandes at a private hospital here will keep him under observation for three more days and later decide on operation. Speaking to reporters after seeing Mr. Fernandes, along with Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and others, Mr. Siddaramiah said doctors told them that since Mr. Fernandes is also undergoing dialysis, he will be kept under observation. Mr. Shivakumar said that doctors and family members are confident that he will recover. His condition is not serious as projected. “He seems to be very fine. He will recover and we are praying for it,” Mr. Shivakumar said. The KPCC president said that the doctors at the hospital have also consulted other experts on treating Mr. Fernandes. Mr. Shivakumar said that senior leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have spoken to the family members of Mr. Fernandes and are monitoring his health status. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council S. R. Patil and KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed were also with Mr. Shivakumar and spoke to the family members. Mr. Fernandes was admitted to the hospital on July 19 following internal head injuries after he fell during exercise in his home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oscar-fernandes-under-observation-for-3-days/article35481277.ece
23 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three HJV activists arrested in Udupi for abducting share dealer||The Udupi Town police arrested three persons associated with Hindu Jagarana Vedike (HJV) for their alleged involvement in abducting a share dealer and robbing him of Rs. 2 lakh. The police gave the names of the accused as Santosh Bovi, 32, Anil Poojary, 34, and Manikanta Kharvi, 25. The police said shares dealer Ashok Kumar, who hailed from Tumakuru, worked from his office in Vadiraj Complex in Udupi since last four months. On July 17, Bovi came to Kumar’s office and asked the latter to accompany him in his car as he had to discuss a business proposal. As he drove, Bovi stopped his car near Ajjarkad where four persons got into the vehicle. They took Kumar to a beachside resort in Padukone and robbed him of Rs. 2 lakh. Next day, the accused brought Kumar to a bank in the city. While one among the accused entered the bank along with Kumar, the other six accused were waiting in a car and a two-wheeler outside the bank. The accused person forced Kumar to withdraw Rs. 10 lakh from his account. Soon after, Kumar raised alarm about presence of the accused that made the accused person run away and flee along with other accused persons in their vehicles. Following the compliant by Kumar, the Udupi Town police traced three accused persons and seized pistol and lethal weapons from them. The police also recovered Rs. 1.35 lakh from the accused. The police found the car used by the accused near Mannapalla Lake in Manipal. The police said the three arrested persons are involved in criminal cases registered in Kaup, Karkala Rural and Kukke Subrahmanya stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-hjv-activists-arrested-in-udupi-for-abducting-share-dealer/article35481278.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress cancels meetings with leaders of 5 districts||The Congress has cancelled meetings of its leaders of five districts scheduled here on Friday. The party leaders were to meet All India Congress Committee general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar in connection with the revamp of the party as part of preparations for local body elections. The party cancelled the event in view of the poor health condition of the former Union Minister and Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes who is in intensive care unit of a private hospital here since Monday. Party leaders from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts had been scheduled to meet Mr. Surjewala and Mr. Shivakumar at the party office here to revamp the District Congress Committees and Block Congress Committees to prepare the party for elections to ZPs and other local bodies. Elected representatives, office-bearers of frontline cells and wings of the party, former Ministers and candidates who contested the 2018 Assembly and 2019 Parliamentary elections had been invited to the meetings. However, the meetings called by the two leaders in Tumakuru on July 24 will go ahead as scheduled, according to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-cancels-meetings-with-leaders-of-5-districts/article35481281.ece
23 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||PU results||Ankith A.G., Prateeksha K.V. and Inchara K.V. of Sharada Vidyanikethana Pre-University College, Talpady, have secured 100% marks in the science stream. Four students of the college secured 99% marks, 30% scored above 95% marks and 50% students secured above 90% marks. And, 66% students have passed out with distinction of 85% in the stream. Arun N. Menon scored 100% marks in the commerce stream. Srujan P. Shetty secured 99.67% marks. In all, 16% students passed with 90% and above marks and 24% students secured distinction of 85%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pu-results/article35481279.ece
23 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Declare Chamundi Hills as a biodiversity hotspot: Ashisar||Karnataka State Biodiversity Board Chairman Ananth Hegde Ashisar on Thursday suggested declaring Chamundi Hills a biodiversity hotspot. The ecology of the hills needs to be safeguarded, improving its greenery with tree planting drives. The deputy commissioner and the officials from the Mysuru City Corporation and the Zilla Panchayat should join hands in making it possible, he said. Speaking at the International Biodiversity Day event organised at the Zilla Panchayat here, Mr. Ashisar said the demand for saplings has gone up with the rise in green initiatives. “Give priority to planting saplings that are in demand. The trees that are in danger need to be protected and planting of such species should be taken up extensively,” he advised. He said planting of tree saplings is underway in an extensive manner on the forest fringes of Chamarajanagar district. Such initiatives can be replicated in Mysuru district for expanding greenery and forest growth. Mr. Ashisar said the Departments of Revenue and Forest have come up with a plan of developing urban forest by planting tree saplings in over 3,000 hectares. If this was implemented, the trees need protection and the authorities must consult on safeguarding the trees, making use of available schemes, he suggested. Mr Ashisar also told the officials to lay emphasis on tree planting around the lakes in Mysuru for safeguarding their ecology besides restoring water bodies. The data on lakes in Mysuru should be compiled for taking up phased rejuvenation of dying lakes. Earlier, progressive farmer M.P. Chandrashekar was felicitated on the occasion. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, Chief Conservator of Forest Hiralal, ZP CEO A.M. Yogesh, MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy and others were present. Mr .Ashisar’s suggestion has come at a time when fresh efforts are being made to bring a ropeway project to Chamundi Hills that has been vehemently opposed by the green activists. Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar recently expressed his favour for bringing the cable car project to Chamundi Hills despite the strong opposition from various quarters. The stakeholders of the tourism industry were in favour of the project and had raised the proposal with the Minister during his recent visit to Mysuru. They were keeping the issue alive by taking up the issue before the successive governments. Social activists, environmentalists and NGOs have been opposing the project arguing that it would harm the ecology and the beauty of the hills. They described the project as a misplaced priority of the government despite knowing the harm such infrastructure development projects would cause. Chamundi Hill is increasingly turning into an urban jungle with many concrete structures including a multi-storeyed vehicle parking lot, road expansion works, and commercial kiosks coming up in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declare-chamundi-hills-as-a-biodiversity-hotspot-ashisar/article35481289.ece
23 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sowing in State higher than last year thanks to copious rain||The State’s overall sowing is higher this year compared to the same period last year with more than 44.18 lakh hectares under cultivation. This is higher than the normal coverage of 39.06 lakh hectares that is brought under cultivation. The statistics, updated till July 9, 2020, indicates that the actual area sown was 5.11 lakh hectares more than what is normally sown for the period, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). As of July 9, the sowing status was above normal in the 15 districts and normal in eight districts while there were seven districts where the sowing was below normal. The 15 districts which completed sowing in excess of the target area include Hassan, Mandya, Dharwad, Belagavi, Gadag, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Yadgir, and Kalaburagi among others. The eight districts where sowing was between 75% to 100% of the target fixed including Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Davanagere, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Raichur etc. According to the State Agriculture Department, the area under food grain is almost 28 lakh hectares while oil seeds and cash crops account for the 6.3 lakh hectares and 9.04 lakh hectares respectively. The target area for foodgrains has been pegged at 52.43 lakh hectares and for oil seeds it is 10.67 lakh hectares while for cash crops the target area is 13.89 lakh hectares. Under cereals, the actual area covered by rice is 1.28 lakh hectares while the target for the kharif season is 9.7 lakh hectares. The total area covered by cereals so far is 13.65 lakh hectares against the target of 31.37 lakh hectares. More than 15.08 lakh hectares have been brought under pulses so far as against the target of 21.06 lakh hectares for the kharif season. According to the department, the area sown during the current year is more than the last year’s coverage for all the major crops so far. The sowing and the thrust in agricultural activities has been attributed to adequate rainfall so far across the State. However, the water levels at the major reservoirs present a different picture. In KRS, the storage level is less than the average of the last 10 years for the period though the levels at Harangi, Hemavathi and Kabini reservoirs are more as on July 15, according to KSNDMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sowing-in-state-higher-than-last-year-thanks-to-copious-rain/article35481135.ece
23 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sale of newborn in Nanjangud draws child rights protection commission’s attention||The recent case of sale of a newborn to a childless couple through an intermediary, which was reported from Nanjangud near here and under investigation by the police, has drawn the attention of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Taking up a suo moto case, the commission on Thursday wrote to Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham and sought a report on the progress of investigation. The baby belonging to a recently widowed woman from Chamalapura Hundi in Nanjangud had been sold to the couple in Holenarsipur in Hassan through intermediary Shrimathi. The five-day old baby, born in a private nursing home in Mysuru, was handed over to the couple in June after the mother reportedly expressed inability to take care of the child due to poverty. The Nanjangud police officials, who have registered a case, said the baby had been sold to the childless couple in Holenarsipur, and the intermediary was paid Rs. 4 lakh. The baby, which was brought back to Mysuru and presented before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Mysuru, has been handed over to a government-recognised child care centre in Melukote. “The case is still under investigation. We are yet to find out who are beneficiaries of the amount paid to the intermediary,” said a police official. Interestingly, the case came to light after anganwadi workers in Nanjangud visited the baby’s mother to provide nutritious food to lactating women. When they found the baby missing, they questioned the mother, who gave them evasive replies. The matter was brought to the notice of the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) and the CWC before an FIR was lodged. Meanwhile, Odanadi Seva Samsthe, a voluntary organization involved in the rescue and rehabilitation of trafficked and sexually exploited women and children, has written to the CWC seeking a comprehensive enquiry into the baby-selling racket. Odanadi founder Stanley K.V. urged the CWC to ensure that the police probe is not restricted to this case. He alleged that there were more such cases. The Nanjangud police, about five years ago, had unearthed a similar racket in which 17 babies born to unwed women had been sold to childless couples in different parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sale-of-newborn-in-nanjangud-draws-child-rights-protection-commissions-attention/article35481132.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Seers’ support to BSY continues||The seers’ support to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who is tipped to exit from his post, has continued. Seers from Mysuru and surrounding region aired their support to Mr.Yediyurappa and said here on Thursday that under no circumstances should he be asked to step down. Sri Nataraja Swami of Gavadgere Mutt in Hunsur said that Mr. Yediyurappa should be allowed to complete his term. He said there was overwhelming support for Mr. Yediyurappa and the party should not pay heed to a few MLAs within the BJP fold to effect a change. Justifying the entry of mathadipathis into politics, the seers said they were interfering to ensure that the State polity did not derail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seers-support-to-bsy-continues/article35481298.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Rail museum adds artefacts to shore up its collection||Taking advantage of the second lockdown inducing the closure of the museum to public for over two months, the Mysuru Rail Museum added several new artefacts to shore up its collection. This includes a mechanical weighing machine which is over 100 years old, manufactured in 1907, with a weighing capacity of 250 kg. The weighing machine was procured from the Shivapur railway station between Birur and Shivamogga. It was lying in the stores and there was a period when such mechanical weighing scales were ubiquitous in all railway stations of the country. Sources in the Mysuru Division said that the company manufactured thousands of such weighing scales which was a standard item in all the railway stations and were installed at parcel office and luggage offices. “This is a fully functional scale and has been brought to the Mysuru museum’’, said the official. This was manufactured by W & T Avery Ltd., a British manufacturer from Birmingham, who were the patentees and manufacturers of every description of weighing apparatuses for Railways, ironworks, collieries, etc. Most of the railway stations had platform weighing scale of different capacity-250kg to 1000 kg.- of this company to weigh parcels and luggage tendered for transportation by rail as weight-checking was mandatory in the presence of the sender. During the lockdown, the museum installed wooden sleepers in the pathways to enable the public to walk across the lawns without causing damage to it while wooden pedestals have been placed near popular outdoor selfie points. In addition, a service certificate in manuscript issued by Bombay Baroda & Central India Railway (BB & CIR) to one of their employees in the year 1931 was procured to adore the wall of the indoor gallery to kindle nostalgia of a bygone era. ‘Q’ managers for orderly movement of visitors in the ticketing area, introduction of housekeeping and security services, more of history books in the museum’s reference library, etc. are the steps initiated to gradual upgrade of the museum to international standards, said the official. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru Division, has told the authorities that items with historical value lying in different places of the Division must be retrieved and restored for preservation to enable visitors to get a sense of the how railway system has evolved over the years. The Rail Museum in Mysuru – which was established in 1978 – underwent a major renovation at a cost of nearly Rs. 9 crore days before the first lockdown. Following the graded unlocking, the footfalls has increased to over 350 per day while it surges to nearly 500 on weekends and on holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-rail-museum-adds-artefacts-to-shore-up-its-collection/article35481294.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Plastic cleaning drive on M.M. Hills||Nearly 300 volunteers from non-governmental organisations and Forest Department staff will take up a plastic clearance drive at M.M. Hills on Saturday. This entails clearing plastic debris and waste accumulated along a 25 km to 30 km road stretch in addition to a 5 km pedestrian stretch leading to the shrine atop the hills. Deputy Conservator of Forests V. Yedukondalu said that the plastic waste had accumulated during the pre-COVID period, especially before the second wave, and could not be removed due to the restrictions. He said though MM Hills has been declared a plastic-free zone as it is a wild sanctuary, tourists and devotees who drive up the hills tend to drop plastic water bottles and wafers which accumulates over a period of time. As the road leading to the main shrine criss-crosses through the wildlife sanctuary, the plastic waste is a threat to herbivore animals which browse and graze in the area, he added. The day-long drive is expected to clear the litter along the main road and it would be packed and sent for recycling. Mr. Yedukondalu said the ban on entry of tourists and devotees to M.M. Hills during the first and the second wave ensured minimal presence during most of the period. However, there was a small window of opportunity after the first wave when the State went through graded unlocking. This period saw a surge in the number of tourists and devotees visiting M.M. Hills and the Malemahadeshwara temple which is when most of the garbage has accumulated. Recently, hundreds of kg of plastic waste material was removed from the Kabini backwaters from both the Bandipur and Nagarahole sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plastic-cleaning-drive-on-mm-hills/article35481286.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Strengthen biodiversity management committees’||Karnataka Biodiversity Board Chairman Anant Hegde Ashisar called for strengthening biodiversity management committees at block levels in Chamarajanagar in view of the high forest cover in the district. Speaking at a function to mark the International Biodiversity Day at Chamarajanagar on Thursday, he said that more than 50 per cent of the district was under forest cover and lay between the eastern and western ghats. Hence it was endowed with rich biodiversity to conserve which the biodiversity management committees should be strengthened and the Board would come out with a definite policy framework. He said the local-level committees should not confine themselves to conservation of biodiversity of forest wealth alone but should also place emphasis on agro-diversity including horticulture. Rare and indigenous species need to be identified at the local levels and the farmers should be introduced to their propagation. This calls for greater coordination of forest, agriculture, horticulture, revenue, and rural development departments under the zilla panchayats. Mr. Ashisar said all development works initiated in the district should co-opt the adivasis who conserve forest wealth and live in harmony with the environment. The State government under Vanasamvardhana project has identified Chamarajanagar, Bidar, Mandya, Uttara Kannada and Shivamogga districts for biodiversity conservation for which each district will receive Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strengthen-biodiversity-management-committees/article35481287.ece
23 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tourism Society seeks early release of Dasara gold cards||Karnataka Tourism Society (KTS) on Thursday urged Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham to take steps to release gold cards well ahead of this year’s Dasara festivities for taking up promotion among tourists, and tour and travel operators. B.S. Prashanth, chairman, Dasara Committee, KTS, who submitted a memorandum in this regard to the DC, said the early release of Dasara gold cards instead of launching them at the last minute would impede tourism promotion as many tourists make bookings in advance. Travel operators had started getting Dasara enquiries, particularly packages including the gold cards that gives closer access to events like Jamboo Savari and torchlight parade, Mr. Prashanth said. The KTS has sought 1,000 gold cards for tourism promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-society-seeks-early-release-of-dasara-gold-cards/article35481299.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Not correct to replace BSY now, says S.R. Mahesh||Janata Dal (Secular) MLA S.R. Mahesh on Thursday opined that it was not the right time to replace the Chief Minister. Speaking to media persons Mr. Mahesh said the battle against the pandemic is far from over and replacing B.S.Yediyurappa at this juncture was not ideal. However, it is for the BJP to decide on its course of action, he added. Mr. Mahesh said that seers openly professing their support to a political party or candidate was not new though none backed H.D. Kumaraswamy when his government was brought down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-correct-to-replace-bsy-now-says-sr-mahesh/article35481291.ece
23 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Silk expo begins||Silk India 2021 got underway at the Nanjaraja Bahadur Choultry in the city on Thursday featuring ethnic and traditional wear from different parts of India. The exhibition will be on till August 8 and has a vast collection of handlooms, dress material and sarees. A release said the exhibition also features jewellery, handicraft items, leather material, lack, glass, brass and semi-precious stones, carpets, paintings etc. There are 75 stalls and artisans from 20 States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/silk-expo-begins/article35481290.ece
23 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Water storage in Hattikuni Dam in Yadgir nearing full capacity||Farmers in the downstream of Hattikuni Dam in Hattikuni village in Yadgir district are happy as the dam has been seeing remarkable increase in water storage in the last couple of days. The water storage in the dam stood at 0.305 tmcft against a total capacity of 0.352 tmcft. The dam has been constructed across a stream flowing from the atop the hills in the surrounding areas of the village to provide irrigation to 5,300 acres of dry land in Hattikuni, Yaddalli, Bandalli, Honagera, Katagi- Shahapur and Dasarabad villages. Farmers grow groundnut, paddy, cotton, jowar, bajra and other crops using water released from the dam. They can make use of water stored now in the dam to irrigate their crops till the end of next summer. Filling early “Water level reached almost the full capacity of the dam during August and September last year. But, this time the dam has seen early a huge quantum of water flowing owing to copious rainfall in the catchment areas in the last couple of days,” a farmer said. “We must use water judiciously and ensure that there is no wastage,” he added. To attract tourists, officials of the Tourism Department have developed a garden. A large number of people are coming to relax amid the greenery in the garden and the nearby areas as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-storage-in-hattikuni-dam-in-yadgir-nearing-full-capacity/article35481125.ece
23 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Surveyor arrested||Officials of the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested a surveyor and another man, while they were accepting bribe in Hunsagi town of Yadgir district on Wednesday. According to sources, the officials caught the two red-handed when they were accepting bribe of Rs. 2.50 lakh from a farmer promising him to make all property documents proper and also carry out a survey. The two have been identified as Ravikumar and Nageshwar Rao. Superintendent of Police, ACB, Mahesh Meghannavar lead the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surveyor-arrested/article35481124.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain or shine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-or-shine/article35480858.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Registering protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/registering-protest/article35480864.ece
23 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Ban on goods, heavy vehicles on AC Road||As part of reconstructing the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road, a total ban on movement of goods and heavy vehicles has been imposed on the 24.16-km road connecting Alappuzha and Kottayam districts. Traffic restrictions came into effect from Thursday. Vehicles can use the Ambalapuzha- Thiruvalla State highway as an alternative route. Light vehicles allowed District Police Chief G. Jaidev said local residents could still commute through AC Road using light vehicles. He said temporary arrangements would be made for the movement of ambulances and light vehicles at places where minor bridges would be demolished. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation would conduct bus services in a limited manner. Emergency travellers and light commercial vehicles should use the following roads to enter and exit AC Road. They are the Perunna- Muthoor Junction- Podiyadi- Chakkulathukavu- Muttar- Kidangara road; Perunna- Changanassery Junction- Kumaramakari- Kidangara road; Kidangara- Muttar- Chakkulathukavu- Thalavady- Mithrakari- Mampuzhakari road; Mampuzhakari- Mithrakari- Changamkari- Thayamkary- Vezhapra road; Vezhapra- Thayamkari- Champakulam- Mankombu road; Kidangara- Veliyanad- Pulinkunnu- Mankombu Block Junction road; Mankombu- Champakulam- Puppally road; and Puppally- Champakulam- Vaisyambhagom- SN Kavala- Kalarcode road. AC Road is being reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at an estimate of Rs. 649.76 crore. The work was launched by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in October 2020. The project, which is expected to prevent flooding of the road during the monsoon season, will be completed in 30 months. As part of the project, 2.9 km of the road will be refurbished using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC). Another 8.27 km will be strengthened by laying geotextiles. A length of nine km will be rebuilt with geogrid and geotextile encased stone columns. Five flyovers Five flyovers will be constructed at places prone to severe flooding. Besides, three existing bridges at Kidangara, Nedumudi, and Pallathuruthy will be widened. The Muttar bridge across AC Canal will be reconstructed. Construction of nine causeways, 13 minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts, bus shelters, and road safety features are also planned. Once completed, the two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-goods-heavy-vehicles-on-ac-road/article35481237.ece
23 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Fake lawyer’ escapes from Alappuzha court||The police have intensified the search for a 27-year-old woman who practised law in Alappuzha until recently allegedly without proper qualification. On Thursday, Cessy Xavier, 27, of Ramankary in Kuttanad came to the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court-I in Alappuzha to surrender. However, she left the place soon reportedly after she came to know that the police had slapped a non-bailable section against her. Vinod K.P., Circle Inspector, Alappuzha North police, said they had registered a case against her based on a complaint filed by the Alappuzha Bar Association. The case was registered under Sections 417 (punishment for cheating), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. In the past two-and-a-half years, Cessy Xavier had appeared in court in various cases. Besides, she worked as an advocate commission in around 25 cases. The bar association, last month, launched a probe after receiving an anonymous letter regarding her qualification. Although the association demanded an explanation, she failed to provide one. Later, she was expelled from the association before a police complaint was lodged against her. As per the complaint, she was working with the Alappuzha Bar Association since March 2018 and was given a membership in March 2019. The police said the documents provided by her when applying for the membership were missing from the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-lawyer-escapes-from-alappuzha-court/article35481230.ece
23 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No info on second Kuttanad package: Union Minister||The Centre has no information about the second Kuttanad package, Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has said. Replying to a question by Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, the Minister said the Kerala government had submitted a list of 10 new projects in the Kuttanad region for inclusion under the Flood Management and Border Areas Programme (FMBAP) of the Ministry during 2021-26. Mr. Shekhawat, however, said the State government had informed that the detailed project reports of these projects were still under preparation. “As per the provisions of the ongoing FMBAP, it is not possible to include any new projects of flood management for funding under the programme at this stage. The process of formulation and approval of FMBAP for the period 2021-26 is presently under way,” he said. Mr. Suresh alleged the State government had failed to submit the detailed project reports of the recommended projects on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-info-on-second-kuttanad-package-union-minister/article35481231.ece
23 July 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Elephant kills woman||Vimala, 45, was killed in an attack by a wild elephant at Thalakkulam estate near Poopara in Idukki on Wednesday. She was working in a farmland when she was attacked by the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-kills-woman/article35481203.ece
23 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Periya murder: accused attacked in jail||An accused in the Periya twin murder case was injured in an attack by another prisoner in the Kannur Central Jail on Thursday morning, the police said. K.M. Suresh, 49, the third accused in the murder case of Youth Congress activists Sarath Lal and Kripesh, was attacked by Aziz, a native of Mannuthy, who had been arrested under the Goonda Act. The incident occurred when both of them fought over a dumb-bell while doing exercise in the morning. Both suffered injuries in the attack. Suresh, who was lodged in Viyyur Central Jail, was shifted to Kannur two days ago. He sustained injuries on his head in the attack and has been discharged after the treatment at the hospital. Aziz is undergoing treatment at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periya-murder-accused-attacked-in-jail/article35481167.ece
23 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Elderly man found dead in Kasaragod||A 75-year-old-man was found dead with injuries on his body at his house in Madivayal in Kasaragod. According to the police, the deceased person, Kunhambu, a resident of Madivayal was suffering from paralysis. Wounds were found on his chin and neck, and bloodstains were found on the walls and door of the house. Kunhambu has been bed-ridden for the past two months. The Chandera police have launched an investigation on suspicion of murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-man-found-dead-in-kasaragod/article35481186.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation nod for biomining project at Brahmapuram||A five-hour-long meeting of the Kochi Corporation Council on Thursday decided to issue work order to the firm identified by the government for carrying out biomining of legacy (old) waste at the dumping yard of the civic body at Brahmapuram. The council also gave its nod to hand over 20 acres at Brahmapuram to the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) for setting up the proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the site. The government agency will sub-lease the land to the firm shortlisted for the establishment of the centralised plant, with permission to mortgage leasehold rights on the land for raising funds for the project. Mayor M. Anilkumar approved the two items included in the agenda of the special council meeting on Brahmapuram held at the Ernakulam Town Hall while recording the dissent of the opposition councillors belonging to the UDF. A decision on initiating the re-tendering process to select a firm for the management of the existing solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram will be taken later by the council. Technical assistance Mr. Anilkumar suggested that the civic body seek technical help from agencies like FACT Design and Engineering Organisation and the Cochin University of Science and Technology while implementing the various projects for waste management at Brahmapuram. A committee comprising experts and councillors could be formed to monitor their implementation, he said. Waste removal The Mayor recalled that the inordinate delay on the part of the council in removing heaps of waste at the site had forced the government to intervene and initiate necessary steps. The National Green Tribunal, which had pulled up the corporation on several occasions earlier on the Brahmapuram issue, had also issued an ultimatum, he said. On leasing out land to the KSIDC, Mr. Anilkumar said the council would request the government to avoid its share towards the 100 acres purchased by the government in Brahmapuram as compensation for handing over the 20 acres. Antony Kureethara, Opposition Leader, alleged that the government had diluted the tender norms and qualifications required while awarding biomining work to Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd. He accused the KSIDC of favouring thfie rm at a time when two other firms had quoted less than the Rs. 54.3 crore proposed by the firm. The Mayor said the firm had worked under governments of the Congress and the BJP in Karnataka and other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-nod-for-biomining-project-at-brahmapuram/article35481199.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Caution is the password to counter cyber snooping||Seven years ago, a Malayali man settled in the United States approached a cyber expert here with an offer of Rs. 1 lakh a month for snooping on his wife. Four years later, another man from Singapore approached the same person with a somewhat similar assignment, only with four times the previous offer. “He did not even reveal whether the woman was his wife, girlfriend or someone unrelated. It was as if the fee was also for not asking questions,” said the expert who turned down both offers, which were outright illegal. As ominous as it may sound, snooping, cyber experts observed, was a commonly deployed tool. “It is widely prevalent in the corporate world to pre-empt leak of company secrets. Legal profession is not free from it as rival clients are being snooped on. Private detectives also employ it for their clients,” said Nandakishore Harikumar, who runs a cybersecurity start-up. ‘Couple snooping’ whereby partners’ smart devices are snooped on is not rare either. Getting the partner to click on an innocuous-looking link on some pretexts will help install the malware remotely in the targeted device. “While spyware like Pegasus is too expensive, numerous malwares are either available for much less or their sources are freely accessible on the Dark Web, which an efficient hacker can customise into a potent tool. Since these malwares can be bunched up with popular apps, they can easily slip into the device unnoticed. While microphones and cameras of smartphones are the most targeted applications, keystroke trackers that help crack passwords are also widely used, especially in phishing attacks,” said Mr. Harikumar. Rahul Sasi, a cybersecurity expert, said that smartphones gifted can come embedded with such malwares or spyware sparing the perpetrators the hardship of installing it remotely. “Updating the operating systems (OS) of the device and checking the authenticity of apps prior to installation are the basic tools to counter malicious cyberattacks. A device with an outdated OS is that much more vulnerable,” he said. Using secured Virtual Private Network that mask IP credentials and not clicking on unsolicited links are other precautions to be taken. Prasanth Sugathan, lawyer and Legal Director of the Delhi-based Software Freedom Law Center India, said that except for the access of devices by the law enforcement agencies authorised under the Telegraph Act or Information Technology Act, all such access is deemed ‘unauthorised.’ Elusive proof “Section 43 (a) of the IT Act deals with unauthorised access to a computer while Section 43 (c) has reference to introducing any computer contaminant or virus. Section 66 provides for imprisonment and fine of up to Rs. 5 lakh for offences listed in Section 43,” he said. Mr. Sugathan, however, said that cases registered under these sections rarely lead to convictions as the charges are hard to prove owing to deficient cyber forensic evidence. “Cyber forensics is not yet fully developed here and there are few agencies with the expertise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-is-the-password-to-counter-cyber-snooping/article35481197.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plans for gender surgery units gather dust||Even as the LGBTQ community is up in arms over the death of a transwoman here allegedly owing to complications post-gender affirmative surgery, commonly known as sex reassignment surgery (SRS), a proposal to conduct such procedures at government medical colleges continues to gather dust. The Social Justice Department had in 2018 submitted a Rs. 3.50-crore proposal to the government suggesting equipping the Kottayam Medical College Hospital to hold SRS on a pilot basis and then expand it gradually to all government medical colleges. It would have freed the community from the clutches of private hospitals, which alone now conduct such surgeries. “Though the department has increased SRS assistance from a uniform rate of Rs. 2 lakh in 2018 when it was started to Rs. 5 lakh for transmen and Rs. 2.50 lakh for transwomen from last year, it did not help the community much as private hospitals increased the rate proportionately,” said department sources. This was in addition to Rs. 3,000 a month for a year for post-surgery convalescence. Since 2018, the department has allotted nearly Rs. 1.30 crore as SRS assistance to 86 transwomen and 42 transmen and Rs. 39.51 lakh as post-surgery assistance to 69 transwomen and 40 transmen. However, the assistance for the surgery in reimbursement mode is said to be defeating its very purpose. “That would have been defensible if the community was really empowered and could negotiate with the hospital managements from a position of strength, which is not the case. The horrors the community is pushed into to mobilise resources for the surgery are beyond description,” said academic-activist J. Devika who has always batted for the community. She also said that it was high time gender affirmative surgery was facilitated, as she found the term SRS an affront, in government facilities. “We already have plastic surgeons who could be given advanced training, or expert hands should be hired,” said Ms. Devika. Greeshma Saji, counsellor at the transwomen shelter home here, said the emotional trauma that transpeople underwent in pursuit of a successful surgery was immense, pushing them to the brink. “The death of Anannyah Kumari Alex reportedly owing to post-surgery complications has instilled fear among the residents, both who have undergone surgery and are about to get it done,” she added. Psychiatrist C.J. John said continued emotional and mental health support should be extended to those undergoing the surgery before and after the procedure. “Also, there should be a regulatory mechanism for overseeing the procedure. The body of experts should clear the surgery and ensure compliance with the protocol. This will also help replace the disbursement mode of assistance and facilitate advance release of funds to hospitals, sparing the community of the difficulty involved in mobilising resources,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposal-for-srs-at-govt-hospitals-gathers-dust/article35481190.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PWD to come up with architecture policy||The Public Works Department (PWD) is gearing up to ready an architecture policy to construct buildings and other infra that are climate-resilient, sustainable, and with better aesthetics, in keeping with the changing times. This comes in the wake of the overwhelming demand to have people-centric design which relates to regional architecture to make optimal use of space in government buildings and other public infra and to rely on materials that leave a low carbon footprint, it is learnt. “Making optimal use of air [through means like cross-ventilation] and natural light goes a long way in furthering the cause of sustainability and utility, while borrowing elements from regional architecture will improve their aesthetics. This has the potential to change the entire construction ecosystem in the State. A clear policy will help change the general impression about government buildings, which could include anything from a bus-waiting shed to an office complex,” sources said. Already, many recently-built government buildings have gypsum and calcium silicate-based inner walls/ partitions in the place of brick walls for interiors. They serve the purpose for two decades or so, following which interiors can be redesigned based on requirements of that time. Still, many government buildings, like the Revenue Tower in Kochi, have been receiving flak for inadequate parking space and alleged non-optimal use of space. Move welcomed Explaining how a State PWD readying an architecture policy could be the first in the country, architect G. Shankar said, “ A sustainable policy will help focus on climate-related and other challenges that the world is facing. Climate resilience is the need of the hour, since undesirable and untenable design and usage of construction materials are the primary reasons for unprecedented climate changes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-to-come-up-with-architecture-policy/article35481426.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Career guidance for dropouts, abuse survivors||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the General Education Department has rolled out an extensive career guidance programme for school dropouts and sexual and physical abuse survivors in girls’ shelter homes under the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society (KMSS). Of the total 288 residents, the programme, largely meant for those who have passed SSLC and Plus Two, will benefit 142 at present. The programme is being run by trained career guides under the Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell (CGACC) of the General Education Department. “We plan to follow up their cases meticulously up to a point where they attain academic stability. We have already conducted sector-specific career orientation sessions largely with the help of women career guides and it has evoked very good response,” said Jeevan Babu, Director of General Education and KMSS. The sessions helped the girls clear doubts and make the correct choices. “Already, 14 girls have chosen law as their career and are being trained to crack the national-level Common Law Admission Test or State-level Kerala Law Entrance Examination while another eight are preparing for medical entrance,” said Bobby Joseph, State consultant, KMSS. Similarly, separate training modules are being held for various streams. The orientation course in the first phase was held on Zoom over five days with experts. “In the second phase, we plan to attach two career guides to each home. They will visit the homes once in a fortnight or a month and constantly interact with the girls. It will continue to a point where they become self-sufficient,” said C.M. Azeem, State coordinator, CGACC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/career-guidance-for-dropouts-abuse-survivors/article35481191.ece
23 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,554 persons test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 1,554 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. The number of those who got infected through local contact stood at 1,512. The source of infection in 26 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district is 10.39%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 30 included Elankunnapuzha (54), Thripunitura (52), Thrikkakara (50), Vengola (46), Pallipuram (40), Cheranalloor (37), Angamaly (35), Payipra (35), Mazhuvannoor (35), Chengamanad (34), Edathala, and Vazhakulam (30). Some regions that reported fewer than five cases were Asamannoor, Ernakulam North, Elamakkara, Karvelipadi, Parakadavu, Mattancherry, Thevara, Piravom, Ponekkara, Koothattukulam, Mulavukad, Elamkulam, and Varapuzha, according to an official release. As many as 14,957 tests were conducted on Thursday. Around 16,790 persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1554-persons-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35481200.ece
23 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Actor K.T.S. Padannayil passes away at 88||Malayalam actor K.T.S. Padannayil, popular for his comedy roles, died here on Thursday morning. He was 88. The actor was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kadavanthra for age-related ailments. Padannayil entered Mollywood through filmmaker Rajasenan's Aniyan Bava Chetan Bava and acted in movies such as Sreekrishnapurathe Nakshathrathilakkam , Adyathe Kanmani , Swapnalokathe Balabhaskar , Kunjiramayanam , Amar Akbar Anthony and Rakshadhikari Baiju . His toothless smile became his trademark as he slipped with ease into several comic roles. Before his foray into tinsel town, Padannayil was active in the professional drama scene in the State. He played the central character in Vivahadhallal directed by him at the age of 21. He acted in several plays by professional drama troupes. Despite his long association with theatre and cinema, Padannayil did not shut down his ‘murukkan kada’, a petty shop in Thrippunithura. He used to recall that the shop would provide him with a regular earning as there was little guarantee for steady income from the film industry. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death of Padannayil. The actor had portrayed characters that reflected the realities of life on screen, he said. The cremation was held at the Thripunitura crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-kts-padannayil-passes-away-at-88/article35481218.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Russia reaches out to State for setting up vaccine unit||Russia has reached out to the State government for exploring the potential for setting up a manufacturing unit for its Sputnik V vaccine. The matter is before the government, and a decision remains to be taken. Any such decision will be subject to the approval of the Central government since a foreign State is involved. “We have been approached with enquiries over whether we can provide facilities for such a manufacturing unit though no formal discussions have been held yet. The State government is in the process of taking a decision,” said top government sources. Working group Though the State has set up a working group for holding talks with vaccine companies for opening manufacturing facilities, the proposal for a potential manufacturing unit for Sputnik V is being taken up directly at the government level, as it went beyond the mandate of the group. Sputnik V is being made available at Rs. 1,145 through private hospitals in the State. The working group, however, had held discussions with around 10 vaccine manufacturing companies so far. “The discussions were predominantly on ascertaining the requirements of the companies and the kind of facilitation they were expecting from the government, as the State is new to the vaccine manufacturing industry. It emerged that the industry is a risky one with specific needs, based on which we have submitted a proposal to the government. Once it receives approval, expressions of interest will be invited,” working group sources said. The government has earmarked 198 acres of the Life Science Park with basic infrastructure, including road, water, and power connectivity, at Thonnakkal in Thiruvananthapuram for setting up vaccine manufacturing facilities.  Sputnik V is made available at Rs. 1,145 through private hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/russia-reaches-out-to-state-for-setting-up-sputnik-v-unit/article35481193.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Low turnout for driving tests||There was very low turnout for driving tests conducted at RTO and Sub-RTO offices in Ernakulam district on Thursday, as the tests resumed after a gap of many months. As per the plan, it was scheduled to be held in three batches in Ernakulam RTO office and two batches in other offices. A cap of 20 applicants was put for every batch. The tests were slated for 8 a.m., 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. The turnout was very low, although pandemic precautions were in place, MVD officials said. More turnout is expected in the coming days. More batches will be permitted in keeping with the test positivity rate, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-turnout-for-driving-tests/article35481195.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Scooter rider killed in accident||A man died after his scooter collided with a truck near the Edappally Toll Junction on Thursday afternoon. The deceased man was identified as P.A. Baby, 63, of Kangarappady. Reportedly, the accident occurred while he was manoeuvring a u-turn. He died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scooter-rider-killed-in-accident/article35481196.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MDF peeved at KMB functioning||The Malabar Development Forum (MDF) has expressed its dismay at the shoddy patronage for coastal shipping in the State. “The Kerala Maritime Board (KMB) has been a failure, over four years since its inception. Its assurance of ushering in a blue economy in Kerala remains on paper,” said MDF president K.M. Basheer. The Board must be revamped so that only those who had sound knowledge of the logistics and shipping sector were posted, said Basheer who had written letter to the government in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mdf-peeved-at-kmb-functioning/article35481170.ece
23 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC refuses to order police protection for Sr. Lucy||The Kerala High Court on Thursday refused to order police protection for Sister Lucy Kalappurakkal to enable her to continue to reside in FCC Convent at Karakkamala in Wayanad district. She had been expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation for alleged violations of its rules. The court, however, said the police shall afford adequate protection to her if she approached them and lodged a complaint that she was receiving threats, or on matters that interfered with her peaceful living, if she was living elsewhere, the court said, on a writ petition filed by her seeking police protection. Sr. Lucy had also sought an order restraining the convent authorities from interfering with her peaceful living, in view of a suit she filed before munsiff court, Mananthavady. She contended that she drew the ire of the convent authorities and was dismissed from the congregation, after she joined in protests against Franco Mulackal, a bishop accused of sexual offences, and for penning a book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-hc-refuses-to-order-police-protection-for-nun/article35480764.ece
23 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew sector perks up for Onam||With Supplyco gearing up to procure 4 lakh kg of nuts for the Onam kit, the cashew sector has finally something to cheer about amidst a major slump. Industry stakeholders believe that the measure can set the sector on the path of revival and help it emerge from the crisis , especially after the alarming fall in demand during COVID-19. “As per the current rate, Supplyco will have to spend around Rs. 46 crore to procure the product. It is a positive development as the rising demand will lead to an increase in prices,” says Nizamudeen I., president, Federation of Cashew Processors and Exporters. Supplyco requires around 85 lakh cashew sachets, each weighing 50 gm. “It has triggered a spurt in the domestic market and if the global demand rebounds, the sector will revive. Business is expected to pick up after August as the markets in metros such as Mumbai and Delhi are also recovering,” he adds. In India, more than 20 cashew grades are commercially available and Supplyco will be procuring cashew splits, a variety usually used for preparing desserts such as payasam . “The government will be distributing 85 lakh kits and the decision to include cashew, cardamom, and ghee will promote our domestic industries,” says S.Jayamohan, former chairman, Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation Limited (KSCDC). Since the volume is huge, mid and small scale processors will also benefit. Big processors will have to source the material from units across the State offering them some relief. “Factories in both public and private sectors will benefit as a single unit won’t be able to provide the required quantity,” he adds. Pandemic hits exports The crisis-ridden industry had hit rock bottom during the pandemic due to the dip in exports and lull in domestic market. While the supply chain was badly hit in the initial days, a sharp decline in demand was reported later. Since all large-scale events, celebrations, and weddings were called off, the consumption hit an all-time low. Lack of tourists and pilgrims was another blow to the industry as prices started plummeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-sector-perks-up-for-onam/article35481232.ece
23 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||970 new cases, 847 recoveries in Kollam||The district reported 970 new cases of COVID-19 and 847 recoveries on Thursday. While 967 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include three health workers. At present, the district has 27,718 people under observation . While 2,694 people completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 3,02,902 primary and 18,635 secondary contacts of the cases. In Alappuzha Alappuzha logged 718 fresh cases and 1,287 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day is 12.1%. Of the fresh cases, 685 contracted the disease through local contact. Three health staff also tested positive for the disease. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 9,357. The 718 cases include 106 reported from Alappuzha, 42 from Mararikulam South, and 22 from Purakkad. In Kottayam The number of new cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 763 people testing positive on Thursday. Of the new cases, all persons, including three health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR also stood on the higher side at 11.24%. With 103 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Erumeli with 34 cases. As many as 937 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases to 6,185. In Pathanamthitta A total of 433 people tested positive in Pathanamthitta during the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of five cases are yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day is 7.6%. With 25 cases, Kalanjoor reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 24 cases . The disease, meanwhile, claimed three more lives in the district. With 265 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta has 5,019 active cases. ( With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/970-new-cases-847-recoveries-in-kollam/article35481241.ece
23 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Woman to approach Governor against Minister||The sexual harassment victim in Kundara has said that she will approach Governor Arif Mohammed Khan against Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran who has violated his oath of office. “He had tried to use his influence to settle the case and I will not withdraw my complaint,” said the woman after giving her statement to the police on Thursday. She said she had given a detailed statement about the incidents that led to the case and why she recorded the voice clip of the Minister. She had earlier told media that Mr. Saseendran was well aware of the nature of her complaint when he called her father to settle the case in a ‘good manner.’ A BJP worker and the daughter of a local NCP leader, she had alleged sexual misconduct against NCP State executive committee member G. Padmakaran. “We had to move legally when the NCP failed to take action against the accused,” she said. Complaint filed The woman said she had filed a complaint at the Kundara police station on June 28 and she was summoned there on June 30 and her statement was recorded on July 22. According to her, several NCP leaders, including State committee members, got in touch with her after the incident. Meanwhile, BJP State president State president K. Surendran, who visited her in Kundara, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had challenged the rule of law. “By protecting Mr. Saseendran, Mr. Vijayan has insulted women of Kerala,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-to-approach-governor-against-minister/article35481205.ece
23 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The Government Food Craft Institute at Kadappakkada has invited applications for its one-year Food and Beverage Service and Food Production courses. Those who have passed SSLC are eligible to apply. Applications should reach the institute before August 10. For details, contact 0474-2767635.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article35481239.ece
23 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Zika: precautionary measures in place in Kottayam district||A day after the district reported its first Zika (ZIKV) case, the health authorities are on their toes to ascertain the extend of the virus infection in Kottayam. A health-care worker employed with a Central government institution in Kottayam was confirmed with the infection during examination the other day. Following the finding, the patient has been placed in isolation and is under surveillance. Officials said the Health Department had already taken steps to test all those who were in close contact with the patient. “People in the vicinity of the patient’s residence are being monitored for symptoms. Efforts to eradicate mosquito-breeding grounds in the area have also been intensified,” an official said. According to Jacob Varghese, District Medical Officer, common symptoms of the disease are mild fever and oedema. Some may also experience redness in eyes, muscle aches, and fatigue. Symptoms can last for two to seven days. If women are infected during the first trimester of pregnancy, the baby may develop microcephaly, a condition in which the newborn’s head is smaller than expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zika-precautionary-measures-in-place-in-kottayam-district/article35481242.ece
23 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||World Water Day awards presented||Noyes Higher Secondary School, Madurai, won the documentary film competition organised by the Ecumenical Water Network and the Church of South India in connection with World Water Day. In the photography competition, Praveen of Thoothukudi came first to win a cash award of Rs. 10,000. Sabu K. Cherian, Bishop of the Madhya Kerala Diocese of the Church of South India, presented the prizes at a function here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/world-water-day-awards-presented/article35481233.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Major fire accident averted near Mukkom||The timely intervention of Fire and Rescue Services units saved a furniture shop and a nearby sawmill from a massive fire outbreak at Vattoliparamba near Mukkom on Thursday morning. Though a few items worth Rs. 25,000 gutted in the incident, other valuables worth more than Rs. 1 crore were saved with the quick response of three rescue units from Mukkom fire station. The incident took place around 4.20 a.m. It was a local lorry driver who first noticed the smoke and flames in the sawmill compound and immediately reported it to the Mukkom Fire and Rescue Services unit. Officials said the whole unit, including the sawmill, would have been gutted had they not got the message in time. “The rescue units could bring the flames under control in 30 minutes after reporting the incident. By the time local residents reached the spot, they had doused the fire,” said Manoj, a taxi driver. He said the fire first broke out from the sawmill, where a huge quantity of wooden pieces for furniture making had been kept. Fire and Rescue Service officials said they were yet to ascertain the exact cause of the incident though there were unconfirmed reports about the possibility of electrical short-circuit. Since the industrial unit was close to the fire station, we could act very quickly, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-fire-accident-averted-near-mukkom/article35481176.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More restrictions on social life in Kozhikode as cases rise||The district administration will strengthen restrictions on social life in Kozhikode in view of the recent rise in number of COVID-19 cases here. It was decided at a meeting of the district disaster management authority chaired by District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy on Thursday. It was pointed out that the number of cases had crossed 2,000 recently. As the test positivity rate (TPR) was not declining and more people are getting infected across the State, officials were asked to ramp up testing. Places such as Palayam market, mofusil bus stand, KSRTC bus stand, and S.M. Street would be disinfected. Vehicles would be seized if travellers are found to venture out for unnecessary reasons. Mr. Reddy dismissed the claim that calculation of TPR was unscientific. More than 10 persons would not be allowed to participate in weddings and funerals in local bodies which have a TPR above 15%. Local bodies were asked to restart COVID control rooms. Mr. Reddy directed officials to shift all the infected persons without quarantine facility at their home to domiciliary care centres. More police personnel would be deployed to monitor adherence to pandemic protocol. Those who interact more with the public should have either COVID negative certificate or vaccination certificate with them. Shop owners, hotel and restaurant staff, and taxi drivers should produce results of antigen or RT-PCR tests to inspecting officials. If primary contacts and family members of people under home quarantine are found to violate restrictions, they would be shifted to government quarantine centres. Containment zones The district administration has declared wards with over 50 cases in the Kozhikode Corporation and those with over 30 cases in municipalities and grama panchayats as containment zones. Public travel has been restricted in these places. Testing camps The district administration and the Health Department would jointly conduct testing camps at primary health centres, family health centres, taluk hospitals, district hospital, and health centres under the Kozhikode Corporation. People who stand a chance to have contact with infected persons, those with symptoms, family members of infected persons, and employees of shops could make use of it. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that failure to detect infected persons would lead to the spread of the pandemic to more persons, rise in TPR, and prolonged lockdown. Mr. Reddy directed all local bodies to increase testing. Fresh cases Meanwhile, 1,586 fresh cases were reported in the district on Thursday, of which 1,568 were due to local transmission of the infection. The source of 14 others was not known. The daily TPR was recorded to be 16.27% when 9,933 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation had 288 cases of locally acquired infections, Velam 167, and Maniyoor and Olavanna 63 each. As many as 1,427 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload from the district is 18,686.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-restrictions-on-social-life-in-kozhikode-as-cases-rise/article35481180.ece
23 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||KSRTC terminal complex to be leased out to ALIF Builders||The Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC) will sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a Mukkom-based company in August to operate the KSRTC terminal complex on Mavoor road in Kozhikode. The terminal, which remained unused after it was inaugurated with great fanfare seven years ago, will now be handed over to ALIF Builders for commercial purposes on August 26. The company has secured the contract for 30 years. As per the agreement reached between ALIF Builders and the KTDFC, the company would invest Rs. 17 crore as a non-refundable security deposit and pay a monthly rent of Rs. 43 lakh for the commercial space. It has also sought waiving Rs. 4.5 crore on stamp duty, sources said. The KTDFC, a non-banking financial company of the State government, has been looking to lease out the commercial complex for a while now. It had gone for re-tendering in the wake of an order of the High Court of Kerala two years ago. The twin-tower project was constructed at a cost of Rs. 65 crore and was inaugurated on June 1, 2015. The first tower has 10 floors and the second 11 floors, including space for parking. The terminal has a built-up area of 38,069 sq.m. and consists of a KSRTC bus station, parking for 40 buses and space for shops, restaurants, offices, and IT spaces. Several issues like a delay in securing a No-Objection Certificate from the Department of Fire and Rescue Services and building number from the Kozhikode Corporation caused continual trouble for the KTDFC in getting a bidder from 2016. The leasing of the complex was made possible now following the intervention of Ministers P.A. Mohammed Riyas and Antony Raju, and Kozhikode North legislator Thottathil Raveendran. Protest staged Meanwhile, activists of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha took out a protest in front of the KSRTC bus station on Thursday against the deal. They demanded an inquiry into the allegation of corruption into the deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-terminal-complex-to-be-leased-out-to-alif-builders/article35481174.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CoWin registration a tall order for many low-income families, elderly||Many elderly people who are not tech-savvy and financially backward families that don’t have access to a smartphone or computer are struggling to get a slot booked for their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine through CoWin portal. Though lists of such persons are available with ward-level committees and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), shortage of vaccines has hit plans to organise special vaccination camps for them. “I am totally clueless about the procedures to be followed for booking the vaccine. We have no smartphone to do it independently. On-call booking system would have been very helpful for those who use ordinary phones,” says Komalam, a daily wage worker from Puthiyangadi. She adds that those with smartphones are also not able to help her because of non-availability of slots. Some of the senior citizens say the one-time password (OTP) troubles them a lot during the booking process. Many a time, the OTP comes late or the website goes into time-out mode while entering it, they complain. According to them, the process cannot be completed without the assistance of a third person. They also demand a walk-in facility for vaccination for the elderly. Though paid vaccination is available in two prominent hospitals in the city, many low-income families are reluctant to opt for it now. “For a family of four or five members, it is not an easy option,” says Santhosh Kumar, a carpenter from East Hill. Meanwhile, Health Department officials say they are gearing up to organise ward-level registration camps for helping out people who struggle to complete the online registration process. ASHA workers will coordinate the task and it will be completed by the end of the month, they add. The registration drive, according to officials, will also give a clear picture about the total number of such persons in the district. They will be given walk-in vaccination service with spot registration with the support of local administrators, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cowin-registration-a-tall-order-for-many-low-income-families-elderly/article35481188.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||INL bid to end rift in State unit||Amid controversy over a spat between the Indian National League (INL) State president A.P. Abdul Wahab and general secretary Kasim Irikkur, the party national leadership has intervened to call a meeting of the State secretariat and State working committee on Sunday. In a communication addressed to both of them on Thursday, INL president Mohammed Sulaiman asked them to find out the persons behind the leakage of the voice messages of leaders to the media and to take stern action. He suggested that the meeting of the State secretariat be convened by 9 a.m. and that it be followed up with a meeting of the working committee. The present controversy pertained to a bitter discussion through voice clips between Mr. Wahab and Mr. Irikkur on the appointment of three Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] activists in the personal staff of Minister of Ports Ahammed Devarkovil. The argument of Mr. Wahab was that these appointments were not discussed in the party forum and he demanded that the general secretary call a meeting of the State secretariat. He warned that he would convene the meeting if Mr. Irikkur failed to do so. In the voice clip, however, Mr. Irikkur was heard saying that all issues would be resolved after Eid. The statement of the president to call a meeting on his own was to aggravate the issue. Besides, he said that a committee had already been formed to take action against those who had worked against Mr. Devarkovil during the Assembly polls. Earlier row The fresh controversy erupted less than a fortnight after a telephonic conversation came into the public domain that Mr. Devarkovil allegedly accepted Rs. 3 lakh from businessman P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, also the treasurer of Indian Union Muslim League, for his election campaign in the Kozhikode South Assembly constituency. Terming these spats unfortunate, Mr. Sulaiman exhorted the INL leadership to uphold sagacity and responsibility rather than display “disunity by State leaders” that would only result in the damage of the party and its ruin.  INL president calls for stern action against those who leaked the voice clip of a discussion between top office-bearers of the State unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inl-bid-to-end-rift-in-state-unit/article35481202.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police warn parents against paid online games||The cyber cell of the city police has urged parents to keep a watchful eye on children to avoid the misuse of smartphones for paid online games. In the wake of such recent incidents, the police also asked parents to closely monitor children during online classes which often turn out to be a convenient time for gaming activities. Officials with the cyber cell said a woman from Kozhikode city recently lost Rs. 1 lakh from her bank account after two of her high school children played a paid online game using her phone. She had filed a complaint with the cyber cell after she lost the money. The cyber cell probe revealed the involvement of her children in it. Police sources said the paid game was played by three children, including her relative’s son. The amount was deducted from the account in different intervals. The complainant had initially thought that it was the trickery of some banking fraudsters, they said. In a similar incident which took place at Areekode in Malappuram district, a woman had lost Rs. 1 lakh. It was her son who used the money for playing a paid online game. The incident came to light when the woman, who was also a teacher, approached the cyber cell for action. A cyber cell official said many children were found clicking spam links received through WhatsApp and other social media applications offering cheap purchase of costly gadgets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-warn-parents-against-paid-online-games/article35481177.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity Senate lifts limit on economic powers of VC, officials||The Senate of the University of Calicut has approved an amendment to its laws to lift the limit of the amount of funds that can be handled by the Vice Chancellor, Registrar, and heads of various departments. According to sources, this was decided at a meeting on Thursday. It has also been decided to have digital signature of the Vice Chancellor on postgraduate degree certificates. The Senate membership of P. Abdul Hameed, MLA, was restored. His membership had been cancelled earlier because the MLA had failed to attend six consecutive Senate meetings. The authorities claimed that it could declare the results of the B.Ed course just 10 days after the exams were held. This would help the graduates apply for the high school assistant post in government schools before the last date for application, Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj claimed. The question papers were sent to exam centres online and it was an “extraordinary decision” under “extraordinary circumstances”, he added. Members aligned to the United Democratic Front, however, alleged that this step might have had disastrous consequences. The authorities’ promise to vaccinate all teachers had not been kept. Most of them reach the evaluation camp after travelling for around six hours. Those in self-financing institutions were not even given remuneration for evaluation. They alleged that serious issues concerning the university had not been discussed at the meeting. K.K. Haneefa, Left Democratic Front-affiliated member, dismissed the allegations and said that the decision to send online question papers was within the purview of the Syndicate. In view of the pandemic situation, similar practices were being followed everywhere in the country. The B.Ed exams conducted in this method had been successful. The Syndicate also considered requests from various quarters and students before deciding to provide question papers online, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-senate-lifts-limit-on-economic-powers-of-vc-officials/article35481178.ece
23 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Confusion over admissions to Plus Two courses||There is some confusion over admissions to Plus Two courses in higher secondary schools over a week after announcement of Class X results, with an impressive number of students in the State registering ‘A’ Plus in all subjects. Even though the Education Department is yet to declare dates for admissions, parents and a section of teachers are concerned if all those meritorious children would get to enter a school of their choice. Functionaries of the Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association (KAHSTA) have said that the grade-based admissions system would affect the higher education prospects of many talented students. An ‘A’ Plus grade is given when students get marks between 90% and 100%. Those who get marks between 80% and 89% are given ‘A’ grade, students who get between 70% and 79% get ‘B’ Plus and so on. The grades thus secured in each subject are considered along with the bonus points based on factors such as their place of residence such as grama panchayat and taluk, the school where they studied, participation in activities of National Students Corps, and Student Police Cadet, and swimming abilities. A Weighted Grade Point Average is calculated and considered for admission to Plus Two courses. “A student who got 90% marks and another one who got 100% get ‘A’ Plus grade though there might be some significant difference between them in terms of marks. As the SSLC mark lists do not record their marks, the students would not get to know it,” K.K. Sreejesh Kumar, general secretary, KAHSTA, said. The association functionaries demanded that steps be taken to provide details of marks along with the SSLC mark list. One parent from Kozhikode, who did not wish to be quoted, claimed that the calculation of weighted GPA was not transparent. “How do they choose between students who get the same GPA?” he wondered. Mr. Kumar said that there was also the possibility of students who got cent per cent marks in all subjects being pushed out of the fray and those who scored less marks getting admissions. All those who got ‘A’ Plus in all subjects in a school may not get admission in the same school, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-over-admissions-to-plus-two-courses/article35481185.ece
23 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exams postponed||The University of Calicut has postponed all the exams scheduled for July 24. New dates will be announced later, a release said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exams-postponed/article35481181.ece
23 July 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||TDB mulls service charge for Sabarimala bookings||Plagued by a continuing wave of fake bookings, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has sought to impose service charge for making the online bookings of queue slots to Sabarimala. According to N. Vasu, president, TDB, the suspicions of an organised attempt to sabotage the Sabarimala pilgrimage have been reinforced further during the five-day monthly puja, which ended on Wednesday. “Despite raising the daily limit of pilgrims to 10,000, just around 11,000 devotees visited the temple during these days. The daily bookings, on the other hand, stood well over 6,000,” he said. The booking of virtual queue slots for Sabarimala darsan is done through the website www.sabarimala.org , an initiative of the Kerala Police. Low inflow The prevailing COVID-19 situation in the State and the conditions that the devotees should be either vaccinated or carry negative RT-PCR certificates with them may have affected the inflow from the neighbouring States this season. “Still, the queue slots witnessed massive bookings within hours of the site being opened, only to be cancelled later. The imposition of a service fee can effectively check this trend,” he explained. As to whether the board has taken up the issue with the authorities concerned, Mr. Vasu replied in the affirmative and held that it was now up to the devotees to lodge a police complaint. Official sources, meanwhile, attributed the lower footfalls also to a delay in raising the daily limit to 10,000. The issues of bogus bookings first came to light in March this year when the Sabarimala Special commissioner M. Manoj submitted in the High Court a report on the issues concerning the underutilisation of the virtual queue system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tdb-mulls-service-charge-for-sabarimala-bookings/article35481201.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ensure kids are not on Clubhouse, says panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the Information Technology (IT) Secretary to ensure that children below the age of 18 do not open accounts on Clubhouse, a social audio app. If any such incident is reported, the account should be deleted or cancelled. Acting on a petition by Alappuzha resident V.K. Joshy, commission member K. Nazeer recently directed the IT Secretary to issue appropriate guidelines to investigating agencies to undertake frequent cyber patrolling to avoid fake accounts and illegal activities by account holders. The IT Secretary was directed to frame protocols to ensure safety of children from misuse of the platform. If any violation of law or privacy policy was noted, the IT Secretary should take steps in accordance with the law. The official should, in association with appropriate authorities, take steps to record conversations on Clubhouse and maintain the same for the purpose of investigation and prosecution that might arise. Prosecution The commission directed the Additional Superintendent of Police, Hi-Tech Crime Enquiry Cell, Police Headquarters, and the Operations Officer of the Kerala Police Cyberdome to take steps for prosecution within 24 hours if a violation of the privacy policy was detected. The State Police Chief, Social Justice Secretary, Women and Child Development Director, and the Director of General Education were directed to create awareness of misuse of Clubhouse among children. The petitioner had sought the commission’s intervention to restrict children from participating in such social networks and adoption of security measures to protect them from its negative effects. The Operations Officer of the Kerala Police Cyberdome in a report said that though the agency had not come across any instances of children joining groups, the possibility could not be ruled out. It also said mechanisms to ascertain whether a child was engaged in such an activity were very limited. It was hard for the investigating agencies to ascertain the authenticity of recorded audio. Online predators Cyberdome, the report said, was concerned that the use of the platform by children could increase the chances of online predators engaging with children, even leading to physical abuse. The commission said that under the Information Technology Act, 2000, and The Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009, the nodal officer designated could take up with the appropriate authority the misuse of social media and take appropriate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-kids-dont-open-accounts-on-clubhouse/article35481172.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Norms haunt paramedical graduates||Academic equivalency norms, which have bothered numerous job aspirants in the State, have begun to pose problems for paramedical graduates from institutions elsewhere, including the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) and the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER). The bone of contention lies in the disparity in course duration — allied health courses offered by universities outside the State are three-and-a-half-years long — whereas those conducted by the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) have a duration of four years. As a result, graduates of programmes with immense job potential such as BSc medical laboratory technology (MLT), anaesthesia technology and renal dialysis technology are required to obtain equivalency certificates from KUHS in line with the Paramedical Council of Kerala norms for placements in government hospitals and to pursue postgraduation in Kerala. Making matters worse, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries have been insisting on registration certificates issued by the Paramedical Council of late. Around 30,000 a year Allied Health Science Students and Professional Association India State president Khaleel Mohammed said around 30,000 Keralites completed paramedical courses from other States annually. “While a majority used to seek jobs abroad to repay their education loans, the door to such possibilities is shut. Unable to find postings in government hospitals that pay around Rs. 15,000 a month, many are now forced to be content with private hospitals that pay half that amount,” he said. They are even unable to apply for the contract jobs offered to tackle the COVID-19 public health emergency. Unjust: Gurukkal Terming the denial of equivalency certificates unjust, Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal said that prior to establishment of KUHS, Kannur, Calicut and Mahatma Gandhi universities used to issue equivalency certificates despite the difference in course duration since the curricula and syllabi were found to be the same. Furthermore, the University Grants Commission had prescribed only three years in its model curriculum for the BSc MLT programme. “Paradoxically, the KUHS used to recognise such degrees for employment in affiliated colleges until 2017. Many teachers who currently teach paramedical students in Kerala had completed the three-and-a-half-years courses. The present disapproval is sheer discrimination without any academic justification,” Prof. Gurukkal said. Contents dissimilar KUHS Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummal, however, said the contents of the courses were dissimilar. The academic council of the university, which had deliberated the issue earlier, would take up the matter for discussion yet again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-haunt-paramedical-graduates/article35481363.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protest over neglect of Shanghumughom road||Protest is brewing against the alleged neglect of the Shanghumughom road that has been in a state of disrepair for months. The district administration and the Public Works Department had barricaded the road leading to the domestic terminal of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport a few months ago after more portions of the road caved in following sea erosion. Alleging negligence on the part of the government to the hardships faced by local residents and motorists, social activists Madhu Nair and Elias John are set to observe a fast outside the Secretariat on Saturday demanding urgent steps to rebuild the road. Warnings ignored They accused the government of failing to pay heed to warnings raised since 2017. Instead of adopting steps to protect the remains of the road, it was left vulnerable to further damage. While around 10 flights operated from the domestic terminal everyday, several passengers, including pregnant women, were forced to walk all the way to the domestic terminal after reaching Shanghumughom. Local residents, including the fisherfolk, have also been facing difficulties as road access has been cut off. Many have been forced to take longer routes to reach hospitals and other institutions. The activists urged the government to construct a diaphragm wall along the entire beach similar to the one constructed on the southern side. The option of reconstructing the road by acquiring land on its eastern side that belonged to the air cargo complex should also be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-over-neglect-of-shanghumughom-road/article35481406.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Muslims will not lose benefits: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Thursday that there was no ground for the apprehension that Muslim students would lose out on “merit-cum-means” scholarships due to the 2011 Population Census based restructuring of the educational endowment for students belonging to academically and socially backward minority communities. He said speculation to the contrary would sow disaffection among communities. The contentious topic came up during Budget discussions in the House. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator P.K. Basheer said his party could not agree with the current scholarship allocation. He said it was violative of the spirit of the Sachar Committee report. ‘For Muslims alone’ The Union government had constituted the panel to study backwardness of Muslims alone. The committee had recommended that minority scholarships be entirely reserved for students from indigent Muslim families. However, Left Democratic Front Independent MLA K.T. Jaleel countered Mr. Basheer’s argument. He said the second United Progressive Alliance government had extended benefits to minority communities as per the spirit of the Sachar Committee report. ‘For all minorities’ It did not limit the benefits to Muslims alone. Moreover, the Sachar Committee had recommended creating a Minority Development Department and not a Muslim Development Department to address minority backwardness in the country. Dr. Jaleel reminded the IUML that C.H. Muhammad Koya had brought Hindu Nadar and Christian girls under the ambit of scholarship to mitigate educational backwardness. IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty said the LDF’s erroneous decision in 2011 to accord 20% of the scholarship award meant exclusively for Muslim students to the Christian community had paved the way for the current High Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muslims-will-not-lose-benefits-cm/article35481211.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||987 more cases in capital||A total of 987 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Thursday. The active cases rose to 10,331. As many as 704 patients recovered on the day. The test positivity rate stood at 8.64%. A total of 899 cases have been attributed to local transmission, while the source of infection is unknown in the rest. Six health-care workers have also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration has placed 31,149 people under quarantine. The death toll rose to 3,143 after 15 recent deaths were attributed to COVID-19 on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/987-more-cases-in-capital/article35481413.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fund swindling: Corpn. to seek probe||A special meeting of the city Corporation has decided to demand that the State government order an investigation by a special team into the alleged misappropriation of funds meant for beneficiaries for educational and other purposes under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Castes Development functioning out of the city Corporation office. Special meeting The special council meeting was convened following a demand raised by the councillors of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The council meeting was disrupted multiple times with the BJP councillors trooping into the well holding placards and demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the case. After the misappropriation came to light, the Scheduled Castes Development Officer had filed a complaint with the police against the two employees allegedly involved. The Museum police registered a case and took senior clerk U. Rahul into custody. Corpn.-level team The council also decided to appoint a Corporation-level probe team consisting of Welfare standing committee chairperson S. Salim, Works standing committee chairperson D.R. Anil, BJP councillor M.R. Gopan and United Democratic Front councillor Padmakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fund-swindling-corpn-to-seek-probe/article35481420.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSU protests mar engineering examinations across the State||Unruly protests by the Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists affected the conduct of BTech examinations in engineering colleges affiliated to A.P.J Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) across the State on Thursday. However, the examinations progressed smoothly with high participation, notwithstanding the initial commotion. Over 73% of the registered candidates appeared for the examinations on the day. Barge into office Seeking the deferral of the examinations, KSU activists barged into the office of the Examination Controller at the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram (CET). They snatched a bundle of examination documents and hurled them outside. While the agitators claimed that they whisked away question papers, college authorities maintained that they only took away the graph papers meant to the distributed with the answer sheets. The police took three activists into custody. Violent at TKM college The agitation turned violent at the T.K.M. College of Engineering, Kollam, when students clashed with the police on the campus. One student was injured when the police resorted to forceful measures to disperse the protesters. The college was also the worst affected in terms of examination attendance. Of the 240 students who had registered to appear for Thursday’s examinations from the centre, only 40 took the test. College authorities pointed out that several students were dissuaded from attending the examinations by the protesters. The violence that broke out also deterred many. 91% at CET Nearly 91% of students attended the examinations at CET. Official sources said most government and aided colleges, barring the TKM College of Engineering, recorded over 90% attendance. Over 20 colleges in the State also registered 100% attendance. In anticipation of the protest campaign, KTU Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. had on Wednesday urged students to remain vigilant against a misinformation campaign. The odd-semester examinations that commenced on July 9 were being held in the offline mode amid a relentless campaign for postponement or conducting the remainder as online examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-protests-affect-engineering-exams/article35481244.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s case graph shows a slight dip||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph, which has been rising steadily since the past two weeks or more, dipped slightly to 12,818 on Thursday, when the samples tested over 24 hours also dipped to 1,03,543 (Wednesday being a holiday). The test positivity rate registered 12.38% on the day. The State’s active case pool has 1,28, 881 patients now, with 13,454 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 15,739, with the State adding 122 recent deaths to the official list on Thursday. On Thursday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID increased steeply to 2,537. However, total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID continued to remain more or less steady at 25,497. Total ICU admissions of COVID patients in the State dipped to 1,878. Most in Thrissur Thrissur reported the highest number of cases with 1,605, Kozhikode 1,586, Ernakulam 1,554, Malappuram 1,249, Palakkad 1,095, Thiruvananthapuram 987, Kollam 970, Kottayam 763, Alappuzha 718, Kasaragod 706, Kannur 552, Pathanamthitta 433, Idukki 318 and Wayanad 282.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-case-graph-shows-a-slight-dip/article35481209.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No more new projects under KIIFB, says Finance Minister||Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal on Thursday ruled out the possibility of including any more projects under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The State government had originally envisaged projects worth Rs. 50,000 crore under KIIFB. However, projects worth more than Rs. 63,000 crore have been listed so far, Mr. Balagopal said, replying to questions in the Assembly on Thursday. “'I wish to inform the House that there are limitations to loading any more projects on to KIIFB. So we also need to explore new schemes, which we will try to do,” he said. He said 903 projects with an outlay of Rs. 63,259.32 crore had been approved by KIIFB so far. On State’s finances On the State finances, he said that the combination of flawed economic policies of the Centre, delays occurring in the transfer of GST compensation, and the economic downturn triggered by COVID-19 had adversely affected State revenues in the current fiscal also. The State government has given shape to to short and long term measures for revitalising the economy. Energising production in the State’s agriculture and manufacturing sectors was critical for overcoming the present crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-more-new-projects-under-kiifb-says-finance-minister/article35481213.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bid to mow down pump staff: auto driver held||The Poonthura police arrested an autorickshaw driver for an alleged attempt to mow down a petrol pump owner and his employees in a fit of rage a few days ago. The accused, Vinod Kumar (33) of MSK Nagar in Kuriathy, was allegedly involved in an argument that was sparked off after he drove in his vehicle into the petrol pump at Karimbuvila at high speed, which led to his vehicle brushing the complainant, Naseemudin of Kowdiar, and his staff. The incident occurred around 8.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Angry over being questioned, the accused later made three “deliberate” attempts to knock them down before exiting the pump. The driver, who plied along the Manacaud-Ambalathara route, was caught on the basis of CCTV visuals, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-mow-down-pump-staff-auto-driver-held/article35481416.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TCS, Kinfra to ink pact||Asserting that the State government wished to attract ‘responsible investment and responsible industries’ to Kerala, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Thursday said IT major Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), V-Guard, and Lulu Group were among the firms planning investments in the State. TCS, which is planning a total investment of Rs. 1,350 crore in two phases, will ink an MoU with the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) this month, Mr. Rajeeve told the Assembly. The Minister’s office said that the TCS is establishing a campus at the Kinfra Electronics Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) at Kakkanad for which Rs. 600 crore will be invested in Phase I and Rs. 750 crore in Phase II. The TCS board had approved the investment on July 14. Planned on 36.83 acres, the project is expected to generate 20,000 jobs over five to seven years. V-Guard, Lulu Group The government had allocated land for V-Guard for setting up an electronics, testing and reliability labs at the Kinfra EMC. The Rs. 120-crore investment was expected to create 800 jobs, he said. Lulu Group was establishing an electronics warehousing unit at the Kinfra International Apparel Park in Thiruvananthapuram at a cost of Rs. 7 crore. This project is expected to generate about 850 jobs.  A three-member committee will be formed to have a re-look at outdated laws.   IT major will invest Rs. 1,350 crore in two phases P. Rajeeve Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tcs-kinfra-to-ink-pact/article35481212.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to inaugurate Kanal for women’s security||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate online ‘Kanal,’ a programme of the Women and Child Development Department for women’s security, on Friday. Mr. Vijayan will release Kanal’s logo, Mitra 181 helpline’s poster, and a handbook on various supports available to women who face atrocities. Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George will preside over the function. The Minister, in a statement, said that Kanal was being rolled out to give an impetus to activities aimed at eradicating violence and injustice against women. Its objectives included increasing public awareness of existing systems for women’s safety, empowering women to resist domestic violence and dowry-related atrocities, increasing mechanisms that provide services, and organising gender awareness programmes in educational institutions, Ms. George said.  Its objectives include increasing public awareness of existing systems for women’s safety||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-to-inaugurate-kanal-today/article35481405.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Internet of Things centre in Kochi||The country’s first Centre for Excellence in Intelligent Internet of Things (IIoT) sensors is set to come up near Maker Village in Kochi. The centre will be established by the Digital University Kerala (DUK) in association with the Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology (C-MET) that functions under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). Rs. 41-crore centre The MeitY has accorded approval for setting up the Rs. 41-crore centre that will be set up with support from the Kerala Startup Mission. The Ministry, along with the State Industries Department, will fund the project, the first-of-its-kind integrated facility for sensor manufacturing and indigenous development of IoT products in the country. The development assumes significance against the backdrop of the pandemic that apparently disrupted the supply chain of electronic components, including sensor, and thereby, pushed the industrial sector to a severe crisis. Need for indigenisation “As part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission, there is a need for indigenisation of a substantial amount of electronic components especially sensors that are an integral part of Industry 4.0. The proposed centre will become a big step towards this goal,” DUK Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath said. According to the university officials, the CoE will have state-of-the-art facilities for sensor manufacturing, intelligent sensor system hardware, AI software development and so on. The centre will host an incubation facility for start-up companies in IIoT sensors and promote innovation and entrepreneurship through design challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/internet-of-things-centre-in-kochi/article35481173.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three more Zika cases||Three more cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection have been confirmed in the State capital on Thursday, a statement issued by the Health Department here said. A resident of P.T. Chacko Nagar at Medical College, another at Pettah and a three-year-old at Anayara were newly diagnosed with the disease. The samples were confirmed at the virology lab at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. According to the Health Department, 44 lab-confirmed cases of ZIKV infection have been reported in the State so far.  The case reported in Kottayam on Wednesday is yet to be officially acknowledged by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-zika-cases/article35481410.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bid on to ease problems in overseas travel: CM||The State government is in touch with the Centre in a bid to remove the hurdles to the overseas travel of stranded expatriate Keralites, students, and job-seekers, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Thursday. Replying to a submission moved by K.T. Jaleel, he said the travel ban imposed by GCC nations, the refusal of several countries to approve Covaxin and the problems faced by those who had received the first dose of vaccines other than Covishield or Covaxin abroad were issues that remained to be addressed. He said the government had written to the Ministry of Civil Aviation to introduce free COVID test and quarantine facilities at airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-on-to-ease-problems-in-overseas-travel-cm/article35481214.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, KTU mulls online exam system||A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University, which has been facing an intense campaign against its decision to hold offline examinations, has set its sights on introducing a full-fledged online examination system within a year. Its Syndicate decided on Thursday to formulate a permanent mechanism for digital examination based on open-source software. ICFOSS to be roped in The International Centre for Free and Open Source Software (ICFOSS) will be roped in as the technical consultant for the project. The agency’s technical expertise will be utilised to choose a proprietary software that could be used for the proposed online examination system. The decision was made on the basis of a recommendation made by an expert committee chaired by Model Engineering College Principal Vinu Thomas on the technical concerns of proprietary software. Laptops to students The Syndicate meeting, chaired by Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S., decided to distribute laptops to nearly a thousand students in affiliated colleges as part of the university’s efforts to bridge the digital divide. Sanction was also given to utilise Rs. 4.5 crore for the first phase of the endeavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-mulls-online-examination-system/article35481187.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Contest||The fourth season of the Kudumbashree’s photography contest ‘Kudumbashree Oru Nerchithram’ is under way. Photographs can be taken on a range of Kudumbashree’s activities. The last date is August 31. Photos can be sent tokudumbashreeprcontest @gmail.com. The top three prizes will fetch a cash prize of Rs. 25,000, Rs. 15,000, and Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contest/article35481411.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Debt-ridden trader found dead||A debt-ridden trader was found dead by hanging outside his house near Malayinkeezhu on Thursday. The police identified the deceased as S. Vijayakumar, 56, of Thachottukavu. His family found him hanging from a sunshade of his house around 7.30 a.m. A suicide note was recovered, the police said. According to the police, Vijayakumar who ran a stationery shop at the Pidaram junction nearby apparently had debts amounting to Rs. 15 lakh. He found it increasingly difficult to repay the debts during the COVID-19-induced lockdown when his shop remained closed. Extended lockdown Malayinkeezhu and nearby areas have been witnessing an extended lockdown due to the high test positivity rate. Besides a bank loan to construct their house, Vijayakumar had taken loans from many to procure stock for his shop.He was also unable to pay seven months’ rent for the building where his shop functioned, his relatives said. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination. (Suicide prevention helpline — DISHA: 1056, 0471 2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/debt-ridden-trader-found-dead/article35481414.ece
23 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||This teen has a ‘nose’ for quirky painting techniques||Fans often go to great lengths to express their adulation for their favourite tinseltown stars. Indrajith A., a Class XI student from Kodungallur in Thrissur district, has perhaps taken it another level by painting a portrait of Tamil actor Surya with his nose. For Indrajith, who earlier painted Malayalam actor Tovino Thomas with his fingers and Tamil star Vijay with toes, this nose painting was another experiment. Such innovative attempts by Indrajith is perhaps not so strange after all, for his father is Da Vinci Suresh, who himself is known for his experiments with diverse mediums for his artworks. Birthday gift “Painting with your nose is, however, not as easy as using fingers and toes,” says Indrajith. If not careful, the skin can peel off. Attempting this technique without necessary precautions may harm one’s nose, he warns. The six-feet tall nose painting was done on a cloth canvas spread tight over poliform sponge. Indrajith says the portrait is a gift for the actor on his birthday that falls on Friday (July 23) by Surya Fans club at Kodungallur. Acrylic paint was used for the artwork.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-teen-has-a-nose-for-quirky-painting-techniques/article35481425.ece
23 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIB logs healthy growth in Q1||The South Indian Bank has announced the Q1 results with an increase in operating profit with a Y-o-Y (year-over-year) growth of 26.86%. The operating profit for the quarter was Rs. 512.12 cr as against Rs. 403.68 cr during the corresponding period of the previous year. The bank reported a net profit of Rs. 10.31 cr during the quarter that ended June 30, 2021 as against a net profit of Rs. 81.65 cr during the corresponding period of the previous year due to higher credit cost. Murali Ramakrishnan, MD & CEO of the bank, while announcing the results stated that the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic scenario impacted the growth in the business and personal loan segment. Monetary strategy While the bank registered substantial growth in the desired segments such as gold loan portfolio during the period, the strategy to reduce lumpy advances continued and the share of corporate advances stood at 24% of the total advances as on June 30, 2021. “In view of the ongoing COVID-19 scenario affecting various sectors, slippages during the quarter were on a higher side, by which the gross non-performing assets (NPA) and net NPA stood at 8.02% and 5.05% respectively as on June 30, 2021. Meanwhile, during this quarter, the bank could improve the provision coverage ratio to 60.11% as on 30.06.2021 as against 58.73% as on March 31, 2021,” he said. The capital adequacy ratio of the bank stands comfortable at 15.47% as on June 30, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-registers-growth-of-2686-in-q1-this-year/article35481171.ece
23 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Karuvannur cooperative bank customer found dead||A customer who had taken loan from the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank died by suicide allegedly after he received notice for revenue recovery from the bank on Thursday. The deceased was identified as T.M. Mukundan, 63, of Thelappilly, Karuvannur, a former member of the Porathissery panchayat. He was found dead hanging behind his house. Mr. Mukundan had taken Rs. 30 lakh as loan from the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank many years back. It is reported that he renewed the loan many times for more amounts and the loan arrears reached Rs. 80 lakh. It is alleged that the bank started revenue recovery process as he failed to repay the loan. The bank sent a notice to him recently as part of the revenue recovery procedure. Congress leaders alleged that the bank had put pressure on Mr. Mukundan to repay the loan. He was an executive member of the Irinjalakuda block of the Congress. It is reported that the bank sped up recovery of loans as investigation started into the recent loan scam.  (Suicide prevention helpline number: 1056, 0471 2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karuvannur-cooperative-bank-customer-found-dead/article35481219.ece
23 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Director board disbanded||The director board of the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank has been disbanded following allegations of s loan scam and the charge has been handed over to an administrator. Assistant registrar (general), Mukundapuram, M.C. Ajith will be the administrator. A loan scam worth Rs. 100 crore was unearthed recently at the bank controlled by the CPI(M). But the ongoing probe indicates that the actual amount involved in the scam might be much more. Loans were sanctioned multiple times on the property pledged by the customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/director-board-disbanded/article35481207.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Supporting farmers’ stir||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supporting-farmers-stir/article35481169.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cheering for India||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheering-for-india/article35481183.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Love in Tokyo||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/love-in-tokyo/article35481423.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Checks and balances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/checks-and-balances/article35481362.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against spyware||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-spyware/article35481409.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sporting spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sporting-spirit/article35481235.ece
23 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allocate iron ore mines to VSP or Kadapa plant: TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has condemned the move of calling for tenders for exploration, development and operation of 25 hectares of iron ore reserve at H. Siddapuram village in D. Hirelal mandal of Anantapur district, on ‘raising-cum-sale contract basis’ by the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Limited. The TDP has warned to launch an agitation and block the process, if the government does not stop the tendering process. Bids to open today At a press conference here on Thursday, former Minister Kalava Srinivasulu said that the technical bids would be opened on Friday and alleged that the entire process was being done to benefit a few people. “Why cannot the 10 million tonnes of estimated iron ore reserves in the area be allocated to the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) or the plant proposed in Kadapa as captive mines by retaining it in the public sector instead of allowing the private persons to control those mines?” asked Mr. Srinivasulu. He demanded an explanation from Mines Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy as to why the mines with quality ore reserve were not being allocated to the VSP. “This portion of the iron ore reserve is in forest area and very close to the Karnataka border, where other operators such as the Obulapuram Mining Company Private Limited have mines. These lands were allocated to the APMDCL in 2004 and have not exploited till date,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allocate-iron-ore-mines-to-vsp-or-kadapa-plant-tdp/article35481329.ece
23 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur, Kurnool record excess rainfall this monsoon||Anantapur district has registered excess rainfall during the monsoon season for the third consecutive year. The district recorded 147.5% excess precipitation in July in 2019 and last year it was 118.7% excess. The district has received 132.6% excess rain this year so far, with more rain forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) till July 25. This monsoon season, the district has received 222.2mm of precipitation since June 1 when compared to the average normal of 115.2mm, an excess of 92.9%. The district has so far recorded 119.3 mm rain in 22 days when compared to teh average normal of 51.3 mm for July. It got 112.2 mm of rainfall against 51.3 mm for those many days last year and it was 166.8 mm of precipitation against a normal of 67.4 mm in 2019 for July, an excess of 147.5%. The southern parts of Anantapur district has been receiving a good rain, leaving many tanks in Kadiri and Puttaparthi mandals brimming earlier this week. On Thursday, almost all parts of the district received rain with an average of 5 mm in 24 hours ending 5 p.m. Kadiri received 21.5 cm rain in 12 hours last week, resulting in a temporary bridge getting swept away. Meanwhile, Kurnool district has recrived 165.4 mm rain till Thursday morning when compared to avearge normal of 117.2, an excess of 41%. It recorded 260.7 mm rain last year against a normal of 117.2 mm, an excess of 122%. The district has received 282.7 mm rain against the normal of 194.4 mm since June 1 this year, recording an excess of 46.6%. Road communication on several routes in the district was cut off last week. On Thursday, most of the mandals recorded rain. Collector G. Veerapandian reviewed the situation and alerted the mandal-level officials to be prepared for any eventuality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-kurnool-record-excess-rainfall-this-monsoon/article35481331.ece
23 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets life sentence in train robbery case||The Anantapur Women’s Court on Thursday sentenced Velayudham Rajendran to life imprisonment in a case in which a pregnant woman was pushed out of the Kondaveedu Express while she was being robbed of her jewellery. Bengaluru-based Divya, who was returning from Piduguralla in Guntur district on December 18, 2018, was pushed out of the running train, and her jewellery stolen. She suffered a miscarriage in the incident when she fell in the fields near Gollapalli between Anantapur and Dharmavaram railway stations. The Dharmavaram police registered a case. Public Prosecutor Srujana argued the case on behalf of Divya. Divya was treated in Dharmavaram and from there brought to KIMS Saveera in Anantapur. Divya was returning from the washroom in the early hours she was pushed out of the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-life-sentence-in-train-robbery-case/article35481332.ece
23 July 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indent for Tungabhadra water placed||The Kurnool Irrigation Superintending Engineer and Anantapur HLC Circle SE on Thursday placed the indent for Tungabhadra water quota for Andhra Pradesh to be released through low-level canal and high-level canal from the Tungabradra Dam. Anantapur has sought the release of 1,000 cusecs of water, while Kurnool demanded 475 cusecs. Initially, the water would be utilised for drinking purposes, and filling up of some tanks. Anantapur HLC SE Nayakanti Rajasekhar said initially 1,000 cusecs of water have been sought to be released at the entry point into the State at 105 km (from Tungabhadra Dam) from July 25, so that a flow of 900 cusecs can be maintained till Kannekal balancing reservoir at 145 km, till the ‘Canal Prism Stabilisation’ is attained. This level will be maintained in the canal for 10 days and once things stabilise, the flow would be increased to 2,200 cusecs in the HLC and to 740 cusecs in the LLC—650 cusecs for Kurnool and 90 cusecs for some areas close to the border under the control of Tungabhadra Board, but fall in Kurnool district. Once the Kannekal tank gets filled within a week, water would be released further down into the PABR and the MPR Reservoirs in Anantapur district. The engineers have kept sandbags ready at some points vulnerable to breaches. Last year, the link canal connecting the HLC with the PABR breached and it was repaired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-kurnool-place-indent-for-tungabhadra-water/article35481333.ece
23 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting for party’s order: Yediyurappa||In an admission of his uncertain future as Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa said on Thursday that he was “waiting for directions from the party high command” on July 25, the eve of the second year anniversary of his government, and begin his work from July 26 accordingly. While hinting at a possible resignation, he put the ball firmly in the high command’s court on what the future holds for him. ‘Till the last minute’ “As you know, I had said two months ago only that I am ready to resign as Chief Minister if the high command asks me to and suggested that youngsters be given a chance,” he said. In the same breath, he announced inspection of development works in the city on Friday and said he would continue to discharge his duties “till the last minute”. The Chief Minister, who on Wednesday tweeted that the party was “like a mother” and he would abide by its decision, continued on the same tenor on Thursday. “The party has not given any post to anyone above the age limit of 75. But appreciating my work, the party has made me the Chief Minister of the State and I am thankful for it. This month, I will complete two years as Chief Minister and have organised a programme to showcase our achievements. I will act as per directions from the party’s central leadership, whatever that may be on July 25. I will begin my work from July 26 as per those directions.” As reports of his possible exit grew, several Veerashaiva-Lingayat seers have been making a beeline for Mr. Yediyurappa’s residence to express support and even threatening the high command of “drawing the ire of the community” if he is replaced. This had sparked off speculations that the Chief Minister was trying to mobilise support to stay on or work out the modalities of his exit, such as his choice as his replacement and the political future of his sons. ‘Won’t suggest names’ To a pointed question on whether he had recommended any name as his successor, Mr. Yediyurappa folded his hands and said, “No.” Hinting that he was in no mood to retire from active politics even if he was asked to step down as Chief Minister, Mr. Yediyurappa also said he would work towards strengthening the party and tour the entire State to bring it back to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-for-partys-order-yediyurappa/article35480762.ece
23 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari water level goes up as heavy rains lash Khammam||As the water level in the Godavari and its tributaries, including Taliperu, continued to rise all along the river course in the district steadily owing to relentless rainfall in the river’s upper reaches, the district administration has set up a control room to tackle any flood exigency. The move was necessitated in the wake of the unabated intermittent heavy showers in most parts of the district and the forecast of heavy rains in the next two days, sources said. The 24x7 control room at the Collectorate in Kothagudem will facilitate swift response to deal with any flood event and address rain-related issues with an inter-departmental approach. The control room can be reached at 08744 241950. In Dummugudem mandal, the floodwaters of the Sitavagu, a tributary of the Godavari, inundated a portion of the Narachirala site at Parnasala, the famous pilgrim centre, about 32 km from the temple town of Bhadrachalam, sources said. The water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam is hovering around 16 feet and is expected to increase further gradually by Friday evening, owing to the reported discharge of floodwaters from the reservoirs and dams in the upper reaches of the river, sources in the Irrigation department said. A huge volume of floodwaters was let out from the Taliperu reservoir in Charla mandal into downstream by lifting as many as 11 crest gates of the reservoir on Thursday morning in view of heavy inflows from the catchment areas of the river. Munneru swells Meanwhile, the Munneru, a tributary of Krishna river, swelled up at various points along the river course in the old undivided Warangal and Khammam districts owing to heavy downpour. Moderate to heavy rains lashed most parts of Khammam district overnight, causing waterlogging on several roads and cutting off road link to some villages in Wyra and Raghunadhapalem mandals on Thursday afternoon. The swollen streams inundated portions of several roads, snapping road link between Papatapalli and V R Banjara villages in Raghunadhapalem mandal and Snanala Lakshmipuram and K G Siripuram in Wyra mandal. Collector meets officials Khammam District Collector V.P. Gautham on Thursday evening conducted a tele-conference with the tahsildars and other mandal level officials to review the rain situation and tackle any rain-related emergency. He also called upon people to dial the toll-free helpline number 1077 for any assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-water-level-goes-up-as-heavy-rains-lash-khammam/article35481344.ece
23 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman hospitalised after robbery bid||An 80-year-old woman of Chandireddipalle village of Madanapalle mandal was rushed to the Government Area Hospital at Madanapalle on Wednesday night, after she was allegedly assaulted by two persons who reportedly tried to rob and sexually assault her. According to the Madanapalle taluq police, the woman, who lives alone at a secluded location close to the forested village, was reportedly accosted by the duo while returning home. They allegedly tried to sexually assault her and attempted to relieve her of jewellery. However, finding the movement of some villagers close by, the accused allegedly abandoned their plan and fled the scene. The woman under shock was rushed to the hospital. The police said that a complaint was registered and further investigation was on. Man gets jail in POCSO case Meanwhile, the POCSO Court in Chittoor on Thursday sentenced Gangadharam (31) of Madanapalle division to 20 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 after finding him guilty of sexually assaulting a minor girl in January 2018. A family from Rajasthan had settled on outskirts of Madanapalle and was eking out livelihood by making toys. When the couple was away to procure some material from Madanapalle, Gangadharam sexually assaulted the girl. The Two-town police registered a case then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-hospitalised-after-robbery-attempt/article35481341.ece
23 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarpanches are change agents for rural development: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy on Thursday described the sarpanches as the change agent in development of rural areas and lauded their role in effective grounding of welfare schemes. With more youths getting elected as sarpanches, it would pave the way for a corruption-free administration at the grassroots level. Inaugurating the three-day training programme for the newly elected sarpanches at the DRDA Hall here, the Deputy Chief Minister said that the State government had been focussing on the development of rural areas and agrarian reforms. “The role of sarpanches is vital in taking the schemes to the doorstep of the people in villages and promote the benefits,” he said. Mr. Narayanaswamy said that at a time when the coronavirus infection was spreading to rural areas, the sarpanches were instrumental in educating the people on COVID-appropriate behaviour. “The same spirit should continue. The training session will guide sarpanches about the protocols to be followed in view of the threat of the third wave,” he said. Participating in the programme, Collector M. Hari Narayanan wanted sarpanches to take an active part in implementation of the housing scheme meant for the poor. “In the first phase, the construction of 1.8 lakh housing units is in progress. The sarpanches should bring to the notice of the district administration whenever they face any difficulty in implemention of the welfare schemes,” said Mr. Narayanan and stressed the importance of coordination between sarpanches and the village secretariats and gram volunteers. Senior officials of the Panchayat Raj and its allied departments took part in the training sessions that were launched in six places covering Madanapalle, Chittoor and Tirupati revenue divisions. The sessions will continue till August 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarpanches-are-change-agents-for-rural-development-says-deputy-cm/article35481335.ece
23 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No one was forcibly evicted, says Tahsildar||The encroachments on the Karakatta Road leading to the Chief Minister’s Camp Office have been removed as part of road widening and all the encroachments are on area of Irrigation Department, according ot the local Tahsildar G. Srinivas Reddy. The decision to widen the road was taken in December 2019. The Roads and Buildings Department has paid structural compensation of Rs. 7.67 crore to those who would lose their homes on the encroached lands. The owners of houses were allotted two cents of lands each at Atmakuru village in Mangalagiri mandal and the government procured 12.14 acres in survey Nos of 333, 335, 336, 337 and 338. Out of 223 houses earmarked, 164 families have commenced construction and some others were allotted TIDCO houses, he claimed. The district administration has prepared 283 layouts out of which, 271 families were provided pattas and 12 others were not present during the programme in which pattas were given. The State government has so far paid Rs.7.25 crore as compensation for 318 structures. In the case of Sivasri, who alleged that her house had been demolished, the district administration had clarified that she had been living with her mother. Both she and her mother were allotted house sites and a structural compensation of Rs. 2.70 lakh was credited to the account. Even though she and her mother had been provided with house site patta, she had not vacated the house after 33 days, said Mr. Srinivas Reddy. On Wednesday, a notice was served and 24 hours later, her house was demolished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-one-was-forcibly-evicted-says-tahsildar/article35481451.ece
23 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarpanches have big role in village growth, says Collector||Sarpanches have to take a major role in development of villages, Collector Vivek Yadav has said. Mr. Vivek Yadav on Thursday inaugurated training classes for sarpanches at the ZP conference hall. Earlier, he released a training manual detailing the roles and responsibilities of sarpanches. “Local governance has become a reality after the 73rd and 74th constitutional amendments. Earlier, village development used to be spearheaded by village elders but due to the increase in population, a village became a unit of administration and Panchayat Raj institutions were brought in along with mandal and district units of administration. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had gone a step ahead in realising the dream of Mahatma Gandhi and had brought in the village/ward secretariat system assisted by volunteers,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. Stating that the sarpanches should know their roles and responsibilities, he said that they should give priority to drinking water, greenery, under ground drainage system and NREGS. They should take the help of volunteers and the secretariat system to ensure that the fruits of governance reached the doorstep of people. ZP CEO Chaitanya, District Panchayat Officer Kesava Reddy and PD, DWAMA, Srinivasa Reddy were among those who attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarpanches-have-big-role-in-village-growth-says-collector/article35481454.ece
23 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM committed to uplift of weaker sections’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has committed himself to the uplift of the weaker sections, while bringing in revolutionary reforms in society, irrespective of caste, creed and region, according to Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. He was addressing a meeting to mark the launch of the Andhra Pradesh Intellectual and Development Forum, a conglomeration of academicians, retired administrators and leaders in various walks of life. “The Chief Minister wants to ensure that the benefits of welfare schemes reach people directly. We urge the intellectuals and people to extend their support to our mission and ensure that the fruits of good governance reach the people,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Stating that the government had created 1.30 lakh jobs in one year, he accused the opposition parties of launching a vicious campaign aimed at mud slinging. “We appeal to the intellectual community to be on guard against such malicious campaigns,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Former AU professor and member of the Andhra Pradesh Regulatory Commission Vijay Prakash said that the bottom-up model of governance being followed in the State would ensure that the fruits of development reached directly the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-committed-to-uplift-of-weaker-sections-sajjala/article35481354.ece
23 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘ A tactical move’||The decision to withdraw the Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against the stay on investigation against former Advocate-General Dammalapati Srinivas and others in the “Amaravati Land Scandal” is seen as a tactical measure, according to sources in the government. “We have gathered certain critical information and evidence which came forth after the ACB registered the FIR. The investigation agency will be presenting the additional material as an affidavit in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in the next few days,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-tactical-move/article35481353.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water released from major reservoirs in Telangana||Heavy to very heavy rains in the catchment areas both in Telangana and in upstream Maharashtra have resulted in huge flood to Sriramsagar project in Nizamabad district from the early hours on Thursday allowing the authorities to start discharge of flood through the spillway. “It’s almost two months in advance compared to the commencement of flood discharge through the spillway in 2019 and 2020, when it began on September 21 and September 14, respectively. Release of flood into the river course initially began with power generation around 12.30 p.m. and through the spillway after 1 pm”, engineers at SRSP dam site said. According to Superintending Engineer G. Srinivas and Executive Engineer Chakrapani, inflows into the dam which were around 85,000 cusecs at 9 a.m. and to over 1.44 lakh cusecs an hour later. It went up to 2.88 lakh cusecs by 11 a.m. and to over 4.32 lakh cusecs by noon, when the storage in the reservoir reached 83.25 tmc ft against its capacity of 90.31 tmc ft. After issuing an alert on discharge of flood through the spillway, the authorities switched on 4x9 MW power station letting 8,000 cusecs into the river course. About half-an-hour later, the spillway discharge began with 25,000 cusecs initially and gradually went up to 6 lakh cusecs through 35 crest gates by 7 pm. Based on the inflows, the spillway discharge was reduced to 4.5 lakh cusecs by 8 pm. Except Singur and Nizamsagar, all other major reservoirs in the Godavari Basin were receiving heavy flood as of Thursday evening, allowing similar discharge. Mid Manair was getting over 89,000 cusecs, Lower Manair 1.45 lakh cusecs, Kaddam 1.42 lakh cusecs and Yellampally 2.1 lakh cusecs of flood. The discharge at Yellamapally and three Barrages – Sundilla, Annaram and Medigadda – of Kaleshwaram project was 3.32 lakh cusecs and higher. Meanwhile, all 28 medium irrigation projects in the Godavari Basin and 8 in Krishna Basin were either in surplus or about to reach surplus stage. In the Krishna Basin, the inflows into Jurala were around 55,000 cusecs but was forecast to go up considerably with increase in discharge at Alamatti and Narayanpur dams in Karnataka, which was 97,000 cusecs and 1.29 lakh cusecs at 6 pm. An advisory issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC) indicated that flood to Jurala-Srisailam would go up as the catchment areas in Karnataka and Maharashtra were getting heavy to very heavy rains. During the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on Thursday, Mahabaleshwar recorded 42.4 cm rain followed by 34.7 cm in Koyna and 18.5 cm in Warana, the major catchment areas of Krishna and some of its tributaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-released-from-major-reservoirs-in-telangana/article35480759.ece
23 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ADCET committee constituted||E.C. Surendranatha Reddy, Registrar of Dr. YSR University of Architecture and Fine Arts, Kadapa, is the convener of Art and Design Common Entrance Test (ADCET) for the year 2021. AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy recently issued orders to this effect and named the varsity’s Vice-Chancellor D. Vijay Kishore as the CET Chairman. Admissions A committee has been formed to conduct the test for holding admission into the Bachelor of Design and Bachelor of Fine Arts courses for the academic year 2021-22. The other members of the panel are APSCHE Secretary Sudhir Prema Kumar, academics Santosh Kumar from School of Planning and Architecture, Vijayawada; G. Viswanatha Kumar from Department of Architecture, Andhra University; K. Mrutyunjaya Rao from YSRFAU Kadapa, and Nazir Ahmed from Yogi Vemana University, Kadapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adcet-committee-constituted/article35481355.ece
23 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make Seema a union territory, demands RRS||Rayalaseema Rashtra Samithi (RRS), which has been spearheading the statehood movement for decades, has demanded that Rayalaseema be made a union territory. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RRS president Kuncham Venkatasubba Reddy appealed to the Centre to table the bill in the Parliament, paving the way for creation of Greater Rayalaseema with Kurnool, Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur, Nellore and Prakasam districts of Andhra Pradesh, Vellore and Krishnagiri of Tamil Nadu, Bellary, Raichur, Chitradurga and Kolar of Karnataka, which were in the erstwhile Madras State prior to 1951. Mr. Reddy said the region’s had been deprived of development due to neglect by the successive governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-seema-a-union-territory-demands-rrs/article35481340.ece
23 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 10,000 crore disbursed in East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Thursday claimed that more than Rs. 10,000 crore has been disbursed among the beneficiaries of the 25 State government’s Direct Benefit Schemes (DBT) in the past two years in the district. On the sidelines of disbursement of financial aid under the YSR Kapu Nestham, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said, “More than Rs. 10,000 crore has been disbursed among the beneficiaries of the 25 DBT schemes, including Kapu Nestham, in East Godavari district since 2020-21 financial year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-10000-crore-disbursed-in-east-godavari/article35481378.ece
23 July 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post-mortem report of transwoman expected on Friday||A two-member expert medical team from Government Medical College, Kalamassery, conducted post-mortem on transwoman Anannyah Kumari Alex whose death has kicked up a row after the LGBTQ community attributed it to alleged complications post-gender affirmative surgery held at a private hospital here a year ago. Anannyah, the first transwoman to contest Assembly elections and the State’s first transwoman radio jockey, was found hanging in her apartment at Edappally on Tuesday evening. Tomy Mappalakayil, head of Forensic Medicine Department at the Government Medical College, and Assistant Professor Jiju V.S. conducted the post-mortem after which the body was released to her community members. The post-mortem report will be submitted to the Kalamassery police, who are investigating the death, on Friday. “We are satisfied with the post-mortem procedure held in compliance with our demand. But that is no compensation for what Anannyah endured for which she should get justice,” said Sheethal Shyam, a member of the State Transgender Justice Board. Maya Krishnan, Anannyah’s lawyer, said further legal measures would be pursued after receiving the post-mortem report. She added that Anannyah had not filed any petition for medical negligence against the private hospital where she had undergone the surgery. “However, she had filed a petition with the Palarivattom police against alleged harassment by the hospital authorities when she had gone there for discussing post-surgery complications,” said Ms. Krishnan, who is also a member of the State Transgender Justice Board. P.R. Santhosh, Inspector, Kalamassery police, said no case other than the one registered for unnatural death was pending on the matter as of now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-mortem-report-of-transwoman-expected-on-friday/article35480771.ece
23 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP meet on KRMB gazette notification in Kurnool today||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) will hold a meeting of nine district presidents of the party from the Rayalaseema Region in addition to Nellore to discuss the gazette notification on the handing over of the control of the projects on the Krishna to the river management board (KRMB) on Friday. The BJP organised a similar meeting of its party leaders, along with the State president Somu Veerraju, here last week. TDP district president Kalava Srinivasulu said that in addition to him and Hindupur district president B.K. Parthasarathy, Kurnool president Somisetty Venkateswarlu and Nandyal district president Gowru Venkata Reddy will take part in the meeting. “We will discuss the status of the projects, their approval and nomination of members from both the States in the Krishna River Management Board,” Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-meet-on-krmb-gazette-notification-in-kurnool-today/article35481327.ece
23 July 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims five lives in South Coastal A.P.||Five more patients succumbed to coronavirus infection in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh and 435 persons tested positive in 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Thursday, Prakasam district registered three deaths, while Nellore district acccounted for two fatalities. With this, the total toll in the region rose to 1,913, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Prakasam district has accounted for 970 casualties so far and 943 people have died in Nellore district. Prakasam stood second among the districts in the State with a single-day infection tally of 232, while 203 more tested positive for the disease in Nellore district. The cumulative tally in the region inched closer to the 2.60-lakh mark. As many as 455 patients recovered during the period. Active cases The number of active cases plummeted below 3,000 in Prakasam district, where 263 patients recovered during the period. In Nellore district, 192 patients recovered, bringing down the active cases to 2,467. Meanwhile, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy in Ongole said the government would take care of the education of the children orphaned by COVID-19. He handed over cheques for Rs. 10 lakh each to two children whose parents died of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-five-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35481337.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati land case: State withdraws appeal against HC order from SC||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday withdrew its appeal against a State High Court decision to stay an investigation into an FIR accusing former Advocate General Dammalapati Srinivas and several others of corruption in the purchases of land in the State Capital of Amaravati. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari dismissed the State’s appeal as withdrawn. The court, however, requested the High Court to consider the issue in case any further petitions were filed and dispose of the matter within four weeks. The State government's withdrawal comes within days of the same Supreme Court Bench serving a big blow in another one of the State’s appeals in the Amaravati land transaction case. In that case, the Supreme Court had upheld a High Court decision of January 19, which quashed an FIR that accused individuals and companies of “insider-trading” of property in Amaravati. In its order on July 19 in that case titled ‘State of Andhra Pradesh versus Chekka Guru Murali Mohan’, the Supreme Court had noted: “Suffice it to observe that all the transactions in question are between private individuals involving private lands. As found by the High Court, the information about the likely location of the Capital city was very much in public domain at the time of the transactions in question. The FIR against Mr. Srinivas and others had accused them of offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act along with criminal breach of trust and cheating under the IPC. The allegations included abuse of official positions, sharing of privileged information and causing loss to the exchequer during the previous TDP regime. In the hearing on July 13, the State, represented by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan and advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki, had maintained that the case against Mr. Srinivas and his co-accused was not a product of “regime revenge.” But senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Srinivas, had countered that it was indeed a case of “regime revenge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-withdraws-amaravati-land-case-appeal-from-sc/article35480772.ece
23 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incessant rain brings cheer to farmers in Prakasam||Incessant rain under the influence of a weather system developed over the the Bay of Bengal lashed Prakasam district on Thursday, bringing cheer to farmers. Roads in Pragati Colony, Balaram Colony and other low-lying areas in Ongole were under a sheet of water as the downpour continued without interruption since Wednesday night. The drought-prone district recorded an average rainfall of 13.6 mm , according to a report compiled by the office of the District Chief Planning Officer. Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over the north-west Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood, a low pressure area has formed. Under its influence, more rains are expected in the next 48 hours, according to a weather bulletin by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Bestavaripeta recorded a maximum of 28.6 mm rainfall, followed by Cumbum (25.4 mm), Podili (23.4 mm), Tarlapadu (22.8 mm), Darsi (22.4 mm), H.M.Padu (21.8 mm), Tripurantakam (21.6 mm), Konakanamitla (21.4mm) and Kurichedu (21.2 mm). “The current wet spell is beneficial to farmers who can take up khariff sowing operations in full swing now,” said Agriculture Joint Director Srinivasa Rao. The department has set a crop acreage target of 2.15 lakh hectares for the kharif season, expecting a normal monsoon. The district has registered 34.9% excess rainfall during the early phase of the south-west monsoon. The district achieved 67% crop acreage when compared to the normal sown area till July 22. Oil seeds accounted for a crop coverage of 4,372 hectares, including sesamum in 2585 hectares, he said. Cotton crop coverage was 5,050 hectares and chillies were sown in over 297 hectares so far, he said. q||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/incessant-rain-brings-cheer-to-farmers-in-prakasam-district/article35481339.ece
23 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP exhorts women to download Disha app||Prakasam SP Mallika Garg on Thursday exhorted police personnel to promote the Disha app among women. Interacting with grama/ward women protection secretaries of the Chirala Sub-Division, she explained the salient features of the app designed to ensure the safety of women. “It is your responsibility to ensure that the app is on every woman’s phone,” she told them. They should be aware of the details of the misbehaving people in their respective area, geographical conditions, crime hotspots and other key information, she added. The grama/ward women protection secretaries were asked to communicate the information to the local police officers from time to time. A woman police personnel must be posted at the reception centre of police stations so that women complainants felt free to approach the police, said the SP during her whirlwind visit to various police stations in Chirala division, including Chinnaganjam, Vetapalem and Epurpalem. She also visited the Saraswathi Niketan Library in Vetapalem .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-exhorts-women-to-download-disha-app/article35481336.ece
23 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survey gives new insights into birth and death of stars||How are stars born and how do they die? That is a question that has fascinated scientists for centuries. An extensive survey of the Milky Way galaxy by an international team of astronomers, which include scientists from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Thiruvananthapuram, has offered fresh insights into this immensely complex and mind-boggling process. The GLOSTAR (Global View on Star Formation in the Milky Way) project has reported new findings, including the identification of 80 supernova remnant (SNR) candidates, the IIST said on Thursday. Supernova remnants are cosmic structures born out of the violent, explosive death of massive stars. The GLOSTAR team has now published a series of papers on its findings in Astronomy & Astrophysics . Previously unseen The survey has “revealed previously unseen signatures with unprecedented sensitivity and details that hint at how stars form and die,” the IIST said. Indian scientists part of the GLOSTAR Survey include Nirupam Roy, Assistant Professor at the Department of Physics, IISc; and Rohit Dokara, a former undergraduate student at IISc: and Jagadheep D. Pandian, Associate Professor at the Department of Earth and Space Sciences at IIST, Thiruvananthapuram. Radio telescopes The team also confirmed the presence of 77 previously discovered supernova remnants candidates and reclassified a few that were misidentified, according to the IIST. The data for the survey, which spanned a large swathe of the Milky Way, was gathered using two powerful radio telescopes — the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO), U.S., and the Effelsberg 100-m radio telescope operated by the Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy (MPIfR), Germany. The supernova remnants were spotted using the VLA data alone, and analysis of the combined data from both the radio telescopes is likely to throw up more. Previous surveys have detected only about one-third of the expected numbers of SNRs in the Milky Way galaxy. “This is an important step to solve the long-standing mystery of the missing supernova remnants,” Mr. Dokara was quoted in the IIST statement. Telltale signs Researchers also detected other traces of star formation such as radio emission from methanol molecules in Cygnus X. These are typically emitted by massive stars in the very early stages of their formation. The team was also able to detect dense pockets of ionised hydrogen, another telltale sign of the presence of massive young stars. Young stars are usually surrounded by thick clouds of dust and gas. “Because visible light gets absorbed in this dense cloud around stars, most of the optical telescopes do not reveal much. What people look for, instead, are radio emissions,” Dr. Roy explained. “Since the GLOSTAR survey detects a wide range of radio emission, it is able to probe the formation of massive stars from very early to relatively late stages, which is important to get a complete picture of star formation in the Milky Way,” added Dr. Pandian. Other team members include MPIfR and NRAO scientists, and collaborators from institutions in the U.K., South Africa, Mexico, France and Australia. The observations and analysis of data are progressing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survey-gives-new-insights-into-birth-and-death-of-stars/article35480769.ece
23 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate up, but cases drop in Kerala||The absolute number of COVID-19 cases in Kerala, rising over the past few weeks, dipped to 12,818 on Thursday, while the test positivity rate (TPR) increased to 12.38%. There were 1,28,881 active cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stood at 15,739, with the State adding 122 recent deaths. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID increased steeply to 2,537, from 2,049 on Tuesday and 2,401 on Wednesday. However, total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID remained steady at 25,497. The cumulative case burden stood at 32,18,015 cases. Among the districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 1,605, Kozhikode reported 1,586, Ernakulam 1,554, Malappuram 1,249, Palakkad 1,095, Thiruvananthapuram 987, Kollam 970, Kottayam 763, Alappuzha 718, Kasaragod 706, Kannur 552, Pathanamthitta 433, Idukki 318 and Wayanad 282. Karnataka reported 1,653 new cases and 31 deaths, taking the caseload to 28,89,994 and death toll to 36,293, the health department said on Thursday. Active cases were at 24,695. Bengaluru Urban recorded 418 new cases and 3 deaths. Belagavi and Kolar recorded four deaths each, Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada (3), Bagalkote, Chamarajanagara, Dharwad, Hassan and Shivamogga (2). After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for the most number of fresh cases with 229, Mysuru 134, Kodagu 107 and Tumakuru 104. Andhra Pradesh reported 12 new deaths and 1,843 fresh infections on Thursday, the lowest daily death toll in 100 days. The cumulative toll was 13,209 and the overall case tally 19,48,592. Only 70,727 samples were tested in the past day and the TPR was 2.61%. Active cases came down to 23,571. Seven districts reported no fresh deaths. Prakasam reported three deaths, Chittoor, East Godavari, Kurnool and Nellore two each and Krishna one death. Chittoor reported 301 new infections, West Godavari (235), Prakasam (232), East Godavari (222), Nellore (203), Krishna (157), Kadapa (128), Guntur (126), Visakhapatnam (84), Anantapur (69), Vizianagaram (29) and Kurnool (24). Three more succumb Telangana logged 648 fresh cases after testing 1,14,928 samples on Thursday, the Department of Public Health said. For the last few days, the number of cases has stayed in the 600-700 band. Of the new cases, the highest of 82 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. Three more persons succumbed to the virus taking the total death toll to 3,774 in Telangana. On Thursday evening, the number of active cases were 9,857, down from 9,908 on Wednesday.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus, PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-up-but-cases-drop-in-kerala/article35480757.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD contemplates anti-drone protection for Tirumala||In what is seen as a giant leap in warding off air-borne threats to the temple of Sri Venkateswara, the TTD is contemplating deploying anti-drone technology around the hill shrine. It is expected to provide the much-needed protection from all forms of flying objects — from seemingly-harmless photography drones to security threatening devices. The temple management is in talks with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the technology provider, as well as Bharat Electronics Limited (Bengaluru), which is into manufacture and marketing of the full-fledged installation. It was at the instance of TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy that the security department started the deliberations with DRDO-BEL. TTD’s Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti attended a demonstration conducted by the DRDO in Karnataka in the first week of July. The system involves detecting and neutralising the flying objects in a radius of 3 to 4 km. “Neutralising” here may either mean jamming the device, disturbing the GPS tracking system or even adopting the ‘hard kill’ measure by using a laser device. The cost is pegged at Rs. 25 crore, but it may be slashed by a few crores in view of the ‘religious sentiment’ and the interest to launch their first product at Tirumala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-contemplates-anti-drone-protection-for-tirumala/article35480765.ece
23 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple staff held for ‘stealing’||A contract worker of the Srikalahasteeswara Swamy Devasthanam was arrested on charge of stealing valuables offered by the devotees to the temple hundi on Thursday. ‘Parakamani’, the exercise of counting the hundi was taken up after two months at the temple. Several employees were involved in the process of segregating cash and jewellery and counting the currency notes. The accused, identified as Kiran, reportedly found moving around suspiciously. During frisking, the temple security personnel found Rs. 75,000 in cash and a gold chain weighing 2.5 sovereigns in his possession. Acting on a complaint lodged by the temple authorities, Srikalahasti One Town police took the staffer into custody and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikalahasti-temple-staff-held-for-stealing/article35481342.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State monuments to get facelift under Central heritage schemes||Special Chief Secretary, Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture (Sports & Youth Services) Rajat Bhargav on Thursday said because of the constant efforts of the State government, the fort at Gandikota was identified for development under the Centrally-sponsored ‘Adopt a Heritage’ programme and three monuments – Nagarjuna Konda in Guntur district, the Buddhist remains at Salihundam in Srikakulam district and the Veerabhadra temple at Lepakshi in Anantapur district have been identified for development under ‘Adarsh Smarak’ scheme. Addressing a review meeting with the officials of the Tourism Department, Shilparamam, Youth Services and Culture and State Archaeology and Museums Departments, he directed the officials concerned to speed up works for their early completion. Mr. Bhargav asked the Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation S. Satyanrayana to prioritise works in tourist destinations which witnessed more footfalls. He wanted the works pertaining to construction of high-end resorts at Lambasinghi in Visakhapatnam district, Maredumilli in East Godavari district and Jagathipalli of Srikakulam district to be expedited. He said adventure sports could be started around the historic Gandikota fort. Mr. Bhargav also asked the Director of Youth Services to involve local youth in the developmental activities of the government and enable them to upgrade their skills. The Adopt a Heritage: Apni Dharohar, Apni Pehchan is an initiative of the Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture and the Archaeological Survey of India, under which government invites entities, including public sector companies, private sector firms and individuals, to develop selected monuments and heritage and tourist sites by providing and maintaining basic amenities like drinking water, ease of access for the differently-abled and senior citizens, standardised signage, cleanliness, public convenience and illumination, besides other facilities such as surveillance system and night-viewing facilities. More amenities Under Adarsh Smarak initiative, the selected places are provided with additional facilities like wi-fi, cafeteria, interpretation centre, Braille signages and illumination among other things. Commissioner, Department of Archaeology and Museums, Vani Mohan and Director of Youth Services Nagarani were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-monuments-to-get-facelift-under-central-heritage-schemes/article35481456.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain in many parts of State||As the low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal persisted, many parts of the State received moderate to heavy rainfall throughout the day on Thursday. Places in Krishna, West Godavari and East Godavari received heavy rainfall, while other districts received light to moderate rainfall. Nuzvid mandal of Krishna district recorded 90 mm rainfall as of 8 p.m. since Thursday morning. Mogalthur in West Godavari and Malikipuram in East Godavari recovered about 68 mm of rainfall during the same period. Various other mandals in the three districts recorded heavy rainfall. Thunderstorm likely India Meteorological Department has warned of very likely occurrence of thunderstorm and lightning with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places and moderate rain in most places in the state on Friday. During the past week, the State recorded 62.9 mm rainfall, which is 102% excess than the normal rainfall, according to IMD. During the monsoon since June 1, the State received 48% more rainfall, that is, 257.6 mm against normal rainfall of 173.8 mm. AP State Disaster Management Authority warned district administrations of the continuous rainfall and speed gales in the coastal areas. APSDMA Commissioner K. Kanna Babu asked fishermen not to venture into the sea. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana asked all the municipal commissioners to make field visits and ensure no areas in their local bodies got inundated due to continuous rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-in-many-parts-of-state/article35480814.ece
23 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kapu Nestham beneficiaries disbursed Rs. 490.86 crore||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday disbursed Rs. 490.86 crore under YSR Kapu Nestham, benefiting 3,27,244 women belonging to the Kapu, Balija, Ontari, and Telaga communities. The money was credited into their unencumbered bank accounts. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the bankers had been instructed not to use the money for clearing old dues. Women empowerment He further said that the government had spent Rs. 12,126 crore on the Kapu community through various welfare schemes in the last two years, which included Rs. 982 crore on Kapu Nestham alone. The scheme is aimed at providing financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 per year for empowering women by providing them business opportunities through that companies with which the government has forged partnerships. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said though the scheme did not figure in the party’s manifesto for the 2019 elections, it was initiated to support the needy women belonging to these communities. A total of Rs. 75,000 would be given to the beneficiaries in five years. The previous government had spent only Rs. 400 crore per annum on these communities, notwithstanding the promise made by it to allocate Rs. 1,000 every year, the Chief Minister said. As sum of Rs. 9,359 crore had been spent in the last two years on the Kapu community under schemes such as YSR Rythu Bharosa, Pension Kanuka, Amma Vodi, Aasara, Vidya Deevena, YSR Bima and Vahana Mitra through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). Through the non-DBT schemes such as Pedalandariki Illu, Sampoorna Poshana and Aarogyasri, the government had spent Rs. 2,767 crore in the last two years, he added. Ministers M. Srinivasa Rao, P. Venkatramaiah, K. Kannababu, A. Suresh and Ch. Venugopala Krishna, CM programme coordinator T. Raghuram, Kapu Welfare Corporation chairman A. Seshagiri, MLAs K. Roshaiah, J. Raja and A. Srinivas, and Special Chief Secretary (BC Welfare) G. Anantharamulu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-49086-crore-credited-into-accounts-of-kapu-nestham-beneficiaries/article35480760.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||At 12, State reports lowest daily toll in 100 days||The State reported 12 new deaths and 1,843 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. It was the lowest daily death toll in the past 100 days. The cumulative toll reached 13,209 and the cumulative tally increased to 19,48,592. Only 70,727 samples were tested in the past day and their positivity rate was 2.61%. The overall positivity rate of the 2.39 crore samples tested so far remains at 8.15%. Active cases The number of recoveries increased to 19,11,812 including the 2,199 recoveries in the past day. The number of active cases came down to 23,571 while the recovery rate slightly increased to 98.11%. Seven districts reported no death in the past day. Prakasam reported three deaths and Chittoor, East Godavari, Kurnool and Nellore reported two deaths each. Krishna reported one death. Chittoor reported 301 new infections. It was followed by West Godavari (235), Prakasam (232), East Godavari (222), Nellore (203), Krishna (157), Kadapa (128), Guntur (126), Visakhapatnam (84), Anantapur (69), Srikakulam (33), Vizianagaram (29) and Kurnool (24). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,74,651), Chittoor (2,28,212), West Godavari (1,68,335), Guntur (1,66,720), Anantapur (1,55,825), Visakhapatnam (1,51,474), Nellore (1,32,283), Prakasam (1,27,660), Kurnool (1,23,011), Srikakulam (1,20,117), Kadapa (1,09,483), Krishna (1,06,695) and Vizianagaram (81,231).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/at-12-state-reports-lowest-daily-toll-in-100-days/article35481360.ece
23 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre failed to keep its word on Polavaram, Amaravati: Vijaya Sai||The Central government has so far given Rs. 11,182 crore for the irrigation component of the Polavaram project since the year 2014 and Rs. 2,500 crore for infrastructure creation in Amaravati between 2014 and 2017, according to Union Minister of Statistics and Programme Implementation Rao Inderjit Singh’s written reply to questions asked by YSRCP member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy stated in a press release that Mr. Singh’s answers proved the fact that the Centre had not fulfilled its commitments to the Polavaram project, whose revised cost was pegged at Rs. 55,657 crore, as well as for the development of Amaravati. Mr. Singh also replied that the Centre had so far released a grant of Rs. 1,750 crore for the development of backward districts in the last eight years and Rs. 3,979 crore between 2014 and 2017 for filling the resource gap created by bifurcation. The Union Minister further replied that a sum of Rs. 10,632 crore was released for the implementation of 88 Centrally-Sponsored Schemes (CSS) between April 2018 and March 2019. The Central government released Rs. 11,112 crore for 84 CSS between April 2019 and March 2020, Rs. 12,904 crore for 79 CSS between April 2020 and March 2021, and Rs. 1,794 crore for 31 CSS between April 2021 and July 2021. ‘No CAT Bench in Vizag’ Meanwhile, Jitendra Singh, Minister of State (PMO), Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, clarified that there was no proposal for the establishment of a Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in Visakhapatnam. Replying to a question by Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, the Union Minister said that a CAT Bench was supposed to be located on the High Court premises as per a judgment of the Supreme Court. It was for the Central government to exercise discretion thereof on the basis of various factors, subject to the apex court’s verdict, he said. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy asked whether there was a proposal for setting up the Bench in view of the presence of thousands of retired employees of the Central government in the Port City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-failed-to-keep-its-word-on-polavaram-amaravati-vijaya-sai/article35481351.ece
23 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sakambari festival begins||The three-day Sakambari festival began on a grand note at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam atop Indrakeeladri here on Thursday. The temple precincts were decorated with vegetables and fruits. The idol of goddess Durga was tastefully decorated as Sakambari Devi with lots of vegetables to propitiate the goddess. The priests beautified the presiding deity with vegetables like ridge gourd (beerakaya), coccinia (dondakaya), brinjal, lemon and carrot. A garland of green chillies was also among the many vegetable garlands decorated to the goddess. Bottle gourds were placed on either side of the deity which was also draped in a garland of drumsticks. The processional deities were also beautifully decorated with all kinds of vegetables and fruits. Vegetable traders and devotees generously donated tons of veggies, including spinach, coriander, and curry leaves, for the event. Devotees started pouring in in good numbers to have a glimpse of Sakambari, and participate in the festival. A host of activities like Chandi Homam and Veda Pathanam (recitation of Vedas) are being organised as part of the festival. The festivities began with Vigneswara puja, Punyavachanam, Akhanda Deeparadhana, Ankurarpanam, Vastu Homam and Kalasa Sthapana. ‘Sakambari Utsavam' is being celebrated since 2007 to propitiate the deity for good rains, bountiful harvest and copious yield of vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sakambari-festival-begins/article35480817.ece
23 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Digital employment exchange to be launched on Aug. 15||Minister for Industries and Commerce, IT and Skill Development Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said that the government will launch a digital employment exchange on August 15 and organise ‘Job Melas’ twice every month in all the districts hereafter. “Emphasis is laid on skilling courses and training to provide the required manpower to the industries,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said in a review on skill development here on Thursday. Skill colleges The Minister enquired about the acquisition of land for the proposed skill colleges, and ordered that the process be expedited. AP State Skill Development Corporation Managing Director and CEO N. Bangara Raju told the Minister that designs for the skill colleges had been completed. Priority to EMCs Taking stock of the IT sector, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government targeted to create 55,000 jobs in three years. Priority should be given to the Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMCs), he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digital-employment-exchange-to-be-launched-on-aug-15/article35481347.ece
23 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Compensate families that gave land for VSP’||A delegation of BJP leaders led by State president Somu Veerraju met Union Minister of Steel Ramchandra Prasad Singh in New Delhi on Thursday, and appealed to him to give compensation to 8,000 families who had parted with their lands for the establishment of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) nearly three decades ago. Mr. Veerraju told Mr. Ramchandra Prasad Singh that the Congress party at the Centre was responsible for the inordinate delay in paying compensation for the land acquired, and at least now justice should be done to them. Mr. Veerraju also stressed the need to fulfil the obligation of providing jobs in the VSP to the displaced families. Rayalaseema projects In their meeting with Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the State BJP leaders urged him to give due priority to the irrigation projects in Rayalaseema to help the parched region cope up with drought. Mr. Veerraju also urged Mr. Shekhawat to expedite the implementation of the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package for the thousands of families displaced by the Polavaram irrigation project. Gazette notification Mr. Veerraju also took the objections raised by experts on the Central government’s gazette notification on the jurisdictions of the Krishna and Godavari river management boards to the notice of Mr. Shekhawat. The BJP delegation comprised former State party president Kanna Lakshminarayana, MLCs C.M. Ramesh, T.G. Venkatesh, and G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, State party general secretaries P.V.N. Madhav and S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy and party spokesman G. Bhanu Prakash Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/compensate-families-that-gave-land-for-vsp/article35481349.ece
23 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Be wary of digital lending platforms’||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das has stressed the need for popularising investor awareness and financial literacy programmes among the people to enable them to fight for their rights, even as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and other regulatory agencies concerned play their part in solving the problems. Presiding over a virtual meeting of the State-Level Coordination Committee (SLCC), comprising senior officers of the RBI and various agencies, on Thursday, Mr. Das said people should be especially wary of the digital lending platforms, which fleeced many gullible investors in the recent months. He called for redress of public grievances in the stipulated time-frame, and proper coordination among the stakeholders in order to curb the menace of unauthorised and unregistered financial institutions. RBI Regional Director K. Nikhila said a majority of the complaints being received were related to digital lending, which could be checked through a concerted effort. The meeting discussed the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019, and other financial legislations. Special Secretary (finance) K.V.V. Satyanarayana and RBI GM Y. Jaya Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-wary-of-digital-lending-platforms/article35481352.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improve panchayats’ finances, Peddireddi tells sarpanches||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachadra Reddy has advised village sarpanches to lay special emphasis on improving the economy of their panchayats. The Minister inaugurated a training programme for the village sarpanches on Thursday. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said village panchayats should focus on augmenting the financial resources. The panchayats should improve the collection of property tax, water cess, licence fee. The sale of compost etc. could be other sources of income, he said. The government was allocating funds under the 15th Finance Commission. Works were being created under the MGNREGA. The village administration was solely dependent on the efficiency of village sarpanches. Supply of drinking water, sanitation and greenery were some of the key areas which required special attention and supervision. As a step to achieve it, the State government had amended the Panchayat Raj Act, he said. The Minister said that a 100-day Jagananna Swach Sankalpam would be launched from August 15 to make the villages clean. Door-to-door campaign The government would take up awareness programmes in the villages. Door-to-door campaign, focus on solid waste management, efforts to mobilise resources, and creation of awareness on segregation of dry and wet waste would be taken up as part of the programme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improve-panchayats-finances-peddireddi-tells-sarpanches/article35480818.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed liaison officer||P. Basheer, Assistant Manager (Coordination) in the office of Joint Managing Director (Vigilance and Security) of AP-Transco, has been sent on deputation as PRO to the OSD of Pulivendula Area Development Authority (PADA) to act as liaison officer between the PADA OSD, CM Camp Office, Secretariat and Heads of Departments, according to an order issued by AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointed-liaison-officer/article35480815.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pegasus row: Congress demands Amit Shah’s resignation||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Thursday demanded that the Centre reveal the names of leaders who were behind the alleged snooping on their leader Rahul Gandhi and a number of other prominent journalists and politicians in the Pegasus spyware row. In response to a call given by the All India Congress Committee, the State party leaders took out a protest rally from Andhra Ratna Bhavan to the Raj Bhavan. They were later arrested by the police. Holding placards that demanded immediate resignation of the Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the row, Mr. Sailajanath said use of the Pegasus spyware, developed by Israel’s NSO group and marketed as a tool to track criminals and terrorists, to tap the phones of prominent journalists, politicians and others in the country was unacceptable. Reiterating the party demand that the Home Minister resign owning responsibility for it, he said a probe should be ordered and the Supreme Court should monitor the investigation. He condemned the arrests of the Congress leaders who were protesting peacefully, and accused the YSRCP government of unleashing autocracy. “The Jagan Mohan Reddy government, instead of questioning the Centre on the crucial issue, is reduced to a slave to the BJP government at the Centre for ‘understandable’ reasons,” he said. APCC working presidents N. Thulasi Reddy and Mastan Vali, AICC secretary G. Rudraraju, senior party leaders KBR Naidu, Harsh Kumar and others participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pegasus-row-congress-demands-amit-shahs-resignation/article35480819.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP chief to speak at SRM varsity event||Chairman of the National Education Policy-2020 K. Kasturirangan will deliver a lecture on ‘Creating a Vibrant Knowledge Society - An Indian Strategy for 21st Century’ organised by SRM University, Andhra Pradesh. The event will be held on Saturday (July 24) at 11 a.m. in virtual mode. Mr. Kasturirangan will speak in detail about connecting school education, collegiate education and university education to provide student-centric, multi-disciplinary and holistic education, underlying the conceptualisation of the NEP. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh will preside over the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-chief-to-speak-at-srm-varsity-event/article35480820.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP inks pact for legal empowerment of students||As part of its endeavour to establish Centres of Excellence in Intellectual Property, new emerging technologies and law to encourage clinical, research and practical application of law, for the future legal professionals, the VIT-AP School of Law has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Wordict-IP. Wordict-IP is an IP law firm from Hyderabad with an experience of more than 30 years in handling issues exclusively pertaining to Intellectual Property-Registration, enforcement and valuation. University vice-chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said the proposed Centres of Excellence would work to provide suitable solutions to the problems existing in society and legal empowerment to people. The collaboration would help the students equip themselves in the areas of Intellectual Property Law which includes copyright, trademarks, patents and geographical indication filings. It would facilitate research collaborations, student-mentoring, internships, guest lectures, workshops, symposiums, seminars and other awareness programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-inks-pact-for-legal-empowerment-of-students/article35481457.ece
23 July 2021||Vijyawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSDCL loans: PAC chief faults ‘State guarantee’||Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman Payyavula Keshav has demanded that the government explain why it is maintaining secrecy over the “guarantee” it has given and the “escrow” agreements it has entered into with various banks for obtaining Rs. 25,000 crore loan through the AP State Development Corporation Ltd. (APSDCL). Releasing the copies of the government guarantee and escrow account details to the media on Thursday, Mr. Keshav said they were duly signed by the Additional Secretary, Finance Department, along with the officials of the APSDCL, SBI, Indian Bank, PNB and SBICAP Trustee Co Ltd. Finance Minister B. Rajendranath Reddy was keeping it a closely guarded secret, and on TV shows he had been trying hard to drive home the point that the government did not give any guarantee, Mr. Keshav said. He should clarify whether these had the approval of the Centre and the RBI, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsdcl-loans-pac-chief-faults-state-guarantee/article35481357.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trees felled near Mayor’s house for parking space||Officials of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) on Thursday came under fire from environmentalists and denizens after several trees and plants were uprooted outside Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari’s residence to create parking space, at Arilova. Videos and pictures that were posted by passersby and local residents on social media websites and messaging apps on Thursday showed earthmoving machines uprooting several trees and plants in a 200-metre stretch outside the Mayor’s residence, and trucks carrying away soil removed from the area to create a level parking space. The incident sparked anger among environmentalists and denizens who demanded strict action against civic officials responsible for the incident. Denizens also expressed their disappointment with the Mayor, saying she should not have allowed such an incident to happen. Responding to the criticism coming her way, Ms. Hari Venkata Kumari said that after becoming Mayor, scores of people were coming to meet her at her residence every day causing traffic snarls in the area. “Thinking of a way to sort out the traffic problem, we decided to cut some trees and create some parking space. It was not our intention to damage the green belt and I assure everyone that the green belt will be developed once again,” she told reporters. Meanwhile, after locals began objecting to the felling of trees, the GVMC workers stopped their work and left the site. When asked for her response, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that there was a requirement for parking space outside the Mayor’s residence. “We had suggested that the service road be used for parking vehicles. However, some workers from the engineering department of the civic body overstepped into the green belt, which is absolutely objectionable. The officials responsible will definitely face action over the issue,” Ms. Srijana said, adding that the green belt will be restored to its original extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trees-felled-near-mayors-house-for-parking-space/article35481462.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ends life after girlfriend dies of COVID||A young man reportedly ended his life in his house at Kanithi Road in Gajuwaka on Wednesday evening. The deceased was identified as D. Rohith Kumar (25) of Parawada. Police said Rohith was working at a hotel in Gajuwaka and stayed in a rented house with his friends. On Wednesday evening, Rohith’s friends reportedly found him hanging in his room and informed his parents and the police. After a preliminary investigation, police learnt that Rohith’s girlfriend had passed away from COVID-19 in Guntur a few days ago. This led him to taking the extreme step, said police sources. Police are verifying his call records and messages and are enquiring with his friends and family to ascertain more facts. His body was sent for post-mortem. Those battling depression or suicidal tendencies are urged to call the 100 helpline for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-ends-life-after-girlfriend-dies-of-covid/article35481385.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC, Royal Navy ships conclude 2-day exercise||The two-day bilateral passage exercise (Passex) between Indian Navy and Royal Navy Carrier Strike Group (CSG)-21 led by HMS Queen Elizabeth in the Bay of Bengal, concluded here on Thursday. From the Royal Navy, the HMS Queen Elizabeth, the Royal Navy’s latest aircraft carrier, led the group with Type-23 frigates and an Astute-class submarine. The Indian Navy contingent included ships from ENC such as INS Satpura, Ranvir, Jyoti, Kavaratti, Kulish and a submarine. Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) capable long-range maritime reconnaissance aircraft P8I also participated. The exercise was designed to hone the ability of the two navies to operate together. The exercise also witnessed the maiden participation of the F-35 B Lightning, which operated from the deck of HMS Queen Elizabeth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-royal-navy-ships-conclude-2-day-exercise/article35481463.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||84 COVID-19 cases reported in district||The district has recorded 84 new COVID-19 infections on Thursday, while 83 persons undergoing treatment for the virus recovered from the virus. With the new cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases has increased to 1,51,986. The death toll stands at 1,044 as no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The number of discharges/recoveries increased to 1,48,836. Active cases as on Thursday are 2,106.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/84-new-cases-in-visakhapatnam/article35481381.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||210 km of highways to be built in State||Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has said that a total length of 210.89 km roads would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 1,668.93 crore under the Green National Highways Corridor Project (GNHCP) scheme of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways with a loan from the World Bank. The Union Minister was replying to an unstarred question raised in the Lok Sabha by Anakapalle MP Beesetti Venkata Satyavathi and Amalapuram MP Chinta Anuradha, on green highways to increase connectivity in A.P., on Thursday. Mr. Gadkari said that the scheduled date for completion is December 2025. The stretches to be developed are: NH-516E from Koyyuru – Araku (length - 183.95 km) and from Bowdara – Vizianagaram (length - 26.94 km ). The package-wise stretches are Koyyuru – Chaprathipalem, Chaprathipalem – Lambasingi, Lambasingi – Paderu, Paderu – Gondiguda, Gondiguda to Araku (up to Bhallaguda) and Bowdara – Vizianagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/210-km-of-highways-to-be-built-in-state/article35481382.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adivasis slam State govt. for implementing SC directive||The State government on Thursday came under fire from Adivasi outfits for agreeing to abide by a Supreme Court order abolishing the 100% reservation given to Scheduled Tribes in teaching posts at government schools in Scheduled Areas. Leaders of the Girijana Sangham and the All India Girijana Udyogula Sangham condemned the decision of the State government to issue a memo directing the implementation of the Supreme Court order which was passed in April 2020. At a roundtable, the Girijana Sangham leaders said that the State government, fearing reprisal from tribals, had chosen not to act on the Supreme Court order for a year. It has now cheated us by issuing the memo. Adivasis in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States had organised widespread protests against the orders of the Supreme Court, the Sangham leaders said. Meanwhile, the Non-Scheduled Area Girijana Sangham, Visakhapatnam district, sought that a resolution be adopted for inclusion of non-scheduled tribal villages in the Fifth Schedule, at the Tribal Advisory Committee (TAC) meeting to be held on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adivasis-slam-state-govt-for-implementing-sc-directive/article35481460.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM to hold FDP||GITAM Deemed to be University and Council of Architecture Training & Research Centre (COA-TRC) are jointly organising a National-Level Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on ‘Technicalities, Technology & Tools in Natural Ventilation Research’ from July 27 to 30. GITAM Vice-Chancellor Prof..K. Sivaramakrishna released the programme booklet here on Thursday. Architects who wish to participate must register their details through https://forms.gle/cx9xreAv3qv Afr7j7 on or before July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-to-hold-fdp/article35481464.ece
23 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals seek inclusion of villages in 5th Schedule||The Non-Scheduled Area Girijana Sangham, Visakhapatnam district, sought that a resolution be adopted for inclusion of non-scheduled tribal villages in the Fifth Schedule, at the Tribal Advisory Committee (TAC) meeting to be held on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-seek-inclusion-of-villages-in-5th-schedule/article35481384.ece
23 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many ignoring second dose in Vizianagaram||A majority of people are said to be ignoring vaccination in spite of availability of sufficient doses at the Primary Health Centres and other designated places in the district. Till a couple of months ago, people used to throng the PHCs for getting vaccinated against coronavirus. Now officials and medical staff are requesting people to have the first dose of the vaccine immediately since a third wave of the pandemic is likely in near future. However, there is little response to their pleas, thanks to the significant drop in new infections in the district. From around 500 a day in April and May, daily new COVID infections are under 100 in the district now. On Thursday, the number of new COVID cases was only 29. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has directed the District Medical and Health Department officials to oversee the vaccination programme on a daily basis. As many as 7,23,783 persons were administered the first dose of the vaccine and 1,73,939 the second dose. The recommended gap between two doses is four weeks for Covaxin and up to 12 weeks for Covishield. Many, for whom the second dose is due, are said to be not keen on it. Publicity Programme Officer for vaccination E. Gopala Krishna told The Hindu that the district administration was giving wide publicity on the availability of vaccines at all 80 designated centres. “The second dose of the vaccine is important since it would strengthen the immunity system to fight coronavirus efficiently,” he said. “Many people think that the first dose is sufficient to get the required immunity. But the second dose is needed for human body to fight new variants of coronavirus as per the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research,” said Dr. Kurella Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-ignoring-second-dose-in-vizianagaram/article35481377.ece
23 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maritime Board new chief gets grand welcome||Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board new chairman Kayala Venkata Reddy on Thursday said that thousands of unemployed youth would get jobs with the construction of new seaports in the State. Economic activity would improve significantly with the proposed Bhavanapadu and other ports. At a media conference along with MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy, he said Andhra Pradesh had 975 km long coast and its optimum utilisation was the top priority of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The State would be able to handle more cargo and develop new industries in and around the proposed new seaports, he said. He thanked the Chief Minister for selecting him for the coveted post and said he would strive to meet the government’s expectations. Earlier, Mr. Venkata Reddy was given a rousing reception as he arrived in the fort city after taking up the new role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maritime-board-new-chief-gets-grand-welcome/article35481380.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monsoon blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monsoon-blues/article35481459.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress cadre stage dharna||Central government and the State police were the target of the Telangana Congress at its massive dharna held at Indira Park against the ‘snooping’ on phones of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, opposition leaders and journalists in the country using the Pegasus spyware. While the leaders demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, they also warned the Telangana police not to blindly follow the orders of the State government in ‘crushing’ their democratic protests. After the dharna, their attempts to march to Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to the Governor were foiled by the police who arrested all the senior leaders including TPCC working presidents T. Jayaprakash Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav, Geeta Reddy, Mahesh Goud; CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka; MLA Seethakka; former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah and senior leaders Damodar Rajnarsimha, Maheswar Reddy Rammohan Reddy among others. Addressing the dharna Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy accused the Centre of hacking the phones of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. He also accused the police of disrupting their peaceful protests to satisfy the egos of some leaders in the State. “Patience is running out and we will not tolerate it more,” he said blaming the police for not letting them to go to Raj Bhavan. Mr. Vikramarka said the Modi government is using Pegasus software to tap the phones of leaders like Rahul Gandhi and the opposition and that it reflects their insecurity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-cadre-stage-dharna/article35481163.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||320 kgs of ganja transported from AP seized, one arrested||With the arrest of a 28-year-old man, Rachakonda police busted an inter-State gang that tried to smuggle 320 kgs of ganja from Andhra Pradesh to Karnataka via Hyderabad. Acting on a tip-off, the Special Operations Team of Bhongir and Malkajgiri zones intercepted a goods carrier at Saroornagar and apprehended the driver, Metri Raj Kumar of Jambagi village in Aurad Taluk of Bidar district in Karnataka. He was transporting the contraband drug from Gokavaram area of East Godavari district to Hyderabad. The seized material is worth Rs. 40 lakh. Police said that one Ranga Lal (25) of Border thanda of Bidar, who is the recipient of the ganja is absconding. According to the investigators, Raj Kumar migrated to the city four years ago and since then he was driving the goods carrier to transport fruits to the Kothapet fruit market from different areas. Later, he came in contact with Ranga Lal, and they hatched a plan to smuggle ganja. On July 18, Raj Kumar went to Rajahmundry to transport pomegranate from the Kothapet fruit market. “On coming to know that Raj Kumar was going to Rajahmundry, Ranga Lal met him at the fruit market and asked him to transport the ganja from Gokavaram, for which when the latter offered to give him the share in illegal profits,” police said. After unloading pomegranates at Rajahmundry, in the wee hours of July 20, Raj Kumar went to Gokavaram, met Ranga Lal, and both loaded 152 packets of ganja in the goods carrier vehicle in the fruit crates and the former started for Hyderabad. Upon reaching the city, he was nabbed by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/320-kgs-of-ganja-seized-one-arrested/article35481146.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Push for heritage tag to Ramappa temple||India has mounted a diplomatic offensive to ensure the World Heritage Site status for Ramappa temple in Telangana. “We have reached out to 24 countries whose representatives on the World Heritage Committee (WHC) will vote on the proposal to inscribe Ramappa temple as a World Heritage Site. We have presented them with documents to show the importance of the site,” said B.V. Papa Rao of Kakatiya Heritage Trust leading the effort to get the coveted tag for the 13th century Kakatiya temple in Palampet. Simultaneously, the State government has taken administrative decisions to conform to the demands made by the WHC in their agenda papers. “The MA&UD is going to constitute Palampet Special Development Authority to ensure regulated development by appropriately zoning areas near the temple to maintain serenity and natural beauty of the surroundings of the Ramappa temple,” said Minister for Culture and Archaeology V. Srinivas Goud at a presser on Thursday. The Department of Heritage Telangana has also set up an inter-agency committee under the Tourism Secretary to implement the Conservation Management Plan as mandated by the WHC. According to officials, the decision about inscribing Ramappa temple will be known on July 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/push-for-heritage-tag-to-ramappa-temple/article35481138.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IMD predicts respite from continuous rain today||There could be respite from the continuous rain for the twin cities with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting only light rain amid generally cloudy sky for Friday. The rains could be back after a respite of couple of days even as the capital shivered with day temperatures dipping by seven degrees to 23.6 degree C with 2.2 cm, while the night temperature has been 21.4 degrees with relative humidity being 93% on Thursday. Heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in districts of Nirmal, Adilabad, Nizamabad, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Rajanna Sircilla, Suryapet and Jagtial and at isolated places in Siddipet, Kamareddy, B.Kothagudem, Mulugu, Warangal rural districts. Dilawarpur (Nirmal) 23 cm, Sarangapur (Nirmal) 22 cm, Boath (Adilabad) 21 cm, Laxmanchanda (Nirmal) 20 cm, were among those deluged with the rainfall due to the vigorous southwest monsoon and cyclonic circulation in Bay of Bengal. However, heavy rain has been forecast for Adilabad, Kumarum Bheem, Asifabad, Mancherial, Jagityal, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Rajanna-Sircilla, Kamareddy, Karimnagar, Medak, Khammam Suryapet, Siddipet, Vikarabad, Warangal, Jangoan, Sangareddy, etc., for tomorrow. Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) said in its bulletin that State average cumulative rainfall from June 1 to June 22 is 47.4 cm against normal 29.2 cm with deviation 62%. GHMC recorded: 2.7 cm with the average cumulative rainfall during the same period is 38.9 cm against normal 22.5 cm with deviation 73.2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/imd-predicts-respite-from-rain-today/article35481143.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rs. 8 lakh paid per acre to ryots who voluntarily relinquished land’||Having stated earlier that four farmers had ‘voluntarily relinquished’ their six acres of land for Siddipet collectorate complex, the government on Thursday informed the High Court that it had offered them Rs. 8 lakh per acre towards compensation. In an affidavit filed in HC in a writ appeal filed by four farmers of Duddeda village in Kondapaka mandal, Siddipet Collector P. Venkatrami Reddy said the four farmers, all belonging to the same family, rejected the government’s offer. They demanded a compensation of Rs. 70 lakh per acre, he said in the affidavit filed before a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. The Collector explained that the government had resumed land from different persons for construction of collectorate complex and police commissionerate. An amount of Rs. 15.08 crore at the rate of Rs. 8 lakh per acre had been paid to land owners. They were also allotted house sites. The bench, during the previous hearing, did not buy the theory and the version of the government that the four farmers had “voluntarily relinquished” rights over their lands. The government described that there was a provision called ‘Razinama’ in Revenue Rules under which citizens could give away their lands voluntarily. The bench then observed that it was strange that poor farmers had voluntarily given up their rights over land which was their only means of livelihood. Not agreeing with the government’s contention, it directed the government to hold negotiations with the four farmers over compensation. In pursuance of the bench direction, the farmers were invited to the collectorate complex and consultations were held, Mr. Reddy stated. The bench directed petitioners’ counsel to file a rejoinder. The matter was posted for September 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-8-lakh-paid-per-acre-to-ryots-who-voluntarily-relinquished-land/article35481158.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bike mechanic held for stealing vehicles||An automobile thief was nabbed by the Gachibowli police here on Thursday. They recovered an autorickshaw and two bikes from his possession. The accused, Kada Raju alias Nani (21), a bike mechanic from Pragathinagar of Bachupally, hails from Ramachnadrapuram mandal in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. While performing patrolling duty at Kothaguda crossroad, Kondapur at around 5 a.m., he was nabbed by the police team. He committed similar offences in Gachibowli, Kukatpally and even in AP. “He also confessed that he committed the offences with the help of a minor,” inspector G Suresh said. He was produced before a local court in Kukatpally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bike-mechanic-held-for-stealing-vehicles/article35481398.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fire breaks out in moving car on ORR||A man suffered severe burn injuries after fire broke out in a car he was driving on the Nehru Outer Ring Road at Shamshabad here on Thursday. The victim S. Srinivas (55) was going towards Gachibowli from Kothur when the incident took place. According to RGIA police, a DCM driver who noticed the flames in the moving car alerted the driver, but by then he suffered 65 % burns. Soon, police and firemen rushed to the spot and rescued Srinivas. Soon, he was rushed to Apollo DRDO where his condition is said to be critical. “He suffered burns mostly due to smoke,” police said. Drunk driving is suspected. Clues team examined the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-breaks-out-in-moving-car-on-orr/article35481147.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM for permanent flood management team||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has called for immediate constitution of a seven-member flood management team on a permanent basis to take up public security measures in flood situations. The team should have as members senior officials who were trained in the steps that should be taken whenever the State was faced with floods, Mr. Rao told a meeting held to discuss extensive rains on Thursday. He said the members should have experience about the functioning of irrigation, panchayat raj, municipal, roads and buildings, revenue, health and general administration departments. One of them should be experienced in shifting people from low-lying areas to relief camps. Another could be appointed to alert Army, police, Air Force, National Disaster Response Force and other security agencies. From among the remaining members, one could work on coordinating with health, panchayat raj and roads and buildings departments and another with revenue, irrigation and general administration departments. Mr. Rao spoke from the meeting over phone with Ministers and Collectors of Nizamabad and Adilabad districts to pass on certain instructions on dealing with flood. Earlier, the officials explained to him the rainfall recorded in the catchment of Godavari and Krishna rivers. He was also informed of the water levels in Sriramsagar, Kaddam, Ellampally, Swarna and Kaleshwaram projects. Mr. Rao ordered immediate deployment of army helicopters and senior officials to evacuate people who may be stranded in water-logging at Kothagudem, Eturunagaram and Mangapet. The NDRF teams should be rushed to Armoor, Nirmal and Bhainsa where there was heavy rain and water stagnation. He warned of flooding in Krishna basin due to heavy rains in western parts of Maharashtra, particularly Mahabaleswar, which recorded 70 cm rainfall. Senior officials should be posted to supervise operations with Nagarjunasagar as base. The Chief Engineer of irrigation in Nalgonda should be posted to monitor dam protection measures at Nagarjunasagar and the CE of Wanaparthy district posted at Jurala project site. The services of retired officials who were involved in dealing with floods should be used from Friday. He called for assessment of flood situation on a hourly basis and regulation of water release from all projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-for-permanent-flood-management-team/article35481159.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NEP drafting panel chairman to deliver lecture on new policy tomorrow||Chairman of the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) Drafting Panel Dr. K. Kasturirangan will describe some of the salient features and importance of the new policy during the SRM University Distinguished Lecture scheduled to be held on July 24 (Saturday) from 11 a.m. Education Minister of Andhra Pradesh Audimulapu Suresh will preside over the lecture titled “Creating a Vibrant Knowledge Society – An Indian Strategy for 21st Century”. Pro Vice Chancellor SRM University, AP, Prof. D. Narayana Rao has taken the initiative to organise the webinar to understand the nuances of the NEP as part of its University Distinguished Lecture Series. Dr. Kasturirangan will discuss in detail about connecting school education, collegiate education and university education to provide student-centric, multi-disciplinary and holistic education, underlying the conceptualisation of the NEP. Being the first education policy of the 21st century, NEP proposes to address the many growing developmental imperatives of the country. This policy aims to revise and revamp all aspects of the education structure, including its regulation and governance, and create a new system that is aligned with the aspirational goals of 21st century education while building upon India’s traditions and value systems. NEP emphasises that higher education must build expertise that society will need over the next 25 years and beyond. NEP 2020 lays the foundation for “New India of the 21st Century”. The webinar can be accessed at ‘https://bit.ly/SRMAPUDL11’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nep-drafting-panel-chairman-to-deliver-lecture-tomorrow/article35481151.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||648 new COVID cases||Telangana logged 648 fresh coronavirus cases after testing 1,14,928 samples on Thursday, according to information released by the Department of Public Health. For the last few days, the number of cases has stayed in the band of 600-700. The highest of 82 cases were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits while Karimnagar recorded 59, Warangal Urban 52, Khammam 46 and Suryapet 44 cases. Nirmal was the exception, recording zero cases while Kamareddy logged one case. Three persons succumbed to the virus taking the total death toll to 3,774 in Telangana. As on Thursday evening, the number of active cases remained 9,857 down from 9,908 on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/648-new-covid-cases/article35481391.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Several areas experience waterlogging in city||The monsoon continued unabated in the city on Thursday too, with all areas experiencing rain without a break since early in the morning. The Sun escaped from any appearance for a second day in a row, turning the weather almost frosty. Highest rainfall up to 9 p.m. was recorded in Saidabad at 2.5 cm, followed by Serilingampally, Ramachandrapuram, Asifnagar and Gachibowli all of which recorded over 2 cm of rain. Chandanagar, Borabanda, L.B.Nagar, Lingampally, Madhapur, Bandlaguda, Shaikpet, Kapra, Musheereabad, Charminar, Kukatpally, Hayatnagar, Miyapur, Banjara Hills, Khairatabad, Balanagar, Alwal, Mehdipatnam, Tolichowki, Qutbullahpur and several other areas recorded considerable rainfall. Meteorology department has predicted generally cloudy sky, light to moderate rain or thundershowers in parts of the city on Friday too. Several areas experienced waterlogging and inundation in the city, besides sewage overflow, tree falls, power outages and other rain related grievances. Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi visited various locations in Somajiguda which experienced flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/several-areas-experience-waterlogging-in-city/article35481150.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||C-DAC course on software||The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) Hyderabad, which is the R&D organisation of the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), has designed a course — Post Graduate Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development (PG-DASSD) — to address the growing requirements of cyber security professionals in the IT industry focusing on software security. The course being offered online is of 30 weeks (900 hours) duration and the last date to apply is July 29. Campus placements will be conducted after successful completion of course. Details can be had on ‘www.acts.cdac.in’ or on 7382053731.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/c-dac-course-on-software/article35481390.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to hold ‘Dalit Bandhu’ meeting||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened an awareness programme on implementation and supervision of Telangana Dalit Bandhu programme on July 26. It will be attended by two men and two men from every village in Huzurabad Assembly constituency where the programme will be launched on a pilot basis. Two men and two women will also be selected from every division in municipalities of the constituency. In all, 412 SC men and women, and fifteen resource persons will participate, a release said. The participants will be brought here by buses from mandal headquarter villages after breakfast at 7 a.m. T he buses will halt at Huzurabad to garland the statue of Ambedkar and resume journey to reach here by 11 a.m. At the meeting till the evening, Mr. Rao will explain to them how the programme is aimed to bring about a qualitative change in the lives of SCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-hold-dalit-bandhu-meeting/article35481161.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hundreds of families evacuated in Nirmal||As heavy rain lashed for more than 24 hours, hundreds of families were evacuated from their homes and moved to safer places in Nirmal town here on Thursday. According to information reaching, the town in north Telangana received a maximum rainfall of 245 mm at Narsapur (G) mandal, followed by 211 mm at Kuntala. Sarangapur, Tanur, Nirmal, Mudhole, Bhainsa, Lokeshwaram, Laxmanachanda, Mamada, Nirmal Rural mandals received rainfall between 110 and 180 mm. As per the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the local administration along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team carried out rescue operations in the town. Forest Minister and Nirmal MLA A. Indrakaran Reddy along with local officials visited the rain affected areas and monitored the rescue operations in the town. Earlier in the afternoon, people were seen running to catch fish on the roads with lakes and ponds flooding. Mr. KCR spoke to Mr. Reddy over phone twice and inquired about the situation in the district and instructed him to take preventive steps to avoid loss of human lives. “Based on our request, the Chief Minister had sent NDRF teams for rescue operation. People from low-lying areas were shifted to safer places and there is no loss of life,” the Minister told The Hindu . Food supplied He said that food packets and fresh water were supplied to evacuated families and inflow from Swarna project has also come down. According to Mr. Reddy, a few places in Bhainsa town too, were inundated and over 80 people were shifted to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hundreds-of-families-evacuated-in-nirmal/article35481389.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rains inundate standing crops||The ongoing spell of rains for the last 10 days, heavy to very heavy rains in many areas for the last couple of days in particular, have inundated standing crops in large areas in over half of the State. According to the information reaching here, the impact is high in erstwhile Karimnagar, Adilabad, Warangal and Khammam districts which are now reorganised into 18 districts as also in parts of the remaining districts. Kharif crops have been raised in about 82.5 lakh acres so far this season with most of the crops in the vegetative stage and paddy in nursery and transplantation stage. Scientists of the Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) have advised the farming community to drain out the flood water from cotton, maize, redgram and soybean crop fields, if possible, to limit the damage as more rain is forecast over the next few days. When contacted, officials of the Agriculture Department stated that they are yet to enumerate the extent of crops inundated due to rains but admitted that the extent was high. Of the crops raised so far, cotton is taken up in over 48.77 lakh acres followed by paddy in 13.75 lakh acres, redgram in 8.34 lakh acres, maize in 5.18 lakh acres, soybean in 3.39 lakh acres and greengram in 1.21 lakh acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rains-inundate-standing-crops/article35481404.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS leader slapped with Rs. 4.55 lakh penalty||Following a storm of complaints on social media from Congress leaders and enraged citizens, the GHMC Enforcement wing removed several unauthorised hoardings allegedly erected by TRS leader P. Koushik Reddy and slapped him with a total fine of Rs. 4.55 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-leader-slapped-with-rs-455-lakh-penalty/article35481145.ece
23 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Steady inflows to Musi project||With incessant rains in the upstream regions, the Musi project on Thursday received steady inflows. The inflows, which were around 2,731 cusecs at 8 a.m., grew several times to 12,000 cusecs by 4 p.m. Following the volume, project officials initially operated four crest gates and added another two by afternoon. Starting with four feet, the gates were lifted to a height of nine feet each by the evening to release close to 27,000 cusecs. At 5 p.m., the water level in the project stood at 635 feet, 10 feet short of its full reservoir level. As against the gross capacity of 4.46 tmc, the project was holding 2.32 tmc water. Officials estimate that inflows to the project would increase exponentially with weather forecast for the next few days suggesting heavy to very heavy rainfall in the upstream regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steady-inflows-to-musi-project/article35481387.ece
23 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Singur catchment areas brim||With incessant rains taking place for the past two days in Sangareddy district, the catchment areas of Singur have been receiving good rainfall. As a result, the water level have increased in the reservoir. As of Thursday, the water level at Singur stood at 521.4 metres counting for 19.6 tmcft against the total capacity of 29.917 tmcft. At the same time last year, the water level at Singur stood 0.675 tmcft with reservoir almost drying up. “The inflows are 3,500 cusecs and 10 tmcft more was required for full reservoir level. We will operate gates only after the water level reaches 523.4 metres,” C. Nagaraju, Deputy Executive Engineer (DEE), Singur told The Hindu . The Meteorological Centre in Hyderabad warned that there would be heavy rain in Sangareddy and Medak districts on July 22. Chandana Deepthi, Medak Superintendent of Police, cautioned people about heavy rains and asked officials to work in coordination. “Identify tanks and streams in your police station limits and work in coordination with the irrigation department. Erect plastic cones, threads and other material wherever required and alert sarpanches to the conditions. There might be dilapidated houses and be alert about them. There might be earthing from electric poles at some places. Caution people against such danger. Ask parents not to allow children to visit streams or tanks at nearby villages,” said Ms. Chandana Deepthi. People were asked to share any such information on police WhatsApp number 73306 71900. Siddipet District Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy cautioned people about heavy rains in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singur-catchment-areas-brim/article35481394.ece
23 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Over 64,000 jobs created to meet requirements: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the government has created as many as 64,000 jobs to meet the requirements and asked youth to get prepared to write competitive examinations as the government started recruitment. “Keep competitive examination books available at every library so that youth can prepare for tests. The required assistance will be extended by Finance department,” said Mr. Harish Rao while participating in the birth anniversary celebrations of writer Dasarathi Rangacharya at Siddipet on Thursday. He said 50 chairs were provided to students at the district library so that they can sit there and prepare for examinations. There will be recruitments every year and steps are being taken in this regard by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said. Recalling the contribution made by Rangacharya, Mr Harish Rao said that the birth anniversary celebrations are being held officially. Earlier in the day participating in a review meeting with sarpanches, Mr. Harish Rao asked them to work in coordination with officials. MLC Farooq Hussain, Siddipet Urban Development Authority (SUDA) chairman M. Ravinder Reddy and others have participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-64000-jobs-created-to-meet-requirements-harish-rao/article35481402.ece
23 July 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||AP/TS NCC pays tributes to Col. Santosh Babu||The National Cadet Corps, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Directorate, paid tributes to Maha Vir Chakra awardee Col. B. Santosh Babu at a function held in his honour in the town on Thursday. Deputy Director General of AP/TS Directorate, Air Commodore TSS Krishnan, placed a wreath at the bronze statue and saluted to pay his tributes. He later interacted with parents of Col. Santosh Babu – B. Upender and Manjula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apts-ncc-pays-tributes-to-col-santosh-babu/article35481156.ece
23 July 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||Boulders break off Yadagirigutta hillock||Following days of incessant rains, boulders and a few stones broke off the Yadagirigutta hillock and came rolling down on Thursday. The incident, local police said, occurred on the newly-laid ghat road to the hill shrine of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at around 7 a.m. As there was no major activity at that time, there were no injuries to people or damage to property. Pictures circulated from the site showed boulders and the debris strewn on the road. Yadagirigutta police said that the road was blocked for commuters, and temple officials were alerted for works to clear the way. They said free movement was not hit as traffic was diverted to the old ghat route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/boulders-break-off-yadagirigutta-hillock/article35481388.ece
23 July 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||Boulders break off Yadagirigutta||Following days of incessant rain in the region, boulders and a few stones broke off the Yadagirigutta hillock and came rolling down on Thursday. The incident, local police said, occurred on the newly-laid ghat road to the hill shrine of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at around 7 a.m. As there was no major activity at that time, there were no injuries to people or damage to property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/boulders-break-off-yadagirigutta/article35481154.ece
23 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Pegasus spyware: Cong. holds protest in Haryana||Haryana Congress workers and leaders on Thursday staged a protest march here, against alleged illegal use of Pegasus spyware against politicians, journalists and others. The protest was led by party affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal and Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee President Kumari Selja, who said that the BJP-led Central government should come clean on the spying charges. The Congress members marched from the party office towards the Haryana Raj Bhavan where they were stopped by the police. Mr. Bansal said that the snooping case has not only tarnished the image of India but has also violated the right to privacy, which is not a good sign for democracy. “The democracy, which the Congress party strengthened over the years is now facing many challenges, it is being weakened by the Bharatiya Janta Party,” he said. Ms. Selja said that the Congress party wants a fair investigation by the Supreme Court or by Joint Parliamentary Committee in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pegasus-spyware-cong-holds-protest-in-haryana/article35480997.ece
23 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmer leader Sirsa ends his fast unto death||Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa on Thursday ended his fast unto death in Sirsa after five protesters arrested last week in connection with the attack on Haryana Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwar’s car were released. Senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal offered coconut juice to Mr. Sirsa late in the evening to break his fast. The protesters were released in the afternoon and accorded a hero’s welcome at the sit-in site. Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Haryana, All-India Kisan Sabha, said the release of the protesters was a “positive development as the sedition cases as well as attempt to murder charges against them were absolutely unlawful and untenable. So finally, the truth has prevailed.” He, however, added that all SKM constituents of Haryana would concentrate on strengthening the protest sites at the borders and toll plazas by mobilising more farmers and workers with renewed strength and vigour. The peaceful boycott of BJP-JJP leaders by showing of black flags would continue across the State, he added. He also wished speedy recovery to Mr. Sirsa whose health had started deteriorating following five days of hunger strike seeking the release of arrested farmers. Highway blocked The farmers had on Wednesday blocked a national highway in Sirsa at three different points to demand the release of the protesters. The SKM, a coalition of farmer unions, has also demanded the withdrawal of cases against over 100 protesters booked in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-leader-sirsa-ends-his-fast-unto-death/article35480999.ece
23 July 2021||Guwahati,||Extremists surrender in Assam||More than 20 members of the National Liberation Front of Bodoland (NLFB), a five-month-old extremist group, surrendered in northern Assam’s Udalguri district on Thursday. The extremists who laid down their arms at the Lalpani police station included NLFB chief M. Batha alias Binod Mushahary and top leaders B. Bidai and B. Birkhang. The extremists, who had been hiding in the jungles of Arunachal Pradesh, surrendered in the presence of Bodoland Territorial Council chief Pramod Boro, Assam’ Minister Pijush Hazarika, Chief Minister’s political advisor Jayanta Malla Baruah and Special DGP (Law and Order) G.P. Singh. “We welcome them to the mainstream.,” Mr. Boro said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/extremists-surrender-in-assam/article35480995.ece
23 July 2021||Jaipur,||Cong. demands resignation of Amit Shah over snooping||The Congress party workers, led by Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra, staged a massive demonstration outside the Raj Bhawan here on Thursday, demanding the resignation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and a judicial inquiry into the Pegasus snooping controversy. Mr. Dotasra said the snooping episode amounted to violation of the right to privacy enshrined in the Constitution and the use of Pegasus spyware, developed by an Israeli firm, had endangered the country’s security. The government had illegally hacked the phones of those occupying high constitutional offices as well as journalists and activists, he said. ‘Biggest spies’ “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Shah have turned out to be the world’s biggest spies by their conduct,” Mr. Dotasra said, addressing the protesters. He said Mr. Modi had not fulfilled any of his promises made before coming to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-demands-resignation-of-amit-shah-over-snooping/article35480996.ece
23 July 2021||Mumbai,||FIR against Param Bir Singh, 5 others on charges of extortion||The Mumbai Police have registered an FIR against senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh, five other police personnel, and two more persons for allegedly demanding Rs. 15 crore from a builder to withdraw cases against him, an official said on Thursday. Based on the builder’s complaint, the case was registered at Marine Drive police station. The five other cops accused in the case are — DCP (Crime Branch) Akbar Pathan, inspector Shrikant Shinde, Asha Korke, Nandkumar Gopale and Sanjay Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fir-against-param-bir-singh-5-others-on-charges-of-extortion/article35481225.ece
23 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Arun Gawli gang member arrested for extortion||A member of the Arun Gawli gang was arrested on Thursday for allegedly threatening traders in the APMC market and extorting money from them. Ashok Hansraj Sonkar alias Ashok Mirchi (34), who was released from jail in 2017, went to the APMC vegetable market on Wednesday. He asked trader Mayur Barve to pay Rs. 5,000 per month to continue doing his business and threatened to kill him if he failed to do so. Mr. Barve filed a complaint at APMC police station. “We had been receiving complaints against the accused for snatching money from traders in the name of ‘hafta’. He was not traceable, and with the help of an informer, we arrested him,” assistant police inspector Sumedh Khopikar from APMC police station said. The accused is known to cause self-inflicted injury when in police custody and hence, the APMC police sought his judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/arun-gawli-gang-member-arrested-for-extortion/article35481226.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Live up to your promise to pay rent for poor, HC tells Kejriwal||In a landmark verdict, the Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to live up to his promise, made in a press conference last year, that his government will pay rent for those who are unable to do so due to poverty in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. “The promise/ assurance/ representation given by the CM clearly amounts to an enforceable promise, the implementation of which ought to be considered by the government,” Justice Prathiba M. Singh ruled. Gives 6 weeks’ time Justice Singh remarked that the Chief Minister cannot first make a “clear and unequivocal oral assurance” and then fall silent when it comes to its implementation. The judge directed the Delhi government to take a decision within six weeks whether to implement the promise made by Chief Minister Kejriwal on March 29, 2020, bearing in mind the larger interest of the persons to whom the benefits were intended to be extended. Frame clear policy If a decision is made to implement the promise, the Delhi government should frame a clear policy, the court said. The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic last year, had resulted in a nationwide lockdown with effect from March 25, 2020. A large number of people lost their jobs due to the shutting down of establishments. Delhi saw a mass exodus of migrant workers. Rent payement In this backdrop, Chief Minister Kejriwal had made the promise that if any tenant is unable to pay the rent due to poverty, his government would pay the rent on their behalf. The CM also assured that there would be reimbursement to the landlords, if the tenants do not pay the rent. The High Court’s decision came on a bunch of petitions by several daily wage labourers, who claim to be tenants who are unable to pay their monthly rent, and a landlord who hasn’t been able to receive the monthly rent from his tenant. They had sought enforcement of the promise made by Mr. Kejriwal. “Law has evolved the doctrines of legitimate expectation and promissory estoppel to ensure that promises made by the government, its officials and other authorities are not broken and are, in fact, judicially enforceable, subject to certain conditions,” the court highlighted. Justice Singh further made the distinction that the CM’s assurance “is not a political promise”, not that it was made as a part of an election rally.  ... promises made by the government, its officials and other authorities are not broken and are, in fact, judicially enforceable. Delhi High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/live-up-to-your-promise-to-pay-rent-for-poor-hc-tells-kejriwal/article35480984.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||L-G refutes allegations of infringing upon govt. affairs||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday sought to “strongly refute” allegations of infringing upon the rights of the AAP-led Delhi government. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, in a letter to Mr. Baijal on Saturday, had alleged that Mr. Baijal was chairing meetings on matters within the domain of the elected government, issuing directions to officers of various departments without informing the Minister concerned and pressurising them to implement them. Devoid of merit In his response, the L-G termed these “insinuations and statements” devoid of “any merit and without any evidence” and also regretted that the matter was being discussed publicly. “Needless to state that this office has the highest regard for the principles of democracy and is committed to the implementation of the judgment of the Supreme Court, both in letter and spirit as regards the constitutional scheme of division of power in Delhi,” Mr. Baijal stated. Meetings which had been called by the L-G, he stated, had been “strictly within the ambit of constitutional provisions and responsibilities” entrusted to the office of the L-G. These were also to facilitate and coordinate effective planning, preparedness and implementation of specific programmes and tasks given the multiplicity of agencies in Delhi and to ensure inter-agency coordination across state and national level agencies, Mr. Baijal said. “Instead of appreciating the basic objective and outcome sought to be achieved by way of review meetings held at my level, it is unfortunate that incorrect aspersions have been cast upon me,” the L-G said. In his capacity as chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, three meetings were held to ensure necessary preparedness for tackling any future COVID-19 surge. Some of the meetings, the L-G pointed out, were attended by Mr. Sisodia along with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendra Jain. Governance cannot be divided into “water-tight compartments”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/l-g-refutes-allegations-of-infringing-upon-govt-affairs/article35480990.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. readies to corner govt. over oxygen-scarcity deaths||The upcoming Delhi Assembly session will see the Opposition BJP cornering the AAP government on issues ranging from water and public transport to deaths allegedly due to oxygen shortage and allegations of vaccine shortage levelled by it against the BJP-led Central government. According to a senior Delhi BJP leader, the issue of deaths due to oxygen would be among the Opposition’s key planks to corner the Delhi government. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday accused the Delhi government of trying to put the blame of deaths due to shortage of oxygen on the Central government. He alleged that it was the Delhi government that had submitted in court that no death had taken place in the Capital due to lack of oxygen. Absolute failure Terming the situation during the second wave as “alarming and devastating”, Mr. Bidhuri said it highlighted the “absolute mismanagement, inefficiency, and failure” of the Arvind Kejriwal government and now it was trying to pin the blame on the Centre. “The Delhi government had never sent any report or information to the Central government stating that any death had occurred due to lack of oxygen. Health is a transfer subject and falls under the domain of the Delhi government,” he said. “According to information given by the Central government in the Rajya Sabha, the States had informed the Centre that no death had occurred due to shortage of oxygen. Information on this front comes from the States and Union Territories and none had attributed any death due to lack of oxygen supply,” he said.  Even the Delhi government had not submitted any report on deaths due to shortage of oxygen, he added. However, he said, in the case of Jaipur Golden Hospital where 21 deaths had taken place allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, there was are talks about setting up a committee to investigate the issue. The Delhi government informed the HC that there was “no evidence” to corroborate the fact that these were related to shortage of oxygen and those patients who died suffered from different ailments, the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/oppn-readies-to-corner-govt-over-oxygen-scarcity-deaths/article35480987.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. reserves Covishield for second dose||Due to vaccine shortage, the Delhi government on Thursday reserved Covishield only for the second dose in all government-run vaccination centres till July 31, as per an official order. “Vaccination of 18 to 44 beneficiaries began on May 1, 2021 and with the completion of the 84-day interval for second dose of Covishield, many of them would now become eligible for second dose in coming weeks. In view of limited supply of vaccine, all slots, both for online booking and for walk-in vaccination in government CVCs administering vaccine will be reserved for second dose of Covishield with immediate effect till July 31, 2021,” the order said. Vaccine stock Also, the COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city will last for only less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The city has been facing a similar situation for more than 10 days and the Health Minister had said last week that 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage in the city. Only 63,406 doses of vaccine were administered in the city on Wednesday compared to 1,29,054 doses of vaccines administered in the city on July 13, as per the bulletin. Meanwhile, the Capital reported 49 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,35,720, according to a second bulletin. There was only one death reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,040. A total of 58,502 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.08%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-reserves-covishield-for-second-dose/article35480993.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Send officials to houses to complete pension process’||Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Thursday said that if officials are unable to contact a person who has applied for pension, then an anganwadi worker or any other officer should be sent to the applicant’s house to complete documentation. The direction was given after several complaints about pending pension applications. During the inspection, he also found out that the disability pension of many people has been pending since 2017 and directed the officer concerned to take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/send-officials-to-houses-to-complete-pension-process/article35480991.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||AAP cadres attacked my house: Delhi BJP chief||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Thursday alleged that Aam Aadmi Party cadres had attacked his Patel Nagar residence where they also allegedly indulged in vandalism and attacked security guards. Mr. Gupta was not at home when the incident, the party said. Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, while condemning the incident, alleged that Mr. Gupta residence had also been attacked on July 11 and accused a local AAP leader of being behind both the incidents. DCP (Central) Jasmeet Singh said that a PCR call was received regarding the incident. A team reached the spot and brought the situation under control. A private security guard at Mr. Gupta’s house was attacked, the police said. The protest was called by AAP worker Ankush Narang. “We have registered a FIR under IPC Section 188 for calling a protest when it is banned in Delhi as per DDMA guidelines. We have called the guard to record his statement,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-cadres-attacked-my-house-delhi-bjp-chief/article35480985.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal hits out at Centre for raids at media houses||AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday hit out at the Centre for raids by the income tax department on media houses. “I-T raids on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar are an attempt to scare the media. His message is clear — those who speak against the BJP government will not be spared. Such thinking is very dangerous. Everyone should raise their voice against it. These raids should be stopped immediately and the media should be allowed to work freely,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-hits-out-at-centre-for-raids-at-media-houses/article35480988.ece
23 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s recoveries outpace case surge||Maharashtra’s recoveries barely outweighed the case surge on Thursday with the State reporting 7,756 recoveries against a spike of 7,302 new COVID-19 cases, causing the active case tally to fall incrementally to 94,168. As many as 120 deaths pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,31,038 with the case fatality rate climbing to 2.09%. The total cases have reached 62,45,057 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 60,16,506 with the recovery rate standing at 96.34%. “Of a total 4,62,64,059 laboratory samples tested thus far, 62,45,057 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 13.5%) have returned positive with over 1.96 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune recorded more than 1,100 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,80,089. Six deaths pushed the toll to 18,318. As per district authorities, the active cases have come down to 9,400. Mumbai reported 389 new cases to take its total tally to 7,32,971 while the active cases dipped to 10,309. Ten fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,810. Kolhapur registered more than 1,100 new cases, taking its total cases to 1,88,716. The active cases rose to 10,701. As many as 12 deaths saw the toll go up to 5,371. Satara added 847 cases and seven deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-recoveries-outpace-case-surge/article35481227.ece
23 July 2021||Pune,||Uddhav chairs emergency meet, asks officials to stay alert||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who chaired an emergency meeting on Thursday, instructed officials to be vigilant in the wake of the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of heavy to very heavy rain for the next three days. A ‘red alert’ has been issued for the Konkan region and an ‘orange alert’ for Kolhapur. According to sources, the Vashishti and Shiv rivers which course through Chiplun city in Ratnagiri district began overflowing a little after 3.30 a.m. on Thursday with the discharge of waters from a nearby dam. Residents fear the situation to be far worse than that experienced in 2005. Since morning, panic-stricken appeals flashed out on social media, with marooned residents pleading the government to rescue them. The old market area and the new bridge which straddles the city were submerged. Due to continuous overnight rain, headwaters from dams passing through the Kumbharli Ghat — a mountain pass connecting coastal Ratnagiri with Satara district — have flooded the city. Several residential societies were half-submerged while countless shanties have been destroyed. Remarking that the situation was extremely dire in the Konkan region, Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut, who represents the Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg Lok Sabha constituency, said water levels had risen 8-10 feet in the city while the old part of Chiplun was submerged in the floodwaters. “Ratnagiri has been bearing the brunt of heavy rainfall. People are trapped in houses. Townships and bazaars have been inundated. I have urged the Chief Minister to dispatch rescue teams and take help from the Coast Guard. Two NDRF teams have already started from Pune while a State Disaster Response Force team had been dispatched from Kolhapur,” Mr. Raut said, adding that helicopters, too, would be mobilised to aid in rescue efforts. The Mumbai-Goa highway remained shut for traffic, while train services on the Konkan Railway were at a standstill due to landslips and rockfalls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/uddhav-chairs-emergency-meet-asks-officials-to-stay-alert/article35481229.ece
23 July 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel appoints commission to review NSO||Israel has established a commission to review allegations that the NSO Group’s controversial Pegasus phone surveillance software was misused, the head of Parliament’s Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee said on Thursday. “The defence establishment appointed a review commission made up of a number of groups,” lawmaker Ram Ben Barak said. “When they finish their review, we’ll demand to see the results and assess whether we need to make corrections,” the former deputy head of Israel’s Mossad spy agency added. Pegasus has been implicated in possible mass surveillance of journalists, human rights defenders and 14 heads of state. Their phone numbers were among some 50,000 potential surveillance targets on a list leaked to rights group Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories. NSO has said the leak is “not a list of targets or potential targets of Pegasus.” NSO chief executive Shalev Hulio told Army Radio on Thursday that he would “be very pleased if there were an investigation, so that we’d be able to clear our name”. He also alleged there was an effort “to smear all the Israeli cyber industry”. Open to probe: NSO NSO has said it exports to 45 countries, with approval from the Israeli government. Mr. Hulio said the company could not disclose the details of its contracts due to “issues of confidentiality,” but said he would offer full transparency to any government seeking more details. “Let any state entity come along — any official from any state — and I’ll be prepared to open everything up to them, for them to enter, to dig around from top to bottom,” he said. Referring to the government-run Defence Export Controls Agency, Ben Barak said Israel’s priority was “to review this whole matter of giving licences.” Pegasus had “exposed many terror cells”, he said, but “if it was misused or sold to irresponsible bodies, this is something we need to check.” Reporters Without Borders on Wednesday called for a moratorium on cyber surveillance software. Pegasus can hack into mobile phones without a user knowing, enabling clients to read messages, track location and tap into the phone’s camera and microphone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-appoints-commission-to-review-nso/article35480545.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dalai Lama’s close aides figure on spyware list||Several of the top India-based aides to the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, figure on the list of potential targets for spying using the Pegasus spyware, according to a report on Thursday. The phone numbers of the Dalai Lama’s aides were among the list of 50,000 numbers accessed by Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International and shared with 17 media organisations. One of those organisations, The Wire , reported on Thursday that several phone numbers of top Tibetan officials in Dharamsala “were marked from late 2017 to early 2019”. Another one of those organisations, The Guardian , said “analysis strongly indicates that the Indian government was selecting the potential targets.” The inclusion on the list, which means the numbers were targeted for monitoring, does not necessarily mean the numbers were infected by the spyware. Confirmation would require analysing the devices in question. Israel’s NSO Group has said the numbers are not a list of targets of its Pegasus spyware and were not selected by the group. It has also said its clients mostly include “vetted” government agencies ostensibly to help them fight terrorism. India-based client  The Wire reported the inclusion of the numbers of top officials based in Dharamsala “indicate[s] that the targets may have been selected by an unknown India-based client of the NSO Group”. The Government of India has neither confirmed nor denied it is a client. Thursday’s report suggested whatever entity placed the numbers on the list may have had a special interest in keeping abreast of the Dalai Lama’s interactions with foreign governments, particularly with the U.S. It noted that the number of long-term envoy Tempa Tsering appeared on the list during a period coinciding with the Dalai Lama’s meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama in New Delhi. Other top aides of the Dalai Lama were also on the list, including Chhime Rigzing Chhoekyapa and Tenzin Taklha, who have also served as spokespersons for the Dalai Lama. Also on the list was Lobsang Sangay, who served as Sikyong of the Dharamsala-based Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) until May this year. At the time of writing, the CTA had not commented on the report. When asked on Thursday about whether diplomatic missions including the U.S., the U.K., Afghanistan, China, Iran and Pakistan had contacted the government about the alleged hacking of phones belonging to top diplomats and other staff, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi declined to comment, saying detailed responses to the ongoing controversy had been dealt with by the government in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dalai-lamas-close-aides-figure-on-spyware-list/article35480544.ece
23 July 2021||Antananarivo,||Foiled attempt to kill President: Madagascar||Madagascar said on Thursday it had foiled an attempt to assassinate President Andry Rajoelina and arrested six people, two of whom, according to diplomatic sources, were French nationals. “Several foreign and Madagascar nationals were arrested on Tuesday, July 20, as part of an investigation into an attack on state security,” prosecutor Berthine Razafiarivony said in a statement. “According to evidence in our possession, these individuals devised a plan to eliminate and neutralise various Madagascan figures, including the head of state,” she said. The statement gave no details about the alleged operation. Public Security Minister Fanomezantsoa Rodellys Randrianarison said six arrests had been made, comprising “a foreigner, two dual nationals and three Madagascans.” “The police had information about this affair for months,” he told a news conference on Thursday. They swooped to make simultaneous arrests in different locations and seized money and weapons, he said. “There are also official documents which prove their involvement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/foiled-attempt-to-kill-president-madagascar/article35480549.ece
23 July 2021||Beijing,||China ‘condemns’ spyware surveillance||China on Thursday “strongly condemned” cyber-surveillance, calling it a common challenge to all countries. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian made the remarks while reacting to reports of “surveillance by Pegasus”. “Cyber surveillance is a common challenge to all countries as part of a wide cybersecurity threat,” Mr. Zhao said. “If it is true, China issues strong condemnation... All nations should work based on mutual respect, equality and mutual benefits, engage in talks and cooperation to respond to the threats.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-slams-spyware-surveillance/article35480542.ece
23 July 2021||Paris,||French President calls national security meet||French President Emmanuel Macron has called a national security meeting for Thursday to discuss the Israeli-made Pegasus spyware after reports about its use in France, a government spokesman said. “The President is following this subject closely and takes it very seriously,” Gabriel Attal told France Inter radio, adding that the meeting would be “dedicated to the Pegasus issue and the question of cybersecurity.” Other revelations have alleged that French ally Morocco also targeted several high-profile journalists in France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/macron-calls-national-security-meet/article35480547.ece
23 July 2021||Beijing,||China rejects WHO plan to audit labs||China on Thursday said a WHO proposal to audit Chinese labs as part of further investigation into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic showed “disrespect” and “arrogance towards science”. Last week, the World Health Organization said a second stage of the international probe should include audits of Chinese labs, amid increasing pressure from the U.S. for an investigation into a biotech lab in Wuhan. The proposal outlined by WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus included “audits of relevant laboratories and research institutions operating in the area of the initial human cases identified in December 2019” — referring to the Chinese city of Wuhan. But China’s Vice Health Minister Zeng Yixin told reporters Thursday that he was “extremely surprised” by the plan, which he said showed “disrespect for common sense and arrogance towards science”. Nationalist tabloid Global Times said it had collected five million signatures to investigate a U.S. military lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-rejects-who-plan-to-audit-wuhan-labs/article35480546.ece
23 July 2021||Washington,||‘U.S. launched airstrikes in Afghanistan’||The U.S. military launched several airstrikes this week in support of Afghan government forces fighting Taliban insurgents, including in the strategically important province of Kandahar, officials said on Thursday. The strikes demonstrate U.S. intentions to continue supporting Afghan forces with combat aircraft based outside the country, at least until the conclusion of the U.S. military withdrawal on August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-launched-airstrikes-in-afghanistan/article35480791.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Will the new e-commerce rules really favour consumers?||In June, the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution came out with a list of proposed amendments to the Consumer Protection Act of 2019. These include appointment of a Chief Compliance Officer and a Resident Grievance Officer, provisions of fallback liability, registration of e-commerce entities and a ban on flash sales. The Centre claims that these amendments try to rein in unfair trade practices adopted by e-commerce companies and intend to take care of the interests of consumers. But not everyone agrees. Anupam Manur and Prithwiraj Mukherjee discuss the proposed amendments in a conversation moderated by Prashanth Perumal J. Edited excerpts: What is your view on the draft e-commerce rules? Do they favour the consumers as the government claims? Anupam Manur:I’m critical of these new set of rules on multiple accounts. The first is the sheer scope of the law. The rules are applicable to all goods and services bought or sold over a digital or electronic network. When we say “all goods and services”, it includes your food delivery apps, hotel booking websites, etc. So, basically any kind of e-commerce. That’s a large move to be coming from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which brings me to my second point about overlapping jurisdictions. There’s a lot of talk about dominant firms. The regulation of these firms should actually come within the ambit of the Competition Commission of India. Then there’s talk about data privacy, which again is an issue which should be addressed by a data protection law. I think the rules are largely trying to push the government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative and favour small and medium scale enterprises, all under the veil of consumer protection. Prithwiraj Mukherjee:The draft is very complicated and the intent of the new rules is not clear. I’m assuming that the intent is to prevent one or two dominant firms from taking over not just e-commerce but commerce in general. But it’s one thing to have a law and another thing to uphold that law. I’ll give you an example from a slightly different domain. For a long time, we have what is known as a ‘Do Not Disturb’ list in our mobile phone sector. And most of us are probably registered on that list. Has that stopped you from getting spam? In fact, my service provider is sending me spam from scammers. And I am reasonably certain that these people are doing it through the service provider and that they didn’t get my number through any other way. If we were to bring this into e-commerce, the question is whether the same thing is going to happen with the new draft rules. I don’t know. So, how you uphold a legislation is just as important as the legislation itself. Don’t you think putting the rules down on paper gives power to government officials to go after companies that break the rules? PM:In principle the draft rules seem okay. There might be hidden consequences that we’ll discover only with time. AM:Even in principle, the draft rules are unnecessary. E-commerce platforms already have customer care centres where you can lodge complaints. There is competition between platforms. Beyond that, there are a lot of other quality checks that these marketplaces put in place. There are consumer courts that cheated customers can access. I don’t think you need a separate nodal officer or a grievance officer. That just adds to the bureaucracy. Anyway, there’s not enough state capacity for implementing some of these rules. If you start a law knowing that you can’t implement it, I think it’s bound to fail. Among other things, the draft asks companies to favour domestic goods over foreign ones. Do you smell any protectionism in the new rules? PM:You’re using protectionism as a bad word. Every country has its own form of protectionism. In fact, the moment you charge an import duty, it means you are implicitly protecting your own people against some other country’s imports. That said, what we know is that a big company will always find a way to subvert a few laws. Let me give you the example of a ban on tobacco advertising. Did that stop India’s largest tobacco company from sponsoring a World Cup or the Indian cricket team? No, the company just found another way. At the end of the day, I think it is about ticking boxes. The spirit of the rule will never be implemented. What will happen is that companies will find increasingly creative ways of subverting the letter of the law. AM:The fact that they’re asked to provide a domestic alternative at the same time... I think that’s not a level playing field. I don’t see any kind of economic reasoning for why an e-commerce marketplace has to push for a domestic alternative. If the domestic alternative is really that good, that company can compete. People will choose based on the quality of the products, price, etc. So, I will say that this is protectionism. To me, marketplaces being asked to provide domestic alternatives reeks of protectionism. Could there be unintended consequences due to provisions such as the ban on flash sales, fallback liabilities, etc.? AM:I don’t even see how the ban on flash sales is supposed to help consumers. You would think that flash sales help consumers. Second, the wording of the provision is just so wrong. They’ve said things like “significant reduction in price”. What do you mean by a “significant reduction in price”? Is a 20% discount significant for an iPhone? The rule is just open to different interpretations. But, as Prithwik said, these big companies are experts at regulatory arbitrage. They will find a way to negotiate and navigate through these things. It will be the smaller sellers and e-commerce platforms that will not be able to navigate through these laws. So, what you’re doing, in fact, is the opposite of what you wanted to achieve, which is to help out your small sellers. The draft rules are just going to increase costs for e-commerce. Regarding fallback liability, again it makes no economic sense. It displays a brazen misunderstanding of what marketplaces are supposed to be. It’s like holding a kirana store liable for selling you washing powder that is defective. That’s not how marketplaces work. PM:I agree with Anupam on the issue of flash sales. I think it’s a terrible idea for the brand: it devalues your brand but that should not be the regulator’s concern. But I will say something about deep discounting. Now, the draft does not really specify what exactly constitutes a deep discount. But let’s go a little bit into the history and understand why they may have done this. In the U.S., there are some big players with big pockets who did what is known as loss leader pricing. Walmart, for example, would go into a small town in the U.S. and set up business. It would then offer expensive products such as medicines for free. This caused small pharmacies that cannot match Walmart to go out of business. If you look at the American retail space, the small-time retailers essentially went out of business. France realised that deep discounting can create problems. So, what it mandated is that you cannot sell anything cheaper than the price you bought it for. So, you have to actually talk about your procurement price. And there are only two approved sales seasons a year when stores can get rid of excess inventory by selling at lower than the cost price. The idea is to prevent a Walmart-like situation. So, in principle, I am not against having a law against deep discounting. AM:I think retail density in India is amazing compared to many countries in the world. So, again, this comes back to the question of necessity. Do we need this law in this fashion at this moment? The answer is no. You have to do a cost-benefit analysis comparing the harm that the rules can potentially cause versus the potential benefits. I think the harm is higher at this point. There is a lot of competition among e-commerce retailers. So, I don’t see a need for this law just yet. I don’t think it is forward-looking either. What do you see as the real reason behind these rules? AM:I think we’ll be going into speculative territory, which is slightly unsafe. But in most people’s reading, it is just to help consumers. But if you look at the overall policy approach taken by this government over the last few years, that tells me that the government wants to encourage ‘Make in India’ because that’s one of its flagship schemes. They are trying to do this through rules without realising the kind of harm they can do in the long run, even for the domestic Indian firms. A series of steps in different domains — from increasing import tariffs on various products to encouraging domestic manufacturing — tell me that they want promote domestic industries. PM:It is difficult to impute motives. But even if you were to impute motives, I don’t think vote bank politics is relevant here. I don’t think anybody’s going to vote based on these rules. Could there be lobbyists? Yes. But I am not willing to speculate. What kind of rules would actually protect consumers? PM:There are two principles. One is that consumers should not be cheated. So, any law that deals with deceptive advertising, leaking of data, spamming, etc. is in principle desirable. The second is that the monopolist should be properly regulated. Even the most capitalist economies will take action against monopolies. The other thing is you have a large number of gig workers in the e-commerce sector. Their needs need to be addressed. AM:Before any form of government intervention, I would ask what is the market failure that you’re trying to address. Concentration of market power is a genuine concern that requires some form of intervention, but not through consumer protection tools. You have an entire body dedicated to doing this, which is called the Competition Commission of India. The second kind of market failure could be information asymmetry. But remember the whole point of the e-commerce marketplace is to reduce information asymmetry as well. Consumers can compare different products, rate and review products, etc. If you need to do something more, you can set quality standards. Beyond that, people who have been cheated have a consumer court. If you look at our standard shopping experience, sometimes you can buy things which are substandard. You either live with it and learn from the experience and buy better next time or if you’re deeply hurt and it’s a really expensive buy, you move the court. Consumers already had these options available to them. There’s no reason why a lot of the consumer protection rules that the government has come up with for the e-commerce retailers should not apply to brick-and-mortar stores. The fact that they’re going after e-commerce alone should tell you that their entire motive is different.  The rules are largely trying to push the government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative and favour small and medium scale enterprises, all under the veil of consumer protection. Anupam Manur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/will-the-new-e-commerce-rules-really-favour-consumers/article35480541.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The direction that the NCF needs to take||The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has tasked the State Councils of Educational Research and Training (SCERTs) to develop four State Curriculum Frameworks (SCFs). They pertain to School Education, Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE), Teacher Education (TE) and Adult Education (AE). This is as in the recommendations of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. At the first level, the NCERT will provide templates to the States to develop four draft SCFs, the drafts will feed into formulating the National Curriculum Frameworks, or NCFs, and the final version of the NCFs will be used as guiding documents to finalise the SCFs. The SCERTs are also supposed to develop 25 position papers, which will be similarly used to develop national position papers. The cycle seems to be designed to take onboard suggestions from all States, thereby making the NCFs representative and inclusive documents. The NCERT will also provide support to the SCERTs in terms of guidance, training of personnel, and technology platforms to develop these documents. Much data collection So far so good. But the NCERT will also provide e-templates for each of these tasks “which will be filled-up by the States/UTs [Union Territories]”. Similarly, survey questionnaires/multiple choice questions, or MCQs, will also be provided to conduct surveys among various stakeholders. Thus, massive data collection seems to be in progress. Such surveys are designed, let us accept, with all good intentions to take on board views from all sections of the population. This is without doubt a must in a democracy, particularly in matters of deciding the aims, the objectives, and the content of curriculum because it affects everyone. However, the gathering and the organisation of such data to be used in curricular decisions requires more than just good intentions. The kind of questionnaires and template that one develops can emphasise certain kinds of recommendations while muting some others. Similarly, the cleaning and organising of the data may pick up what is already in the minds of the people handling such data and filter out what does not fit within their thinking. Even if these two problems are somehow solved, the problem of what the majority ‘wants’ and what ‘ought to be’ done remains. For example, if one asks about public opinion on the medium of instruction for the ECCE, the overwhelming majority is likely to favour English. Does it mean this would be in the best interest of the children and society? Some valid questions A huge opinion gathering exercise preceded NEP 2020. One wonders why this could not prevent it from becoming a managerial policy geared to make education a training endeavour to produce a workforce for market needs. The policy is chock-a-block with words for values, capabilities and skills, all justified as needed for emerging market requirements. Furthermore, these lists are just heaps of words, devoid of any organising principle to decide priorities, inter-relationships and deriving curricular content and pedagogy from them. A similar unorganised list is repeated ad nauseum in the name of pedagogical recommendations. And yet, it fails to provide appropriate criteria to choose pedagogy at different stages and for different curricular areas. The so-called foundational stage crumbles under the slightest scrutiny on organisational as well as pedagogical grounds. The ECCE plus Classes one and two (first five years of education, for the age group three years to eight years) is proclaimed as one stage. But the ECCE and Classes one and two will be run in separate institutions; their teachers’ qualifications, salaries, and training are supposed to be different; their curriculum frameworks are supposed to be different. One wonders what makes it a single block. On pedagogical grounds, the capabilities of self-restraint, dealing with adults and people outside family, concentration span, responsible behaviour, self-directed activities and understanding the value of completing a task widely differ for a four-year-old and a six-year-old. These are the capabilities which determine the nature of pedagogy and formal learning; not the forming of synapses and the growth of brain mass. Thus, the people developing NCFs have to deal with these issues in addition to finding a method of making proper sense of gathered public opinion. If the National Curriculum Framework for School Education (NCFSE) is purely guided by the NEP 2020, we are unlikely to ensure the sound development of our schoolchildren. Fortunately, there is a way through which the teams developing the NCF and the SCFs can mitigate — if not completely solve — the problems created by the NEP 2020 as well as take on board public opinion in an appropriate manner. Furthermore, such a framework can also help in making appropriate use of what is good in this policy, for it is not completely devoid of good recommendations. For example, flexibility in secondary education, examination reform, more exposure to Indian languages, and taking on board Indian knowledge systems can make our education system better. Documents of value One way out of this problem is to take a lot of help from the Secondary Education Commission Report (SECR) and Zakir Hussain’s Basic National Education (BNE) report. The purpose of surveys on public opinion is to create a consensus on basic values, and the vision and the direction our education system should take. The SERC assumes, without saying, that the democratic polity we adopted gives us that consensus. They also collected a lot of data, but that data was analysed and organised in the light of the vision of the individual, society, and education inherent in the democratic ideal. Thus, they had all the three necessary elements: the overall framework of values and future direction, current issues and problems of the education system, and public opinion. The SECR makes sense of the latter two in the light of the earlier. And it rigorously works out the aims of education, pedagogy and content to achieve those aims. The logical rigor is very clear in working our aims from the democratic values and pedagogy from the aims. It is somewhat loose in working out the content. But the direction is clear. Another useful document in this regard is the BNE. The logical flow in this document may be somewhat amiss at one or two places in the beginning. But the rigorous derivation of educational aims from the vision of society, curricular objectives from the aims, and content from the objectives are starkly clear. These are coherent and rigorous documents because they place the values and principles of democracy and a morally, aesthetically and intellectually rich individual life at the starting point and try to resolve current economic problems in alignment with them. The current policy reverses the order. It is not that the content from these documents should be borrowed; rather, that the approach they take has much to teach. It is rigorous, rational, and very sound. Interestingly, the first edition of the BNE was in 1938 (https://bit.ly/2V2I9ij), SECR was written in the 1950s. Patricia White, a British philosopher of education, first argued for making democracy the basis for working out the school curriculum in 1973. John White worked out a rigorous method for the same in a paper published in 1998. The BNE and the SECR do not philosophically argue or give the detailed exposition of the method; they make practical use of this approach. It is somewhat surprising that the reports and curriculum frameworks developed after the 1980s in our country are completely overwhelmed by the current problems or by the pedagogical ideals of child-centrism and simply assumed that vague assumptions about the democratic ideals mentioned here and there randomly was enough. The objectives and content in these later documents are based on other fashionable or political or current issues. Placing the debate It is time to again place the democratic ideal at the centre of our education. Not as an object of lip service or reverence, but as the source of a framework of values and principles to judge and justify all other aspects. Otherwise, we are likely to make the curriculum a political football, and stir up debates that border on cacophony. Let us remember that opinions without supporting arguments are nothing more than assertions. And one citizen’s assertions are only as good as another’s. This leaves the conclusion of the debate to the most powerful. The only way to wrest the judgment from the hands of the powerful is to have the curricular debates rooted in democratic values. Rohit Dhankar is Professor, Azim Premji University, Bangalore and Secretary, Digantar, Jaipur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-direction-that-the-ncf-needs-to-take/article35480532.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The diminishing status of the Chinese worker||In the multitude of commentaries that have appeared on the centenary of the Communist Party of China (CPC), analysing its strength, skills and longevity, a crucial missing component is that of the status and role of the working class, whom the party claims to historically represent. In its 100-year journey from a revolutionary party to a governing party, the CPC has unfailingly asserted its identity as the ‘vanguard of the Chinese working class’. The centenary offers an opportunity to look at the reality of such assertions, the actual conditions of the working class and its political status in contemporary China. An identification with labour While China’s labour history predates the formation of the CPC, going back to the late 19th century, the party’s formation in 1921 provided the ideological impetus and organisational basis for the labour movement. The efforts of the CPC, preceding the establishment of the People’s Republic in 1949, was to embed itself in the labour movement, in line with its ideological-political moorings of being the vanguard of the working class in the protracted struggle. Post 1949, under proletarian work ethic and socialist construction emphasised by Mao Zedong, there was prioritisation of the modern industrial sector, especially heavy industry. Raising of wage levels, ensuring labour protection and providing permanent employment were accorded importance by the Party-state. Party organisations were created in enterprises, as cadres forged concrete links with the industrial workers. Through a series of mass political campaigns, the Party-state consolidated its control over industrial enterprises. In the process, there was a change in the position and relationship of the workers, as they participated in factory management and politics. Further, through the broad range of workplace-based welfare provisions and services, a cradle-to-grave welfare system for the workers and their dependents was created. This political empowerment of the workers as stakeholders, albeit under the control and patronage of the CPC, created an ‘industrial citizenship’ (to quote sociologist Joel Andreas). A realignment The turbulence and chaos inflicted by the Cultural Revolution that shook China’s political and social order played a big part in charting the course of realignment and reprioritisation in the post-Mao period, by Deng Xiaoping after 1978. Marketisation — although directed by the state — was adopted as the economic strategy, though directed by the state, and conscious efforts were undertaken to integrate China with the world economy. As the pace of economic reforms increased, they vastly recast workplace relations and labour politics by gradually disenfranchising the workers. As profit maximisation, efficiency and economic competition became the buzzwords in pro-reform advocacy, the permanent employment system was replaced with a labour contract system. Similarly, reducing the power and influence of workers, factory directors/enterprise managers were given vast powers and responsibilities. Increasingly, preference was also given to technocrats, and management and business graduates in appointments to middle and higher-level leadership positions in enterprises, rather than workers who had come up through the ranks. Hundreds of workers considered redundant were laid off in lieu of monetary compensation through compulsory retirement programmes. Parallel to this restructuring of public enterprises, there was active promotion of private enterprises, involving both domestic and foreign capital. With the availability of uninterrupted supply of rural migrant labour and taking advantage of low labour costs, transnational corporations shifted their manufacturing operations offshore to China. Bolstered by the preferential treatment provided by local governments, the burgeoning export-oriented manufacturing with active supply chains, established its own model of employment relations, which was built on the expropriation of labour. Despotic management, exploitative work conditions, coercive discipline and surveillance are some of the characteristic features of the work ecosystem. Violations of labour standards and rights are endemic. Resistance as a challenge With no tangible worker-centric avenues for collective voice, workers have resorted to the use of radical autonomous actions to vent out their grievances. Over the years, workers’ protests have remained steady in China. The expansion of workers’ resistance has remained a political challenge for the Party-state. As maintenance of stability and industrial peace is considered essential for unhindered economic production, the CPC has crafted responsive measures that can be seen as crisis mitigation. A series of pro-labour pieces of legislation has been enacted, encouraging workers to use them to address conflicts and grievances. In putting in place this ‘rule by law’ (also necessitated by the need for a legal framework upon China’s entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001), the Party-state is able to individualise labour conflicts, thus continuing to thwart possibilities and avenues for autonomous, coordinated, and durable collective mobilisations. Equally, it dualistically uses its responsive and repressive capacities — welfare concessions on the one hand and ramping up public security apparatus as well as active use of force on the other — to meet labour unrest. The top-down concessions of the central Party-state also strategically shielded it from workers’ disaffection, which in turn was directed towards employers and the local governments. Reforms versus social base The intensification of the pace of economic reforms has impacted the CPC’s membership and cadre recruitment strategies. The traditional social base of the party — peasantry and industrial proletariat — has been gradually shrinking. There has been a steady absorption of new classes of entrepreneurs, urban professionals and university graduates. Despite increasingly becoming the critical engines in China’s economic rise, the rural migrant workers remain largely excluded from the partyfold. The steady erosion of ‘industrial citizenship’, the growing precariousness of employment and increasing peripheralisation of workers is not an isolated phenomenon with regard to China, as it coincided with the global neoliberal turn since the 1980s, that drastically changed employment relations across the world. The diminished status of workers is a grim reality and despite President Xi Jinping’s increasing reiteration of ideology, it is rooted in status quoism, shorn of any emancipatory promise or politics for the working class. Anand P. Krishnan is a Visiting Associate Fellow, Institute of Chinese Studies, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-diminishing-status-of-the-chinese-worker/article35480535.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Making decisions under stress||The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the biggest disruption to lives since the Partition in 1947 for those in India. It has caused dramatic shifts in our personal and work lives. It has, of course, caused illness and taken away many of our loved ones. It has caused many people to lose a substantial portion of their incomes. It has posed new behavioural challenges to governments and individuals. It has created great uncertainty. In short, the pandemic has put us all under immense stress. It has been so stressful that the one thing that every person on the planet wants right now is for the pandemic to end and for life to go back to pre-COVID-19 days. Chronic anxiety The stress caused by the pandemic has sustained over a long period of time and can be categorised as chronic stress. When we face stress, the body releases a hormone called cortisol. Prolonged exposure to cortisol, the body’s primary stress hormone, increases the risk of heart disease, sleep disruptions and mood disorders like anxiety and depression. Chronic stress has been found to kill brain cells and even reduce the size of the brain. Chronic stress has a shrinking effect on the prefrontal cortex, the area of the brain responsible for memory and learning. Studies in behavioural science show that we don’t tend make good decisions under stress. In fact, they have repeatedly shown that we often don’t make good decisions even in normal times. For example, we know exercising is good for our health but we don’t do it enough. We know overeating is bad for us but we still indulge in it often. We know binging on social media takes away time from doing what we are supposed to be doing but we can’t stop scrolling. This is some of our behaviour in normal times. Given that we are now facing chronic stress, our behaviour is becoming more irrational. For example, outdoors is generally a safer place to meet people than indoors because of a greater degree of ventilation. Yet, people feel safer indoors than outdoors. Indoors are generally safer than outdoors at protecting us, but not during the pandemic. People are more likely to wear masks outdoors, where it is actually safer, and remove their masks indoors, which at a time like this is risky behaviour. After the first COVID-19 wave declined in India, people began travelling, holidaying, partying and attending weddings. There was no availability of vaccines then. When people had little protection against COVID-19, they behaved fearlessly. But now, even after partial or full vaccination, people seem more scared of contracting COVID-19 than they were after the first wave. Studies around the world are showing that most vaccines are demonstrating more than 90% protection against hospitalisation due to COVID-19. One would think that should make people less fearful, but that’s not the case. Mindless investing While most people are facing a drop in income, those with disposable incomes have begun investing their money on their own. Brokerage firms in India have reported the highest number of demat account openings in the past 15 years. Driven by the fear of missing out, a large number of newbie investors have begun following their herd by investing money in India’s stock markets and even in cryptocurrencies. But history shows that retail investors, especially the inexperienced newbies, are the last to enter bull runs, buying stocks and assets at high prices, because people in their social network are making money. People love making easy money. History shows that such irrational investing leads to bubbles that eventually burst leaving such investors with massive losses. People have begun buying and selling cryptocurrencies. These are not currencies but mere speculative instruments because they are neither backed by any underlying asset nor by the government. In fact, ‘crypto’ means hidden or secret. But history shows it’s no secret that such speculative manias are caused by our own irrational behaviour. The COVID-19 pandemic has made it more difficult for us to think rationally. Anand Damani is behavioural scientist and partner at Briefcase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-decisions-under-stress/article35480537.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Limits of cooperation||The cooperative movement certainly needs reform and revitalisation. Beset by political interference, many cooperative societies do not hold elections regularly, while some are superseded frequently. The 97th Constitution Amendment, which came into effect in 2012, was a major step towards infusing autonomy, democratic functioning and professional management. The recent Supreme Court verdict holding the amendment unconstitutional to the extent it applied to cooperative societies under the control of the States is a reminder that even well-intentioned efforts towards reforms cannot be at the cost of the quasi-federal principles underlying the Constitution. The amendment added Part IXB to the Constitution, concerning cooperative societies. Part IXB delineated the contours of what State legislation on cooperative societies ought to contain, including provisions on the maximum number of directors in each society, reservation for seats for SCs, or STs, and women, besides the duration of the terms of elected members, among others. The question before the Court was whether the 97th Amendment impacted the legislative domain of the State Legislatures and, therefore, required ratification by half the legislatures, in addition to the required two-thirds majority in Parliament. The Gujarat High Court had found the amendment invalid for want of such ratification. The Supreme Court, by a 2:1 majority, upheld the judgment holding the amendment invalid, but only in relation to cooperatives under the States. The elaborate amendment would hold good for multi-State cooperative societies, on which Parliament was competent to enact laws. A significant limitation on Parliament’s amending power is the requirement that certain kinds of amendments to the Constitution must be ratified by 50% of the State legislatures. The Union government believed that as the subject of ‘cooperative societies’ in the State List was not altered in any way by the 97th Amendment, and that it only outlined guidelines on any law on cooperatives that the Assemblies may enact, the ratification was not necessary. A key principle from the judgment is that the ratification requirement will apply if there is any attempt to fetter the State legislatures in any way while enacting a law in their own domain, even if there is no attempt to alter the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and States. Thus, in the absence of ratification by the States, the amendment that sought to prescribe the outlines of State laws on a State subject did not pass constitutional muster. The judgment may mean that the concern expressed by some about the adverse implications of the formation of a new Ministry of Cooperation on federal principles could be true. However, there is no denying that the scope for democratising the functioning of cooperative societies and enhancing their autonomy remains unchanged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/limits-of-cooperation/article35480527.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of gold||A medal can lose its lustre but the athlete’s sporting immortality is set in stone, such is the enduring allure of triumphs at the Olympics. Even a participant without any titles, is referred to as an Olympian and it is an eternal stamp that sportspersons obsess about. The quadrennial congregation of the world’s finest athletes is set to begin, after a year’s delay imposed by the pandemic’s shadow. ‘Tokyo 2020’, as the Olympics is branded for the latest edition, will commence at Japan’s capital on Friday while COVID-19 protocols are in place. Tokyo and Fukushima will conduct events without spectators while a limited number may be allowed at stadiums in the Miyagi and Shizuoka regions. Local approval ratings for the Games now stand at the half-way mark, a considerable improvement especially after an 83% opposition as recent as May. Having previously hosted the Olympics in 1964, Tokyo’s second dalliance with the premier championship has been extremely tough. Even two days ago, there were whispers of cancellation as the coronavirus graph linked to the Games and to Japan revealed an upward climb. Within the Olympics Village ecosystem of athletes, coaches, officials and volunteers, around 70 have tested positive for COVID-19. But the Olympics harking back to its Athens roots in 1896, is expected to hold steady till its conclusion on August 8. When it comes to winning at the Olympics, the United States of America, Russia, China, European nations and Australia have excelled. India meanwhile has a mere 28 medals to show despite turning up since 1900. India’s initial share came from hockey but even that tap has run dry since the gold at Moscow in 1980. India’s tilts in the Olympics have often been infused with pathos. Legendary runners Milkha Singh and P.T. Usha missing their bronzes in 1960 and 1984 respectively, still test the tear glands of die-hard fans. However, over the years and through diverse sports such as shooting, tennis, badminton, wrestling, boxing and weight-lifting, India has earned a few medals. This time around, the pursuit to better the best-ever tally of six, gained at London in 2012, continues. Headlined by P.V. Sindhu and Mary Kom besides the talent in shooting, weight-lifting and wrestling, India hopes to push its Olympic envelope further while the yearning for excellence in hockey lingers. A sobering truth is that the demographic-dividend of being the second most populous nation, does not really convert into a better yield in multi-event jousts. It is a pointer to the need to improve sports infrastructure as India at the Olympics remains a work in progress. An Olympic medal offers sporting nirvana; even tennis legend Serbian Novak Djokovic is not immune to its charm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-search-of-gold/article35480528.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Numeiry back in power in Sudan||The deposed Sudanese Leader, Major Gen. Gafaar Numeiry, was back in power in Khartoum to-day [Cairo, July 22] after a counter-coup, U.A.R’s news agency reported quoting Omdurman (Sudanese) radio. On Monday, an army junta staged a coup and had seized power, overthrowing Numeiry. The agency said a detachment of troops under Lieut. Mohammed Kabawi occupied the broadcasting station and had returned Maj. Gen. Numeiry to power. Omdurman Radio said that President Numeiry’s men were now in control of the Sudanese broadcasting building. The radio said President Numeiry “would continue to lead the nation.” Omdurman Radio said that the successful counter-coup was led by Lieut. Mohamed Aly Karbass. “The ordeal of the Sudan during the past two days is over,” an announcement over the radio said. Maj. Gen. Numeiry, it said, is in “good health and remains the man who is leading and will continue to lead the nation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/numeiry-back-in-power-in-sudan/article35480536.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||RBI plans digital currency pilots soon||The Reserve Bank of India is likely to soon kick off pilot projects to assess the viability of using digital currency to make wholesale and retail payments to help calibrate its strategy for introducing a full-scale central bank digital currency (CBDC). “Every idea has to wait for its time, perhaps the time for a CBDC is here,” RBI Deputy Governor T. Rabi Sankar said on Thursday. “Like other central banks, we have also been exploring the pros and cons of this since quite some time,” he added. India is already a leader in digital payments, but cash remains dominant for small-value transactions, he said, stressing that an official digital currency would reduce the cost of currency management while enabling real-time payments without any inter-bank settlement. “Some key issues are being examined: whether they should be used in retail or wholesale payments, the underlying technology, if the validation mechanism should be token-based, etc. Conducting pilots in wholesale and retail segments may be a possibility in the near future,” he said. A high-level inter-ministerial committee set up by the Finance Ministry had recommended the introduction of a CBDC with changes in the legal framework including the RBI Act, which currently empowers the RBI to regulate issuance of bank notes. ‘Save on paper currency’ “India’s fairly high currency-to-GDP ratio holds out another benefit of CBDC — to the extent large cash usage can be replaced by CBDC, the cost of printing, transporting and storing paper currency can be substantially reduced,” Mr. Sankar said at a discussion hosted by Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. “The advent of private virtual currencies is another reason... If these private currencies gain recognition, national currencies with limited convertibility are likely to come under some kind of threat,” he remarked. Transacting with CBDC would be an instantaneous process as the need for inter-bank settlement would disappear as it would be a central bank liability handed over from one person to another, Mr. Sankar pointed out. Moreover, foreign trade transactions could be speeded up between countries adopting a CBDC. “They could enable a cheaper and more real-time globalisation of payment systems — it is conceivable for an Indian exporter to be paid on a real-time basis without any intermediary...The risks of dollar-rupee transactions, the time zone difference in such transactions would virtually disappear,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-plans-digital-currency-pilots-soon/article35480518.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Tech support scams hit seven in 10 consumers’||India witnessed a relatively high rate of tech support scams at 69% in the last 12 months — among the highest globally — with a significant increase seen in such scams stemming from unsolicited calls, according to Microsoft’s 2021 Global Tech Support Scam Research report released on Thursday. Microsoft commissioned YouGov for this survey in 16 countries, including India, Australia, Japan and Singapore and it included 16,254 adult Internet users (about 1,000 per country). About 48% of the respondents in India were tricked into continuing with the scam — an eight-point increase from 2018, and three times higher than the global average (16%). One in three (31%) of those surveyed continued engaging and eventually lost money, an increase of 17 points compared with 2018, the report said. Consumers in India who lost money to such scams in 2021 lost Rs. 15,334 on average. However, 88% of those who lost any money were able to recover some back, with the average being Rs. 10,797. The most common methods of payment for those who lost any money were via bank transfers (43%), followed by gift cards (38%), PayPal (32%), credit cards (32%), and Bitcoin (25%).  Indian consumers who fell prey to scams lost Rs. 15,334 on average in 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-support-scams-hit-seven-in-10-consumers/article35480524.ece
23 July 2021||MUMBAI,||HUL Q1 net rises 10% as core units spur growth||Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUL) said standalone net profit for the quarter ended June 30 grew 10% to Rs. 2,061 crore, aided by double-digit growth in core businesses. Its focus on net revenue management and savings enabled it “to manage inflationary pressures and deliver a healthy bottom-line performance,” HUL said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from the sale of products rose 12.7% to Rs. 11,730 crore. “In a challenging environment, we have delivered a strong performance across top line and bottom line,” said CMD Sanjiv Mehta. “Looking forward, we remain cautiously optimistic about the demand recovery,” he added. Domestic consumer business climbed 12% and underlying volume increased 9%. Ritesh Tiwari, executive director and CFO, said performance was broad-based and that all three divisions of HUL — Home Care, Beauty & Personal Care and Food & Refreshment — grew by double digits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hul-q1-net-rises-10-as-core-units-spur-growth/article35480513.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Financial bids for AI likely by September 15’||Financial bids for Air India’s (AI) disinvestment are likely by September 15, the government informed the Lok Sabha on Thursday. “Request for Proposal (RFP) along with draft Share Purchase Agreement have been shared with QIBs (qualified interested bidders) by the transaction advisor on 30.03.2021 for submission of financial bids,” Minister of State for Civil Aviation General (Retd.) V.K. Singh said in a written reply to a question. “The bids are likely to be received by 15.09.2021,” he added. The Centre has not revealed the names of the QIBs as yet, though it maintains it has received “multiple” expressions of interest for Air India’s privatisation. After an unsuccessful attempt to sell AI in 2018, the government restarted the divestment process in January last year and invited bids for 100% of its equity in the state-owned airline, including Air India’s 100% holding in Air India Express Ltd. and 50% in Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt. Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/financial-bids-for-ai-likely-by-september-15/article35480516.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Retail investor interest has surged: SEBI’s Tyagi||Retail investors’ interest in the Indian securities market has sharply increased to an average of 2.45 million Demat accounts opened per month during April-June, SEBI chief Ajay Tyagi said. The prevailing low interest rates and ample liquidity availability were the major factors for the increased investor interest in the securities market in India, he added. He warned that tightening of liquidity or an increase in interest rates would impact the market. Mr. Tyagi said retail investors’ interest in the Indian securities market had increased from 2020-21. The cumulative number of total Demat accounts increased from 41 million at the beginning of FY21 to 55 million by the end of FY21, an increase of 34.7%. On an average, about 1.2 million new Demat accounts were opened per month in 2020-21 as compared with 0.42 million per month during the preceding fiscal. According to Mr. Tyagi, the larger share of trades originating from mobile devices and Internet-based trading in the total turnover was another indicator of increased retail participation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-investor-interest-has-surged-sebis-tyagi/article35480521.ece
23 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Bajaj Auto to float arm for EV business||The board of directors of Bajaj Auto Ltd. approved the incorporation of a wholly owned arm for electric and hybrid vehicles. “The wholly owned subsidiary will help the company venture into the manufacturing of electric and hybrid vehicles in the two-, three- and light four-wheeler categories,” Bajaj Auto said in a regulatory filing. The company would have an authorised share capital of Rs. 100 crore and paid up capital of Rs. 5 crore, it said.  The firm also said standalone net profit for the quarter ended June 30 more than doubled to Rs. 1,061 crore while revenue from operations rose to Rs. 7,386 crore (Rs. 3,079 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bajaj-auto-to-float-arm-for-ev-business/article35480511.ece
23 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Rane Engine Valve Q1 net loss narrows||Rane Engine Valve Ltd. on Thursday reported first-quarter net loss narrowed to Rs. 5.8 crore, from Rs. 16.3 crore a year earlier. Total revenue more than doubled to Rs. 76 crore. “Q1FY22 was an eventful quarter with the country weathering the second wave of coronavirus,” said L. Ganesh, chairman, Rane Group. “Demand environment in India looks encouraging for the upcoming quarter,” he added. “Commodity price rise remains a concern. Despite the challenges, the management continues to implement cost-reduction and operational-improvement steps to progress on the turnaround plan,” said Mr. Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-engine-valve-q1-net-loss-narrows/article35480514.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||PLI plan for speciality steel gets nod||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for manufacturing speciality steel in India with a budgetary outlay of Rs. 6,322 crore over a period of five years. The scheme, valid for a duration of five years from 2023-24 to 2027-28, is expected to bring in investments worth about Rs. 40,000 crore and result in capacity addition of 25 million tonne for speciality steel, according to an official statement. The scheme would generate employment for about 5.25 lakh people, including direct employment for 68,000 people, according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pli-plan-for-speciality-steel-gets-nod/article35480519.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet lifting FDI limit will aid BPCL sale||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved raising the foreign investment limit in privatisation-bound PSU refiners, a move that will aid the sale of the government’s stake in BPCL. Officials said the Cabinet had approved a proposal to allow foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in public sector refineries that are disinvestment candidates to be raised to 100%. At present, 49% FDI is allowed in oil refineries promoted by PSUs under the automatic route. This limit meant that Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. couldn’t have been sold to a foreign player. Two of the 3 firms that have put in EoIs are foreign entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-lifting-fdi-limit-will-aid-bpcl-sale/article35480522.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Inflation situation very alarming: Basu||India’s wholesale price-based inflation is at a 30-year high, leading to a “very alarming” situation, former World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu said on Thursday. He, however, did not see any risk of hyperinflation, but cautioned that if retail inflation follows wholesale prices, it might lead to an “inflationary crisis”. Participating in an event organised by the Asia Society, India, he said the “inflationary situation is at a very risky bend... where you need intertwining of monetary policy and fiscal policy”. “Not enough is happening... between the Finance Ministry and central bank for inflation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/inflation-situation-very-alarming-basu/article35480789.ece
23 July 2021||Mumbai,||Coffee exports declining since 2011-12: report||India’s coffee exports have seen a steady decline in the last decade amid growing need for value addition across multiple stages of coffee processing globally and rising demand for specialty coffees, as per a report. India exported almost $720 million worth coffee in 2020-21, Drip Capital said in a report that quoted DGFT data. Exports have dropped 3% annually between 2011-12 till 2020-21.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coffee-exports-declining-since-2011-12-report/article35480523.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Star Health files IPO papers with Sebi||Star Health and Allied Insurance Company has filed preliminary papers with capital markets regulator SEBI to raise funds through an initial share sale. The initial public offering (IPO) comprises a fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs. 2,000 crore and an offer for sale of up to 60,104,677 equity shares by promoters and existing shareholders, according to the draft red herring prospectus.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/star-health-files-ipo-papers-with-sebi/article35480507.ece
23 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Audi rolls out 3 luxury EV SUVs||German luxury car manufacturer Audi has introduced 3 electric SUVs — the Audi e-tron 50, Audi e-tron 55 and Audi e-tron Sportback 55 in the Indian market. While e-tron 50 is priced from Rs. 99,99,000, the other two models are priced starting Rs. 1,16,15,000 and Rs. 1,17,66,000 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/audi-rolls-out-3-luxury-ev-suvs/article35480510.ece
23 July 2021||Chennai,||Kousik delivers for Panthers||Led by J. Kousik, the Siechem Madurai Panthers bowlers produced a brilliant effort to set up a comfortable six-wicket win for the side over Dindigul Dragons in the fourth match of the Tamil Nadu Premier League here at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Thursday. Electing to bowl, Panthers’ medium-pacers and left-arm spinner Aushik Srinivas (0/16) were almost flawless with their execution of the plans, bowling out Dragons for just 96. In reply, Panthers got off slowly as it lost three quick wickets before Kousik built on his impressive bowling performance with a crucial 31 (26b, 2x4, 2x6) to guide his side home. In the balance The match was in the balance at the halfway stage at 47/3 when Kousik cut loose in the 11th over, hitting left-arm spinner M.S. Sanjay for two boundaries and a six to ease the pressure. In the end, the 2018 champion finished off the chase with five overs to spare. Earlier, Panthers’ new ball pair of L. Kiran Akash and R. Rohit (3/19) never allowed the batsmen to get going and picked a wicket each while conceding just 32 in the PowerPlay. Kousik then ran through the Dragons' middle-order, picking up three wickets. Across the line He trapped skipper R. Srinivasan and S. Swaminathan leg-before — both batsmen trying to play across the line — before removing R.S. Mokit Hariharan caught at covers. The medium-pacer was particularly good with the way he executed his wide yorkers.  Silambarasan strikes    Just when K. Mani Bharathi (26) and R. Vivek looked to get the innings back on track with a 27-run stand for the sixth wicket, pacer R. Silambarasan removed the duo in the 17th over. Dragons lost the last five wickets for six runs.  The scores: Dindigul Dragons 96 in 18.5 overs (K. Mani Bharathi 26, R. Rohit 3/19, J. Kousik 3/23, L. Kiran Akash 2/14, R. Silamabarasan 2/18) lost to Siechem Madurai Panthers 97/4 in 15 overs (J. Kousik 31, R. Suthesh 2/12) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kousik-delivers-for-panthers/article35480875.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The world’s best athletes assemble on sport’s grandest stage||Each Olympics produces its share of champions. Among them, a few attain exalted positions, match or rewrite history while some others join the list of all-time greats. Over the next fortnight, a few practitioners of their chosen discipline will attempt to add to their greatness. For many, aware with the achievements of tennis star Novak Djokovic or NBA superstar Kevin Durant, names like Simone Biles, Caeleb Dressel, Katie Ledecky, Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, Wayde van Niekerk, Teddy Riner and Laurel Hubbard, among a few others, could sound familiar in the coming days. Djokovic will move a step closer to a ‘Golden Slam’ if he wins in Tokyo (he has to triumph in the US Open next). Steffi Graf showed the way in 1988. Durant will be looking to add a third gold from as many Olympics for 15-time champion USA. Swimmer Dressel, who won two relay golds in 2016, could emulate the most decorated feat in Olympic history — winning eight gold medals in a single edition — like his hero Michael Phelps.  For gymnast Biles, winner of four gold medals at the 2016 Rio Games, Tokyo offers a huge opportunity to become the first woman in 53 years to defend an Olympic all-round title. The world is waiting to watch her perform the “Yurchenko double pike vault” which no other woman has ever done. Another American swimmer, five-time Olympic gold medallist Ledecky will be looking to add a few more from her third Games. New Zealand’s transgender weightlifter 43-year-old Hubbard, a former National record holder as a junior boy, is a medal favourite in the women’s 87-kg category. The first transgender to participate in Olympic Games, she symbolises the inclusive policy of the IOC. Last month, six-time Olympic medallist Fraser-Pryce clocked 10.63 seconds in 100m as the second fastest of all time. The nine-time World champion aims to become the first woman to win three successive 100m gold medals. French judoka Teddy Riner, too, is looking for a hat-trick of gold medals. Also known as “Teddy Bear”, this 10-time World champion imposes his 6-foot-8-inch frame on his rivals in 100+ kg class. van Neikerk, the man who cracked Michael Johnson’s 400m world record in 2016, returns to his favourite event after just about managing to qualify. The world is ready to celebrate the comeback of this 29-year-old who suffered a serious injury during a charity rugby match. Among Indians, javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra appears closest to the country’s first medal in athletics. The 2016 World junior champion, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games gold medallist, could follow hot favourite Germany’s Johannes Vetter to the podium. In shooting, the best chance for a medal, or two, is in the mixed team 10m air pistol event where Saurabh Chaudhary-Manu Bhaker and Abhishek Verma-Yashaswini Deswal will stake a claim. P.V. Sindhu, despite a challenging draw, is aiming to become the first Indian woman to win a medal in successive Olympics.   Opening Ceremony: Live on Sony Ten 2 & 3 (SD & HD), 3.30 p.m. onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stage-set-for-stars-and-champions-to-add-to-their-greatness/article35480787.ece
23 July 2021||KOLKATA,||I don’t need to take pressure: Dahiya||Considered a medal contender in Tokyo, World championships bronze medallist Ravi Kumar Dahiya has trained his thought process such that it keeps the pressure at bay. Dahiya, who will compete in 57kg, has a simple formula to approach the Olympics. “It’s the biggest event. But it’s just another event. I have fought with most of the wrestlers in the field. I don’t need to take pressure,” Dahiya told The Hindu . Dahiya, who retained his Asian championships title and took a silver medal in the Poland Open in recent months, has overcome visa issues to travel from Poland to Russia with fellow wrestler Deepak Punia (86kg) and join Bajrang Punia (65kg) at a training centre in Vladikavkaz. “We could have trained in Russia for 10-15 days more. But that episode is over now and my training is going on nicely. Sparring with foreign wrestlers is the biggest advantage here. My personal coach Kamal Malikov knows the language and sets up training sessions with different sparring partners,” said Dahiya.  The other aspect of Dahiya’s preparations is watching videos of his rivals. “Everything is available on the internet. I watch my rivals’ bouts and devise my game plans accordingly. Similarly, they must be watching my bouts.” Dahiya is aware that he is very close to winning a medal in Tokyo, but is staying calm. He takes professional help for mental training. “Sometimes I speak to a motivational speaker, Vickrant Mahajan. He tells me about small things which can make a difference. He says, ‘If others can do it, then you can also do it. Have faith in God and give your best’.” Dahiya has left nothing to chance and believes that God will help him in the biggest performance of his life. Visa extension Meanwhile, the three Olympic-bound wrestlers training at Vladikavkaz had a sigh of relief after their visa was extended till August 1 following efforts from the Union External Affairs Ministry and the Indian ambassador to Russia, D.B. Venkatesh Verma. Visas of Bajrang and his physio Manish were valid up to July 14. Visas of Ravi, Deepak and four other support staff, including coaches Jagmender Singh and Anil Mann, are valid up to July 25. The extension of visas will help the Indian wrestlers devote more time to their training and avoid India-specific COVID restrictions on reaching Japan. They will leave for Tokyo from Russia on July 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-dont-need-to-take-pressure-dahiya/article35480836.ece
23 July 2021||Colombo,||A pleasant dilemma for India||India coach Rahul Dravid will have to choose between experimenting and continuing with the winning combination, in his bid for a clean sweep, against Sri Lanka in the third and final ODI here on Friday. Up 2-0, it remains to be seen whether India decides to try out Devdutt Padikkal or Ruturaj Gaikwad — both superb List-A players — at the top. In the bowling department, Navdeep Saini and Chetan Sakariya have to make their case against last game’s hero Deepak Chahar.  The teams (from):   India: Shikhar Dhawan (Capt.), Prithvi Shaw, Devdutt Padikkal, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Suryakumar Yadav, Manish Pandey, Nitish Rana, Ishan Kishan, Sanju Samson, Hardik Pandya, Krunal Pandya, K. Gowtham, Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Varun Chakaravarthy, Rahul Chahar, Deepak Chahar, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Chetan Sakariya and Navdeep Saini.   Sri Lanka: Dasun Shanaka (Capt.), Dhananjaya de Silva, Avishka Fernando, Bhanuka Rajapaksa, Pathum Nissanka, Charith Asalanka, Wanindu Hasaranga, Ashen Bandara, Minod Bhanuka, Lahiru Udara, Ramesh Mendis, Chamika Karunaratne, Dushmantha Chameera, Lakshan Sandakan, Akila Dhananjaya, Shiran Fernando, Dhananjaya Lakshan, Ishan Jayaratne, Praveen Jayawickrema, Asitha Fernando, Kasun Rajitha, Lahiru Kumara and Isuru Udana.   Match starts at 3 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-pleasant-dilemma-for-india/article35480774.ece
23 July 2021||Tokyo,||Novak Djokovic inches closer to achieving Golden Slam||Novak Djokovic knows how close he is. Not just to creating history and becoming the first man to achieve a Golden Slam by winning all four major tennis tournaments and an Olympic singles gold medal in the same year. Sure, that’s on Djokovic’s mind as he enters the Olympic tournament starting on Saturday. Weighing heavily on him But it’s the bigger end product that would be the result of such an achievement that is weighing most heavily on him — surpassing Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal to be considered the greatest tennis player ever. The goal is so great that Djokovic doesn’t even want to consider the consequences. “I don’t want to be part of the debate. I don’t want to be compared to anybody,” the top-ranked Serb said Thursday. “It’s still a very long way to a potential historic achievement. “I know that there is a lot of things on the line. I know there’s history on the line. I’m privileged and motivated to be in this position. I’ve worked very hard to be here. … But let’s talk about history if everything goes great here,” Djokovic added. “Right now all focus goes to the next challenge.” By winning Wimbledon this month, Djokovic matched Federer and Nadal with his 20th Grand Slam title — having opened the year by capturing the Australian and French Opens. He is the only one of them to have won each Slam twice. He is the only one to hold all four major titles simultaneously, something he did over the end of 2015 and start of 2016. The only tennis player to achieve a Golden Slam was Steffi Graf in 1988. “I’m not in touch with Steffi, but if you can connect her, I would be delighted to ask her how she did it,” Djokovic said, recalling how he briefly worked with Graf’s husband, Andre Agassi. “When I was thinking about her (Golden Slam) I didn’t think that would be achievable. But right now it seems more and more realistic for me. Of course that’s one of the goals and dreams.” Making matters more straightforward for Djokovic is that neither Federer nor Nadal are playing in Tokyo. Djokovic will open against No. 139 Hugo Dellien of Bolivia on the hard courts of the Ariake Tennis Park. Absentees Half of the top 10 men’s players are not in Tokyo, with Dominic Thiem, Matteo Berrettini and Denis Shapovalov also missing for various reasons. Djokovic had openly considered sitting out the Olympics, having won a bronze medal at the 2008 Beijing Games. In the end, his desire to represent Serbia and achieve something unique was too great.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/novak-djokovic-inches-closer-to-achieving-golden-slam/article35480945.ece
23 July 2021||MONACO,||AIU bans athletes due to suspected cheating||Eight Olympic qualifying performances in track and field were wiped out because of suspicions of cheating and the athletes were denied entry to the Tokyo Games, investigators said on Thursday. Reports of suspicious activity came from 16 different countries, track’s Athletics Integrity Unit said after identifying possible pre-Games cheating. It did not identify the countries or the athletes involved. The alerts related to “unreliable photo-finish pictures, the short measuring of courses, illegal use of pacers, use of unauthorised field instruments and incorrect timings,” the AIU said. Investigations looked at performances by 31 athletes and five relay teams, and will continue to assess if fraud was involved in the eight suspect cases, the Monaco-based AIU said. Integrity of the process “This work has been important in protecting the integrity of the qualification process and the fair allocation of competition places for athletes,” AIU chairman David Howman said. Track and field events start in Tokyo on July 30.   Reports of suspicious activity came from 16 different countries, track’s Athletics Integrity Unit said Countries or the athletes involved were not identified Track and field events start on July 30||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiu-bans-athletes-due-to-suspected-cheating/article35480948.ece
23 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Faster, stronger than at Rio: Dutee||Sprinter Dutee Chand wound up her Olympics preparation, under SAI athletics coach N. Ramesh, with focus on starting technique, acceleration and finish. “We focused on the usual fear of slipping when you are off the blocks and how to overcome it,” Dutee told The Hindu after a training stint at the Gaudium Sportopia. She and coach Ramesh leave for Tokyo on Friday. “Also, the 24x7 presence of physio Subash Pal (who was with the Indian boxing squad) helped me a lot. I can say I am much stronger and faster now than I was at the 2016 Rio Olympics,” Dutee said. She expects to put up a much improved show in Tokyo. Improve the timings “Much better than all the timings I have clocked in India or Asia till recently,” the 25-year-old said. “Who knows, if I have two good days on the track anything can happen,” she said. Coach Ramesh said the emphasis had been on fitness in the last two weeks. “At this stage, we just try to focus on Dutee’s strengths. The best part was that Dutee could run with athletes like Youth Asiad medallists Srinivas, Deepthi and Harika. The intensity in preparations was certainly different,” Ramesh said. Their target was to improve upon the 11.70s she clocked at the Indian Grand Prix in June. “Need some luck too to realise her ultimate goal — an Olympic medal,” he concluded.  Who knows, if I have two good days on the track anything can happen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/faster-stronger-than-at-rio-dutee/article35480834.ece
23 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Vinesh is mentally one of the strongest, says Sakshi||Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik rates Vinesh Phogat as mentally strongest among the seven Tokyo Games bound Indian wrestlers, saying she had not seen a mentally tougher wrestler than her friend. “Vinesh is very strong — both mentally as well as in wrestling. We have performed together and stayed together,” Sakshi, who will be part of Sony Sports live studio show, Sports Extraa, for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games starting from today, told The Hindu . “In the last Olympics, we went 14-15 days prior to the Games. Vinesh, who competed in 48kg, used to weigh around 54-55kg and came down to 48kg with a lot of difficulty. She was my roommate. I saw her having only 200ml of water a day for three days to compete in the Olympics. She won her first bout but got injured in the second bout against China. “I have not seen a mentally strong wrestler like her. We also reduce weight but we take it easy, have salad or drink more water. But I have seen Vinesh going through a lot of struggle,” said Sakshi. “In Rio, Vinesh was a medal prospect as well. Now she is much stronger and World No.1. I am very confident about her.” Sakshi said Vinesh (53kg), Bajrang (65kg), Ravi Dahiya (57kg) and Deepak Punia (86kg), who qualified through the 2019 World championships, would be medal contenders. “If I have to pick two, then Vinesh and Bajrang have a better chance because of their experience.” Word of advice Sakshi had a word of advice for the youngsters, including Sonam who beat her in the selection trials. “For Anshu (57kg), Sonam (62kg) and Seema (50kg), this is the first Olympics. They have less experience at the highest level… If they fight without fear, they can win medals. “For me, Rio was my first Olympics but I did not fear anything. I also had less experience at the senior level. I gave my 100 per cent without any fear. I will suggest the same to them. A big platform is there for you and the whole of India is expecting good things from you,” said Sakshi, who won her medal in 58kg.  (Watch the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games live on Sony Ten 2 and Sony Six channels in English, on Sony Ten 3 in Hindi and Sony Ten 4 in Tamil and Telugu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-is-mentally-strong-sakshi/article35480838.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Injured Washington out of England series||The Indian team in England was dealt another injury blow on Thursday when spin-bowling all-rounder Washington Sundar was ruled out of the five-Test series beginning on August 4. Washington is the third player after Shubman Gill and Avesh Khan to be ruled out of the tour. It was learnt that Washington fractured a finger on the second day of the First Class warm-up game against County Select XI. “Yes, Washy has a fractured finger, like Avesh who had a thumb dislocation. Both are out of the Test series and will go home,” a BCCI official told PTI. “He will take at least five weeks to resume bowling, so no point keeping him here,” the official said. Meanwhile, wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant joined the team bio-bubble after recovering from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-washington-out-of-england-series/article35480775.ece
23 July 2021||Durham,||Mayank, Vihari and Jadeja among runs||Mayank Agarwal and Hanuma Vihari spent some valuable time in the middle while Ravindra Jadeja scored his second fifty of the game on the final day of India’s warm-up match against County XI here on Thursday as the match ended in a draw. After bowling out County XI for 220 on day two, Mayank (47 off 81 balls) and Cheteshwar Pujara (38 off 58), opened India’s second innings on day three. The duo shared an 87-run stand which ended when Mayank charged down the wicket to off-spinner Jack Carson only to be caught at mid-on by fellow India teammate Washington Sundar. Washington and pacer Avesh Khan, who are both set to fly back home due to injury, played for the County XI in India’s only warm-up game. Like Mayank, Pujara too had the opportunity to make a big score to boost his confidence ahead of the first Test. However, he fell to the trap laid by Carson and flicked one straight to leg slip. Jadeja (51 off 77) and Vihari (43 n.o.) then shared an 84-run stand before the southpaw retired out. India declared soon after Jadeja completed his fifty with 33 overs left.  The scores: Indians 311 & 192/3 decl. (Mayank Agarwal 47, Cheteshwar Pujara 38, Hanuma Vihari 43, Ravindra Jadeja 51) drew with County Select XI 220 & 31/0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mayank-vihari-and-jadeja-among-runs/article35480776.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||India denied entry in ITF World Junior Tennis Finals||The Indian team has been denied entry into the upcoming ITF World Junior Tennis Finals in Prostejov as India has been classified as ‘extreme risk’ nation in COVID times. The Czech Republic Embassy here has refused to issue visas to the players. The All India Tennis Association (AITA) earlier this month named a three-member Under-14 boys team comprising of Rethin Pranav R.S., Kriish Ajay Tyagi and Tejas Ahuja for the prestigious tournament, scheduled to be held from August 2 to 7. The AITA reached out to the Sports Ministry on July 17, seeking intervention in the matter and the SAI subsequently approached the External Affairs Ministry on July 19. But the matter remained unresolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-denied-entry-in-itf-world-junior-tennis-finals/article35480823.ece
23 July 2021||Kochi,||Kerala Blasters signs Uruguay’s Luna||Kerala Blasters FC has roped in Uruguayan midfielder Adrian Nicolas Luna Retamar, its first overseas signing this season, for the Indian Super League. The attacking midfielder was with Melbourne City earlier and made 24 appearances for the club, scoring three goals. The 29-year-old Luna has made 19 appearances for his country in the FIFA under-17 (2009) and under-20 World Cups. “Adrian is a player with great calibre. Apart from being a good playmaker and smart operator in tight spaces, he is a hardworking player who always cares about team performance,” said Karolis Skinkys, Blasters’ sporting director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-blasters-signs-uruguays-luna/article35480947.ece
23 July 2021||Pozoblanco (Spain),||Kadhe and Gabashvili pair in quarterfinals||Arjun Kadhe and Teymuraz Gabashvili of Russia defeated Nicolas Barrientos and Roberto Ortega-Olmedo 1-6, 6-1, [10-3] to move into the quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here. However, the top-seeded Indian pair of Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Purav Raja was beaten in the super tie-break by Adrian Andreev and Filip Cristian Jianu.  The results:   €44,820 Challenger, Pozoblanco, Spain: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Adrian Andreev (Bul) & Filip Cristian Jianu (Rou) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 4-6, 6-1, [11-9]; Teymuraz Gabashvili (Rus) & Arjun Kadhe bt Nicolas Barrientos (Col) & Roberto Ortega-Olmedo (Esp) 1-6, 6-1, [10-3].   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, USA: Doubles (quarterfinals): Lukas Lacko (Svk) & Ramkumar Ramanathan w/o Mitchell Krueger (US) & Brayden Schnur (Can).   $15,000 ITF men, Edwardsville, USA: First round: Olivier Stuart (Fra) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-2, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo: Pre-quarterfinals: Anastasia Sukhotina (Rus) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-1, 6-0; First round: Ashmitha bt Lea Jakic (Ger) 1-6, 7-5, 6-1; Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) bt Sathwika Sama 6-2, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadhe-and-gabashvili-pair-in-quarterfinals/article35480840.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||On the ball||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/on-the-ball/article35481001.ece
23 July 2021||New York,||Federer, Osaka among US Open entries||Defending champion Naomi Osaka, who withdrew from the French Open due to mental issues and skipped Wimbledon, and Roger Federer, who will miss the Olympics with a knee injury, were named on Wednesday in the US Open tennis field. Capacity attendance The US Tennis Association named the men's and women's singles line-ups for the August 30-September 12 event at Flushing Meadows, where spectators will return at 100% capacity. The ATP Tour's 103 top-ranked players are entered for New York with top-ranked Novak Djokovic chasing a calendar-year Grand Slam after a Wimbledon victory that lifted him level with ninth-ranked Federer and third-ranked Rafael Nadal with a men's record 20 career Grand Slam titles. Only Rod Laver in 1962 and 1969 and Don Budge in 1938 have managed a men's calendar Slam. Djokovic, who will seek Olympic gold in Tokyo, could become only the second player to win all four Slam singles crowns and Olympic gold in the same year after Steffi Graf in 1988. Other men's entrants include sixth-ranked defending champion Dominic Thiem, past US Open winners Stan Wawrinka and Marin Cilic, World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev and fourth-ranked Stefanos Tsitsipas. On the women's side, top-ranked Ashleigh Barty of Australia, who won her second Grand Slam title at Wimbledon, is among 15 Slam singles champions in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-osaka-among-us-open-entries/article35480831.ece
23 July 2021||Harare,||Bangladesh goes 1-0 up||A 102-run opening stand between Mohammad Naim (63 n.o., 51b, 9x4) and Soumya Sarkar (50, 45b, 4x4, 2x6) set up Bangladesh for an eight-wicket win over Zimbabwe on Thursday in the first of three T20Is. Chakabva bats well Opting to bat, Zimbabwe was bowled out for 152 in 19 overs with wicketkeeper Regis Chakabva top scoring with 43. It was Bangladesh’s 33rd win from exactly 100 T20Is.  The scores:   Zimbabwe 152 in 19 overs (Regis Chakabva 43, Dion Myers 35, Mustafizur Rahman 3/31, Shoriful 2/17, Saifuddin 2/23) lost to Bangladesh 153/2 in 18.5 overs (Mohammad Naim 63 n.o., Soumya Sarkar 50).   Bangladesh won by eight wickets with seven balls remaining, leads three-match series 1-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-goes-1-0-up/article35480839.ece
23 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Syed Ghouse cracks ton||Syed Ghouse scored a century (117, 154b, 17x4, 3x6) for Charminar against Jai Bhagwathi CC in the A1-division three-day league cricket championship match here on Wednesday.  The scores: A1-division three-day league: EMCC 126 in 49.5 overs & 81/4 in 20 overs drew with Ensconse 267 in 88 overs.   Gemini Friends 103/3 in 37 overs (Yash Gupta 31batting) vs Cambridge XI.   Budding Star 137 in 34.5 overs & 254/6 in 40 overs vs Zinda Tilismath 129 in & 64/4 in 12 overs.   Apex CC 219 in 70.5 overs (K. Sri Harsha 36, Shaik Zaheer 58 n.o., Syed Chand Pasha 4/42) vs Gouds XI.   Charminar CC 259/7 in 68 overs (Syed Ghouse 117, Ali Kacchi 61) vs Jai Bhagwathi CC.   Mahmood CC 187/7 in 68 overs (Vasant Bung 56, Abhilash Kulkarni 33) vs Khalsa.   Concorde CC 236 in 56.3 overs drew with Baalaji CC 283/2 in 59 overs.   Sri Chakra 143 in 47.5 overs drew with Rohit XI 304 in 89.4 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/syed-ghouse-cracks-ton/article35481139.ece
23 July 2021||SOCHI,||Mixed day for Indians||Vidit Gujrathi won, R. Praggnannadhaa drew and P. Harikrishna lost their first game of the fourth round in the chess World Cup on Thursday.  Indian results (round 4, game 1): Jeffery Xiong (USA) lost to Vidit Gujrathi; M. Amin Tabatabaie (Iri) bt P. Harikrishna; Praggnanandhaa drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-day-for-indians/article35480798.ece
23 July 2021||TOKYO,||Shock defeats for France, Argentina||France’s Olympic men’s soccer campaign got off to a disastrous start when it was thrashed 4-1 by Mexico while Argentina suffered a shock 2-0 loss to Australia as the group stage kicked off on Thursday. Richarlison, meanwhile, smashed a hat-trick as Brazil decimated Germany 4-2.  Important results: Group A: Mexico 4 (Vega 47, Cordova 55, Antuna 80, Aguirre 90+1) bt France 1 (Gignac 69-pen); Japan 1 (Kubo 71) bt South Africa 0.   Group C: Egypt 0 drew with Spain 0; Argentina 0 lost to Australia 2 (Wales 14, Tilio 80).   Group D: Brazil 4 (Richarlison 7, 22, 30, Paulinho 90+4) bt Germany 2 (Amiri 57, Ache 83).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shock-defeats-for-france-argentina/article35480788.ece
23 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||KDCA selections put off||Krishna District Cricket Association postponed the selections for under-23 and seniors (men and women) scheduled to be held on July 23 due to inclement weather. Fresh dates will be announced within four days and for details call M. Ravindra Choudhary (98490 10492), A. Sridhar (83062 22233) or D. Praveen (95504 57799).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kdca-selections-put-off/article35481305.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 07:59 IST,||Sudoku — July 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-23-2021/article35481588.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A little chaos is a good thing’||Josh Peck believes a little chaos is unavoidable and can bring you to a better place in your life if you embrace it. Addressing a virtual press conference, he says, “I have found resistance brings me discomfort.” Josh plays the uptight marshal, Scott Turner Jr, in the spin-off series Turner & Hooch , based on the eponymous 1989 movie starring Tom Hanks. He inherits an unruly French mastiff, Hooch, and his orderly life is turned upside down. “When I welcome chaos, like a gigantic French mastiff into my life with all the drool and accoutrement to follow, some pretty spectacular things happen. That is very true for Scott. When we first meet him, he has a bit too much rigidity. And this dog definitely helps break him out of his shell.” Working with Hooch (five dogs were standing in for Hooch) Josh said was great. “As an actor, whenever something can disrupt my plans and force me at the moment is a gift.” Each episode is a tribute to an action film. “I don’t know what inspired it. I don’t know if it was when our creator, Matt Nix, was pitching episode ideas to Disney Plus, it was easier to use these great action movies as a template for the way he wanted to approach the show. Episode two was Die Hard and episode three was Heat . We have a Taken episode, which has me doing quite an impression of Liam Neeson. I don't mean to brag.”  Turner & Hooch is streaming on Disney+ Hotstar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-little-chaos-is-a-good-thing/article35481220.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Still standing||Every time the Olympics roll around, a new bunch of records are set by athletes and sportspeople. But there are some that have been standing for quite some time. Take a look at the ones that haven’t been bettered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/still-standing/article35481496.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||We are the champions||The leading international sporting event of today is the Olympic Games where thousands of athletes from all over the world participate in a variety of competitions. These books tell you about four Indian sports heroes and their lives. Unbreakable: An Autobiography Mary Kom wanted to win and she was not going to let anything come in the way. In her book, she describes how she transformed herself from being a farmer’s daughter to the world’s leading woman boxer. She tells of her struggles and difficulties in finding a niche for herself in this exclusive world of boxing. Through her book, readers will get a glimpse of the colourful, vibrant Manipuri culture and lifestyle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/we-are-the-champions/article35481581.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Olympic memories||After an incredibly long wait of 44 years, Leander Paes gave India its individual medal by winning a bronze at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. The earlier one was by wrestler K.D. Jadhav in 1952. Leander faced Andre Agassi in the semi-final and, due to the strength of the latter’s backhand, Leander ruptured a few tendons in his right wrist. So it was put in a cast and he had to recover before the medal play-off. On match day, he was in unbearable pain and it took a great deal of physical and mental strength and a lot of aggressive tennis to pull off a historic win and a place on the podium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/olympic-memories/article35481560.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||In and out||This year, six new games will make their bow at Tokyo. Want to know which ones? Here we go:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/in-and-out/article35481531.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Run for glory||About 125 years ago, the city of Athens, Greece, was gearing up to host the first-ever Modern Olympic Games — 1503 years after the last ancient Games! Two years before the official commencement, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) was established by Pierre Coubertin, in Paris in 1894. Its primary function is to conduct, promote, and regulate the modern Olympic Games. During World War I, its headquarters was moved to Lausanne in Switzerland, where it remains to this day. In January 1948, at the 42nd IOC Session in St. Moritz, Switzerland, the IOC decided to commemorate the “birthday” of the Olympic movement by establishing the International Olympic Day. That year, nine National Olympic Committees (NOCs) — Austria, Belgium, Canada, Great Britain, Greece, Portugal, Switzerland, Uruguay and Venezuela — each hosted their own ceremonies. In 1987, the Olympic Day Run was introduced as part of the celebrations to encourage more NOCs to participate and also promote the idea of participation in sport by all, irrespective of age, gender, nationality, and athletic ability. The first Olympic Day Run was held over a distance of 10 km, with 45 participating NOCs. Today, the Olympic Day Run is usually held between June 17 and June 24. It comprises a 1.5 km Olympic Day Fun Run, 5 km, and 10 km running activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/run-for-glory/article35481485.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||In the spirit of the sport||Who am I: The one event that brings people of the world together in a spirit of fun and competitiveness: the Olympics. This time it’s being held in Tokyo, after being postponed for a year due to COVID-19.  Back in time: My story begins in 776 BCE, more than 2700 years ago, in Olympia, Greece. The village was named after Mount Olympia, the home of the Greek Gods and Goddesses. Every four years, athletes from the different city-states participated in sports as varied as fencing, chariot-racing, and other field events. It is believed that my last appearance as a sporting event of the ancient world was held around 396 CE.  My spirit: The Olympic Games represents goodwill, friendship, and competition among the Greek city states. This spirit would take another 1500 years — and one man’s vision, Baron Pierre de Courbetin — to be reborn. Courbetin founded the International Olympic Committee and made possible my revival in the modern era with the Olympics in Athens in 1896!  Since then: I have travelled the world every four years. More than anything else, I stand for sportsmanship. It’s this spirit that has produced heroes.  Heroes: One of the earliest in ancient times was Koroibos, a cook from the city of Elis, who won the stadion race, a foot race 600 feet long! In 1896, a water carrier, Spyridon Louis won the marathon, a distance of 26.2 miles, when it was introduced. Paavo Nurmi, the Flying Finn, set records in long-distance races of the 1920, and 1924 Olympics. Emil Zatopek, the ‘Czech locomotive’ emulated him in 1952 by setting records in the 5000, and 10000 metre races. Jesse Owens, the African-American athlete won four golds in the 1936 Berlin Olympics as the fascist dictator, Hitler, watched. From India, hockey star Dhyan Chand, who as a child played hockey in the moonlight, was part of the gold-medal winning Indian team in 1928, 1932 and 1936. The team would win gold in hockey again in 1948, 1952, 1956, 1964, and 1980: the most successful hockey team in the games. The list goes on!  Fun fact: The Olympic mascot reflects the cultural heritage of the host country. This became a practice from the 1932 Los Angeles Olympics. Both summer and winter Olympics — hosted two years apart — have their own mascots. The mascot this year in Tokyo is a robot called Miraitowa. The 2022 Beijing Winter Games will have a giant panda called Bing Dwen Dwen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/in-the-spirit-of-the-sport/article35481509.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A podium finish||Mirabai Chanu  Competing in the 49kg category, Mirabai is the first Indian weightlifter to qualify on the basis on placing second on the Absolute Ranking List issued by the International Weightlifting Federation. The Khel Ratna awardee recently broke the world record by lifting 119 kg in the clean-and-jerk section at the Asian Championships last year, where she finished with a bronze. She also has gold medals in the World Championship (2017) and the 2018 Commonwealth Games and will hope to follow Karnam Malleshwari in making Olympic history for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-podium-finish/article35481569.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Olympian Facts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/olympian-facts/article35481547.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The Olympics||Across 1 ___ put: an athletics field event (4) 3 Venue of the first Olympic Games (6) 6 Sword fighting (7) 8 Physical _____ is important for an athlete (7) 11 Divides a tennis court (3) 13 Venue of the current Olympic Games (5) 16 This race uses a baton (5) 17 ____ tennis, also known as ping pong (5) 19 Extinguishing the flame marks the ___ of the games (3) 20 Martial art making its debut at the Olympics (6) Down 1 ___-jumping is a Winter Olympic sport (3) 2 When the game ends with equal scores (3) 3 This sport involves bows and arrows (7) 4 Only the goalkeeper is allowed to use these (5) 5 ____ball, a modified form of baseball (4) 7 Play___: qualifying match to reach the finals (3) 9 Number of players on a doubles team (3) 10 Gold, silver or bronze (5) 12 Equestrian is a sport involving this animal (5) 14 A type of canoe (5) 15 Knock___: a boxer’s winning punch (3) 18 Racquet (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-olympics/article35481512.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Get Lucky Sony YAY! contest||Congratulations to the winners of Sony YAY! contest, published in The Hindu Young World, on July 02, 2021. The complete list is at: https://ywc.thehindu.com/results/get-lucky- contest-by-sony-yay-july-02-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/get-lucky-sony-yay-contest/article35481471.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Long Jump: Bob Beamon||At the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, Bob Beamon set a long jump record of 29 feet and 2.5 inches. It’s still standing, though Mike Powell jumped 29 feet and 4.25 inches at the World Championships in Tokyo in 1991. But that wasn’t an Olympics record. At the Games, though, the closest anyone came to Beamon was Greg Rutherford with 27 feet and 3 inches at the 2012 London Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/long-jump-bob-beamon/article35481487.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||100m Race (Women): Florence Griffith-Joyner||10.62 seconds! That’s what it took Florence Griffith-Joyner to dash down the track in the 1988 Seoul Games. And this record has stood for 33 years. In the 2016 Rio Olympics, Elaine Thompson-Herah managed 10.71 seconds. Will Flo-Jo’s record stand this time too? It’s anybody’s guess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/100m-race-women-florence-griffith-joyner/article35481489.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||100m Race (Men): Usain Bolt||So if we’re looking at just anyone to break Flo-Jo’s record, it’s been done. By the Lightning Bolt himself. At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Usain Bolt ran the 100m in 9.69 seconds. He also holds the record for finishing the 200m race in 19.30 seconds, also at the same Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/100m-race-men-usain-bolt/article35481490.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Heptathlon: Jackie Joyner Kersee||With seven events (100 m hurdles, 200m, 800m, high jump, long jump, javelin throw, shot put), the heptathlon can be an endurance test. In the 1988 Seoul Olympics, Jackie Joyner Kersee set a record of 7921 points, which is yet to be bettered at the Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/heptathlon-jackie-joyner-kersee/article35481492.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Most number of medals||Individually, that honour goes to swimmer Michael Phleps who won eight gold medals in the 2008 Beijing Olympics. He also holds the record for most number of medals in the Olympic Games in general (28 across four Games). Seen country-wise, the U.S. is the hands-down winner with 2,523 medals across 27 Games. The country also won a whopping 239 medals at the 1904 St. Louis Games, which continues to be the benchmark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/most-number-of-medals/article35481493.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article35481474.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||6 Medal haul||Aquatics offers the most number of gold medals (49), followed closely by athletics (48).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/6-medal-haul/article35481482.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article35481516.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The changing scene||Art often responds to social and political dimensions, and in a country short of role models, film stars often play a double role. If Dilip Kumar and Raj Kapoor reflected Nehruvian socialism in their films, Aamir Khan and Shah Rukh Khan emerged as the poster boys of Rajiv Gandhi’s tryst with globalisation. And there has always been a Dev Anand and Salman Khan who have simply relied on mass appeal. In her latest book, The Three Khans: And the Emergence of New India (Westland), senior journalist Kaveree Bamzai has juxtaposed the careers of the three Khans, Aamir, Shah Rukh, and Salman, with the most tumultuous times in the history of the republic. It is a tough task but Bamzai has woven a crisp and compelling narrative that keeps you intrigued. Mythical auraHaving spent time with her subjects as part of her professional career, Bamzai is in a position to reflect on the mythical aura of the troika and separate the men from their cultivated image. She doesn’t seek to find clear answers. Instead, she gives us a sense of the socio-political churn — when ‘Saathi haath badhana’ gave way to ‘Dil maange more’, when secularism became a bad word and communalism was sold as nationalism — and how the three Khans have navigated the terrain. The book has come out at a time when stardom as a term is facing an existential crisis, with OTT platforms relying more on content than charisma. Interestingly, the three emerged on the scene when new technology was about to choke cinema in India. In the late 80s, when popular Hindi cinema was sinking under the VCR wave, the Khans pulled family audiences back to theatres with Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak , Maine Pyar Kiya , and Deewana . In the era of Hukumat and Tezaab , Aamir Khan announced the arrival of the cute hero . When he sang, ‘Papa kehte hain bada naam karega,’ he sang to a new demographic, which could not identify with the ageing Dharmendra or the raucous Anil Kapoor. For a change, as Bamzai says, the hero was holding the guitar and the heroine made an entry riding a horse. It is Juhi Chawla who checks out Aamir rather than the other way round. Rise of the multiplex Single screen theatre owners had to clean their stinking urinals as the middle-class thronged theatres to watch the aspirations of a new, liberalised India. An India where individualism was on the surge, where nuclear families in dense metros were seeking an American dream without giving up on conservative values. Unlike Aamir and Salman, Shah Rukh was an outsider and a trained actor ready to take risks. Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman and Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa , the titles of his early films, inadvertently reflected his journey from Delhi to Mumbai. He started as an obsessive lover and stalker with Baazigar and Darr, but eventually settled to reflect the NRI’s easy Western life with Indian roots. Unlike the Bobby or Ek Duje Ke Liye template, in Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge the lovers don’t run away from patriarchy, but the narrative cleverly subsumes patriarchy and presents it with a consumerist cover, where the beer-guzzling hero doesn’t take advantage of the inebriated girl. The demographic shift also meant that Hindi cinema increasingly cut off from Bharat and reflected only shining India. The single screens gave way to multiple screens and the aam aadmi increasingly felt unwanted in a scenario where a packet of popcorn was as expensive if not more than the ticket. It was during the Khans’ reign that the idea of silver jubilees and golden jubilees gradually vanished. All that mattered was the first three days as, having become co-producers, they bombarded theatres with thousands of prints. In this universe, unemployment was seldom an issue and the hero was hardly anti-establishment. He represented those in the real world whose dependence on the state was increasingly diminishing. Angry young man It was not that in the 90s India was socio-politically quiet. But unlike Amitabh Bachchan, who in the 70s channelised the angst of the youth against the hollowness of slogans like ‘Garibi Hatao,’ the Khans seldom dived into the Mandal or Ram Janam Bhoomi movement and their attendant caste and communal politics. Unlike the Angry Young Man, their anguish was all personal. After a vibrant Rangeela , Aamir shifted gears at the turn of the millennium withLagaanandDil Chahta Hai. The roles of a villager who takes on the British or the coming-of-age of a selfish, suave man were poles apart, but Aamir played them with such gusto that he got both grassroots and global attention. Right from Raakh , the film he did before QSQT, experimenting with looks and scripts is his method and he succeeds more often than not. Shah Rukh has not been as lucky with experiments. He lunged for change with Mani Ratnam’s Dil Se... and Ashutosh Gowarikar’s Swades and tried to reinvent himself with challenging subjects like Asoka , Chak De! and My Name Is Khan . Of these, Chak De!, which dealt with the otherisation of Muslims, is perhaps his best performance to date, going beyond the Raj/Rahul template. The other two, mounted for global recognition, turned out to be substantially hollow despite his efforts. Be it Paheli, Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani or Fan for that matter , box-office results have often compelled Shah Rukh to return to familiar turf where he spreads his arms and the audience embraces him. Meanwhile, combining machoism with vulnerability, Salman continued to pander to the fan base he cultivated after Tere Naam, a stylised version of a working-class hero , a far cry from the urban romantic of Hum Aapke Hain Kaun and Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam. Critics continued to make fun of Salman’s choices, dialogue delivery and his brush with the law but it didn’t affect his mass appeal. Salman’s most significant contribution came with Bajrangi Bhaijaan, where he played the son of an RSS pracharak on a journey to take a mute girl back to her home in Pakistan. It was an interesting clash of ideas at a time when the communal virus was getting contagious. Then, of course, came Sultan, where he played a Muslim wrestler, but without wearing religion on his sleeve. But, as Bamzai rightly suggests, it’s not just new platforms and the next crop of actors and contemporaries like Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn on the right side of the establishment who give the Khans stiff competition. It’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself, who has emerged as the new cultural icon for a large number of youngsters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-changing-scene/article35480701.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Redefining the form||A guru is someone who dispels the darkness (‘gu’ in Sanskrit means darkness and ‘ru’ means dispeller) of ignorance and gives the light of knowledge. Since the day I began to learn the beautiful dance form of Odissi from my guru, Mayadhar Raut, he transfomed my life. In the 10 years I spent learning from him, I delved deeper into the art form and experienced it on my own terms. His teaching was not limited to technique and performance. He helped me understand the essence of Vaishnava philosophy that gave birth to this dance at the Jagannath temple in Puri. He brought a new dimension to learning, especially when explaining the verses of Jayadeva’s Gita Govind . Over the years, I realised how important it is go beyond theory and form and understand an art also from its socio-cultural and historical perspectives. I understood what is meant by a holistic approach to learning and teaching. Even today, every time I perform my guru’s compositions, I discover new meanings in the pieces. Born on July 6, 1930 in Kantapenhara, a small village in the Cuttack district of Odisha, Mayadhur Raut started working in different theatre companies from the age of seven. Later, in his teens, he joined the Annapurna theatre, where he met guru Kelucharan Mohapatra and guru Pankaj Charan Das. It was the great master Pankaj Charan Das who taught him Odissi and Mahari. In 1952, Mayadhar Raut joined Kala Vikas Kendra in Cuttack as its first guru. His dance classes became very popular. He took the initiative to prepare a syllabus according to which Odissi began to be taught. His sincere pursuit of the art form was acknowledged in 1955, when he was awarded a scholarship to study Kathakali and Bharatanatyam at Kalakshetra in Chennai. It is here that he mastered the Natyshastra and Abhinaya Darpana, which led him to redefine the grammar of Odissi and the abhinaya vocabulary. It is at Kalakshetra that he gained deeper insights into choreography — it further enhanced his ability to choreograph dance-dramas such as ‘Tapaswini’, ‘Meghdoot’, ‘Brij Leela’, ‘Krishna Charitam’, and ‘Geeta Govindam’ — and he was also introduced to Carnatic music. During summer vacations, he would return to Kala Vikas Kendra and put into practice the knowledge gained at Kalakshetra. He changed his approach to hasta mudras, and also introduced sanchari bhava in abhinaya, which he described as “abhinaya is the ocean and sanchari bhava is the wave in the ocean which ultimately settles down in it.” Many renowned artistes trained under him in these summer courses. As the popularity of Odissi grew, guru Mayadhar became part of the growing group of Odissi dancers who had realised that it was necessary to form an association to give a more structured and systematic shape to Odissi. This led to the Jayantika institute being constituted in 1957, which helped Odissi to emerge stronger. Around 1964, Odissi was recognised by Sangeet Natak Akademi as a classical dance form. The rest, as they say, is history. In July 1967, when guru Mayadhar came to teach Odissi in Delhi, people were not aware of the dance style, but greatly impressed by his work, Sumitra Charatram invited him to teach at the famed Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi, where he started the Odissi department in 1970. Many of India’s leading Odissi dancers today are guru Mayadhar’s disciples, including Kiran Segal, Geeta Mahalik, Ramani Ranjan Jena, Hare Krishna Behera, and Aloka Panikar. Many of his students have started dance institutions to impart training in the Mayadhar style. At the age of 91, the master, an institution in himself, leads a life of satisfaction, knowing the importance of his body of work and contributions to Odissi.  The writer is a well-known   Odissi dancer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/redefining-the-form/article35480725.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||An Annamacharya kriti in Hindi?||While taking a stroll one day on the streets of Kolkata last year, Gautam Sengupta heard something that made him stop. It was a beautiful song being played in one of the houses. “I felt like time had stood still,” recalls the 70-year-old retired professor of linguistics over a phone call. “I did not move from there till the song ended.” When he got back home, Gautam immediately switched on his computer and discovered that it was young singer Uthara Unnikrishnan’s rendition of the Annamayya kriti, ‘Bhavayami Gopalabalam’. That was Gautam’s introduction to Carnatic music. He soon dived deep to discover the genre’s many aspects. Today, he spearheads Project Anukriti, probably the first ever attempt to translate Carnatic compositions into Hindi with the hope of reaching out to a larger audience beyond the southern States. The first composition, released recently on Unnikrishnan’s YouTube channel, features Uthara and Karthick Iyer singing the translated version of the iconic Purandaradasa Kannada composition ‘Jagadoddharana’. “I had spent three decades in Hyderabad but cannot recall listening to a single Carnatic kriti. I feel music should be freed of the language barrier for a wider appeal.” Gautam alongwith a few like-minded people chooses compositions that lend themselves to translation and works on them. "We break the words into small meaningful units, and then sit down with musicians and people who speak the language the composition is in. It was also important to involve singers since the idea is to be able to sing them in their original tune,” he says. Project Anukriti is just one song old, but the initiative has drawn flak from some listeners in the South. “We know it’s hard to match up to the original but we only want more people to enjoy these traditional compositions.” With Uthara and Karthick on board, Gautam hopes to release one song every month. Coming up next are ‘Marugelara O Raghava’ and ‘Krishna Nee Begane’. “A year ago, I did not imagine that I would stumble upon such a treasure. I am delighted to have found it,” says Gautam.  Watch the series here:https://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=IFyXzl2cOi4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-annamacharya-kriti-in-hindi/article35480729.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Sahana all the way||The core of music, sangithaanubhava, is an indescribable subjective experience. According to Prof. Sambamurthy, a renowned scholar, a true aesthetic enjoyment of music is outside the scope of any recognised rasa. Some ragas take listeners to sublime heights. One such is Sahana, an ubhaya vakra raga. A rare sparkle and vigour marked Amritha Murali’s 90-minute exposition of Sahana and Saint Tyagaraja’s masterpiece, ‘Giripai nelakonna’, in this raga. The concert was for ARTery, as part of the ‘Magnum Opus’ series dedicated to the memory of vidwan T. N. Krishnan. Amritha’s music brims with gnanam and soukhyam . When she was nine, her grandmother Shankari Nagarajan initiated her into music, and she was later trained by K.R. Kedaranathan, P.S. Narayanaswamy and now by R.K. Shriramkumar. She learnt violin from Vittal Ramamurthy and T. Rukmini.  Detailed portrayal In the 16-minute alapana, Amritha evolved new patterns of melodic charm. She traversed from the lower to the higher octaves in an unhurried manner, weaving webs of regular and unusual phrases. Her detailed elucidation was about creativity and craftsmanship. Her guru, R. K. Shriramkumar, a violin virtuoso, obviously offered solid support. Hailing from the Rudrapatna family of musicians, Shriramkumar is the grandson of violin vidwan R. K. Venkatarama Sastri and the grand-nephew of R.K. Srikantan. His Sahana sketch was magnificent. Before moving on to the kriti, Amritha presented a verse from Yuddha Kandam of Valmiki Ramayana, ‘Suvelam sadhu jaila indram.’ It describes Lord Rama’s presence on the top of the Suvela mountains along with his retinue. She also presented a verse, ‘Ehi vidhi kripa roop’ from the Lanka Kanda of Sri Tulsidas’ Ramacharita Manas , where he writes that one who is immersed in the thought of Rama atop the Suvela is forever blessed. In the composition ‘Giripai’, Tyagaraja says, ‘I had a darshan of Lord Sri Ramachandra on the hilltop, with his parivara serving him. He told me he would take care of me after ten days.” Amritha’s treatment of the composition was as majestic as the saint-poet would have perhaps intended it to be. The neraval at the pallavi created innumerable springs of the melodious sangathis of Sahana. The response of Shriramkumar on the violin was splendid. Swaraprasthara was at ‘Ramuni’, in the middle of the pallavi. Manoj Siva (mridangam) and Chandrasekara Sharma (ghatam) offered a pleasant Tani. The concluding korvai, finishing sharp at ‘Ramuni’, was well executed. The two enriched the kriti with their soft strokes. Dhanush Anantharaman was on the tambura. The concert is available on ARTery’s Facebook and YouTube pages.  The Chennai-based writer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/sahana-all-the-way/article35480721.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A journey in frames||Nonagenarian Kongorpilly Parameswaran Namboothiri’s life is devoted to the mridangam. For over 50 years, he has been practising, performing and perfecting his art. At 91, living with his daughter in Parali, Palakkad district, Parameswaran Namboothiri is still fascinated by the magic of the mridangam and teaches it to a group of dedicated disciples. In his long musical career, Parameswaran has accompanied many veteran musicians including Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar, D.K. Pattammal, L. Subramanyam, K.B. Sundarambal, Madurai Somu, T.N. Seshagopalan and S. Kalyanaraman. He played an active role in organising the yearly Guruvayur Sangeetholsavam (music festival), which is now popularly known as the Chembai Sangeetholsavam, conducted in honour of Chembai at the Guruvayur temple. To pay tribute to the mridangam vidwan, Kerala-based artiste Gireesan Bhattathiripad has written and directed a documentary titled Abhivadaye . To be released tomorrow, the one-hour documentary traces mridangam vidwan Parameswaran Namboothiri’s musical journey. “It is a gurudakshina offered to him by his disciples and well-wishers,” says Gireesan, who took two-and-a-half years to complete the project. Cherished memories Gireesan took Parameswaran to Poomully Mana, in Peringode, Palakkad district, the place where he was initiated into music. Poomully Mana, known for its connoisseurs who encouraged art and artistes, has hosted musicians including M.S. Subbulakshmi, T.R. Mahalingam and Hindustani classical musician Sarathchandra Marathe to name a few. It was here that Parameswaran met Chembai, and the two became best friends. Soon after that, Parameswaran would travel with Chembai, performing with him at every concert. While talking about the documentary, Gireesan said that he didn’t rely much on the script. “I just wanted the camera to follow him as he savoured the experience of travelling back in time. When we went to Poomully Mana and Chembai gramam (village) in 2018-19, Parameswaran was overcome with emotion. It was, to him, an awakening of memories that he holds close to his heart,” says Gireesan. Parameswaran is one of the few artistes in Kerala who has performed the ‘nila sadhakam’— a practice of performing through the night, seven times. And during the long years that he spent in Chennai, Parameswaran played for many veteran musicians. But once he went to Kerala to join Akashvani in Thrissur, he withdrew from stage performances. His only concert after joining AIR was on the inaugural day, when he performed with Chembai. Even though he was not performing for concerts, Parameswaran continued to teach and organise the Chembai music festival, handling everything from co-ordinating with artistes to planning their itinerary and managing other logistics. When the idea to make a film on Parameswaran was first mooted by his disciples, Gireesan took the initiative as his son, Sreehari Bhattathiripad is a student of Sanoj Poongad, a protege of Parameswaran. “The documentary is a mark of respect to a great artiste and a teacher,” Gireesan says.  ‘Abhivadaye’ will be released on YouTube on July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-journey-in-frames/article35480704.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Short films on social issues||The Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) has released two short films to raise awareness about domestic violence and dowry deaths. The film on dowry is especially relevant in the context of the recent death of 24-year-old Vismaya, allegedly caused by dowry harassment and marital abuse. Both films are available online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/short-films-on-social-issues/article35480706.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Kathak courses||The Chennai-based Taraana Academy of Kathak has come up with special courses to encourage aspiring youngsters to understand better the nuances of the dance form. The training programme has been structured by Kathak dancer and director of Taarana Academy, Shritha Baskar, along with a team of teachers. The academy also holds regular workshops on Kathak. Its new and bigger premises on Harrington Road includes a well-equipped studio for recording performances and conducting online classes. For admissions, mail shritha@taraanaacademy.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kathak-courses/article35480719.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Farmers’ Parliament’ a stone’s throw from Parliament||Barely two kilometres away from Parliament in Sansad Marg, where the monsoon session is under way, farmers protesting against the farm laws held ‘Farmers’ Parliament’ in Jantar Mantar. In the wake of protests that turned violent on Republic Day, the area was heavily barricaded with thousands of security personnel including senior Delhi Police officers on duty all day long. A few minutes past midnight, the first bus of farmers arrived with a “convoy” of security personnel. Sticking to their word, 200 farmers arrived in four buses. Farmers’ IDs – provided by Samyukta Kisan Morcha mentioning their names and details, which most wore around their necks – were checked multiple times and the whole area was covered by CCTVs, many installed specifically for ‘Farmers’ Parliament’. “This is a multi-layer arrangement with local police, Paramilitary and Rapid Action Force. We have contingency plans and the area around Parliament is prohibited,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav. Parallel session Just like Parliament, the Farmers’ Parliament also had a speaker and a deputy speaker who conducted ‘Parliament’, in which 45 speakers made their point. Talking about how it is a parallel Parliament session, Raminder Singh Patiala, Legal Cell member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said that a six-member committee has been set up for each day to become a speaker and deputy speaker. “On day one, we have discussed the first of the three acts and how these impact the farmers and steal the mandis,” he said, referring to the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act. Mr. Raminder said that two resolutions were also passed in the first half including one on farmers who died during the protest and another on freedom of the press. “Tributes were paid to martyred farmers during the protest. The second was that the restriction on media should be lifted. Initially, police were not allowing the media to come to the farmers’ side after which we spoke to the police and ensured that media was allowed inside. This is our first victory,” he said. When asked about the “opposition” in this Parliament, Mr. Raminder said, “We are the opposition”. Another protester quipped, “But is the opposition ever heard in this country?” Every day, 200 people will keep changing. As it is decided, there will be five persons each from 40 organisations, who are a part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha including 32 from Punjab and eight from other States. Pan-India presence Chukki Nanjundaswamy from Karnataka State Farmers’ Association said there are representatives from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “In a democracy, Parliament is a space where you take important decisions and where issues concerning a country’s citizens are discussed. We have to hold a parallel Parliament because we are a majority of this country and our issues are not being discussed. We have been sitting at the borders for eight months and they haven’t seen us. We hope they see us now as we sit a few meters away from them,” he said. The journey from Singhu border to Jantar Mantar wasn’t easy, the farmers said, adding that it took them three hours instead of one because they stopped at two points “in the name of checking”. “They checked our IDs at Singhu and stopped us in outer Delhi where we were all checked again. Then right before reaching, they stopped us again. They probably think that these tricks will dissuade us from going on but they won’t,” said Darshan Singh, a protester from Bhatinda. Journalist attacked As the buses reached Jantar Mantar, media personnel were not initially allowed by the police and were asked to stay inside an enclosure but were later allowed to go inside in two groups. A reporter with a TV channel also sustained minor injuries when a YouTuber, who was in possession of an ID card from Samyukta Kisan Morcha, created a ruckus inside the media enclosure. Delhi Police detained the Youtuber while the journalist was taken for medical examination. At 5 p.m., four buses were brought near where the session was under way and farmers peacefully wrapped it up with the National Anthem followed by “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”, “Inquilab Zindabad” and the Sikh slogan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-parliament-a-stones-throw-from-parliament/article35480977.ece
23 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||If it was not shortage of oxygen, what was it, ask AMU doctors||“It is like rubbing salt on the wounds of the injured,” said Md Kashif, president of Resident Doctors’ Associaton of Aligarh Muslim University’s (AMU) Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hosptial (JNMCH). He was reacting to the Health Ministry’s statement in the Rajya Sabha that there was no data to show that deaths had occurred due to oxygen shortage in the second wave of COVID-19. “More importantly, the statement gives the bureaucracy a sense of relief that if such a big lacuna in infrastructure could be papered over, they don’t need to worry,” said Dr. Kashif. According to official sources, the AMU lost 22 staff members during the second wave and 19 of them died at the JNMCH. “Thankfully, none of the patients died because of lack of oxygen at the JNMCH but everybody knows that there was a shortage of oxygen during the second wave because the healthcare system was not prepared to fight the unprecedented situation,” said Dr. Kashif, adding they had to turn away patients because the hospital’s 300 oxygen beds were occupied. It was perhaps the first time, he said, that the liquid oxygen plant was running to full capacity and even a slight drop in pressure could increase the severity of disease in patients who required high flow oxygen. ‘What’s the harm?’ “We know that no doctor would write that the cause of death was shortage of oxygen but what’s the harm in showing some sensitivity and admitting that one of the factors behind the severity of disease and death was shortage of oxygen?” asked Dr. Kashif. He said that for a few days there had been no explicit guideline for the general public on how to use industry-grade oxygen. “Such cylinders are not properly maintained and their use perhaps contributed to rise in the cases of mucormycosis. All over the world, steroids were used, but India reported a high number of cases of black fungus,” he argued. ‘Why new oxygen plant’ Prof. Najmul Islam, honorary secretary of the AMU Teachers’ Association, said that as the statement had been made in a sacred space, they would not like to doubt it. “But then, the government should tell us what the cause of so many deaths in such a short period of time was. The general perception in society is that there was shortage of oxygen. If the reality was otherwise, the nation should know,” remarked Prof. Islam. “Also, if there was no shortage, why has a new oxygen plant been built, and another is being assembled in JNMCH from the PM Cares Fund? Prof. Haris M. Khan, Medical Superintendent, JNMCH, said the hospital catered to patients from not only Aligarh but also neighbouring districts such as Etah and Kasganj. “During April-May period, patients from as far as Moradabad and Ghaziabad also sought admission because ostensibly they could not find oxygen beds in their areas. “The supply from our liquid oxygen plant served us well but it could serve only upto 300 patients,” he said. “There were days when we feared that the supply will dry up but somehow it arrived at the last minute,” Prof. Khan said. When the number of patients increased further, he said, they used oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/if-it-was-not-shortage-of-oxygen-what-was-it-ask-amu-doctors/article35480968.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU may conduct exam for absent students||The Delhi University (DU) is considering a proposal to conduct examination for final year students who could not appear due to the pandemic. The examination branch has written to colleges seeking data on the number of such students. Senior DU officials said that depending on the data, the “leftover” students will be accommodated and examination held. Likely in August Dean of Examinations, D.S. Rawat, said: “The examinations will most likely be held sometime in August depending on the data that we receive from colleges. Once we get the data, we will be able to ascertain what are the papers that students want to take and then accordingly publish a date sheet.” In a notification dated July 16, the varsity had said that students who could not write examinations due to them or their family members being affected with COVID-19 will be permitted to take the examinations. Colleges and departments were asked to submit the data to the examination branch by July 23. Mr. Rawat said: “There will not be any minimum number of students required for the examinations to take place. Even if there are two students or 200, it is all the same for us. We will accommodate everyone. What we proposed is that we will give students, who missed the examinations for various reasons, a chance to take it. Accordingly, colleges have been asked for relevant data.” The university conducted open book examinations for terminal year students and according to the officials, around 70% of undergraduate results have been declared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-may-conduct-exam-for-absent-students/article35480983.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC to resume physical functioning on experimental basis from Aug. 16||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said it may resume its physical functioning on experimental basis. It was restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, from August 16. The administrative order issued by High Court Registrar General Manoj Jain said this will be done in a restricted manner subject to further orders based on evaluation of the pandemic situation in Delhi. Administrative order Meanwhile, all the Benches of the High Court, Registrars and Joint Registrars (Judicial) will continue to take up urgent matters as per the existing arrangement through videoconferencing till August 13, the order said. A similar order has been passed with regard to district courts in Delhi too, where physical hearings may resume in a restricted manner from August 16 on experimental basis. Pandemic fallout Earlier this year, the High Court had commenced complete physical functioning from March 15. However, it decided that from April 9 to April 23 it will take up matters “through virtual mode only” after the rise in COVID-19 cases. On April 18, the court had said that from that day onwards it will only take up “extremely urgent matters” filed this year. Following the outbreak of COVID-19 in March last year, the courts are holding proceedings through videoconference. Its functioning was restricted to urgent matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-to-resume-physical-functioning-on-pilot-basis/article35480969.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sushil Kumar allowed to watch Tokyo Olympics in Tihar jail||Delhi Prison authorities on Thursday allowed two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar to watch television in the common area of his ward ahead of the Olympics, which is set to begin on July 23, officials said. On July 2, Sushil through his advocate had urged prison authorities to provide him a television to remain updated about wrestling matches and other happenings outside the jail. Requested via lawyer Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said: “We have allowed Sushil to watch television in the common area of his ward along with others. He had made a request through his lawyer for a TV to stay updated about wrestling matches and other happenings.” Mr. Goel added that Sushil has been kept in a separate cell due to security reasons and jail administration does not provide TV in separate cell. Therefore, TV has been arranged in common area where he can come and watch as per the scheduled timings and return to his cell. Sushil was arrested along with co-accused Ajay Kumar on May 23 from outer Delhi’s Mundka after he allegedly killed a wrestler in Chhatrasal Stadium. He and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Sagar succumbed to injuries later. Police said 12 accused, including Sushil Kumar, have so far been arrested in the case. Sushil, who is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping, was shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was lodged earlier. Last month, a Delhi court had dismissed an application filed by Sushil, seeking special food and supplements in the prison, saying that they are not the “essential need or necessity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushil-kumar-allowed-to-watch-tokyo-olympics-in-tihar-jail/article35480980.ece
23 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana Minister suspends 2 civic officials for negligence in work||Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij on Thursday confronted the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram Commissioner for reporting late in the office during a surprise inspection and suspended two Sub-Divisional Officials for dereliction of duty. He also ordered registration of first information report against an executive engineer in an alleged fraud case. Waterlogging issue Mr. Vij stressed the need for improvement expressing his dissatisfaction over the functioning of the municipal body and said that a committee would be set up to find a lasting solution to the problem of waterlogging in the city. Amid allegations of payments against fake bills, and controversy surrounding the civic body over flooding during the rains earlier this week, Mr. Vij reached the MCG head office in Sector-34 without prior intimation at 10.30 a.m., but found MCG Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and several Joint Commissioners missing from their respective offices. Mr. Ahuja reached the office around 20 minutes after the Minister. Mr. Vij went around the civic body office and ordered immediate suspension of SDOs Rakesh Sharma and Kuldeep Yadav for being absent. He also ordered deduction of two hours’ salary of Section Officer, Accounts Branch, Bhupinder Singh. Orders FIR registration He directed registration of FIR against executive engineer Gopal Kalawat for an alleged attempt to make payments worth crores by producing fake letters from municipal councillors. Mr. Vij asked the commissioner to maintain a register to record the movement of all officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-minister-suspends-2-civic-officials-for-negligence-in-work/article35480970.ece
23 July 2021||Jaipur,||Schools in Rajasthan to reopen from August 2||Schools in Rajasthan will reopen from August 2 following a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases. The Council of Ministers agreed to the reopening of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities, to students at a meeting presided over by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here on Thursday. After the meeting, Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra said that while schools would reopen from August 2, the date for other educational institutions would be announced later along with the standard operating procedure. Experts opinion The Ministers considered the opinion of medical experts about resumption of educational activities at the meeting and deliberated on the situation in other States where a similar decision had been taken after the second wave of pandemic. Official sources said a consensus emerged at the meeting that it would be appropriate to open educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-in-rajasthan-to-reopen-from-august-2/article35480967.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 held for taking Rs. 20L loan from bank using forged documents||A gang of four men were arrested for allegedly availing a car loan of Rs. 20 lakh from a bank in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri by using fake and forged documents, police said on Thursday. The accused were identified as Rajeev (32), Azhar Khan (32), Ravi Sharma (27) and Shakti Rawal (32). Police said a car worth Rs. 30 lakh, Rs. 2.5 lakh in cash, three I-phones, a laptop and copies of forged documents used to avail the loan have been recovered from them. The loan was availed in the name of Shakti while Rajeev acted as a mediator. Two among them, Rajeev and Azhar, were found to be previously involved in 12 cases of bank frauds across the city, they said. The Assistant General Manager of Bank of Baroda, West Delhi, filed a written complaint at Vikaspuri police station in April this year after their enquiry revealed that all the addresses provided by the accused men were fake, police said. In his complaint, the bank official alleged that the accused had taken a car loan of Rs. 20 lakh from their Vikaspuri branch on the basis of documents, which were later found to be fake and forged. A team comprising Sub-Inspector (SI) Vikas Sahu, head constable Pawan and constable Sandeep was formed under the supervision of Vikaspuri Station House Officer, Inspector Mahinder Singh Dahiya, to investigate the case. A senior police officer said: “The loan was sanctioned by the bank based on income tax returns and other residential and office documents of the borrower. During the course of investigation, we found that the tax invoice and insurance copy submitted by the accused borrower was fake.” Wrong address “During further investigation, it was revealed that the accused was not residing at the given address. All the addresses and documents submitted while availing the loan were also fake. The mobile phones were found to be switched off as these numbers were issued on fake IDs,” the officer said. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said the accused had also opened an account with another bank in the name of KVS Automobiles Pvt. Ltd. at Gautam Buddha Nagar to receive the loan amount. However, it was found to be bogus as there was no such company or showroom at the given address. After receiving the loan amount, the accused did not purchase any car and instead withdrew the entire amount through ATMs or got them transferred to another accounts. “During further investigation, it was also revealed that a total of 12 cases of such fraud and cheating have been reported by the Bank of Baroda in different police stations of Delhi,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-held-for-taking-rs-20l-loan-from-bank-using-forged-documents/article35480978.ece
23 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Food rights body to hold public hearing today||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRRAA) will organise a public hearing on hunger and food insecurity during the pandemic, on Friday. Earlier, in a report prepared, the DRRAA had said that ration distribution for people without ration cards had stopped at 92% of the centres as foodgrain stock was exhausted. Stock exhausted In a report dated July 20, the DRRAA had said that between July 12 and 17, volunteers visited 221 out of the 282 designated schools across Delhi and found that 92% had exhausted the ration stock due to which people were not receiving ration. “Most [centres] had run out of stock several days ago and the stock had not been replenished since then, forcing the schools to turn away people who had reached there seeking ration. During the hearing in Delhi High Court, the government had assured the court that it will revise the scheme in light of the court objection to the cap of 20 lakh persons and it being a one-time measure only. However, till date no decision regarding revision of non-PDS scheme is available in the public domain,” the report read. The DRRAA said that it was a matter of “grave concern” that the government was failing to ensure basic food security to people during a period of health and financial distress. “The delay in distribution of ration is resulting in people being forced to purchase foodgrains from the open market at non-subsidised rates. At a time when people are dealing with an unprecedented health crisis and job loss, timely distribution of ration is critical,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-rights-body-to-hold-public-hearing-today/article35480981.ece
23 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Gang leader, associate shot dead in Agra||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra on Thursday shot dead the suspected kingpin of a gang and his associate, days after they had allegedly abducted a senior surgeon from the city. Police said Badan Singh, who was wanted in the case with a bounty of Rs. 1 lakh, and his associate Akshay alias Chunkey Pandey died after sustaining bullet injuries in an alleged exchange of fire. On the intervening night of July 13 and 14, senior doctor Umakant Gupta was abducted. The kidnappers had allegedly demanded Rs. 5 crore random from his family. However, on July 15, he was recovered from Dholpur in Rajasthan in a joint operation by U.P. and Rajasthan police while two of his alleged kidnappers were also arrested. During questioning, they revealed the names of eight other suspects, said police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gang-leader-associate-shot-dead-in-agra/article35480966.ece
23 July 2021||July 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Heavy traffic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heavy-traffic/article35480972.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||Narwal given provisional registration for PhD: JNU||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that its student Natasha Narwal, an accused in cases related to last year’s north-east Delhi violence, has been granted provisional registration for PhD programme. Justice Prateek Jalan was informed by the varsity that even during pendency of proceedings emanating from a notice issued to Ms. Narwal by the authorities, pursuant to her registration she will be entitled to all the benefits of provisional registration. The court took the statement of advocate Monika Arora, representing JNU, on record and said no further orders are required to be passed and disposed of the petition. Advocate Arora said Narwal, a Pinjra Tod (break the cage) activist, has been provisionally registered in the PhD programme for monsoon semester 2020 and winter semester 2021. The court was hearing Ms. Narwal’s plea seeking permission to provisionally register in the third semester of the PhD programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/narwal-given-provisional-registration-for-phd-jnu/article35480974.ece
23 July 2021||New Delhi,||DSGMC elections to be held on Aug 22, Delhi govt tells HC||Directorate of Gurdwara Elections informed the Delhi High court on Thursday that elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) will be held on August 22 and the result would be announced by August 31. Advocate Satyakam, appearing for the Directorate and its officials, told the HC Bench that entire process of the DSGMC elections would be over by August 31, with counting scheduled to begin on August 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dsgmc-elections-to-be-held-on-aug-22-delhi-govt-tells-hc/article35480973.ece
