24 July 2021||Pune,||60 killed as rain pounds Maharashtra||At least 60 people were killed in landslips triggered by intense rain in western Maharashtra and the Konkan region as monsoon fury continued unabated on Friday. While the State, including the normally arid Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, have been receiving heavy showers over the last 72 hours, the situation remained particularly grim in the Mahad and Poladpur tehsils in Raigad, Chiplun and Khed in Ratnagiri, as well as the ‘sugar belt’ districts of Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli. Forty-nine of those killed died in three separate landslips in Raigad itself. Tragedy struck Taliye village in Mahad on Thursday evening when the village of around 35 houses was buried in a major landslip in an incident strongly reminiscent of the 2014 Malin landslide in Pune. While the precise casualty figures were not confirmed, the authorities said so far more than 35 bodies had been recovered from the debris while more than 70 people were missing. Other sources said 38 bodies had been retrieved from the site. Local people were the first responders as heavy rainfall, waterlogging, and disrupted connectivity delayed the National and State Disaster Response Forces (NDRF and SDRF) teams. The relief teams struggled to clear boulders and damaged roads to reach the village. Rescue operations in Taliye had to be called off after 6 p.m. due to poor visibility compounded by increasing rain. Five persons were reported killed in neighbouring Sakhar Sutarwadi village in another landslide. Six persons were killed in Kevnale in Poladpur taluk. Thirteen injured persons were undergoing treatment at hospitals in Poladpur and Mahad. PM’s condolences Expressing anguish at the loss of lives caused by the Raigad landslide, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs. 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased from the PM's National Relief Fund. A sum of Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured, the PMO said. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected,” Mr. Modi tweeted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and said the Centre would extend all help to the State government to deal with the situation. The BJP blamed the Uddhav Thackeray-led government for apathy and tardiness in rescue operations. “When we reached here in the morning, neither the local administration, nor any NDRF team was in sight… This government seems to be utterly callous to the fate of its people,” said BJP Leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar, who reached the accident spot along with fellow BJP leader Girish Mahajan. Priority to save lives: CM Mr. Thackeray, who held an emergency meeting to review the situation in the Konkan, assured that rescue operations were proceeding speedily and that the government’s priority was to save lives at any cost. He said rescue teams were facing enormous problems as in several places, roads had been utterly damaged or washed away by the floodwaters or rockfalls, especially in villages and hamlets in the mountainous tracts. “Unfortunately, in Taliye, more than 30 persons have lost their lives in a landslide…now, heavy downpours have begun in Nagpur in Vidarbha as well. Our priority is to ensure that there is no loss of life. NDRF, Coast Guard, SDRF and local teams have been mobilized on a war footing in the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Thackeray said. “At several points, NDRF teams have had to cut a path to reach the spot of accident… We are making all provisions to take care of those who have lost their houses in the rains. We are combating the crisis despite the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/60-killed-as-rain-pounds-maharashtra/article35502641.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State may have to live with COVID for a very long time||Results of the fourth round of sero prevalence survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in three districts in the State, as part of the nation-wide survey it had conducted in June to determine the extent of the exposure of the population to SARS-CoV-2, reveals that more than 50% of the State’s population is still vulnerable to COVID-19. While this can be seen as a success of the State’s containment measures and the high level of compliance of the general population to COVID protocols, the other side of the story is that, having spread out the epidemic curve, Kerala is likely to live with COVID-19 for a very long time. The fact that the sero prevalence in the State is 42.7% against the national average of 67.6% indicates that herd immunity against COVID is still a long way off in Kerala. Intermittent surges The epidemic is going to be protracted, the curve is likely to remain high for a long time, with intermittent surges or waves. The State and the community will need to maintain constant and continuous vigil so that the surge in cases is always contained at a level where it does not threaten the surge capacity of the health system. Vaccination a priority Vaccination against COVID also becomes a priority for the State and even though vaccines afford only a limited level of protection and will not prevent infections, it will certainly help to reduce hospitalisations and deaths. The ICMR’s fourth round of sero survey was done in the same 70 districts across the country where the first three rounds had been held. In the first round in May, Kerala’s sero prevalence had been 0.33% (national average of 0.73%), in August it was 0.88% (6.6%) and in December it was 11.6% (21%). Sero positivity among general population in Thrissur is 47.1%, Ernakulam 39.1% and Palakkad, 42%. The ICMR said that in the fourth round of the survey, about 57% of the children in the 6-17 years age group had antibodies against COVID. Children protected It recommended that children are relatively protected against COVID and that when schools are reopened, primary schools should be opened first. However, Kerala will have to do its own sero survey, with a good sample size and sufficient sub group samples to assess the proportion of its children who are vulnerable, before it can even contemplate school reopening. Recent indications While there are recent indications that infection rates in the 0-19 years age group is rising in the State (mass testing last week found that the highest test positivity rate of 25% was found in children), the ICMR survey reveals that a chunk of the State’s adult population is still vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-may-have-to-live-with-covid-for-a-very-long-time/article35502997.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Health professionals told to be ready to check a possible third wave||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday asked medical colleges, private hospitals and the Health Department to take all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of a possible third wave of COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada. Speaking after inaugurating a workshop on preventing a third COVID-19 wave, if any, at the Government Wenlock Hospital here, Dr. Rajendra said that all medical colleges, private hospitals and the Health Department employees had worked hard to contain the spread of the first and second waves. He said that doctors, nursing staff and Health Department officials should be trained enough to boost their confidence to prevent the spread of the epidemic to children. There should be better coordination among health professionals to contain the spread of infection, if any, in the third round. Dr. Rajendra said that acute health issues among children should be detected at the earliest and they should be provided with the required treatment. If required, they should be admitted in such hospitals having advanced treatment facilities. Accredited Social Health Activists should create awareness among people to be cautious and take steps to prevent the spread of infection. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishor Kumar said that activists have a crucial role to play in identifying symptoms among children. There was a training session for health professionals on facing a third wave, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-professionals-told-to-be-ready-to-check-a-possible-third-wave/article35503089.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Parliament stalled for 4th day in a row||Parliament failed to function for the fourth day in a row following protests from the Opposition on issues ranging from the Pegasus spyware controversy to the farmers agitation. In the Rajya Sabha, Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen was suspended for the remaining part of the monsoon session for snatching and tearing the statement on Pegasus that was being read by the Minister for Electronics and Information Technology (MEITy) Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday. The motion seeking his suspension was moved by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan and was passed by a voice vote. The Opposition parties protested against the move, saying that they were not given any opportunity to respond. Trinamool MPs Derek O’Brien and Sukendu Sekhar Ray said the concerned member should have been given an opportunity to speak. Mr. O’Brien also pointed out that after the house adjourned on Thursday, Mr. Sen was roughed up. “We saw boorish behaviour and hooliganism in this house,” he said. In response, Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said this issue was not brought to his notice. Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh asked Mr. Naidu to allow for a clarification on the statement on Pegasus made by Mr. Vaishnaw. Though Mr. Sen was asked to leave the House by Mr. Naidu, he continued to remain in his seat. Amid the protests, the House was adjourned thrice as despite multiple pleas from the Deputy Chairman, Mr. Sen did not leave. In fact, he remained seated inside the House even after the adjournments. His picture was circulated to all entry gates of the House with directions to the marshals that he should not be allowed inside. Convention dictates that no business can be transacted till the suspended member is removed from the House. Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah berated the House for disruptions in past three days. “The moot question is who would benefit from a dysfunctional Parliament? Certainly, not the country and it’s people,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parliament-stalled-for-4th-day-in-a-row/article35502639.ece
24 July 2021||Mumbai,||Four dead, seven hurt in Govandi building collapse||Four people died and seven others were injured when a single-storey house collapsed in Govandi in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai early on Friday morning. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the incident occurred at 4.58 a.m. in Shivaji nagar area of Govandi. In all, 11 injured people were rushed to Rajawadi and Sion hospitals. “On receiving information in the morning, seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade, and personnel of the police and other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation,” a BMC official said. The deceased were confirmed as Neha Parvez Shaikh, (35, declared brought dead), Mokar Zabir Shaikh, (80, declared brought dead), Shamshad Shaikh, (45, declared dead) and Farin Shaikh (22). The four injured are Parvez Shaikh (50), Amina Shaikh (60), Amol Dhadei (38), and Samol Singh (25) who are admitted to Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar. Three others — Moh. Faizel Qureshi (21), Namra Qureshi (17), and Shahina Qureshi (26) — who are being treated at Sion hospital, are reported to be stable. A fire brigade official said in the evening that 15 people have been pulled out of the debris so far and rescue operation is under way. Series of tragedies Friday’s incident comes within a week after 32 people died following landslides in different parts of Mumbai. Since June 2021, four incidents of house and house wall collapse have resulted in the death of 13 people.    (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-dead-seven-hurt-in-govandi-building-collapse/article35503112.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Schools remain closed, but tutorials are thriving||While schools have remained closed since the start of the pandemic, many private tutorial centres have already resumed functioning in Bengaluru. The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has learnt that some of them are operating without following safety protocols or enforcing COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The matter came up for discussion on Friday at a meeting held by the government-appointed committee that met to discuss the reopening of schools. Committee members urged the government to take action against such centres. Incidentally, while private schools have taken a financial hit due to the pandemic, private tutorials have started seeing an uptick in business. With work-from-home still the preferred choice, and students attending online classes, many parents are signing their children up for private tuitions. “My son and daughter were getting too distracted with online learning, and were unable to grasp concepts last academic year. My work hours are stretched as it is, and it is impossible for me to step in and help them. I did not want them at a disadvantage this year, too, so I decided to enrol them in private tutorials near my house,” said a mother who lives in Malleswaram. With restrictions eased, students attend physical classes, the strength of which ranges from small groups of five to as many as 50 children in one batch. Some other parents, who are worried about their children contracting COVID-19 if they attend tutorials, are engaging teachers for their children who come and teach in their homes. The duration of these classes ranges from two to six hours a day depending on which standard they are in. Many class X children have already started preparing for the board examination by seeking additional private tuitions. D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, who is also the member of the committee alleged that tutorials were not following any of SOPs while conducting classes. “When schools are not allowed to remain open, how can tutorials be opened ? In fact, in these classes, students do not maintain physical distance and do not wear masks. Even if one student in a class has COVID-19, the others will be at risk,” he said, adding that while teachers may be vaccinated, the students may bear the brunt. Although the Karnataka TutorialInstitutions (Registration and Regulation) Rules, 2001, under the Karnataka Education Act,stipulates basic rules to run private tutorials including mandatory registration, officials say monitoring by the department is extremely poor. V. Anbukumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction said that the public could complain to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) who would initiate action against tutorials. “We have not given any private tuitions permission to function,” he said. No decision on reopening The Department of Public Instruction has yet to take a decision on when schools can resume physical classes. Officials said they will take a call on this next week. The government-appointed committee submitted an interim report where it has recommended that lower primary classes should resume from August 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-remain-closed-but-tutorials-are-thriving/article35502686.ece
24 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu opens new innings as chief of Punjab Congress||Navjot Singh Sidhu, the newly-appointed president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, on Friday formally took charge at a ceremony, with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who had expressed his displeasure at Mr. Sidhu’s elevation, joining the event and congratulating him. On July 18, Mr. Sidhu was elevated as State party chief along with four working presidents by the All India Congress Committee. Capt. Amarinder had been maintaining that he will not meet Mr. Sidhu until the latter publicly apologises for his personal derogatory social media attacks against him. However, he met Mr. Sidhu during a ‘tea’ hosted by him, even though Mr. Sidhu didn’t tender any public apology, ahead of the official function where Mr. Sidhu took charge of the party affairs. At the event, Capt. Amarinder congratulated the new PCC team, including Mr. Sidhu. He said “We will now move together in politics. We have to think and work towards welfare of Punjab... not just Punjab but the country. Punjab shares a long border with Pakistan... China, Pakistan and now Taliban in Afghanistan, they will all come and sit at Kashmir’s border, Punjab’s border. We need people together.” Addressing the gathering, Mr. Sidhu said the purpose of his post was to resolve the issues of people. “The Congress is united... today, all workers in Punjab Congress have become party chief, and there’s no difference between a leader and workers. My aim is to work towards giving the power of people back to them. I’ll work towards the fulfilment of the party’s 18-point agenda,” he asserted. “The agitating farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi, protesting teachers, doctors with problems, securing justice in sacrilege cases, catching the big fish involved in drugs trade etc. are the real issues,” he said, adding that he cared only about the welfare of Punjab. “Punjab will win, Punjabis will win,” he stressed. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal was quick to hit out at the Congress. “Was this a coronation or a vote of no confidence by @INCPunjab against its own govt, proposed by the old president and seconded by the new? With 6 months to poll in Punjab, did anyone hear any Congressman sounding proud of their govt? All one heard was a non-performance song,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-opens-new-innings-as-chief-of-punjab-congress/article35502797.ece
24 July 2021||YADGIR,||Heavy discharge from Narayanpur dam||Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited officials have discharged a heavy amount water into the Krishna river course from Basavasagar Reservoir at Narayanpur in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district owing to huge quantum of inflow at the reservoir. 3.07 lakh cusecs According to official information, they discharged 3.07 lakh cusecs of water into the river when inflow at the dam was 2.45 lakh cusecs. Water storage in the reservoir stood at 490.42 metres against full reservoir level of 492.25 metres. Caution The district administration has cautioned residents in villages on the riverbanks not to venture into the river for any reasons. Threat to bridge Meanwhile, the bridge between Kollur and Huvinadagi villages on the border of Yadgir and Raichur districts is facing the threat of submergence under the Krishna waters. Earlier, the total inflow into the Krishna at the inter-State border in Belagavi was measured at 1.15 lakh cusecs, according to sources said. However, inflow into the Krishna increased along the way and the inflow into the Narayanpur Dam also went up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-discharge-from-narayanpur-dam/article35502924.ece
24 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu opens new innings as chief of Punjab Congress||Navjot Singh Sidhu, the newly-appointed president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, on Friday formally took charge at a ceremony, with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who had expressed his displeasure at Mr. Sidhu’s elevation, joining the event and congratulating him. On July 18, Mr. Sidhu was elevated as State party chief along with four working presidents by the All India Congress Committee. Capt. Amarinder had been maintaining that he will not meet Mr. Sidhu until the latter publicly apologises for his personal derogatory social media attacks against him. However, he met Mr. Sidhu during a ‘tea’ hosted by him, even though Mr. Sidhu didn’t tender any public apology, ahead of the official function where Mr. Sidhu took charge of the party affairs. At the event, Capt. Amarinder congratulated the new PCC team, including Mr. Sidhu. He said “... we will now move together in politics..We have to think and work towards welfare of Punjab... not just Punjab but the country... Punjab shares a long border with Pakistan... China, Pakistan and now Taliban in Afghanistan, they will all come and sit at Kashmir’s border, Punjab’s border...We need people together.” Addressing the gathering, Mr. Sidhu said the purpose of his post was to resolve the issues of people. “The Congress is united... today, all workers in Punjab Congress have become party chief, and there’s no difference between a leader and workers.. My aim is to work towards giving the power of people back to them. I’ll work towards the fulfilment of the party’s 18-point agenda,” he asserted. “The agitating farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi, protesting teachers, doctors with problems, securing justice in sacrilege cases, catching the big fish involved in drugs trade etc. are the real issues,” he said, adding that he cared only about the welfare of Punjab. “Punjab will win, Punjabis will win,” he stressed. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal was quick to hit out at the Congress. “Was this a coronation or a vote of no confidence by @INCPunjab against its own govt, proposed by the old president and seconded by the new? With 6 months to poll in Punjab, did anyone hear any Congressman sounding proud of their govt? All one heard was a non-performance song,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-opens-new-innings-as-chief-of-punjab-congress/article35503165.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Seven killed as two cars collide on Srisailam highway||Seven persons, including a woman and a teenager, were killed and another person suffered injuries after two car collided head-on on the Hyderabad-Srisailam highway near Chennaram gate in Nagarkurnool district on Friday evening. Inspector General of Police and in-charge DIG (Hyderabad and Nizamabad Ranges) N. Shiva Shankar Reddy told The Hindu that the accident took place around 6.30 p.m. between Hajipur and Dindi after a over speeding Toyota Etios car crashed into a Ford Figo coming in the opposite direction. “Etios car, which was travelling towards Srisailam from Hyderabad, was speeding in the wrong direction and crashed into another car coming in the right path. Figo car was going towards the State capital from Srisailam,” Mr. Reddy said. Four-four passengers were travelling in each car. “All four passengers, including a woman, travelling in the Ford Figo died and three in the Etois died on the spot. Another person travelling in the latter vehicle suffered severe injuries and was rushed to a nearby hospital,” he said. The victims in Ford Figo were identified as Vamshi, Venkatesh, and another person who is yet to be identified, all aged between 20 and 30 years and the injured person was Naresh kumar. While victims in Toyoto Etios were Shiva Kumar, Murthy, Subbalaxmi and a 15-year-old boy. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the road accident. The Chief Minister inquired about the accident from local MLA Guvvala Balraj and has instructed him to shift the injured to the nearest hospital. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered condolences to those who lost their loved ones in the accident. In a tweet, he said: May the injured recover at the earliest. From PMNRF, an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each will be given to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-killed-as-cars-collide-on-srisailam-highway/article35502939.ece
24 July 2021||Hassan,||Heavy rains lash Malnad; Tunga, Bhadra in spate||The heavy rains that continued to lash many parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Hassan districts resulted in loss of life and damage to property on Friday. A farmer died in Chikkamagaluru, while many houses and vast tracts of agricultural fields were flooded across three districts. The emergency response teams were busy rescuing people stranded in their houses due to heavy flooding. Basave Gowda, 65, of Kyathanabeedu in Lakhya hobli of Chikkamagaluru taluk, died when a wall of his cattle shed collapsed on Friday morning. One of his bullocks also died. The incident occurred when he was untying the bullocks. People were stranded at Shettykoppa in N.R. Pura taluk as their localities were flooded. The Chikkamagaluru district administration rescued nine persons, including a four-month baby. A joint operation by the Fire and Emergency Services, the police, Forest Department, and Revenue officials successfully rescued three men, five women, and the baby. Tunga and Bhadra rivers are in spate. The Hebbale bridge on the road connecting Kalasa and Horanadu was submerged. Similarly, the bridge on Shivamogga-Mangaluru road near Shivarajapura was also inundated. The Bakravalli bridge in Malasavara Gram panchayat of Sakleshpur taluk collapsed, affecting the movement of the people. Several residential localities in Sagar, Tirthahalli, and Hosanagar towns in Shivamogga district were flooded, forcing the residents to remain indoors. Vehicular movement was hit badly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rains-lash-malnad-tunga-bhadra-in-spate/article35503118.ece
24 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Rain continues to lash the Nilgiris||With rain continuing to pound the Nilgiris, the district administration has stepped up contingency measures to prevent loss of lives. District Collector J. Innocent Divya told reporters two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had been dispatched to the Nilgiris. One team would be stationed in Udhagamandalam and the other in Gudalur. Officials from the State Highway Department said trees had got uprooted along many places along Udhagamandalam-Gudalur road, and an earth mover was being used to clear fallen trees to restore traffic flow. A few minor landslips were also reported, but there was no major blockage of traffic. Heavy rainfall was recorded in Pandalur and Avalanche, with both regions receiving more than 150 mm of rain over a 24-hour period till Friday morning. Gudalur, Devala, Naduvattam, Kundah and Upper Bhavani also recorded heavy rainfall. The district administration stated that an average of 58.62 mm of rain was recorded across the district. The Collector said some residents from Gudalur and Kundah had been housed at temporary relief shelters as they were thought to be at risk from landslips, flooding or falling trees. “Village administrative officers have also been instructed to advise people living in damaged houses to move to relief camps,” said Ms. Divya. The Ponnani River in Gudalur was also in spate due to the heavy rain, and inter-departmental teams from the district administration were monitoring the situation closely, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-rain-pounds-the-nilgiris-two-ndrf-teams-to-arrive/article35502777.ece
24 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,||Jayalalithaa University not required||Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi on Friday said that the previous AIADMK government had, for namesake, announced the establishment of Jayalalithaa University in Villupuram during the fag end of its tenure without taking any practical steps for its functioning. Talking to reporters at the end of a review meeting here, he said there was no need for Jayalalithaa University. The previous government had announced the decision in a hurry, and the institution remained non-functional. He termed as baseless and unwarranted the allegation of the AIADMK that the present government was trying to scuttle the formation of the university. He pointed out how the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had shifted the new Assembly complex, which was brought into existence by DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi. “This was the culture of the AIADMK. We are not like that and our decision to develop Annamalai University into an affiliating university is practically designed and would be beneficial to faculty, staff, and students from the four districts,” the Minister said. Mr. Ponmudi said that there was already a Fisheries University named after Jayalalithaa in Nagapattinam district. He said that Annamalai University was a renowned institution in the State, having a large parcel of land measuring around 1,000 acres and other infrastructure. To develop it into an affiliating university will not be financially challenging, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayalalithaa-university-is-not-required-says-ponmudi/article35502762.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Catching the solitary tune||A documentary shot by a sound engineering student of M.G.R. Government Film and Television Institute here has thrown light on a 63-year-old solitary folk music artiste, who has been playing the ‘kinnaram’, a traditional string instrument, for about 50 years. Sound Mani, the final-year student, chanced upon the artiste, Arunachalam Ayya, of Nandhavanam near Kunnathur in Tiruppur district, when he was busy pooling funds to help out traditional music artistes across Tamil Nadu during the COVID-19 lockdown. “It was a coincidence that I came to know about Arunachalam Ayya and his kinnaram. Kinnaram is a wonderful instrument made from a type of ‘surakkai’ (bottle guard/calabash) from the neighbourhood garden...,” Mr. Mani, a native of Erode, says in a conversation with The Hindu . Inspired by the rich tradition behind ‘kinnaram’, Mr. Mani decided to shoot a series of documentaries on the subject. “I have shot a 16-minute documentary on Arunachalam Ayya and a 22-minute one which only captures one of his songs about the story of Kovalan and Kannagi from the Tamil epic Silappathikaram .” ‘Kinnaram’, a single string instrument, is among a few folk art forms in its final stages, says Mr. Mani in his opening remarks in the documentary. Just like many others, Arunachalam Ayya, who is playing this instrument as the third-generation artiste, struggles to make ends meet, and has no one in the family to pass it on. Minister’s support The student approached Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Thangam Thennarasu after getting to know about the Minister’s interest in Tamil Nadu’s art forms. At a simple event held at the Secretariat, the Minister released the documentary earlier this month. Cut off from the modern world and going without a mobile phone, the artiste is getting used to the attention he has been receiving after the documentary came out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/catching-the-solitary-tune/article35502868.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||One dose of vaccine for all soon, says CM||The State’s attempt is to deliver at least one dose of vaccine to its entire eligible population as fast as possible so that in the event of a third wave, people will be protected from serious disease and death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, he said it was up to the community as a whole to prevent the third wave through the strict maintenance of COVID-19 protocols. Given the high transmissibility of the delta variant, which is currently circulating in the State, preventing gatherings, especially indoor gatherings, is a key activity to reduce disease transmission. He claimed that vaccine distribution was being efficiently carried out. Population-wise, 35.51% had received at least one dose of the vaccine, while 14.94% had received both doses. In those above 18 years, over 50% had received at least one dose of vaccine. Mr. Vijayan said that given the number of people who had derived immunity from natural infection and those who had vaccine-derived immunity, the State should be able to cover the vaccination target of at least 70% soon so that herd immunity could be achieved. He said that people with comorbidities should ensure that their treatment was not disrupted because the impact of COVID-19 could result in serious illness in them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dose-of-vaccine-for-all-soon-says-cm/article35502995.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Oppn. walkout over tree-felling issue||The United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition legislators walked out of the Assembly on Friday after Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran turned down their demand for a judicial probe into the illegal felling of centuries-old protected trees in the State. Caught in the Opposition’s cross hairs for the second consecutive day after the UDF members had demanded his resignation for allegedly shielding a sex offender on Thursday, Mr. Saseendran fended off pointed questions that appeared to put the government in a spot over the tree felling controversy. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan, who led the walkout, accused the government of orchestrating a forest plunder of unprecedented proportions. Going by the official estimates, trees worth Rs. 14 crore were cut in Wayanad alone. There have been reports of much greater loots from as many as nine districts that could run to several hundreds of crores of rupees. The contentious government order, issued by the Revenue Department on October 24, 2020, turned out to be a ‘licence’ for mass logging, The government is now hell-bent on protecting the guilty at the expense of poor farmers and tribespeople, he alleged. The Forest Minister retorted by accusing the Opposition of attempting to create a smokescreen for political gains, despite the government adopting all possible steps to unravel the scam through a comprehensive probe by a special investigation team that comprised officials of the Home, Forest and Vigilance departments. “No effort will be spared to punish those responsible for such nefarious activities. Political considerations will not influence the government’s probe in any manner,” Mr. Saseendran said. Replying to questions on the issue, he informed the House that two officials who were posted at the Lakkidi forest check post in Wayanad – a section forest officer and a beat forest officer – have already been suspended for alleged lapses in failing to prevent the smuggling of the rosewood logs axed from Muttil. Among the 49 cases registered in the incident, the trees were found to have been cut from revenue Pattaya land in 47 cases. Efforts were on to identify the source in the other two cases. Having been unable to prove their ownership, the government submitted in its counter-affidavit at the Kerala High Court that the timber could have been from the natural forests, the Minister said. Wrong interpretation Responding to questions by Sunny Joseph, Roji M. John and Eldose P. Kunnapillil, Mr. Saseendran said the Revenue Department’s order of October 24, 2020, paved way for a wrong interpretation of policies followed by the Forest Department. Despite receiving the government order two weeks later, the department had not issued directions to forest circle heads and divisional forest officers to implement the guidelines.  There have been reports of much greater loots from nine districts that could run to several hundreds of crores of rupees. V.D. Satheesan Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-walkout-over-tree-felling-issue/article35502999.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Schools to reopen for 2021-22 academic year on August 16||Schools in the State will reopen for the 2021-22 academic year on August 16, the government announced on Friday. The decision to reopen schools was taken at a meeting of the School Education Department, chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Jagan said the government would also come out with detailed guidelines on August 16 on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020. Nadu-Nedu works On the same day, Mr. Jagan would dedicate to the people the government schools refurbished under the first phase of Nadu-Nedu programme and also launch the second phase works. The Chief Minister said the Nadu-Nedu programme was designed to transform government schools into robust institutions with lively atmosphere to get the children interested in their classroom lessons and other activities carried out on the school premises. He directed the officials to ensure that there was no room for corruption in the works allotted under this school infrastructure development drive. The State plans to take up classification of schools into six categories from pre-primary-1 to Class 12 as per the NEP, he said and directed the officials to create awareness on the need to shift to the NEP. “There should be no scope for any doubts or apprehensions,” said the Chief Minister and informed that the government would spend Rs. 16,000 crore for implementation of the NEP-2020 to rejuvenate the education system. The officials informed him that marks were being awarded to Class 10 students who were declared pass in 2020 and 2021, as the final examinations could not be conducted owing to the COVID pandemic. Grades would be awarded based on the marks, they said. Facelift Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said more than 15000 schools in the State were given facelift under the first phase of Nadu-Nedu and under the second phase, infrastructure facilities in 16,000 schools would be developed. He said school kits under Jagananna Vidya Kanuka programme would also be distributed to the children on the day the schools reopen. Minister for Women and Child Welfare T. Vanitha, Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar; Finance Department Chief Secretary S.S. Rawat; Secretary Satyanarayana; Director of Women and Child Welfare Department Kritika Shukla; Commissioner, School Education V. Chinaveerabhadrudu; Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi; Adviser, School Education, A. Murali and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-in-state-to-reopen-on-august-16/article35502632.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,||‘No data indicating rise in child marriages’||Union Minister for Women and Child Development, Smriti Irani, has stated that there is no credible data available to indicate the rising number of child marriages during COVID-19 in various States, including Tamil Nadu. Policy changes needed Child rights activists claim that more policy changes and empowering of village/ward level child welfare committees are needed to prevent child marriages. Ms. Irani was answering a question by MPs Jual Oram and D. Ravikumar on whether the cases of child marriages were on the rise in several States. The MPs wanted to know if there was any action plan to prevent child marriages. Responding to them, the Minister pointed out that Statewide data was available on the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) website. She clarified that no credible data was available to indicate the rising number of child marriages during the COVID-19 pandemic in different States, including Tamil Nadu. The Minister explained that the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 was in place and that the government had been carrying out awareness programmes in States and Union Territories to highlight the evil effects of the practice. She explained the schemes of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme in which discouraging child marriage was a focus area. She mentioned the role of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in preventing child marriages and that of Childline -1098 to reach children in crisis and provide necessary assistance to prevent child marriage in co-ordination with the police, child marriage prohibition officers and District Child Protection Units (DCPU) Action taken Meanwhile, child rights activists in Tamil Nadu claimed that the DCPUs had stopped many child marriages in the State during the pandemic. “The case reflects on the NCRB data only when legal action is taken in the incident. However, District Social Welfare Officers, who are designated district child marriage prohibition officer, will have data on child marriages stopped in their districts. Even Childline 1098 which receives distress calls will have details,” said Andrew Sesuraj, convener, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch (TNCRW). A Devaneyan, child rights activist, said that if many marriages had been stopped, many more would have taken place discreetly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-data-indicating-rise-in-child-marriages/article35502775.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||All Inter students declared ‘pass’||All Intermediate final year students in the State have been declared “pass” and promoted. At a press conference, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh released the results for Intermediate second year for the academic year 2021, and said a total of 5,19,797 students in the State had passed the exam. Though the practical exams were conducted in compliance with COVID guidelines from March 31 to April 24, the theory exams scheduled from May 5 to May 23 were cancelled as per the directions of the Supreme Court. The Minister said the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) had completed the task of preparing the final results a week ahead of the deadline of July 31, given by the court. In compliance with the court order, the Board constituted a committee under the chairmanship of former civil servant Chaya Ratan to evolve a policy for tabulation of the Intermediate marks. The committee, after examining the assessments followed by the different State government Boards, CISCE (ICSE) and CBSE for a fair and unbiased assessment of the students, submitted its report. Explaining about the evaluation criteria, Mr. Suresh said the marks obtained by the second year regular students in their SSC (10th Class) and their first year Intermediate marks were taken as basis for awarding the theory marks in the second (final) year. A 30% weightage was given to the students’ marks in three best subjects in the SSC and 70% weightage to their scored in all subjects in the first year of Intermediate course. He said students who were not satisfied with these results would be given a chance to write a betterment exam. The students could download their marks memos from the BIE website bie.ap.gov.in from 5 p.m. on July 26. If the students had any complaints, they could forward a mail toourbieap@gmail.comor send a message to WhatsApp number 9391282578. SSC results Informing that the 10th Class results would be announced next week, Mr. Suresh said the SSC Board would take into account the grades scored by the students in Science, Mathematics and Social Studies. Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, BIE Secretary V. Ramakrishna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-intermediate-students-declared-pass/article35502630.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kashmiris among snooping targets||News and opinion website The Wire on Friday reported that Delhi-based Kashmiri journalists, a prominent civil society activist critical of the official policy towards Jammu and Kashmir and over 25 people from Kashmir were selected as potential targets of surveillance between 2017 and mid-2019 by an as yet unidentified government agency that was also believed to be a client of the NSO Group of Israel. According to The Wire report, the names include separatist leader Bilal Lone and the late S.A.R. Geelani, whose phones were forensically analysed by it. “For the other potential targets in Kashmir, it was not possible, for one reason or another, to conduct forensic analysis. As The Wire and its media partners have noted, the appearance of a number in the leaked database does not necessarily mean that the phone in question had been infected, but it does mean that the phone number was likely selected for potential surveillance,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kashmiris-among-snooping-targets/article35502636.ece
24 July 2021||JAMMU,||Drone with explosives shot down||A drone (unmanned aerial vehicle) with explosives was shot down in Jammu’s Akhnoor sector on Friday and the tying material used “resembles the ones found with the payloads dropped” on the technical airport at the Air Force Station, Jammu, on June 27 that left two IAF personnel injured. “There was a specific input that the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) was planning to drop a payload by a drone near Akhnoor. Around 1 a.m., the police spotted the drone and shot it down. Around 5 kg of improvised explosive device (IED) material was attached to it,” Additional Director General of Police, Jammu, Mukesh Singh said. The IED, the police said, was to be picked up by militants or their supporters on this side of the International Border. GPS The IED, which could be detonated by connecting a few wires, was attached to a wing of the hexacopter (having six wings). It was fitted with both a flight controller and a GPS. The drone was more than six km inside the IB. “The drone is an assembled one, with its parts manufactured in Taiwan and Hong Kong. The threads recovered were the same as that of those used to drop the payloads at the Air Force Station, Jammu. It seems the JeM has assembled many drones with the same series. The serial number of the flight controller found on the drone on Friday is just one digit different from the one that was shot down at Akhnoor recently,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drone-with-explosives-shot-down/article35502637.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Transport Department asks Ola to stop services||The Transport Department has served a notice to ride sharing aggregator Ola directing it to stop operations. Department officials claim that the licence granted to the aggregator under the ‘Karnataka on demandtransportation technology aggregator-rules 2016’ has lapsed and continuation of the service is against the rules. L. Hemantha Kumara, Additional Commissioner, Transport Department, and Secretary of Karnataka State Transport Authority (KSTA) told The Hindu that the licence issued to Ola had lapsed in June this year. “We had issued it to Ola to provide taxi services in June 2016, and it has expired. The aggregator has failed to renew the licence and is providing services illegally. In the notice served, we have asked them to stop operations. They can resume only after renewing the licence.” When contacted, Ola did not give an official response. However, sources in the company maintained that as per a notification issued on June 17, 2021 by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the validity of the documents related to Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, was extended. They claimed that the licence granted to the aggregator is valid till September 2021. The source also claimed that Ola has already approached the authorities concerned seeking a renewal of the licence. Drivers on edge Drivers’ unions claim that fights between the Transport Department and Ola are affecting the drivers who have attached their vehicles with the aggregator. Mr. K. Somashekar of Namma Chalakara Trade Union said, “Department officials should take action against Ola if there are some lapses on their part. Why do they target poor taxi drivers who have attached their vehicles with the aggregators by booking cases and issuing challans? Drivers are nowhere responsible if the aggregator is not complying with the rules as claimed by officials.” When asked about booking cases against taxi drivers who had attached vehicles with Ola, Mr. Kumara said, “They can provide services individually, without attaching vehicles with the aggregator.” Transport Commissioner Mr. N. Shivakumar was not available for comment. This is not the first time that Ola has faced the ire of the Transport Department. In March 2019, the department had suspended the licence for illegally providing bike taxi services. However, the suspension was revoked within a few days after some Ministers within the cabinet of then H.D. Kumaraswamy government raised objections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transport-department-asks-ola-to-stop-services/article35502687.ece
24 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Several trains cancelled||Following incessant rainfall in the ghat section of the Hubballi Division of South Western Railway, landslips were reported at two locations, one between Dudhsagar and Sonaulim and the other between Caranzol and Dudhsagar, on Friday, which consequently resulted in the cancellation and diversion of various trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/several-trains-cancelled/article35502926.ece
24 July 2021||new delhi,||Delhi HC orders police to shift LGBTQ couple to safe house, provide security||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the police to shift a LGBTQ community couple, wanting to get married but facing threats from their families, to a safe house set up by the Delhi government and provide them adequate security. Justice Mukta Gupta directed the SHO of Mayur Vihar Phase-I police station to take the duo to Kingsway Camp where a safe house has been set up for couples “whose relationship is opposed by their families or local community and khaps”. The HC also issued notices to the family members of the couple. It will hear the matter again on August 2. The couple, through advocate Utkarsh Singh, approached the HC saying they are adults and their relationship is not acceptable to their families as they belong to the LGBTQ community. Mr. Singh said the couple were assaulted by their family members after which they came to Delhi from Punjab to solemnise their marriage. In 2018, the Supreme Court had passed an order to protect couples choosing interfaith or inter-caste marriages after NGO Shakti Vahini filed a petition against “honour killings”. It had asked States to set up safe houses for such couples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-orders-police-to-shift-lgbtq-couple-to-safe-house-provide-security/article35502796.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Tata Boeing Aerospace Ltd. delivers 100th fuselage for Apache||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has expressed his willingness to support the establishment of a skilling school in the aerospace sector on the lines of the Indian School of Business (ISB) set up, and urged Boeing to consider it. Such a facility will not only provide skilled professionals to India but also across the world, he said, while speaking at the delivery of the 100th fuselage for the AH-64 Apache combat helicopter to Boeing from the Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited’s (TBAL) state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Hyderabad. He also urged Boeing to consider enhancing its research facilities in Hyderabad given the strong eco system for it here. The fuselage will be transported to Boeing’s AH-64 Apache manufacturing facility in Mesa, Arizona, USA, for integration into the final assembly line. The Minister said it was a proud moment for Telangana, and a noteworthy step in the growth of India’s aerospace and defence manufacturing. He said Hyderabad enjoyed a great reputation in aerospace and defence ecosystem and reminded how it is considered as the ‘Missile Hub’ of the country due to the presence of numerous defence research centres of the government sector for several decades. He said the Ministry of Civil Aviation also recognised Telangana as the best State with the most progressive outlook with regard to the aviation sector. President, Boeing India, Salil Gupte said that Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited was an example of Boeing’s commitment towards Atmanirbhar Bharat and the co-development of integrated systems in aerospace and defence not just for India, but for the world. “We have quadrupled our sourcing from India in the past two years to more than $1 billion. Skilled talent, robust infrastructure, ease of doing business, and a highly responsive government administration make Telangana an ideal destination for the high-end manufacturing work that the aerospace and defence industry demands,” he said. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL), Sukaran Singh said that the achievement of 100th fuselage delivery for AH-64 within three years of the facility being operational reflects their strong ability to industrialise and ramp up complex aerospace programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tata-boeing-aerospace-ltd-delivers-100th-apache-fuselage/article35502977.ece
24 July 2021||Hassan,||Trains cancelled||The heavy rains has forced the Mysuru division of South Western Railway to cancel train services. Tracks at many locations between Sagar Jambagaru and Talaguppa stations are submerged. The Talaguppa-Mysuru train (06228) was fully cancelled on Friday. The Bengaluru-Talaguppa Express (06529) was stopped in Shivamogga, and the journey between Shivamogga and Talaguppa was cancelled. The Talaguppa-Bengaluru Express (06530) has been cancelled between Talaguppa and Shivamogga on Saturday, according to a press release by Manjunath Kanamadi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Mysuru division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trains-cancelled/article35503119.ece
24 July 2021||Mumbai,||Orders of sessions court judge valid: ASG||Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh has said the orders passed by a sessions court judge were valid, in response to a plea filed in the Bombay High Court by the accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The plea said Pune sessions court judge K.D. Wadane, who denied the accused default bail, was not authorised to do so. Mr. Singh, representing the National Investigation Agency, made the statement before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar. He said the orders taking cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet and granting an extension to the Pune police for filing the charge sheet were valid. He said that there wasn’t a valid bail application filed by the accused within the stipulated period of time mentioned in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/orders-of-sessions-court-judge-valid-asg/article35503110.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Amazon, Flipkart lose case||E-commerce majors Amazon and Flipkart on Friday lost their legal battle before the High Court of Karnataka against the Competition Commission of India’s order to conduct an investigation into whether they had entered into anti-competitive agreements in violation of the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002. After losing their first round of legal battle before a single judge, the companies filed appeals before a Division Bench challenging the CCI’s February 2020 order and the order passed by a single judge in June. However, the Division Bench on Friday declined to interfere with the CCI’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amazon-flipkart-lose-case-in-hc-again/article35502682.ece
24 July 2021||Vijayawada,||Flood level in Godavari rising||Water level in Godavari river is rising at Bhadrachalam and the water level may touch 43 feet, the first warning level, by Saturday. Owing to heavy downpour in the catchment areas, many tributaries and streams are in spate, Central Water Commission officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-level-in-godavari-rising/article35503214.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds NGT ban on firecrackers||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a challenge to a National Green Tribunal (NGT) ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during the COVID-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region (NCR) and all cities and towns where the ambient air quality is in the poor or above categories. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said it did not require a report by the Indian Institute of Technology to know that firecrackers were bad for the lungs. The court reminded the petitioners, mostly firecracker manufacturers who said the ban was an impediment to their livelihoods, that the world was in the middle of a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-upholds-ngt-ban-on-firecrackers/article35502795.ece
24 July 2021||Guwahati,||Home delivery of liquor begins in Guwahati||Online sale and home delivery of liquor has come into effect in areas within the Guwahati Municipal Corporation following a notification by Excise Principal Secretary Rajesh Prasad on Friday. The facility, which may be extended to other areas of the State, has been provided to avoid overcrowding and to facilitate social distancing norms in terms of COVID-19 guidelines, the order said. The online sale is also envisaged to curb consumption of illicit liquor. An official statement on Friday said eligible retailers have been asked to register on an app developed solely for online sale. They will have to furnish a copy of the valid licence, location of the premises, list of delivery agents with name, address, phone number, photograph, and other details before they can begin sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-delivery-of-liquor-begins-in-guwahati/article35503059.ece
24 July 2021||Belagavi,||Caution sounded on the banks of the Malaprabha||Officials have issued a warning to farmers and fishermen on the banks of the Malaprabha, saying that water from the Renuka Sagar Dam may be released any time, as the impounded water in the dam is reaching the full reservoir level. Water stood at 2,069 feet against the full reservoir level of 2,079 feet in the dam. Inflow was measured at over 33,000 cusecs, while outflow may go up to around 20,000 cusecs, officials said. The total impounded water is 28.42 tmcft against the dam’s capacity of 37.73 tmcft. Meanwhile, Maharashtra opened the gates of the Koyna Dam to release around 20,000 cusecs of water into the Koyna river course, a tributary of the Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caution-sounded-on-the-banks-of-the-malaprabha/article35502920.ece
24 July 2021||Belagavi,||NH flooded||Parts of Belagavi-Kolhapur National Highway were closed due to heavy rain on Friday. The police began diverting buses and other vehicles away from the Yamagarani Check-post after the national highway was flooded near Nippani and Sankeshwar. The police deployed personnel at Hirebagewadi and Hattargi toll nakas to divert vehicles. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi requested officers in Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Haveri and Dharwad not to send vehicles towards Maharashtra via Belagavi. Mr. Nimbaragi said that traffic was being diverted via Hosapete-Vijayapura and Hubballi-Vijayapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nh-flooded/article35502921.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds NGT ban on firecrackers||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a challenge to a National Green Tribunal (NGT) ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during the COVID-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region (NCR) and all cities and towns where the ambient air quality is in the poor or above categories. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said it did not require a report by the Indian Institute of Technology to know that firecrackers were bad for the lungs. The court reminded the petitioners, mostly firecracker manufacturers who said the ban was an impediment to their livelihoods, that the world was in the middle of a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-upholds-ngt-ban-on-firecrackers/article35503164.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Carrying nation’s hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/carrying-nations-hopes/article35503230.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa reviews flood situation in six districts||In the wake of heavy rains across the state, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday reviewed the situation in six flood-ravaged districts of Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru and Dharwad and instructed the respective Deputy Commissioners and other officials to work round the clock and take all precautionary steps predicting rainfall and floods for the next 48 hours. The Chief Minister instructed officials to shift people located in flood-hit villages to safer places immediately. They have been told deploy NDRF and SDRF teams to districts which require them. Leave Officials have been instructed not to go on leave and submit proposals to the government if they need any financial aid to undertake relief measures. Officials have also been directed to keep ready helicopters and open relief centres immediately in flood-hit districts. Earlier in the day, Mr Yediyurappa tweeted, “I direct all district in-charge ministers and MLAs to be present in their respective districts and constituencies to oversee rescue and relief efforts being carried out by district administrations.” With rise in water level in the Krishna, the Chief Minister spoke to the Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi district and directed the official to shift people and domestic animals residing in villages situated on banks of the river, to safer places. Mr. Yediyurappa on Tuesday reviewed the flood situation in 13 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-asks-mlas-ministers-to-monitor-flood-situation/article35502711.ece
24 July 2021||Erode,||Flood alert in Erode||With water level nearing 100 feet at the Bhavanisagar Dam and the inflow continuing to be over 14,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs), a flood alert has been issued to people living on the banks of River Bhavani in Erode district on Friday. Officials at the Water Resources Department said that at noon, the water level stood at 97.50 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The inflow was 14,938 cusecs while the discharge was 800 cusecs in Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs in River Bhavani. Storage The storage was 26.817 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. The officials said the water level could reach 100 feet in 48 hours after which the entire inflow would be discharged into River Bhavani. “People living along the river and in low-lying areas should move to safer places and the Revenue and Police department were asked to take steps,” an official said. As per flood regulation norms, the quantum of water that could be stored in the dam every month is specified: 100 feet in June and July, 102 feet from August to October and 105 feet in November and December. “Since discharge from Pilloor Reservoir in Coimbatore district to River Bhavani was 12,000 cusecs and rain in catchment areas is continuing, the inflow continues to be over 14,000 cusecs throughout the day,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-alert-in-erode/article35502866.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,||CM moots measures for non-resident Tamils||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday sought to expedite the formation of a “Non- Resident Tamils Welfare Department” and “Non-Resident Tamils Welfare Board” to help those living abroad and provide livelihood support to those who returned under the “ Thalainimirum Tamizhagam ” initiative. An official release said the Chief Minister held a meeting to review various activities, including the rehabilitation of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees, welfare of non-resident Tamils and welfare of ex-servicemen. He said a steering committee should be set up to address the problems of Sri Lankan Tamils and improve their living conditions and facilities provided to those living in camps, including drinking water, toilets, street lights, electricity and also increase the monthly financial assistance. Free cooking gas connection and skill development training would be provided to them. At the meeting, a proposal was mooted to extend insurance schemes, identity cards and toll-free telephone assistance centres to non-resident Tamils and also set up a Tamil Internet Education Institute to teach Tamil online to children of these groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-moots-a-slew-of-proposals-for-non-resident-tamils/article35502764.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Revival sees rise in extreme rainfall events||Amid the monsoon’s revival since the second week of July, rainfall has seen significant variation across the country. Several parts of the western Konkan coast and the southern peninsula were seeing instances of extreme rainfall. According to IMD data on the regional distribution, the South Peninsula has seen 29% more rain than normal from June 1 to July 23.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revival-sees-rise-in-extreme-rainfall-events/article35502393.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bountiful!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bountiful/article35502634.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||NGT asks KRMB to visit RLIS worksite||The Southern Zone Bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to visit the worksite of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) to assess whether the work going on there was for preparation of the detailed project report or more than that and submit a report by August 9. According to the information reaching here and according to the petitioner G. Srinivas, the counsel appearing for the river board had taken to the tribunal’s notice that Andhra Pradesh government did not allow its team to visit the worksite. A.P.’s objections Quoting his counsel, the petitioner said the tribunal has set aside the objections of A.P. on the KRMB team’s visit to the RLIS worksite and the tribunal has ordered the river board to visit the worksite on its own and submit a report. Meanwhile, the Telangana government has submitted to the tribunal that it was ready to arrange a helicopter on its expenditure so that the river board’s team could visit the worksite. Recently, an expert appraisal committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forests has deferred the A.P.’s proposal seeking environmental clearance to the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme and sought wide range of information on the existing and future schemes based on the water availability in the river, including hydro-power projects, as envisaged in an approved master plan of the river developments. The expert committee also sought, status of other similar water lifting projects in the region/neighbouring States along with status of environmental clearance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-asks-krmb-to-visit-rlis-worksite/article35502635.ece
24 July 2021||MYSURU,||‘BSY had only a 2-year tenure’||BJP MP for Chamarajanagar V. Srinivas Prasad on Friday claimed that the party high command had given B.S. Yediyurappa only a two-year tenure as Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters in Chamarajanagar, he said the party had a policy against appointing persons above 75 years for key posts, which was applicable to even party leaders such as L.K. Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi. But, when the BJP gained a majority in Karnataka in 2019, Mr. Yediyurappa was given an opportunity under “extraordinary” circumstances to become the CM for two years. The two years had now been completed and Mr. Yediyurappa had conducted himself as per the agreement he had with the party high command, Mr. Prasad said. Mr. Prasad came down on the campaign by seers. “The swamiji’s are not super high command,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsy-had-only-a-2-year-tenure/article35503120.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,||No vendetta behind searches, says Minister||Minister for Law S. Reghupathy on Friday said that the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) had not carried out the searches on the premises of former Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar out of vendetta. Mr. Reghupathy told reporters here that when filed, the chargesheet would prove that there was no vendetta behind the searches. The search was based on inquiries and information collected. Raids would not be conducted against anyone if there was no information, he said. Mr. Reghupathy said his party leader and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had no intention in carrying out raids out of political vendetta. Chief Minister Stalin was a political leader who wished to take the Opposition parties along, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-vendetta-behind-searches-says-minister/article35502774.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||CM inspects roads taken up for development||Amid speculation on his future as Chief Minister, B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the key portfolio of Bengaluru Development, on Friday inspected some of the roads and junctions taken up for development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-inspects-roads-taken-up-for-development/article35502684.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Minister’ quits during farmers’ parliament||On the second day of the ‘Farmers’ Parliament’ at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, the ‘Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ tendered his resignation after he “couldn’t meet eyes of the farmers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-quits-during-farmers-parliament/article35502798.ece
24 July 2021||new delhi,||‘Filed preliminary report on Jaipur Golden deaths’||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said the report submitted by the Delhi government to the High Court in May, which said that 21 deaths in Jaipur Golden Hospital were not due to oxygen shortage, was a “preliminary report”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/filed-preliminary-report-on-jaipur-golden-deaths/article35502800.ece
24 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Released Manipur scribe to move SC against NSA||Manipur journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem, released after more than two months in jail, said he was considering petitioning the Supreme Court for scrapping the National Security Act. His petition against the sedition law is pending in SC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/released-manipur-scribe-to-move-sc-against-nsa/article35503060.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Mamata is chairperson of TMC in Parliament||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was unanimously chosen chairperson of the Trinamool Congress’ Parliamentary party, placing her in a pivotal position to coordinate with the other opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-is-chairperson-of-tmc-in-parliament/article35503064.ece
24 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 6,753 new cases||Fresh COVID-19 recoveries in Maharashtra dipped again to 5,979, while the State reported 6,753 new cases on Friday, pushing the active case tally to 94,769. As many as 167 deaths took the total toll to 1,31,205, with the case fatality rate rising to 2.09%. Pune recorded 1,144 new cases and 12 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-6753-new-cases/article35503107.ece
24 July 2021||Mumbai,||State to join Climate Group’s EV100 drive||Weeks after unveiling its electronic vehicle (EV) policy, the Maharashtra government on Friday announced its decision to become the first State in the country to join hands with Climate Group’s EV100 campaign. It aims to make electric transport the new normal by 2030.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-join-climate-groups-ev100-drive/article35503108.ece
24 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘No need to submit report on Swamy’s death’||The National Investigation Agency and the Maharashtra government on Friday said there was no need for the magistrate’s report into the factors that led to Father Stan Swamy’s death to be submitted before the Bombay High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-to-submit-report-on-swamys-death/article35503109.ece
24 July 2021||KALABURAGI,||Battu Satyanarayana is Central University V-C||Battu Satyanarayana, professor (retd), Osmania University, Hyderabad, has been appointed Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Karnataka. President Ramnath Kovind, who is Visitor to Central University, on Thursday, appointed Prof. Satyanara- yana as per Statute 2 of the Central Universities Act 2009 for a term of five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/battu-satyanarayana-is-central-university-v-c/article35502922.ece
24 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Missing youths traced||Six youths from Hubballi who had gone missing near the Shirle Falls in Uttara Kannada district were traced on Friday morning. The youths from Navanagar in Hubballi went missing on Thursday and the incident came to light after their two-wheelers were found parked by the roadside outside Shirle village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/missing-youths-traced/article35502925.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||At farmers’ parliament, ‘minister’ quits over bills||On the second day of the ‘Farmers Parliament’ at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, the ‘Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ tendered his resignation after he “couldn’t meet eyes of the farmers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-farmers-parliament-minister-quits-over-bills/article35503166.ece
24 July 2021||new delhi,||‘Filed preliminary report on Jaipur Golden deaths’||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said the report submitted by the Delhi government to the High Court in May, which said that 21 deaths in Jaipur Golden Hospital were not due to oxygen shortage, was a “preliminary report”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/filed-preliminary-report-on-jaipur-golden-deaths/article35503167.ece
24 July 2021||Kolkata,||Row over communal profiling of Class XII topper||Girls have outnumbered boys in the West Bengal Class XII board exams, results for which have been declared, even as a row erupted over the communal profiling of the topper. Announcing the results, West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education president Mahua Das, had said a girl student had registered the highest mark. However, while celebrating her achievement, the council president went on to mention the girl’s religion at least thrice. The alleged “communal profiling” of the student did not go well with different sections of society. West Bengal Imam’s Association on Friday issued a strong statement demanding the resignation of Ms. Das. The topper, a student of Kandi Raja Manindra Chandra Girls High School, Murshidabad, secured 499 out of 500 marks. In all, 7.77 lakh students were evaluated for the higher secondary exams. Of these, 4.29 lakh (50.59%) were girls, and 3.51 lakh (49.41%) boys. In the West Bengal Board of Secondary Examination too 5.53 lakh girls took the Class X examination compared to 4.44 lakh boys. The divide is stark in the West Bengal High Madrasah Examination, where 36,914 girls enrolled for the examination, compared to just 15,850 boys. The West Bengal Madrasah Board is a separate one where all subjects including science, mathematics, social science and languages are taught along with one optional paper of Arabic or Islamic Studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-communal-profiling-of-class-xii-topper/article35503062.ece
24 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Will speed up Ram temple: BSP||In a bid to woo the dominant and influential Brahmin community ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Friday promised to expedite the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya if it came to power with a full majority. The BSP’s national general secretary and its Brahmin face Satish Chandra Mishra launched a fresh outreach programme for the community from Ayodhya where the Ram temple is being constructed. It must be noted that the BSP identifies itself as an Ambedkarite party and while in power constructed parks, memorials and statues of Dalit and Backward Caste icons. “When we form a full majority government in 2022, I would like to assure you that the lakhs and crores of rupees they have hoarded but are not putting to use to build a temple for bhagwan Shri Ram, we will compel them to build a grand temple,” Mr. Mishra said. At a public meeting of the prabudh varg, or enlightened class, aimed at the Brahmins, Mr. Mishra questioned the slow speed of the construction of the Ram Mandir, the foundation stone for which was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, 2020. Mr. Mishra, virtually the second-in-command in the BSP, said even the foundation block of the temple was not yet complete.“Nobody knows when they will complete the temple. How many years more will it take,” he asked at the gathering of Brahmins. Ms. Mayawati recently reminded the Brahmins to emulate the Dalits and remain firm in voting for the BSP, without falling for any lure or temptation by other parties particularly the BJP. She also outlined that her 2022 campaign would heavily rely on the prospects of consolidating the sizeable Dalit votes and the Brahmins. The BSP has often claimed that this formula had led to Ms. Mayawati’s phenomenal majority win in 2007. At the public meeting, Mr. Mishra reiterated the BSP chief’s remarks. He urged the Brahmins to “come together and showcase your strength” if they wanted to emerge as the descendants of Lord Parshuram and Chanakya, considered icons of aggression and strategy by the community. If the Brahmins built a “brotherhood” with the Dalits, the two communities alone could come together as a strong force in the State, Mr. Mishra said. Deeper aim Not just the Brahmin vote, the deeper aim of such meetings appears to be an attempt to cash in on the capability of the community to influence other castes given the hierarchical social setup in the State. While talking to reporters after praying to Lord Ram at the makeshift Ram Janmabhoomi temple and at the Hanumangarhi temple and completing rituals at Saryu Ghat with his family, Mr. Mishra hinted at this goal. “And you know that when the Brahmin comes, people of sarv samaj also come,” Mr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-speed-up-ram-temple-bsp/article35502802.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rise in extreme rainfall events||Amid the revival of monsoon since the second week of July, there has been a significant variation in rainfall across the country. Several parts of the western Konkan coast and the southern peninsula were seeing instances of extreme rainfall. According to the India Meteorological Department data on the regional distribution, the ‘South Peninsula’ has seen 29% more rain than normal during the period June1-July 23. In the same period, northwest and central India have seen a 10% and 2% deficit respectively and northeast India a 14% deficit, though this region has a higher base rainfall than other regions. Mahabaleshwar in western Maharashtra reported over 60cm of rainfall in the past 24 hours (Thursday morning to Friday morning) which “exceeded its all-time record”, the IMD said. From Friday morning to 5.30 p.m., it recorded 18 cm. Torrential rain over the Konkan coast was likely to continue for the rest of the week due to the position of the monsoon trough, the agency added. According to the IMD’s district-wise rainfall data for Maharashtra, except for five districts, all the other 31 got “large excess rains”. July and August are the most important monsoon months, contributing over two-thirds of the seasonal rainfall, and central India as well as the south peninsula are expected to see most of the rainfall. However, climate scientists have warned that monsoon patterns overall have been changing. The frequency and strength of cyclones over the Arabian Sea has increased in the past two decades. There is a 52% increase in the frequency of cyclones over Arabian Sea from 2001 to 2019 and 8% decrease over the Bay of Bengal compared with the period 1982-2002, when historically most cyclones have been in the Bay of Bengal, according to a study published this month in Climate Dynamics . Even the duration of these cyclones has increased by 80%. More cyclones were bringing in more moisture from the Arabian Sea and contributing to extreme rainfall events. Roxy Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune and among the authors of that study, tweeted that it was important to monitor and better forecast these events. “The ongoing monsoon floods across India is unprecedented, but not unexpected. We already see a threshold rise in widespread extreme rains that cause floods across India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rise-in-extreme-rainfall-events/article35502329.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Timeline not fixed to vaccinate all: govt.||Vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, and therefore, a fixed timeline cannot be given for the completion of the COVID-19 immunisation drive, but those above 18 years of age are expected to be vaccinated by December 2021, the Health Ministry informed the Lok Sabha on Friday in a written reply. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi was one of two MPs who had asked if all adults would be fully vaccinated by December 2021, sought information on the availability of vaccines, and other related questions. Trinamool Congress’s Mala Roy was the other MP with the same queries. The Minister of State for Health, Bharati Pravin Pawar, said that between August and December 2021, a total of 135 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines are expected to be available, and asserted that there had been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with domestic vaccine manufacturers. Advance payments had also been made to manufacturers for the supply orders placed with them. Dr. Pawar also informed the House that Rs. 9,725.15 crore had been spent so far on the COVID-19 vaccination programme, including on the procurement of vaccines and the operational cost for vaccination. “COVID-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being guided by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of concurrent scientific evidence. In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of COVID-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of vaccination drive. However, it is expected that beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021,” the Minister stated in her reply. ‘Among the fastest’ In a statement laid on the Table of the Lower House, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya noted that as on July 20, 2021 a total of 32.64 crore persons had received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, of which 8.55 crore persons had completed the two dose schedule. He added that as on July 20, 2021, a total of 34.83 crore doses had been supplied free of cost by the Government of India to States/Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/timeline-not-fixed-to-vaccinate-all-govt/article35502341.ece
24 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Navjot Sidhu opens new innings as the chief of Punjab Congress||Navjot Singh Sidhu, the newly-appointed president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, on Friday formally took charge at a ceremony, with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who had expressed his displeasure at Mr. Sidhu’s elevation, joining the event and congratulating him. On July 18, Mr. Sidhu was elevated as State party chief along with four working presidents by the All India Congress Committee. Capt. Amarinder had been maintaining that he will not meet Mr. Sidhu until the latter publicly apologises for his personal derogatory social media attacks against him. However, he met Mr. Sidhu during a ‘tea’ hosted by him, even though Mr. Sidhu didn’t tender any public apology, ahead of the official function where Mr. Sidhu took charge of the party affairs. At the event, Capt. Amarinder congratulated the new PCC team, including Mr. Sidhu. He said “... we will now move together in politics..We have to think and work towards welfare of Punjab... not just Punjab but the country... Punjab shares a long border with Pakistan... China, Pakistan and now Taliban in Afghanistan, they will all come and sit at Kashmir’s border, Punjab’s border...We need people together.” Addressing the gathering, Mr. Sidhu said the purpose of his post was to resolve the issues of people. “The Congress is united... today, all workers in Punjab Congress have become party chief, and there’s no difference between a leader and workers.. My aim is to work towards giving the power of people back to them. I’ll work towards the fulfilment of the party’s 18-point agenda,” he asserted. “The agitating farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi, protesting teachers, doctors with problems, securing justice in sacrilege cases, catching the big fish involved in drugs trade etc. are the real issues,” he said, adding that he cared only about the welfare of Punjab. “Punjab will win, Punjabis will win,” he stressed. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal was quick to hit out at the Congress. “Was this a coronation or a vote of no confidence by @INCPunjab against its own govt, proposed by the old president and seconded by the new? With 6 months to poll in Punjab, did anyone hear any Congressman sounding proud of their govt? All one heard was a non-performance song,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navjot-sidhu-opens-new-innings-as-the-chief-of-punjab-congress/article35502323.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul accuses Modi and Shah of treason||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday demanded the resignation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and a judicial inquiry by the Supreme Court against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for ‘using’ the Pegasus spyware. Addressing journalists outside the Parliament complex, he claimed that he was not a potential target but “every single phone of his is definitely tapped”. He asserted, “I get phone calls from the IB [Intelligence Bureau] people who tap my phone. They call me up and say beware we are tapping you. My security people tell me that they have to debrief what I say to their seniors”. He, however, added that only those who were “thieves or corrupt will get scared of Narendra Modi”. He said, “Pegasus is classified by the Israeli State as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The Prime Minister and the Home Minister have used this weapon against the Indian State. They have used it politically, they have used it in Karnataka, they have used to scuttle probes, they have used it against the Supreme Court, against all the institutions. The only word for this is treason. There is no other word for this and the Home Minister should resign”. Talking about alleged tapping of his phone, he stated that it was not just about breach of his privacy but an attack on the people whose voices he raised. He accused the government of using the spyware against the Supreme Court as well as former CBI Director [Alok Verma] when a case was about to be registered in the Rafale deal. “I have said very clearly that there has been gross theft in Rafale. For whatever reason, none of you people supported me. But truth has a way of coming out. There is an inquiry in France and the Prime Minister himself is responsible for corruption in Rafale,” he said. “The real question is: why on the last minute when the CBI Director was about to file an FIR, why was his phone tapped and why was he blackmailed? And who did it? That’s the real question,” he remarked. The press conference followed protests by Opposition members, including the Congress, DMK and the Shiv Sena over the Pegasus issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-accuses-modi-shah-of-treason/article35502316.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Road ahead is daunting: Manmohan||The 1991 economic reforms lifted millions out of poverty, unleashed the spirit of free enterprises, and catapulted India into a $3 trillion economy, but the road ahead is even more daunting than the 1991 crisis, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said on Friday. To mark the 30th anniversary of economic liberalisation and the opening up of the Indian economy on July 24, Dr. Singh issued a statement in which he recalled the achievements, but also expressed his pain at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of lives and livelihoods. The country needs to recalibrate its priorities to a dignified life for all Indians, he said. “It gives us immense joy to look back with pride at the tremendous economic progress made by our nation in the last three decades. But I am also deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of millions of fellow Indians. The social sectors of health and education have lagged behind and not kept pace with our economic progress. Too many lives and livelihoods have been lost that should not have been,” Dr. Singh said. “It is not a time to rejoice and exult but to introspect and ponder. The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis. Our priorities as a nation need to be recalibrated to foremost ensure a healthy and dignified life for every single Indian,” he added. Dr. Singh, who as Finance Minister to the late former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao had unveiled a slew of reforms in 1991, talked about progress since the opening up of the economy. Desire to prosper “Over the last three decades, successive governments have followed this path to catapult our nation to a $3 trillion economy and into the league of the world’s largest economies. More importantly, nearly 300 million fellow Indians have been lifted out of poverty in this period and hundreds of millions of new jobs have been provided for our youth,” he said. The former Prime Minister said that although liberalisation was triggered by an economic crisis, it was also built on “the desire to prosper, the belief in our capabilities, and the confidence to relinquish control of the economy by the government”. The liberalisation process helped in the making of some world-class companies, and India has emerged as a global power in many sectors, he said. “I was fortunate to play a role in this reform process along with several of my colleagues in the Congress party,” Dr. Singh noted. Recalling his Budget speech, Dr. Singh said, “As Finance Minister in 1991, I ended my Budget speech by quoting Victor Hugo,‘no power on Earth can stop an idea whose time has come’. Thirty years later, as a nation, we must remember Robert Frost’s poem, ‘But I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/road-ahead-is-daunting-manmohan/article35502334.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ten-fold rise in NSCS budget: Bhushan||The Budget allocation for the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) increased 10 times from Rs. 33.17 crore in 2016-17 to Rs. 333.58 crore in 2017-18, said senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Friday. Mr. Bhushan alleged that it was the year when the NSO Group of Israel, which has developed the Pegasus spyware, was paid hundreds of crores for snooping on several eminent individuals’ phones. He tweeted, “In 2016-17, NSA’s budget was Rs 33.17 crs. Next year the budget increased 10x to 333 crores because 300 Crores was added under new head 'cyber security R&D'. This is the year when NSO was paid 100s of Crs for Cyber hacking of Opp, Journos, Judges, EC, Activists using Pegasus! Wow”. By NSA, Mr. Bhushan seems to be referring to the National Security Advisor whose Budget comes under the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS). According to the Expenditure Budget statements for the relevant years, the allocation for the NSCS first shot up 10-fold in 2017-18, but actual spending was less than double the previous year. Shot up by 13 times However, in the following financial year, before the May 2019 general election, the spending by the NSCS shot up by over 13 times from the 2017-18 levels, to well over Rs. 800 crore. The allocation for 2016-17 was indeed Rs. 33.17 crore, which was later revised to Rs. 81.03 crore. However, the actual spending was Rs. 39.09 crore. In 2017-18, the allocation surged to Rs. 333.58 crore, but revised estimates put the likely spending at Rs. 168 crore. The actual expenditure was Rs. 61.18 crore. It was only in 2018-19 that the actual expenditure on this front shot up significantly. That year, Rs. 303.83 crore was allocated for meeting the ‘administrative expenses’. However, revised estimates presented later were much higher at Rs. 841.73 crore. While the original Budget allocation was earmarked as revenue expenditure, as per the revised estimates, only Rs. 125.84 crore was for revenue spending, with the balance Rs. 715.89 crore reflected as capital expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ten-fold-rise-in-nscs-budget-bhushan/article35502349.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Gatekeeper Model’ mooted to prevent suicides in prisons||In a bid to prevent suicides triggered by mental health issues in prisons across the country, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, has recommended the “Gatekeeper Model” where selected inmates, trained to identify prisoners at risk of suicide, would refer them to treatment or supportive services. Acting on the request of the Ministry of Home Affairs, NIMHANS, an Institute of National Importance, issued a set of guidelines on the management of mental health issues of the prisoners and prison staff. Referring to the Bangalore Prison Mental Health Study, the advisory pointed to the prevalence of mental illness and substance use disorder in about 80% of the prison population. NIMHANS experts said prisoners with mental disorders had to be regularly assessed for severity of suicidal risk and also put on regular and supervised medication. To address the prisoner’s mental health needs, the correctional facility should have links to community-based initiatives like the District Mental Health Programme. “Buddy system” The advisory said the concept of a ‘Buddy System’ — social support through trained prisoners called “buddies” or “listeners” — was found to have a good impact on the well-being of suicidal prisoners. Periodic telephone conversations with friends and family would also foster support, it said. These initiatives were part of several other recommendations made by NIMHANS to effectively manage mental health issues among prisoners and staff. Communicating the guidelines to all States, the MHA said the COVID-19 virus had posed unique challenges to the world and prisons and correctional facilities were also affected by the pandemic. Though appropriate measures were taken by the authorities to check the spread of the virus in prisons, there was a need to continue monitoring the situation rigorously without letting the guard down and provide care to inmates and prison staff. Emphasising on the mental health of prisoners, the Ministry said incarcerated people could face many vulnerabilities during the pandemic, which might impact their mental wellbeing. The prison staff was also working under tremendous pressure and faced challenges in performing their duty while safeguarding themselves from contracting the infection. In Tamil Nadu, Director-General of Police, Prison & Correctional Services, Sunil Kumar Singh said 58 mobile phones were purchased for prisoners to make video calls to their family members in lieu of the physical interviews that were temporarily suspended in view of the pandemic.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the helpline number 104.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gatekeeper-model-mooted-to-prevent-suicides-in-prisons/article35502353.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘India committed to climate action plan’||India will focus on implementing its “ambitious plans” through concrete actions domestically as well as globally via collaborations, such as the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, said Bhupender Yadav, Environment Minister, on the concluding day of the G20 Energy and Climate Joint Ministerial Meeting held on Friday at Naples, Italy. He attended the event virtually, leading an Indian delegation that included representatives from the Environment Ministry as well as from the Power Ministry. According to a statement from the Press Information Bureau, the Minister stressed that common but differentiated responsibilities to combat climate change, “as per respective capabilities and national circumstances” were at the heart of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the Paris Agreement. “We should not be shifting goalposts and setting new benchmarks for global climate ambition,” Mr. Yadav said. He added that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India had exhibited exemplary resolve by achieving its pre-2020 voluntary commitment of reducing emission intensity. The G20 climate meeting is seen as a prelude to the United Nations Conference of Parties meeting in Glasgow, Scotland in November. Mr. Yadav stated that India remains steadfast in its commitments to join and lead efforts to combat climate change within the multilaterally agreed convention and its Paris Agreement. India’s commitments include establishing a 450 GW (giga watt) of renewable energy by 2030, enhanced ambition in bio-fuels, India’s NDCs (nationally determined contributions), and initiatives taken on Urban Climate Action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-committed-to-climate-action-plan/article35502621.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds NGT ban on firecrackers||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a challenge to a National Green Tribunal (NGT) ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during the COVID-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region (NCR) and all cities and towns where the ambient air quality is in the poor or above categories. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said it did not require a report by the Indian Institute of Technology to know that firecrackers were bad for the lungs. The court reminded the petitioners, mostly firecracker manufacturers who said the ban was an impediment to their livelihoods, that the world was in the middle of a pandemic. The NGT had noted in its December 2020 order that only green crackers would be permitted for Christmas and New Year – between 11:55 pm and 12:30 am – in areas where the ambient air quality was in the moderate or below categories. District magistrates were directed to ensure that firecrackers were not sold and violators would have to pay compensation. The Tribunal said that the “right to business is not absolute. There is no right to violate air quality and noise level norms”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-upholds-ngt-ban-on-firecrackers/article35502351.ece
24 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘No need to submit report on Stan Swamy’s death before HC’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Maharashtra government on Friday said there was no need for the magistrate’s report into the factors that led to Father Stan Swamy’s death to be submitted before the Bombay High Court. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, for the NIA, told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar that since Swamy’s appeal (challenging NIA court’s rejection of his bail) was abated, there was no question of having a report in this appeal. He argued that every appeal as per the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) shall abate on the death of the accused, provided the appeal was against the sentence or conviction. Public prosecutor Aruna Pai agreed with Mr Singh. The Bench said, “If the appeal goes, everything goes, nothing remains.” Senior advocate Mihir Desai, for Swamy, told the court that he was invoking constitutional jurisdiction of the High Court. He said it may not be in the strict sense of the appeal, but it was in supervisory jurisdiction. The court told him to send his written submissions on this and that they would ponder over it, and adjourned the matter on August 4. Mr. Desai sought an investigation into the factors that led to Swamy’s death under sections 176 of the CrPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-need-to-submit-report-on-stan-swamys-death-before-hc/article35502355.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) MP moves privilege motion against Law Minister||Communist Party of India-Marxist MP John Brittas moved a privilege motion against the Law Minister Kiren Rijiju for a misleading reply to a question raised by him on the filling up of vacancies in the High Courts. Mr. Brittas in a starred question in the Rajya Sabha had asked the Law Minister to provide details of the number of High Court judges recommended by the Supreme Court collegium for appointment during the last one year, and how many of these recommendations had been implemented. In response, Mr. Rijiju informed the house that out of 80 recommendations by the SC collegium between July 1 2020 to July 15, 2021, only 45 of had been appointed as judges and the remaining were “under various stages of processing”. The Minister had pointed out that filling up vacancies in the higher judiciary was a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the Executive and the Judiciary, requiring consultation and approval from Constitutional authorities at the State as well as Central level. No timeline could be given for filling up the vacancies, he had said. Mr. Brittas in a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the reply given by the Minister was “in contravention of the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court”. The apex court has said, “If the Supreme Court collegium after consideration of the aforesaid inputs, still reiterates the recommendation(s) unanimously, such appointments should be processed and appointment should be made within 3 to 4 weeks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-mp-moves-privilege-motion-against-law-minister/article35502318.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army to use jammers to protect forward bases from drone attacks||The Army is procuring jammers in large numbers and expanding the range of the existing ones to protect large military bases in forward areas from drone attacks, a senior defence official said. Also with ceasefire holding along the Line of Control (LoC), both India and Pakistan are using the peace to upgrade their defences on the border, officials said. “We were cognisant of the threat from drones for sometime. To cover forward bases, we are getting bigger jammers, including from the Defence Research and Development Organisation and an Indian company in Hyderabad,” one official said. “We are working to expand the range of our jammers while also importing additional ones.” Stating that several measures were being put in place, officials said. To begin with, the sentries posted along the installations were more alert now and on the lookout for possible presence of drones. “Drone and quadcopter threat is now a reality,” a second official noted. There have been several instances in the last couple of years where quadcopters were used to drop drugs, arms and ammunition from across the border in Jammu and Punjab. However, the June 27 attack on Jammu air base is the first instance where small drones were used to drop explosives. Ceasefire holding There has been no violation by Pakistan since the commitment by both sides in February to observe the ceasefire along the LoC and other areas. However there were two infiltration attempts recently. With no firing at all, both sides are using the peace to upgrade their defences. Restoration work on the existing border fence, called the Anti-Infiltration Obstacle System, is under way, the second official explained. Over the years, the Army has significantly improved its electronic surveillance along the LoC to check infiltration and, after some delays, work is under way to convert the existing border fence into a smart fence integrated with several sensors. In the past few months, some terror camps along the LoC have been reactivated and there has been some probing and infiltration attempts, one of the officials said. But there has been no overt support by Pakistan Army to the terrorists, the official said. There have also been surveillance inputs on several occasions of movement of terrorists close to the LoC, though there have been no attempts to infiltrate. All indices of violence are down and overall there is a 40% reduction, one of the official said. “However, local recruitment remains a worry. Operations are going on in the valley and terrorists are being neutralised.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-use-jammers-to-protect-forward-bases-from-drone-attacks/article35502327.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||HC quashes notice to Twitter India MD||The Karnataka High Court on Friday quashed the notice issued to Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari by the Uttar Pradesh police seeking his personal appearance as part of its probe into a communally sensitive video uploaded by a user on Twitter platform, saying it was mala fide. The single Bench of Justice G. Narendar said that the notice under Section 41(A) of the CrPC should be treated as under Section 160 of CrPC, allowing Ghaziabad police to question Mr. Maheshwari through virtual mode, at his office or his residential address in Bengaluru. Maintaining that the provisions of the statute under Section 41(A) CrPC should not be permitted to become “tools of harassment”, Justice Narendar said Ghaziabad police did not place any material which would demonstrate even the prima facie involvement of the petitioner, though the hearing has been going on for the past several days. “In the background of the fact that Section 41(a) notice was issued by mala fide, the writ petition (filed by Maheshwari seeking quashing) is maintainable. Accordingly, the notice under section Annexure A notice shall be read as Section 160 of the CrPC,” the court said. “The action of the respondent (Ghaziabad police) trying to invoke section 41(A) of the CrPC gives no doubt in the mind of court that the same has been resorted to as an arm-twisting method as the petitioner refused to heed to the notice under Section 160 of the CrPC,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-notice-to-twitter-india-md/article35502805.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||HC quashes notice to Twitter India MD||The Karnataka High Court on Friday quashed the notice issued to Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari by the Uttar Pradesh police seeking his personal appearance as part of its probe into a communally sensitive video uploaded by a user on Twitter platform, saying it was mala fide. The single Bench of Justice G. Narendar said that the notice under Section 41(A) of the CrPC should be treated as under Section 160 of CrPC, allowing Ghaziabad police to question Mr. Maheshwari through virtual mode, at his office or his residential address in Bengaluru. Maintaining that the provisions of the statute under Section 41(A) CrPC should not be permitted to become “tools of harassment”, Justice Narendar said Ghaziabad police did not place any material which would demonstrate even the prima facie involvement of the petitioner, though the hearing has been going on for the past several days. “In the background of the fact that Section 41(a) notice was issued by mala fide, the writ petition (filed by Maheshwari seeking quashing) is maintainable. Accordingly, the notice under section Annexure A notice shall be read as Section 160 of the CrPC,” the court said. “The action of the respondent (Ghaziabad police) trying to invoke section 41(A) of the CrPC gives no doubt in the mind of court that the same has been resorted to as an arm-twisting method as the petitioner refused to heed to the notice under Section 160 of the CrPC,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-notice-to-twitter-india-md/article35503169.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Left MPs oppose move for Bill on civil code||Left MPs moved a motion objecting to the introduction of a private member’s Bill seeking a uniform civil code, saying such legislation would damage the communal harmony. BJP MP Kirodi Lal Meena has proposed the Bill. CPI(M) MPs Elamaram Kareem and V. Sivadasan, along with CPI MP Binoy Viswam, moved the motion. The Bill could not be tabled on Friday since the Rajya Sabha failed to function for the fourth straight day. Mr. Kareem, in his letter to Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, said the subject of uniform civil code needed wider consultation and discussion before legislation could be brought in. “The manner in which such a Bill is intended to be introduced by a member in a hasty manner without consultations is not acceptable,” he noted. Mr. Viswam said in his letter to Mr. Naidu that the demand for a uniform civil code had a complicated and polarising history that dated back to Independence. “An examination of the Bill clearly indicates its ulterior agenda, given that it selectively chooses to highlight inequalities in one religion, while conveniently ignoring those in others,” he stated. Given the extensive diversity of religion, cultures and traditions that govern these areas of customary law, all reforms must not only do justice but must appear to be just as well, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-mps-oppose-move-for-bill-on-civil-code/article35502311.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||60 killed as rain pounds western Maharashtra||Six persons were killed in Kevnale in Poladpur taluk. Thirteen injured persons were undergoing treatment at hospitals in Poladpur and Mahad. Expressing anguish at the loss of lives caused by the Raigad landslide, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs. 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased from the PM’s National Relief Fund. A sum of Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured, the PMO said. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected,” Mr Modi tweeted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and said the Centre would extend all possible help to the State government to deal with the situation. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party meanwhile blamed the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government for apathy and tardiness in rescue operations. “When we reached here in the morning, neither the local administration, nor any NDRF team was in sight… This government seems to be utterly callous to the fate of its people,” said BJP Leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar, who reached the accident spot along with fellow BJP leader Girish Mahajan. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who held an emergency meeting to review the situation in the Konkan, assured that rescue operations were proceeding speedily and that the government’s priority was to save lives at any cost. He said rescue teams were facing enormous problems as in several places, roads had been utterly damaged or washed away by the floodwaters or rockfalls, especially in villages and hamlets in the mountainous tracts. “Unfortunately, in Taliye, more than 30 persons have lost their lives in a landslide…now, heavy downpours have begun in Nagpur in Vidarbha as well. Our priority is to ensure that there is no loss of life. NDRF, Coastguard, SDRF and local teams have been mobilized on a war footing in the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Thackeray said. State Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar claimed that local authorities had moved the people in Taliye to a safe place a few days back after rains had intensified. “However, when the waters had receded, these people moved back to their original homes,” Mr. Wadettiwar said. Meanwhile, there were reports of eight people killed in landslide in Satara district while 17 others are said to be trapped in a similar incident in Birmani village in Ratnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-killed-as-rain-pounds-western-maharashtra/article35502312.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Minister’ quits during mock parliament session||On the second day of the ‘Farmers Parliament’ at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, the ‘Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ tendered his resignation after he “couldn’t meet eyes of the farmers”. At the mock Parliament just a short distance from the Parliament building, Ranveer Singh Brar of the Bhartiya Kisan Union–Kadian, pretended to be Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and attended to the questions raised by other protesters who took on the roles of MPs. “I was made the minister only for one day and as the minister, I had to resign as I had no answers to the questions the farmers were asking me. I couldn’t look them in the eye,” said Mr Brar, adding that the demands made by the farmers are legitimate which is why the minister had to resign — at least in this session of mock parliament. Mr Brar said Mr Tomar also hailed from a farming family with a humble background and added that when people attain positions of power, they forget where they come from. On taking on the role of the minister, Mr Brar said, “Whenever I was asked a question, I would change the topic. If the farmer would ask me about the laws, I would talk to them about employment. I they would ask me about something else, I would start talking about COVID,” he said. Every answer given by the pretend-minister was received with a loud roar of “Shame” from the gathered protesters. The farmers’ parliament on Friday had 52 members who spoke and six who conducted the parliament proceedings including a speaker each from Telangana and Uttarakhand apart from Punjab. “The APMC Bypass Act brought in September 2020 should be immediately repealed by the Parliament; the Farmers' Parliament repeals this Act, and orders the Parliament to do the same,” said Hardev Arshi from All India Kisan Sabha, one of the six speakers. Responding to Union Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi’s comment calling farmers mawalis (ruffian) — which she later withdrew — Mr Arshi said, “They find the worst word in the dictionary and call us that. One of the ministers said that farmers should come to the table and talk. Will one ever call a mawali for talks? We condemn it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-farmers-parliament-minister-quits-over-farm-bills/article35502314.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Mamata is chairperson of TMC in Parliament||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was unanimously chosen as the Chairperson of the Trinamool Congress’ Parliamentary party, placing her in a pivotal position to coordinate with the other opposition parties. After TMC’s victory in West Bengal Assembly elections in May this year, the party has been positioning itself as unifier for all opposition parties, a role that the Congress as single largest opposition party has been playing so far. The Congress often finds itself constrained since it is a political opponent to many of the regional parties in different States. Party’s Rajya Sabha leader MP Derek O’Brien at a press conference in Delhi said Ms. Banerjee has been the guiding force behind the parliamentary party for a long time. “We are just formalising a reality. Our chairperson is a seven time member of Parliament. She has the vision to guide the parliamentary party. She has the experience and insight. She was anyway guiding us. The decision has been taken both at a conceptual and tactical level. She has always been a call away. We feel more empowered,” Mr. O’Brien said. Ms. Banerjee is not an MP or an MLA. In recent Assembly elections, she had lost the Nandigram seat by a slender margin to TMC rebel Suvendu Adhikari. However, there are no rules prohibiting an unelected person from leading lead a parliamentary party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-is-chairperson-of-tmc-in-parliament/article35502320.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Parliament stalled for the fourth day in a row||Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah berated the House for disruptions in past three days. “The moot question is who would benefit from a dysfunctional Parliament? Certainly, not the country and it’s people,” Mr. Naidu said. The only business that has been transacted in last three days, he said, was a debate on COVID-19. “The proceedings of the House hit a new low with the papers being snatched from the Minister and torn into pieces and thrown into the air. Such actions are a clear assault on our parliamentary democracy,” he added. The Lok Sabha was also adjourned twice on Friday due to the ongoing protests by the Opposition parties over the Pegasus spying and the farmers’ protests. As the proceedings began, on behalf of all the members, Speaker Om Birla wished the 127 Indian athletes participating in the Tokyo Olympics success. During the Question Hour, only a couple of queries could be taken up. Owing to the continued slogan-shouting by the Opposition members, the House was adjourned till noon. When the proceedings resumed, sloganeering started again and the Chair finally adjourned the House till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-stalled-for-the-fourth-day-in-a-row/article35502321.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kashmiris among snooping targets||“Others on the leaked database include at least two members of People’s Democratic party (PDP) chief and former chief minister of J&K Mehbooba Mufti’s family...their selection as potential targets of surveillance happened when Mufti was still chief minister of the erstwhile State and in a coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)...when asked if she thought there was a link, Mufti declined to comment,” it stated. J&K Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari’s brother Tariq Bukhari also appeared in the list, besides at least four members of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s family, including his son-in-law, journalist Iftikhar Gilani; and his son, scientist Syed Naseem Geelani, it noted. The current head of the Hurriyat Conference Mirwaiz Umar Farooq was a potential target of surveillance between 2017 and 2019, apart from his driver, human rights activist Waqar Bhatti and at least five Kashmiri journalists, including Muzamil Jaleel of The Indian Express , Aurangzeb Naqshbandi with The Hindustan Times at the time, Iftikhar Geelani (formerly with DNA ) and Sumir Kaul of PTI , it said. Shabir Hussain, a Delhi-based political commentator from Kashmir, was also in the list, it pointed. The Israeli firm, however, has denied that the records accessed by ‘Pegasus Project’ have anything to do with surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmiris-among-snooping-targets/article35502324.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Drone with explosives shot down in Jammu||“Around 5 kg of improvised explosive device (IED) material was attached to it,” Additional Director General of Police, Jammu, Mukesh Singh said. The IED, the police said, was to be picked up by militants or their supporters on this side of the International Border. The IED, which could be detonated by connecting a few wires, was attached to a wing of the hexacopter (having six wings). It was fitted with both a flight controller and a GPS Global Positioning System. The drone was more than six km inside the IB. “The drone is an assembled one, with its parts manufactured in Taiwan and Hong Kong. The threads recovered were the same as that of those used to drop the payloads at the Air Force Station, Jammu. It seems the JeM has assembled many drones with the same series. The serial number of the flight controller found on the drone on Friday is just one digit different from the one that was shot down at Akhnoor recently,” Mr. Singh said. Around 16 AK-47 rifles, three M-4 rifles, 34 pistols, 15 grenades, 18 IEDs and Rs. 4 lakh cash have been ferried using drones in the last one and a half years in Jammu, he added. The police have put in place an anti-drone system at several installations in Jammu, including the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drone-with-explosives-shot-down-in-jammu/article35502325.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC says secrecy of vote a must in any election||The Supreme Court on Friday held that in any election, be it to Parliament or State legislature, the maintenance of secrecy of voting is “a must”. Secrecy is a part of the fundamental right of freedom of expression. The confidentiality of choice strengthened democracy, it stated. “In direct elections to the Lok Sabha or State legislature, the maintenance of secrecy is a must and is insisted upon all over the world in democracies where direct elections are involved to ensure that a voter casts his vote without any fear or being victimised if his vote is disclosed,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah held. ‘Deal with iron hands’ Any attempt at booth-capturing or bogus voting were crimes against democracy and should be dealt with iron hands. “Booth capturing and/or bogus voting should be dealt with iron hands, because it ultimately affects the rule of law and democracy. Nobody can be permitted to dilute the right to free and fair election, the Bench observed. Democracy and free elections were a part of the Basic Structure of the Constitution, Justice Shah, who authored the judgment, noted. “An election is a mechanism which ultimately represents the will of the people. The essence of the electoral system should be to ensure freedom of voters to exercise their free choice,” he said. The court, in its judgment, confirmed the guilt and sentencing of eight men accused of using violence to snatch the voters slips and to cast bogus voting in an election in Bihar in 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-says-secrecy-of-vote-a-must-in-any-election/article35502330.ece
24 July 2021||SRINAGAR,||LeT ‘commander’ among two militants killed in J&K||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants, including a top ‘commander’, were killed in an overnight operation in Sopore in north Kashmir, the police said on Friday. “The presence of terrorists was ascertained in Warpora village during a joint cordon and search operation on Thursday night. They were given opportunities to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately. Two LeT terrorists were killed in the operation,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The police identified the slain militants as Fayaz Ahmad War, alias Rukana alias Umar, from Warpora, and Shaheen Ahmad Mir, alias Shaheen Molvi, from Cherpora in Budgam. “War was a top commander of the LeT. He had a long history of terror crime, as he was associated with terrorism since year 2008,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-commander-among-2-militants-killed-in-jk/article35502332.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||U.S. Secretary of State to visit India next week||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will travel to India next week for a two-day visit over which he will hold talks with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, the Ministry of External Affairs and the U.S. State Department announced on Friday. Mr. Blinken’s visit will be his first to New Delhi since assuming office and is expected to focus on a number of bilateral issues, as well as prepare for a Quad summit with leaders of U.S.-India-Japan-Australia in Washington D.C. later this year. “This trip will underscore the importance of our cooperation on topics like COVID-19 response efforts, shared security interests, and the climate crisis. I look forward to strengthening our important partnerships,” Mr. Blinken said in a statement, referring to his visit to India, which will be followed by a visit to Kuwait. The U.S. State Department also said the two sides will discuss U.S. and India’s “shared democratic values”. Afghan crisis Mr. Blinken’s visit is expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan and discuss possible cooperation with India as the Taliban make advances there. His visit will coincide with that of Afghanistan Army chief General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai (on July 27-30), leading to some speculation that the two visiting officials could meet while in New Delhi. The MEA said that the discussions between Mr. Blinken and the Indian leaders will focus on “regional and global issues of mutual interest — including recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, the Indo-Pacific region, Afghanistan and cooperation in the UN”.  Mr. Blinken will arrive in Delhi on Tuesday, July 27, and will hold his official meetings on Wednesday. According to the MEA’s statement, he will meet National Security Advisor Ajit Doval as well, while the U.S. State Department said he would meet with the PM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-secretary-of-state-to-visit-india-next-week/article35502336.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild expresses concern over I-T raids||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Friday expressed concern over the Income Tax raids on the offices of Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar on Thursday. “They [raids] come against the backdrop of in depth reporting on the pandemic by Dainik Bhaskar , which brought to fore the gross mismanagement by government authorities and the immense loss of human lives,” an EGI statement said. “ Bharat Samachar , too, has been subjected to raids by the tax authorities. It is one of the few channels in Uttar Pradesh that has been asking difficult questions from the State government with respect to pandemic management. Notwithstanding the merits of the case, the timing of these raids is concerning given the recent critical coverage by both the organisations,” the EGI said. “ This is all the more disturbing given the recent media reports on the wide spread surveillance of journalists and civil society activists using the Pegasus software,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-expresses-concern-over-i-t-raids/article35502337.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bond of karma||When the Lord incarnates as a human being, He is not bound by any karma or sorrow, as is with the case of all others right from Brahma to the smallest ant. Out of His Sankalpa and His yoga, He takes a human or any other form to protect the good, quell adharma, establish dharma, and restore order in the universe. His empathy for the jivatmas is clear when He chooses a human form to live among them and by example teaches them many lessons for life and salvation, pointed out Sri Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a lecture. For instance, in the Ayodhya Kanda, much valuable advice and guidance for those who wallow in sorrow is embedded in Rama’s wailing about the life of solitude in store for Him. The truth, that all are born in this samsara to expiate for their past karma, good and bad, is explained when Rama analyses Kausalya’s state. Rama feels for Kausalya on whom He has inflicted endless sorrow. At a time when she has to be looked after by her son whom she had nurtured since birth, she now only faces the pangs of separation. Even the pet myna which Kausalya rears would be more affectionate and kind than Him. Being childless would have been a better option than bringing forth such an unfortunate son as Him. He attributes Kausalya’s mental anguish to some past deeds of hers that are now bearing fruit. Maybe in her previous births she must have been the cause of separating mother from son. The effects of past actions are felt as joy and sorrow by all in the course of time. There is no escape from this bond of karma. He then proclaims that if He wishes He can win over Ayodhya single-handedly and become the ruler. But Rama restricts Himself since it is the path of adharma and will lead to further sin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bond-of-karma/article35502338.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Committed to climate action plan: Minister||India will focus on implementing its “ambitious plans” through concrete actions domestically as well as globally via collaborations, such as the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, said Bhupender Yadav, Environment Minister, on the concluding day of the G20 Energy and Climate Joint Ministerial Meeting held on Friday at Naples, Italy. He attended the event virtually, leading an Indian delegation that included representatives from the Environment Ministry as well as from the Power Ministry. According to a statement from the Press Information Bureau, the Minister stressed that common but differentiated responsibilities to combat climate change, “as per respective capabilities and national circumstances” were at the heart of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the Paris Agreement. “We should not be shifting goalposts and setting new benchmarks for global climate ambition,” Mr. Yadav said. He added that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India had exhibited exemplary resolve by achieving its pre-2020 voluntary commitment of reducing emission intensity. The G20 climate meeting is seen as a prelude to the United Nations Conference of Parties meeting in Glasgow, Scotland in November. Mr. Yadav stated that India remains steadfast in its commitments to join and lead efforts to combat climate change within the multilaterally agreed convention and its Paris Agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/committed-to-climate-action-plan-minister/article35502804.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||More time for report on Data Bill||The Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) examining the Personal Data Protection Bill was on Friday given an extension till the Winter Session of Parliament to submit its long-pending report. Five members, including the Chairperson of the committee, Meenakshi Lekhi, were inducted into the Council of Ministers in the latest round of Cabinet reshuffle in the Modi government at the Centre. Ms. Lekhi has been replaced in the JPC by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP P.P. Chaudhary. The JCP was constituted in the Lok Sabha in December 2019 and was expected to submit its report in the Budget Session. This is the fifth time the committee’s tenure has been extended. Ms. Lekhi at a press conference on Thursday claimed that the report had been submitted to the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday. Former IT Minister Ravishankar Prasad had also said in an interview to The Hindu that he had read the report of the committee. The members have maintained that the draft report has not been circulated to them so far. “How can Meenakshi Lekhi claim Personal Data Protection Bill Bill report has been submitted to Speaker Om Birla when the report has not been circulated to members much less adopted,” Congress leader Manish Tewari tweeted. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to regulate the use of an individual’s data by the government and private companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-time-for-report-on-data-bill/article35502310.ece
24 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mosque panel hands over plot in U.P.||The Gyanvapi Masjid committee in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, said it has handed over a plot of land, measuring 1,700 sq ft, in the periphery of the Kashi Vishwanath-Gyanvapi Masjid complex for the under-construction Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor project on the request of the administration in exchange for another plot. Sayid Yasin, joint secretary of the Anjuma Intejamia Masajid, the caretaker of the mosque, told The Hindu on Friday that it was done as a “goodwill gesture”, but an official of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust said it was simply an exchange of plots. In lieu of the plot, which is separate from the land on which the mosque is situated, the mosque committee received a smaller plot of 1,000 sq ft at a distance of 100 m, Mr. Yasin said. The registration was done on July 8 and it was handed over subsequently, he added. Mr. Verma said the exchange was done as per the value of the land, and not the size.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mosque-panel-hands-over-plot-in-up/article35502622.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar meets Afghan leader||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar held talks with top Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah on Friday on the overall situation in Afghanistan, amid a rise in violence there in the wake of quick withdrawal of the U.S. troops. Mr. Abdullah, the chairman of the powerful High Council for National Reconciliation, has been playing a key role in negotiating with all the stakeholders to bring lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan. It is learnt that the influential Afghan leader is in India on a private visit. “Always good to meet Chairman HCNR @DrabdullahCE. Appreciate his sentiments and support for our relationship. Value his insights on the region,” Mr. Jaishankar tweeted. Afghanistan has been witnessing terror attacks since the U.S. began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The U.S. has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31, ending its nearly two-decade military presence in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-meets-afghan-leader/article35502331.ece
24 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Dalit man beaten to death in Aligarh||A 22-year-old Dalit man was allegedly killed in a village in Aligarh by three upper caste men on suspicion of stealing a bag of wheat. The police have registered a case of murder and invoked relevant sections of the SC/ST Act against the three accused named by the family of the victim. The main accused has been arrested. According to local sources, the incident happened on Wednesday night in Nagariya Bhood village of Harduaganj town in Aligarh district. Rampal Singh, the father of the deceased, told reporters that the incident happened when his younger son Ravindra, who ran a grocery store in the village, returned from the neighbouring Jalali town. “When he was parking his motorcycle, Rajbahadur, his son Anurag Singh and nephew Shibbu entered the house and claimed that Ravindra had stolen a bag of 40 kg wheat from their house. They used casteist slurs and kept beating him until he lost consciousness,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalit-man-beaten-to-death-in-aligarh/article35502803.ece
24 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Dalit man beaten to death in Aligarh for ‘stealing wheat’||A 22-year-old Dalit man was allegedly killed in a village in Aligarh by three upper caste men on suspicion of stealing a bag of wheat. The police have registered a case of murder and invoked relevant sections of the SC/ST Act against the three accused named by the family of the victim. The main accused has been arrested. According to local sources, the incident happened on Wednesday night in Nagariya Bhood village of Harduaganj town in Aligarh district. Rampal Singh, the father of the deceased, told reporters that the incident happened when his younger son Ravindra, who ran a grocery store in the village, returned from the neighbouring Jalali town. “When he was parking his motorcycle, Rajbahadur, his son Anurag Singh and nephew Shibbu entered the house and claimed that Ravindra had stolen a bag of 40 kg wheat from their house. They used casteist slurs and kept beating him until he lost consciousness.” The victim’s elder brother alleged that his brother was killed because the assaulters suspected that he stole a bag of wheat. “Those who stole the wheat met my brother when he was going to Jalali. One of them requested him to give a lift so that they could take the wheat to a flour mill. Ravindra had no idea that he was being used,” said Prem Kishore, adding the incident happened in front of villagers but nobody intervened. Later, members of the Azad Samaj Party and Bahujan Samaj Party reached the spot and demanded action against all of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalit-man-beaten-to-death-in-aligarh-for-stealing-wheat/article35503168.ece
24 July 2021||Lucknow,||Will speed up Ram temple, BSP promises Brahmins||In a bid to woo the dominant and influential Brahmin community ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Friday promised to expedite the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya if it came to power with a full majority. The BSP’s national general secretary and its Brahmin face Satish Chandra Mishra launched a fresh outreach programme for the community from Ayodhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-speed-up-ram-temple-bsp-promises-brahmins/article35502339.ece
24 July 2021||Mumbai,||Raj Kundra moves Bombay HC seeking immediate release||Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, called his arrest for allegedly producing and circulating pornographic videos through social media “illegal” and moved the Bombay High Court on Friday seeking immediate release. He was arrested on July 19 by the Property Cell of the Mumbai Crime Branch Mr. Kundra pointed out that he wasn’t served a notice as per the Code of Criminal Procedure before he was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raj-kundra-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-immediate-release/article35502343.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||CISCE results to be declared today at 3 p.m.||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday said it will announce results for Class X and XII board examination on July 24. Chief Executive and Secretary of CISCE Gerry Arathoon said the results of ICSEand ISCexaminations will be declared at 3 p.m. The results will be published on its website, through SMS and made available to schools through the CAREERS Portal. ‘Imputed marks’ Board examinations for Class X and XII had been cancelled due to COVIDand will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy decided by the board by calculating “imputed marks”. “In the event, a candidate has objections regarding computation of marks in the result, she or he may make a written application to the school, stating the objection in detail along with reasons thereof,” the Board said. It added that schools will be required to review all such applications and only upon being satisfied with the contentions made therein, forward the same to the board along with comments and remarks endorsing the contentions made and documents supporting the opinion regarding the computation of marks. “In case the result will need to be altered, the CISCE will notify the Head of the School concerned. This dispute resolution mechanism is only for the correction of calculation errors,” Mr. Arathoon said.  The results will be published on its website, through SMS and made available to schools through the CAREERS Portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cisce-results-to-be-declared-today-at-3-pm/article35502344.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-hit AAI defers 50% of perks to staff for 6 months||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Thursday issued an internal order informing employees of deferral of 50% of perks for six months as COVID-19 has resulted in losses for the first time since its inception. The order comes into effect immediately. A 50% deduction in perks will set an employee back by 17.5% of basic pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-hit-aai-defers-50-of-perks-to-staff-for-6-months/article35502626.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. stops zonal-level COVID data updates on social media||The Greater Chennai Corporation has stopped providing zonal-level data on COVID-19 cases, recoveries and deaths, which it was releasing on a daily basis through social media platforms. Arguing that the data provided earlier was helpful, a section of academics and users of social media, who were following the data closely, have appealed to the civic body to resume releasing the information. Ever since the first wave of COVID-19, the Corporation was providing zonal-level data everyday through its social media platforms, which remained the only regular source of such data from the civic body. This data also included age group and the gender-wise breakdown of cases. However, on July 16, the civic body switched to a different reporting format, in which the zonal-level data on recoveries and deaths were removed, along with the age group and gender-wise breakdowns. Instead, the new format only had the fresh cases reported from each zone. This new format, however, was stopped two days later. Since July 19, the Corporation has not released any data on COVID-19 except for the total number of people vaccinated. The bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the State-level, which includes the overall data for the city, is the only source of information at the moment. R. Rajaraman, professor, Homi Bhabha National Institute, Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, who raised the issue on Twitter, said it was unfortunate that the Corporation chose to cut down on the zonal-level data, and appealed for the resumption of the release of at least the zonal-level cases, recoveries and deaths. T.S. Ganesan, professor, medical oncology and clinical research, Cancer Institute (WIA), another keen follower of the data, stressed on the need for such data to be easily available in the public domain. Highlighting that the data was detailed and useful, R. Shankar, honorary professor, The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, pointed out that the extent of the spread of COVID-19 varied between the city’s zones, and such granular data helped in analysing the patterns. “The data helps in informing people about the spread of COVID-19 in their respective areas,” he said. Moreover, he said it was useful for academics like himself in data analysis, which could help in understanding and tackling the pandemic better. He said he presumed that it would not be a significant effort for the Corporation to resume providing such data. Pointing out that the Corporation had been trying out different reporting formats in recent days, a senior official reiterated that they had been transparent with COVID-19 related information, and assured that the zonal-level data would be made available on a daily basis henceforth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-stops-zonal-level-covid-data-updates-on-social-media/article35502733.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shops selling banned tobacco products will be closed: Bedi||Top officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Food Safety Department and the Greater Chennai Police met traders’ representatives in the city on Friday for effective implementation of the ban on the sale of tobacco products, such as gutka, pan masala and ‘mava’. Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Food and Drug Administration Department Commissioner A. Sivagnanam and City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal participated in the meeting. Instructions were issued to traders for the effective implementation of the law under which the State had banned these products in 2013. Mr. Bedi told reporters that the meeting was held as per the instruction of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to prevent the illegal sale of the banned tobacco products. “In a phased manner, we are going to take steps to prevent transport, storage and sale in retail outlets...,” he said. Mr. Jiwal said there was no ban on chewable tobacco products in neighbouring States. “We have profiled the origin of these products from other States. They are being smuggled on vehicles carrying vegetables or other goods or on trains. We are going to tighten enforcement. We are going to propose an increase in the fines on offenders and confiscation of vehicles. Goondas Act will be invoked against main suppliers.” Mr. Bedi said around 73,000 trade licences were issued to shops in the city. Of them, at least 20,000 were grocery and tea shops, which might be used for selling these items. “We have told the traders’ representatives that small traders should not buy these products and sell them, and if they do so, their shops will be closed.” He said people could dial 1913 to pass on information on the illegal sale of tobacco products. Mr. Sivagnanam said members of the public could also dial 94440 42322 to report violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-selling-banned-tobacco-products-will-be-closed-bedi/article35502741.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh infections in State fall to 1,830||For the second time in two weeks, Chennai recorded no death due to COVID-19 on Friday. Along with Chennai, there were no fatalities in 21 districts. Chennai had earlier recorded no deaths on July 11. The city’s toll has touched 8,305. Across the State, fresh infections dropped to 1,830, taking the tally to 25,44,870. Only four districts saw over 100 fresh cases each — Coimbatore (177), Erode (135), Chennai (130) and Salem (110). The remaining 34 districts had fewer than 100 cases each. These included Chengalpattu (96), Thanjavur (98) and Tiruppur (92). The active caseload fell below 25,000 — 24,816 people are under treatment. The State had fewer than 25,000 active cases last in the first week of April, when fresh infections started soaring. Another 24 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 33,862. Of these, Coimbatore recorded four deaths, followed by Pudukottai with three. There were two deaths each in Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur. Two persons in their 30s succumbed to the infection. They included a 30-year-old man from Dharmapuri, who had systemic hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to the Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem on July 10, and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on July 21. As many as 2,516 people, including 268 in Coimbatore and 211 in Erode, were discharged after treatment from various health facilities. As many as 1,35,008 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 3,62,48,758. Over 3 lakh get jabs For the second day in a row, over three lakh people got inoculated in the State. As many as 3,27,122 people were vaccinated. They included 1,83,713 people in the 18-44 age group and 1,01,817 people in the 45-59 age group. With this, the overall inoculation coverage in government vaccination centres touched 1,91,50,418. The cumulative vaccination coverage in private centres stood at 13,52,749.  Coimbatore recorded four deaths, followed by Pudukottai with three. There were two deaths each in Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-infections-in-state-fall-to-1830/article35502752.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM: ensure transparency in registration of documents||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday instructed officials of the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department to ensure ease and transparency in the registration of property documents. He instructed the officials to achieve the revenue target. He also asked them to take steps to get the pending GST dues from the Union government. Computerisation At a meeting chaired by Mr. Stalin to review the functioning of the Department, he enquired about the computerisation of procedures and documents at Sub Registrar Offices. “Once this is completed, it will help people obtain documents online and facilitate patta transfer,” an official release said. The Chief Minister also instructed the officials to ensure the smooth functioning of the Traders’ Welfare Board and advised them to include more members in it. He asked the officials to monitor tax evasion. Mr. Stalin directed the officials to look into the complaints received in the control room set up by the Department. Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy, Finance and Human Resource Management Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials took part at the meeting.  The Chief Minister also enquired about the computerisation of procedures and documents in Sub Registrar Offices||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-ensure-transparency-in-registration-of-documents/article35502743.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diagnosed with COVID-19 in April, patient finally returns home||It took nearly 90 days for 37-year-old Naresh, a resident of Gudiyatham, to recover from multiple complications caused due to severe COVID-19. In a span of over three months, he was treated in four different hospitals, the longest stretch of hospitalisation being at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), from where he was discharged on Friday. It was during the last week of April that he tested positive for COVID-19. He had developed loose stools, fever and cough on April 24, and was admitted to a private hospital. He was discharged the next day. However, his symptoms worsened, and he was admitted to the Government Hospital, Chromepet, on May 6 with breathlessness, fever and cough. He was referred to the Tambaram Sanitorium on the same day, where he continued treatment for a month. He was oxygen dependent — 15 litres per min. But his condition continued to deteriorate, according to doctors. On June 6, he was referred to the RGGGH in a critical condition. He had developed right hydropneumothorax — accumulation of fluid and air in the pleural cavity, and a CT scan of the chest revealed Grade-4 changes, suggestive of severe COVID-19 pneumonia. An intercostal drain tube was inserted, but he continued to have multi-loculated pneumothorax, warranting multiple interventions by a team of chest physicians, cardiothoracic surgeons, anaesthetists and intensivists. “The lungs turn weak due to COVID-19. When scarring happens, air bubbles may develop in the lungs. We identified his condition immediately and did an intercostal drain tube insertion or else the lungs could collapse. We had to wait for 48 days to remove the tube as the tear was large. In the meantime, he developed a lot of infections,” said A. Mahilmaran, director, Institute of Thoracic Medicine, RGGGH. To prevent recurrence of pneumothorax, a procedure called ‘pleurodesis’ was done in which chemicals are instilled into the pleural space. As he recovered gradually, the tube was removed on July 16. He started to maintain good oxygen saturation in room air. Doctors waited for another week to run a few tests to rule out any other complications. “His recovery was slow as there were multiple complications. Once he tested negative for COVID-19, we shifted him to the pulmonology ward for continuum of care,” said E. Theranirajan, Dean of RGGGH. “We had to instill confidence in him. This was one of the toughest things,” Dr. Mahilmaran added. Mr. Naresh walked out of RGGGH on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diagnosed-with-covid-19-in-april-patient-finally-returns-home/article35502758.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flower traders in Koyambedu witness considerable sales||Flower traders at the Koyambedu market recorded considerable sales on the first Friday in the Tamil month of Aadi , which is considered to be auspicious. However, there was a steep hike in prices due to a dip in arrivals. While the market witnessed a thin crowd early in the morning, more retailers began visiting the market after 10 a.m. M. Selvakumar, a wholesale flower merchant, said many customers bought half the usual quantity as most of the flowers were costly. “We had to wait till the end of the day to sell some of the garlands. We had a sizeable number of customers visiting shops because it was the season for jasmine. But, it was only 60%-70% of the usual number of retailers,” he said. A kilogram of jasmine was sold for Rs. 400-Rs. 450. Traders noted that the market received only half the quantity of flowers on Friday. On average, about 40-50 vehicles of flowers arrive daily from various parts of Tamil Nadu and neighbouring States. A. Manoharan, a flower wholesaler, said rain during the recent weeks and lack of maintenance due to the ongoing pandemic had led to low yields. Most of the flowers were sold for a price of above Rs. 150 a kg, at least double their usual rate. While marigolds were priced up to Rs. 150 a kg, roses cost Rs. 140-Rs. 160 a kg. From this month, flower sales may pick up due to the upcoming festive season. Prices are expected to drop gradually, Mr. Manoharan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-traders-in-koyambedu-witness-considerable-sales/article35502738.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan to take stand on Vanniyar quota||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday told members of ‘Samooga Needhi Kootamaippu’, who expressed their concerns against the 10.5% separate reservations for Vanniyars within the Most Backward Class quota, that he understood their view and would announce the party’s stand on this issue soon. Earlier, in the run-up to the Assembly election, Mr. Haasan had sidestepped the question except for ambiguously stating ‘cheque will bounce if there is no money in the bank’. Mr. Haasan also said the DMK government was silent on implementing its electoral promise of a monthly stipend of Rs. 1,000 to women who were heading the family. “Women’s contribution to our economy is important. Their sacrifice, labour and dedication cannot be measured and it is not being properly acknowledged. MNM was the first party that first floated the idea of providing monthly wages to women of the household,” he said. Mr. Haasan felt the stipend would provide financial independence to those who were otherwise dependent on their husbands. “Considering the inflation, the money promised by DMK is very less. At a time when there is nothing, we have to feel contended that they are getting something. This is a small beginning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-to-take-stand-on-vanniyar-quota/article35502907.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deaths due to technical faults: Minister||The death of a few patients at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital and the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital in April and May were not due to oxygen shortage, but due to faults in the oxygen pipelines and lack of pressure, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has said. “All three incidents occurred during the AIADMK regime but were not due to oxygen shortage,” he said. He was responding to a question on AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam’s demand for a clarification on the statements made by the Chief Minister and the Minister himself on the deaths due to oxygen shortage. “There was no death due to oxygen shortage after the DMK came to power,” he said, referring to his statement made a few days ago. As for Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s letter to the Prime Minister on May 7, Mr. Subramanian said Mr. Stalin wrote that “the availability of oxygen in Tamil Nadu is very critical, and there was an unfortunate incident of 13 deaths at Chengalpattu two days ago.” “The letter was written on May 7, and the incident occurred on the night of May 4 when the AIADMK was in power,” he said. It was during the same AIADMK regime that four persons died at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital on April 19 and two persons died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on April 6, he said. “All these deaths were not due to oxygen shortage. When the incident occurred at Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, 460 patients were on oxygen support and 10 kl oxygen was available. At Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, when the two persons died, 1,200 patients were on oxygen support and 20 kl oxygen was available. Similarly, 310 patients were on oxygen support at Chengalpattu and 10 kl oxygen was available,” he said. “The Health Department has said all these deaths were due to technical faults...,” he said. Mr. Subramanian held a meeting with 137 private hospitals from Chennai, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Vellore and Ranipet on buying COVID-19 vaccines with corporate social responsibility funds. Private hospitals had so far procured 18,70,520 doses, of which 13,31,613 doses had been administered. They had 5,38,907 doses in hand, he said. About Rs. 2.5 crore was pooled in under the CSR funding, he said, adding that the Health Department would release details of firm-wise contributions and tie-ups with hospitals. Vaccination in the tribal areas of Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri would start next week, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-due-to-technical-faults-minister/article35502749.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All 13 lions in Vandalur zoo test negative for COVID-19||All the 13 lions housed in the Arignar Anna Zoological Park (AAZP) have tested negative for COVID-19. The zoo had sent nasal and rectal swabs of three lions, which had tested positive, for SARS CoV-2 re-testing, on July 9, to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal. All the samples returned negative, according to a report from NIHSAD, a release said. Further, the AAZP sent the next set of nasal and rectal samples of five lions with COVID-19 to NIHSAD on July 17. All these samples, too, returned negative, according to a report from NIHSAD on July 23. With this, all the 13 lions in the park have tested negative for SAR-CoV2. Two lions had died of COVID-19 in the zoo. All the lions are recuperating well and have not been showing any serious post-COVID-19 signs or complications. The lions are being closely monitored round the clock by a team of veterinarians and field staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-13-lions-in-vandalur-zoo-test-negative-for-covid-19/article35502753.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State Vigilance and Monitoring Committee reconstituted||The Tamil Nadu government has re-constituted the State Vigilance and Monitoring Committee under the chairmanship of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. According to an order issued by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department a few days ago, the Ministers for Finance, Adi Dravidar Welfare, Labour and Tourism — Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, C.V. Ganesan and M. Mathiventhan respectively — have been made members of the committee. Other members The committee also includes two Rajya Sabha members, N. Chandrasegharan of the AIADMK and Anthiyur P. Selvarasu of the DMK, apart from seven Lok Sabha members and 43 Members of the State’s Legislative Assembly. Senior officials, including the Chief Secretary, are also members of the monitoring committee. Implementation of Act The committee will meet twice a year, in January and July, to review the implementation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Unlike the previous committee, the present committee includes all SC/ST MLAs, regardless of party affiliation. This has been done in accordance with the law, a government official said.  Unlike the previous committee, the present committee includes all SC/ST MLAs, regardless of party affiliation. This has been done in accordance with the law, a government official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigilance-and-monitoring-committee-reconstituted/article35502746.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT start-up teams up with Saint Gobain to build PPE doffing unit with 3D printing||A product designed and developed by three alumni from the 2016 batch of the Institute Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) is now used by COVID-19 frontline healthcare workers in hospitals. The three youth designed and created PPE doffing units using 3D printing technology.  Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian commissioned a unit each in the government headquarters hospital in Kancheepuram and the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, Chennai, last week. The team is building one for the government hospital in Tiruvallur. 3D printing technology has reduced construction time and is sustainable and eco-friendly as it uses less raw material. Tvasta Manufacturing Solutions, a deep tech start-up, has collaborated with multinational company Saint Gobain to develop the doffing units. The units include a wash basin, a water closet, a shower and a disposal chute for PPE. The plumbing and electrical lines are integrated along the 3D printed walls. The units comprise an untraviolet-C sterilisation box, automatic sanitiser dispenser and automatic soap dispensers. The units are developed at Tvasta’s 3D printing facility in Perungudi. According to Tvasta Manufacturing Solutions’ co-founder Parivarthan Reddy, 3D printing technology could be used to design for performance and function without extra cost implications. “This makes individual customisations and personalisation possible, even at a huge scale, for all strata of society,” he said. Loic Jourdaine, director of Research and Development Saint-Gobain Research India, said, “The wall elements were printed at a workshop, transported and assembled at the site in a few hours. Manufacturing and assembling does not require skilled labour.” Tvasta Manufacturing Solutions is part of the new incubator of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, ASHA Incubator, established at the institute. Tvasta was founded by Adithya V.S. and Parivarthan Reddy of the mechanical engineering department and Vidyashankar C. from electrical engineering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-start-up-teams-up-with-saint-gobain-to-build-ppe-doffing-unit-with-3d-printing/article35502766.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will take action on PMK’s corruption plaint against AIADMK’||The State government on Friday informed the Madras High Court that it shall take action on the basis of a representation made by Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) to the Governor on February 17, 2015, levelling as many as 18 serious allegations of corruption against the then All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) regime in granite mining, beach sand mining, river sand mining, purchase of electricity, liquor sales and so on. Appearing before Justice R. Mahadevan, who was seized of a 2015 writ petition filed by PMK president G.K. Mani, Advocate General R. Shunmughasundaram said the Governor had forwarded PMK’s representation to the State government and called for remarks. Thereafter, copies of the representation were sent to the relevant government departments for verification and ascertaining their stand on the allegations levelled by the party, he said. “The present government is following up the issue and necessary action will be taken in accordance with law,” the A-G asserted. Convinced with his submissions, the judge recorded them and closed the writ petition that had sought for a direction to the Governor’s secretariat to dispose of the representation made by the party. The litigant had also sought for an interim direction to disclose the action taken on the basis of the representation. In an affidavit filed in support of his case, Mr. Mani had said that IAS officer U. Sagayam had estimated the granite mining mafia in Madurai to have caused a loss of around Rs. 5 lakh crore to the public exchequer through illegal mining. Similarly, the estimated loss due to illegal beach sand mining in Thoothukudi district was to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh crore and there was corruption to the tune of Rs. 15,000 crore in river sand mining in the State. “The political party namely AIADMK under the leadership of tainted Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa has not even left out the power sector,” the petitioner said and alleged that the government was purchasing power from third parties at the rate of Rs. 15.14 per unit though it was available for Rs. 2.94 to Rs. 3.85 per unit. Thus, 798 million units were purchased for Rs. 1,208 crore and thereby a sum of Rs. 900 crore was looted, he claimed. The PMK president went on to state that corruption was all pervasive in the AIADMK government and that the government had not spared even purchase of eggs for providing nutritious meal to school students and had indulged in adulteration of milk too. “The Tamil Nadu Government has shamelessly taken over business of selling liquor,” he said and alleged that ruling party functionaries were running the bars and selling spurious liquor over there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-take-action-on-corruption-plaint-by-pmk-against-aiadmk/article35502768.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VHS gets ventilators worth Rs. 75 lakh||Five high-performance ventilators, worth Rs. 75 lakh, were donated to the Voluntary Health Services Hospital by Thyrve Digital Health LLP, through its corporate social responsibility initiative. A release by the city-headquartered company, providing healthcare solutions, said the five state-of-the-art units were “efficient in handling the most acute phases of respiratory distress, through recovery, and to the waning phases of the ventilation process”. Flexible equipment The company said while many hospitals were striving hard to ramp up their infrastructure owing to the pandemic, it observed a gap in sponsors for high-value ventilators, which could be used on a variety of patients, from newborns to geriatric adults. Stating that VHS was providing affordable healthcare to the community, the company said that it volunteered to procure the ventilators to aid the hospital in its efforts to ramp up its intensive care unit infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vhs-gets-ventilators-worth-rs-75-lakh/article35502735.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘At least 50% of Indians must be vaccinated’||The country must vaccinate at least 50% of its population against COVID-19 to protect them from the infection, Apollo Hospitals’ founder Prathap C. Reddy said. In a conversation on Friday with Ar. Rm. Arun, president of the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr. Reddy said people’s mindset had to change. In the pandemic, many doctors and even pharmacists had lost their lives while delivering care. For people to recover from the pandemic, it is necessary to follow COVID-19 protocols, such as washing hands, wearing masks and maintaining physical distance, he said. “Vaccine is effective in protecting (against infection) by building antibodies,” he explained. Many people were influenced by the media, which focused on the adverse effects of the vaccine, he rued. “Side effects were found only in 1 in 1,00,000 people. It is fear of side-effects projected by the media that delayed vaccination,” he said, citing the experience in Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi, where vaccination had prevented serious illness among vaccinated employees. Dr. Reddy said India should raise its health budget to as much as 5% in order to ensure better public health delivery. People for their part, should also invest in their health by taking out insurance, he said. The way forward for India’s public health is to double the seats in postgraduate programmes as that would increase the number of doctors. Healthy population To a question on whether the country had plugged the gaps in COVID-19, Dr. Reddy said Apollo Hospitals had launched Kavach, through which patients could speak to doctors round the clock. He said the pandemic had spotlighted the need to build a healthy population. Non-communicable diseases had become a burden, and the pandemic had shown the impact it could have on the health of people. According to him, in the future the medical profession would rely on artificial intelligence, robotics and automation, making surgery more precise, safe and accessible. He believed that India could be the destination for healthcare across the world, with trained doctors, nurses and paramedics. Asked for his advice to young doctors, Dr. Reddy said: “Create centres of excellence; inspire medical students to aspire to be the best. Given an opportunity, India can be the very best in providing care.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-least-50-of-indians-must-be-vaccinated/article35502731.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reinstate Assistant Commissioner of Corporation, says Annamalai||Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai on Friday demanded that the State government immediately reinstate the Assistant Commissioner of Madurai Corporation who was removed from his post over a political row regarding a circular issued by him relating to the visit of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to Madurai. In a statement, Mr. Annamalai said Mr. Bhagwat was a Z-Plus category protectee and that the officer had only followed the rules regarding the arrangements that need to be done for such persons. “But the Tamil Nadu government has removed him from the post for carrying out his duties as per protocol. This is highly worrying and condemnable,” Mr. Annamalai said. He questioned whether the State government had a separate list of people based on which they decide on security needs to be given. He asked if it was illegal to make adequate arrangements when people who belong to the high security category visit the State. “By removing the officer, what message is the government sending to the officials?,” he asked. He claimed that even if an ordinary DMK leader travelled somewhere, government officials directly go to the spot and supervise road and other works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reinstate-assistant-commissioner-of-corporation-says-annamalai/article35502772.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘NEET will be held with safety measures in place’||Admission to medical courses this year will only be through the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), both for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, Bharati Pravin Pawar, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare asserted. She added that all safety measures would be put in place for the test. In reply to an unstarred question from Members of Parliament T. Sumathy and D. Ravikumar in the Lok Sabha on Friday, she said NEET PG was scheduled on September 11 and NEET UG on September 12. The government had increased the number of examination centres across the country to avoid crowding and to cut down on travel by the candidates, she said. Admit cards were being issued currently and they would bear a COVID-19 e-pass for facilitating easy movement of candidates. The exam centres would allow staggered entry and exit of candidates. The candidates’ temperature would be measured and if it is above normal, they would take their examination in an isolation laboratory created for the purpose, the Minister said. All candidates would have to wear a face mask and a protective safety gear kit, including face shield, face mask and hand sanitiser would be provided. Measures to control crowds outside the examination centre would also taken, Dr. Bharati said. Mr. Ravikumar and Ms. Sumathy had sought to know whether the Union government planned to suspend NEET and other entrance examinations due to the pandemic and the imminent danger of the third wave. The MPs wanted details and the reasons for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-will-be-held-with-safety-measures-in-place/article35502756.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vice-Admiral apprises Governor, CM of security challenges||Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, Indian Navy, called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday. During the separate meetings, he briefed the Governor and the Chief Minister on the maritime security challenges, especially on the eastern seaboard and the Tamil Nadu coast. The Vice-Admiral highlighted major forthcoming projects and infrastructure being planned by the Navy in Tamil Nadu. He also highlighted activities being conducted and planned by the Navy towards Swarnim Vijay Varsh and Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vice-admiral-apprises-governor-cm-of-security-challenges/article35502760.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal to decide party’s stand on Vanniyar quota||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday told members of ‘Samooga Needhi Kootamaippu’, who expressed their concerns against the 10.5% separate reservation for Vanniyars within the Most Backward Class quota, that he understood their point of view and would announce the party’s stand on this issue soon. In the run up to the Assembly election, Mr. Haasan had sidestepped the question by ambiguously stating “cheque will bounce if there is no money in the bank”. Mr. Haasan said the DMK government was silent on implementing its electoral promise of a monthly stipend of Rs. 1,000 to women who head the family. “Women’s contribution to our economy is important. Their sacrifice, labour and dedication cannot be measured and it is not properly acknowledged. MNM was the first party that floated the idea of providing monthly wages to women of the household,” he said. Mr. Haasan felt the stipend would provide financial independence to those who are otherwise dependent on their husbands. “Considering the inflation, the money promised by the DMK is very less. This is a small beginning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-will-announce-stand-on-quota/article35502747.ece
24 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||NTK to stage protest against quarrying in Kanniyakumari||Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman on Friday said that he will organise a State-wide protest if the State government fails to stop smuggling of rocks, rock powder, gravel stones, sand and artificial sand to Kerala that is being produced by destroying the mountains, both legally and illegally, that form part of the Western Ghats situated in Kanniyakumari district. In a statement, Mr. Seeman said that Tamil Nadu government must take cognisance of the issue immediately and intervene to stop the exploitation of natural resources. “We will organise a State-wide protest if the State Government fails to stop this,” he said. These mountains are instrumental in bringing rains from the Arabian Sea. “But the quarries operating at the base of these mountains will affect the rains, reduce groundwater table, disturb the ecosystem, affect agriculture and cause several breathing diseases. The mountain is being broken down piece by piece by big businessmen. This would destroy the entire mountain,” he said. Mr. Seeman said that regions such as Aaralvaimozhi, Sungankadai, Chithirangodu, Surulakodu, Ayakkodu, Kulasekaram and Arumanai see more than 600 heavy vehicles being used to transfer the natural resources out. “In the last two months alone, there have been efforts to smuggle natural resources and police have seized thousands of vehicles and levied a total fine of Rs. 40 lakh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-to-stage-protest-against-quarrying-in-kanniyakumari/article35503265.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Valarmathi appointed women’s wing secretary of AIADMK||The AIADMK on Friday announced that former Minister B. Valarmathi had been appointed secretary of the party’s women’s wing. This followed the previous occupant of the post, Vigila Sathyanand, joining the DMK recently. Madurantakam legislator, Maragatham Kumaravel, has been appointed joint secretary of the wing. Former Minister Vaigaichelvan would take over as the literary wing secretary, a post till recently held by Ms.Valarmathi. Former Alandur MLA, V.N.P. Venkataraman, and Sathankulam Panchayat Union’s former chairperson, A.M. Anandaraja, have been made secretary and joint secretary of the traders’ wing, according to a release issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K Palaniswami, co-coordinator of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valarmathi-appointed-womens-wing-secretary-of-aiadmk/article35502908.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man cheats govt. staff of Rs. 1.3 lakh||Posing as a bank manager, an unidentified person siphoned off Rs. 1.3 lakh from the account of a woman staff of the Public Works Department recently. Police said the fraudster called the victim, Malathi, on the phone, and said her debit card should be renewed. She shared her card details and OTP and then got an SMS saying that Rs. 1.3 lakh had been debited from her account. Police registered a case and began investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-cheats-govt-staff-of-rs-13-lakh/article35502739.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Valarmathi is AIADMK women’s wing secretary||The AIADMK on Friday announced that the former Minister B. Valarmathi has been appointed secretary of the party’s women’s wing. Her appointment comes in view of Vigila Sathyanand, who was holding the post, joning the DMK recently. Maragatham Kumaravel, Maduranthakam MLA, has been appointed joint secretary of the wing. Post for ex-Minister Former Minister Vaigaichelvan will take over as the literary wing secretary, a post till recently held by Ms. Valarmathi. Former Alandur MLA V.N.P. Venkataraman and Sathankulam Panchayat Union’s former chairperson A.M. Anandaraja have been made secretary and joint secretary of the traders’ wing respectively, according to a release issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K Palaniswami, co-coordinator of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valarmathi-is-aiadmk-womens-wing-secretary/article35503205.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New V-C for Central University in Tiruvarur||President Ram Nath Kovind has appointed M. Krishnan as the Vice-Chancellor of the Central University, Tiruvarur. In a communiqué, the university registrar said Muthukalingan Krishnan, present Vice-Chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University, has been appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Tamil Nadu. The appointment has been made “as per Statute 2 of the Central Universities Act, 2009, for five years from the date on which he enters his office, or until he attains the age of 70, whichever is earlier,” the registrar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-v-c-for-central-university-in-tiruvarur/article35502745.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NTK plans agitation||Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman on Friday said he would organise a Statewide protest if the government fails to stop the smuggling of rocks, rock powder, gravel stones, sand and manufactured sand to Kerala. He said quarrying, legally and illegally, was causing destruction of mountains that form a part of the Western Ghats in Kanniyakumari district. In a statement, Mr. Seeman said the government should take cognisance of the issue and stop exploitation of natural resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-plans-agitation/article35502767.ece
24 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Start work on second airport in Chennai’||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Friday demanded that the State Government take immediate steps to start work on a second airport in Chennai as the passenger traffic would increase significantly in the next five years despite the expansion of the airport in Meenambakkam. In a statement, he referred to the Centre’s statement that Tamil Nadu has not finalised where the airport will be built and this caused delay in the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-work-on-second-airport-in-chennai/article35502771.ece
24 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||District Collector urges industries to contribute CSR funds for vaccination||District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Friday urged the industries and voluntary organisations to contribute funds under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to vaccinate workers and the needy through private hospitals.  The Collector chaired a meeting with industry associations, industry heads, hospital representatives and voluntary organisations. He said that a large number of doses were available with private hospitals every month. These can be used to vaccinate industry workers and the needy. First day collection “When the programme was launched, we collected Rs. 68 lakh on day one. This will be put to use soon. The funding can be done every month so that more people can get vaccinated through private hospitals,” he said. According to industry sources who took part in the meeting, the private hospitals charge Rs. 780 per dose of Covishield. The hospitals will give priority to workers of industries that have contributed to the fund and vaccinate them free of cost. Crowdsourcing The Collector said that as vaccine production increases, the quantity available with private hospitals is likely to go up. At that point of time, funds can be crowdsourced too to vaccinate the needy. Currently, the plan is to pool in donations and CSR funds and private players who procure vaccines from it will be able to give it free of cost to industry workers, and the needy. “This is a dynamic requirement as private players will get vaccines every month,” he told The Hindu . The industry association heads who took part in the meeting said they would have to discuss with the member units before making a commitment to the district administration. Third wave “The aim of the effort is to make use of the vaccine with the private hospitals, get more people inoculated so that Coimbatore is safe if there is a third wave,” said one of the participants. “We have asked the Collector to give a request that we will forward to our member units. Each unit can decide how to take it forward,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. “There were multiple options from the industries. Some wanted to know if the industries and workers can share the vaccination cost and get the workers vaccinated at private hospitals. Some industries wanted to know if they can tie up directly with the hospitals. But many units are waiting for free vaccination for the workers,” said S. Surulivel, president of Coimbatore Railway Suppliers Association. According to Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association, it conducted two camps so far where the workers were vaccinated free of cost. It is not possible for all micro units to bear the vaccination cost for the workers. It has suggested to the district administration to conduct camps in all industrial areas so that more workers get inoculated. An official said that some of the government departments were contributing money towards this effort. “We took our vaccines free of cost. If each staff of the Department contributes some amount, we will donate that fund,” said B. Karthigaivasan, General Manager of District Industries Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-collector-urges-industries-to-contribute-csr-funds-for-vaccination/article35502783.ece
24 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school told to return excess fees to parents||Following complaints that a government school in Tiruppur demanded excess fees from parents for Class XI admissions, the Chief Educational Officer (CEO) has instructed the school to return the amount. CEO R. Ramesh told The Hindu on Friday that he conducted an inquiry regarding the allegations about the Government Higher Secondary School in Veerapandi, within the Corporation limits, on Thursday. “The teachers have collected nearly Rs. 50,000 [as excess fees] and I asked them to return the amount immediately,” he said. A showcause notice was served on the school and further action will be initiated based on the explanation provided by the school, he added. All government schools have been instructed to not collect any fees other than the optional contribution of Rs. 50 for the Parent-Teacher Association and action will be initiated against the schools if similar complaints were to surface elsewhere in the district, Mr. Ramesh said. On Thursday, residents of Veerapandi along with representatives from various political parties submitted a petition to District Collector S. Vineeth demanding action against the school. R. Vadivel, a member of CPI’s district executive committee and one of the petitioners, alleged that the school had been demanding Rs. 1,800 for Tamil medium and Rs. 2,300 for English medium for every Class XI admission. The school collected the excess fees claiming that teachers needed to be appointed for Class XI as the enrolment had increased this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-told-to-return-excess-fees-to-parents/article35502791.ece
24 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Pilloor reservoir||Following the rain on Thursday, District Collector G.S. Sameeran announced that water from the Pilloor dam was released in the early hours of Friday. In a tweet, he said that Pilloor dam near Mettupalayam reached its full reservoir level (FRL) of 97 feet by 2.30 a.m. on Friday, following which the water was released at an outflow of 14,000 cusec. Around 150 persons on the banks of River Bhavani were evacuated late on Thursday, he said, adding that there were no damages following the water release. Mr. Sameeran also announced that the Sholayar dam reached its FRL of 160 feet at 2 p.m. on Friday and the surplus water flowed to the Parambikulam dam. According to the district administration, Coimbatore district received an average rainfall of 38.22 mm in the 24-hour period that ended at 8 a.m. on Thursday. Areas around Valparai received heavy showers as Chinnakallar received the maximum of 115 mm, followed by Cincona and Sholayar with 102 mm each, Valparai PAP 93 mm and Valparai taluk 91 mm. Mettupalayam received 16 mm rainfall, Pollachi 11 mm, Aliyar 4.6 mm and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in the city received only 0.5 mm. Flood alert issued Public Works Department officials issued a flood alert on Friday to the residents living along the banks of River Amaravathi in Tiruppur district as the inflow to Amaravathi dam increased following rain in catchment areas. The water level was 85.01 feet and the inflow was 4,860 cusecs as of 7.40 a.m. on Friday, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-pilloor-reservoir/article35502779.ece
24 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nodal centres for Class XII supplementary exams||The Directorate of Government Examinations has announced that eight nodal centres have been set up in Coimbatore district and seven centres in Tiruppur district for the registration of private candidates for the supplementary examinations to be held from August 6 to 19. In Coimbatore district, the centres are Government Higher Secondary School, Valparai;, Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School, Pollachi; Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School, Pollachi; CCMA Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Raja Street; Government Higher Secondary School, Asokapuram; Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School, Mettupalayam; Government Higher Secondary School, Kuniamuthur and Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Sulur. The nodal centres in Tiruppur district are Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Avinashi; Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School, Tiruppur; Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School, Tiruppur; Government Higher Secondary School, Dharapuram; N.C.P Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School, Dharapuram; Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Palladam and Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Udumalpet . Private candidates and students not satisfied with their Class XII public examination results may apply for the supplementary examinations between July 23 and 27, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nodal-centres-for-class-xii-supplementary-exams/article35502778.ece
24 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive for haemophiliacs at CMCH||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital in association with the Haemophilia Society Coimbatore Chapter commenced a special COVID-19 vaccination drive for haemophiliacs in the district on Friday. Dean A. Nirmala said that 50 persons suffering from haemophilia were administered Covaxin at the hospital on Friday. As many as 350 haemophiliacs were identified across the district, out of which 250 were over 18 years of age. The five-day vaccination drive, which will conclude on Wednesday, will cover 50 persons every day to ensure personal distancing norms, she said. Haemophilia is a genetic disorder wherein the patients (haemophiliacs) lack sufficient clotting factor in their blood, leading to excessive bleeding even due to small cuts or scrapes. Dr. Nirmala said as the haemophiliacs are likely to bleed during vaccination, they were administered anti-haemophila factor (AHF) injections prior to the vaccination to arrest the bleeding. Along with 50 beneficiaries suffering from haemophilia, their caretakers were also vaccinated during the camp, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-haemophiliacs-at-cmch/article35502789.ece
24 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Arjun Sampath, protesters removed||The Coimbatore City Police on Friday removed 78 persons including the Hindu Makkal Katchi leader Arjun Sampath for staging a demonstration near Muthannankulam condemning the demolition of temples during removal of encroachments by the Coimbatore Corporation. The demonstration led by Mr. Sampath saw the participation of the outfit members and former residents of Muthannankulam. The R.S. Puram police detained them in a wedding hall and released them later. 852 kg tobacco products seized In a series of raids on Friday, the Coimbatore District Police seized around 852 kg banned tobacco products. . A police statement said that 390 kg was seized by the Karumathampatti police from one Hiralal (40) and the Kovilpalayam police seized 330 kg from Narenlal (25) and Ajbaran (26). The Pollachi East police seized 132 kg of banned tobacco products from Sadiq (52) and Gunasekaran (49). All the five accused were arrestedThe public may contact 7708100100 to inform the police of any sales of banned tobacco products. Jewellery snatched The Podanur police are on the lookout for a man who allegedly snatched the gold jewellery of an elderly woman at her house on Friday. The unidentified man had knocked on the doors of Johara (65) in N.P. Itteri area at 3 a.m. As she opened, he allegedly snatched her jewellery and ran away. Based on a complaint from the woman’s son, the Podanur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arjun-sampath-protesters-removed/article35502780.ece
24 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Auto rickshaw driver booked under SC/ST Act||The Coimbatore City Police booked an auto rickshaw driver under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on charges of using casteist slurs against a Corporation contract worker. According to the police, the complainant was engaged in COVID-19 surveying works in Ward No. 40. On Wednesday, she visited a house in Avarampalayam and the driver, Sathish, allegedly followed her. The man allegedly used casteist slurs against her, attacked her with a chair and claimed that he was a DMK functionary when the woman told him that she would complain to her higher officials. He also asked her to not leave the place till evening, the police said. Based on her complaint, Peelamedu police registered a case against the accused under Sections 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 342 (Punishment for wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code, along with three Sections of the SC/ST Act. Efforts are on to nab the accused who is absconding, the police said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-rickshaw-driver-booked-under-scst-act/article35502787.ece
24 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Portal to be launched soon||A portal that will serve as a platform connecting Coimbatore’s requirements with private contributors will be launched in another two to three weeks. A blueprint for this project has been drafted and a preliminary version of the portal tested too. Feedback Voluntary organisations have given their feedback on the portal. The portal will list the requirements of the district in various verticals such as education, healthcare, and water. Apart from government measures, wherever private players are contributing the portal will connect the two - the requirements and the donors. It is not only for COVID-19 management but for all initiatives where the public can support, said District Collector G.S. Sameeran. The government will be a facilitator. It will consolidate the private efforts to improve infrastructure, healthcare, and water management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portal-to-be-launched-soon/article35502784.ece
24 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive for children launched in districts||Over 24,000 children are slated to be covered annually by the pneumococcal conjugate vaccination (PCV) programme in the district. Earlier, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inaugurated the PCV programme at the Paaparapatty Primary Health Centre on Friday. Inaugurating the programme, the Collector said, pneumococcal bacterial pneumonia is a fatal infection in children under two years of age. To prevent the infection that spreads through the air from cough and sneeze, the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has been brought under the National Vaccination Programme. The vaccine is administered in the 6th week, 14th week, and a booster shot in the 9th month for children. The vaccine is administered to children in all government medical college hospitals, government hospitals and taluk hospitals, primary health centres, and angawadis. Parents are urged to get their children vaccinated with PCV. The programme commenced in the State on July 13.  Staff Reporter adds from Erode: The PCV drive began in the district on Friday. Collector H. Krishnanunni inaugurated the programme in the presence of Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal and City Health Officer P. Murali Shankar. Health officials said that the new vaccine that was introduced recently would benefit malnourished and pre-term babies and also infants whose birth weight is less than 1.5 kg. “The vaccine protects the children from pneumonia and brain fever”, they added. Under the Universal Immunisation Programme, children were administered the vaccine across the country. In Salem Corporation limits, Commissioner T. Christuraj launched the drive at Kumarasamipatti Urban Primary Health Centre in presence of S. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services and City Health Officer K. Parthibhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-children-launched-in-districts/article35502912.ece
24 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector asks people to adhere to COVID-19 norms||District Collector H. Krishnanunni has asked the people to adhere to COVID-19 norms and warned that action will be taken against the violators. In a press release, he said that the district administration continues to take all precautionary measures against the spread of virus and sought cooperation from the public. He asked the public to ensure that they adhere to personal distancing norms while at places where people gather in large numbers and also at both the government offices and private companies. “Only after thermal scanning and hand sanitising is done, people should be allowed inside the commercial establishments”, the Collector added. Mr. Krishnanunni asked industries and establishments to ensure workers maintain physical distance and wear masks while on the premises. Workers should wash their hands with soap once every two hours and the entire premises should be disinfected everyday. Also, persons in contact with positive patients and workers from containment zones should not be allowed to enter the workplace, he added. He asked officials to ensure that all the norms were followed and no violations took place. “If the violations take place, action should be taken”, he said. He said that standard operating procedures as issued by the government should be followed by all to prevent the spread of virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-asks-people-to-adhere-to-covid-19-norms/article35502914.ece
24 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Adequate stock of fertilizers in district’||District Collector H. Krishnanunni has said that adequate stock of fertilizers and agri inputs are available in the district for the current cultivation. The monthly farmers’ grievance day redressal meeting was held through video conferencing in which members of farmers association in 13 taluks took part. The Collector who presided over the meeting told farmers and representatives of farmers associations that the district had, so far, received 326.98 mm rainfall against the annual average of 720.48 mm. He said that water level at Bhavanisagar dam stood at 97.12 feet while the water storage was 26.533 tmc. Mr. Krishnanunni said that till July this year, agri crops were cultivated in 12,721 hectares while horticulture crops were cultivated in 14,247 hectare. A total of 62 tonnes of paddy seeds, one tonne of small millets, seven tonnes of lentils and 52 tonnes of oil seeds were distributed to the farmers. Fertilizers distributed to farmers were 8,909 tonne urea, 3,448 tonne Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP), 4,288 tonne potash, 8,399 tonne complex and 2,670 tonne mixed fertilizer were distributed to the farmers. “Sufficient stock of fertilizers and agri inputs are available”, he added. The Collector said that officials have been asked to inspect the paddy crops in Thadapalli-Arakankottai ayacut areas as there are chances of crop infection. District Revenue Officer Murugesan, Joint Director of Agriculture Chinnasamy and other officials participated in the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-stock-of-fertilizers-in-district/article35502917.ece
24 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Assistance to children who lost parents to COVID-19||Children whose parents had registered with the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board and lost them due to COVID-19 were asked to register themselves with the Office of the Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Social Security Scheme), Erode, for getting welfare assistance from the State government. A release from S. Gayathiri, Assistant Commissioner of Labour, SSS, said that a few persons who had registered with the welfare board had lost their lives due to COVID-19 and the government is taking various steps for the welfare of the children who had lost either their father or mother or both. Details were being collected by the department for providing assistance to the children. Hence, details should be provided to the office functioning on Erode – Chennimalai Road. For details, contact 0424-2275591 or 2275592, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-to-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19/article35502913.ece
24 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tax evasion detected, recipient fined Rs. 12.50 lakh||A roving squad of the Commercial Taxes Department found that a recipient received consignment without invoice and e-way bill and was levied a penalty of Rs. 12.50 lakh here on Friday. A release from the Principal Secretary, Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Chennai, said the squad detected consignment of 250 bundles of readymade garments transported through COVID-19 special goods train (Coach No. 07485) from Shalimar Railway Station in West Bengal to Erode Railway Station on July 21. The train arrived at 10 p.m. and squad members found the consignment transported without any documents as prescribed under the provisions of Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. Squad members conducted physical verification and found that the consignment was not covered with invoice and e-way bill as per the Act. Hence, tax and penalty of Rs. 12.50 lakh was collected from the recipient by way of issuance of notices. The release also added that show-cause notice had also been issued to the parcel office official at the Erode Railway Junction for having received taxable goods without any documents and also for having abetted the supplier and recipient, in supply of goods, without invoices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tax-evasion-detected-recipient-fined-rs-1250-lakh/article35502904.ece
24 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Health camp conducted||A health camp was conducted at Nambiyur Government Boys Higher Secondary School on Thursday in which over 100 conservancy workers were screened for blood pressure and oxygen level. Swab samples were also lifted. The camp was organised by Vizhuthugal, an NGO, and a team of doctors led by Medical Officer K. Arulmozhi screened the workers. K. Chandra, Programme Manager of Vizhuthugal, staff nurse, health inspectors and lab technicians were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-camp-conducted/article35502903.ece
24 July 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s schemes shelved by previous regime to be revived||A number of projects introduced by the M. Karunanidhi government, which were either shelved or stalled by the AIADMK government, would be revived, Minister for Information and Technology T. Mano Thangaraj said here on Friday. Interacting with the media at the ELCOT SEZ after meeting representatives of the Hosur Small and Tiny Industries Association and the Hosur Industries Association, he said the takeaway from the meeting was that there was no conducive environment and infrastructure for industry at large during the last government. Industry’s common refrain was that there was a gap between the industry and the government during the previous regime, he said. The Minister alleged that many industries had left for Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. But now the government was focused on increasing the ‘ease of doing business’ to attract not just big businesses but also new ventures and youth-led start-ups. “Wherever we go, industry heads say there was no clarity on whom to approach. That will change now. The schemes that were shelved or stalled will be revived,” he said. The government’s aim was to turn Hosur into a “Silicon Valley” and the administration shall soon formulate a detailed project report, the Minister said. The ELCOT SEZ had remained vacant but for one or two IT firms operating from one of the three floors, two of which remained largely vacant for want of takers. The SEZ, like many SEZs, were ignored by the previous government, Mr. Thangaraj said. “The ELCOT SEZ has three floors; once the infrastructure gets fully utilised, the second phase of expansion will be decided. In Coimbatore and Salem, phase II works are already proposed.” As for the persisting complaints about GST by the MSMEs, the Minister said the DMK had been critical of the GST for its various flaws and had reiterated that the impediments to the industry be dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-schemes-shelved-by-previous-regime-to-be-revived/article35502744.ece
24 July 2021||Hubballi,TAMIL NADU||Rain throws life out of gear in Karnataka||Heavy rains on Friday led to flooding and landslides in many parts of Karnataka throwing life out of gear. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Kodagu which has been the most affected during monsoon in the last few years. The IMD has also forecast heavy to very heavy rains over coastal region, south interior and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours. Train derails Rail and road networks were disrupted in some places. A landslide caused the derailment of train no. 01134 Mangaluru Jn-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Special in the Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section, but there were no casualties. There was inundation in Belagavi, Dharwad, Uttar Kannada, Gadag and Haveri on Friday, besides landslides in the Hubballi Division of the South Western Railway. The Belagavi-Kolhapur National Highway was closed and vehicles diverted. The Malnad region too was hit. Several residential localities in Sagar, Thirthahalli towns were flooded and the vehicular movement badly affected. A farmer at Kyatanabeedu in Chikkamagaluru taluk died after a shed collapsed on Friday. The State Disaster Response Force personnel rescued at least six persons in Belagavi district. Meanwhile, six youths from Hubballi, who had gone missing on Thursday near Shirle Falls of Uttar Kannada district, were traced on Friday. The situation aggravated with Maharashtra opening the crest gates of Koyna Dam. The outflow from the dam was stepped up and was at the rate of 20,000 cusecs and could increase to 80,000 cusecs if the rains continued in the Satara region. Ghat sections hit The traffic on two major ghats that connect Dakshina Kannada with the rest of the State has been affected. Shiradi Ghat on National Highway 75 has been closed for all types of vehicles. The inflow into reservoirs has been increasing, forcing the officers to issue warning to people residing in the low-lying areas. Tunga, Bhadra, Hemavathi, Yagachi rivers are in spate. The inflow into Linganamakki dam stands at 2,42,000 cusecs at 11 a.m. on Friday. Meanwhile, the inflow into the Narayanapura dam across the river Krishna, increased to 1.72 lakh cusecs and the outflow was at the rate of 2.58 lakh cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-fury-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-karnataka/article35502681.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corporation introduces online registration for vaccination||Madurai Corporation has introduced online registration for COVID-19 vaccination for the frontline workers, who are aged between 18 and 44, from 6 p.m. on Friday. In a press release, it said that drivers, employees of business units, distributors of newspapers, milk packets, and vegetables, doctors and other practitioners of the medical field, government employees, and bank staff aged between 18 and 44 are given preference for COVID-19 vaccination. Those aged above 45 can get their COVID-19 vaccination without even registering online. Those aged between 18 and 44 can register atwww.maduraicorporation. co.inby submitting their details including name, age, gender, date of birth, contact number, and their medical history. They will receive a message regarding confirmation of their registration. Then they will receive a message on their mobile phones regarding their token number, place, date and time which have been allotted to them for their vaccination. Those who cannot register online for their vaccination can book their slots on the camps between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held daily at Elango Corporation Higher Secondary School, Urban Primary Health Centre at Thideer Nagar, UPHC at Ansari Nagar, K. Pudur and Munichalai. Vaccination camps will be held on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at Government Panchayat Union Middle School at Mudakkathan, Madurai Corporation Primary School at Fatima Nagar, Madurai Corporation Middle School at Uthangudi, Mamimegalai Corporation Higher Secondary School on Kamarajar Salai, Corporation Kambar Higher Secondary School at Subramaniyapuram, and Corporation Higher Secondary School at Tirunagar. Camps will be held on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays at Corporation Primary School at Vilangudi, Spartanns Matriculation School at Naganakulam, Government Higher Secondary School at Avaniapuram, Corporation Higher Secondary School at Thavuttusandhai and Corporation Primary School at Muthupatti. In other UPHCs, differently-abled persons, lactating mothers and their husbands, pregnant women and their husbands can get COVID-19 vaccination without any prior registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-introduces-online-registration-for-vaccination/article35503081.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench seeks report on Witness Protection Scheme||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court sought a report from the High Court Registry on whether the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018 was notified, a standing committee and a Witness Protection Fund was created in each district. Justice G. Chandrasekharan also sought to know as to whether witness protection cell and vulnerable witness court rooms were set up in each district. The court sought the report on July 27. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by an advocate Chokkar, one of the accused in the murder of advocate K. Ranjith Kumar in Uthamapalayam, Theni district. The murder is said to have taken place following a dispute over the settlement of a property. The judge observed that the scheme provides for a standing committee in each district to be chaired by the District and Sessions Judge with Head of the Police in the district as member and Head of the Prosecution in the district as the Member Secretary. As per the scheme, a Witness Protection Fund has to be created and witness protection cell has to be established for duly implementing the witness protection order. Specially designed vulnerable courtrooms have to be created which shall have special arrangements. The special arrangements in the courtrooms include live video links, one way mirror and screens, apart from separate passages for witness and accused, option to modify the image of the witness, modify audio feed of witness voice, so that he/she was not identifiable. Following a Supreme Court order, the Witness Protection Scheme came into effect, the court observed. The accused in the case were also advocates and the court was informed that the main witness in the case was threatened by the accused. Protection under the scheme was granted to the witness for two months. Thereafter, there was no specific order for extension of witness protection to the witness, the court said and sought a report from the High Court Registry. The counsel in the case were unable to inform the court whether the scheme had been notified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-report-on-witness-protection-scheme/article35502885.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court exonerates insurance company||Exonerating an insurance company from the liability to pay a compensation for the death of a woman, who lost balance and came under the rear wheels of the tractor in which she was travelling, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that a tractor was a single seater vehicle and no one except the driver should travel in it. Justice J. Nisha Banu allowed the civil miscellaneous appeal filed by the National Insurance Company against the verdict of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Vedasandur in Dindigul district. The Tribunal concluded that the driver was responsible for the accident and directed the Insurance Company to pay the compensation and recover the same from the owner. In 2013, the deceased Kannammal travelled in the tractor that was attached with a harvester machine. The driver along with Kannamal and a few others were travelling in the tractor. She was seated on the mudguard of the tractor. Due to rash and negligent driving, she fell down and sustained grievous injuries after being run over. She died on the way to the hospital. The court said that in the insurance policy itself it was stated that the tractor should be used only for agricultural and forestry purposes. The policy does not cover if the vehicle was used to carry passengers for hire or reward. The owner of the vehicle alone was liable to pay compensation to the family members. The tribunal awarded Rs. 10.94 lakh as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-company-exonerated/article35502883.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tight security at Sathya Sai Nagar||City police have thrown a security blanket at Sathya Sai Nagar here where Rashtriya Swayam Sevak chief Mohan Bhagwat is staying for meetings with his organisation functionaries till Monday. He will be meeting the office-bearers on Sri Sathya Sai Temple campus and at Rajam Hall at Tallakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-security-at-sathya-sai-nagar/article35503083.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bishops hold meeting||The bishops affiliated to CEFI diocese held a meeting here on Friday to discuss various demands that they have placed to the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. There are around 13,000 independent churches throughout the country under the purview of CEFI diocese. There are 6,000 churches in Tamil Nadu with 10 lakh members. The office-bearers included the National Presiding Bishop D.P. Noha Yowanaraj, National General Secretary A. Stephen and National Treasurer M.J. Johnson. The members urged the CM to establish cemeteries in all the Corporations, municipalities, and taluks of Tamil Nadu. They asked the government to expedite the construction of churches announced by the government. They sought recognition of independent churches. There is a need to establish a welfare board for the Christians. The board must work towards the welfare of the preachers, they discussed. The office-bearers requested to ensure the availability of electricity connection to all churches under the purview of the CEFI diocese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bishops-hold-meeting/article35503086.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK determined to stifle Opposition’||Search operations by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on the premises of former Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar only showed that the DMK was determined to stifle the Opposition, said AIADMK MLA R.B. Udayakumar here on Friday. Speaking at a party meeting in Tirumangalam where Usilampatti MLA Ayyappan and others participated, he said that the AIADMK would not be cowed down by such threats. Instead of focusing on containing the covid-19 pandemic and helping the economically weaker sections, who lost their jobs due to the lockdown, the DMK government had turned its attention on the opponents. He blamed Minister Senthil Balaji for unleashing the police on the AIADMK's former Minister. “If you have the confidence, fight in a democratic way," he said. The AIADMK cannot be destroyed by the ruling party as it had a strong foundation of its cadres across the State. ‘Gone with the wind’ The promises made during the polls by the DMK had gone with the wind, it appears and hence, the government indulged in such "attention diversion" tactics, Mr Udayakumar alleged. The AIADMK, he said, had worked hard in all spheres in the State under the leadership of Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam that the DMK sailed through comfortably. On the COVID-19 pandemic, he recalled the efforts taken by the then government. Similarly, it was the infrastructure and encouragement given to the sportspersons in Tamil Nadu, that people like Revathi from Madurai have gone to the Olympics, now taking place in Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-determined-to-stifle-opposition/article35502873.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||350 kg of tobacco products seized||Madurai city police on Friday seized 350 kg of banned tobacco products and bundles of fake brands of beedis. During a surprise check, a team of police officials led by Teppakulam Inspector of Police, Tamil Selvan, found several bundles stocked in front of the house of V. Saravanakumar at Iravathanallur. When he gave contradictory statements, the police checked the bundles and found banned tobacco products inside them. Besides, beedis of two popular brands with fake labels were also found. Police seized the tobacco bags worth around Rs. 2 lakh. He was arrested under Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act and for cheating and forgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/350-kg-of-tobacco-products-seized/article35503087.ece
24 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.50 feet with an inflow of 4,294 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.44 ft. with an inflow of 815 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Rainfall in the region on Friday was (in mm): Periyar dam 85.8, Thekkadi 47, Gudalur 13.7, Uthamapalayam 12.1, Shanmuganathi dam 7.2 and Kodaikanal 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35502889.ece
24 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Roman Catholic priest booked for hate speech||A Roman Catholic priest in Kanniyakumari has been booked for spreading hate and enmity between religious groups and making controversial remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Fr. George Ponniah, parish priest from Panavilai, triggered a row by making disparaging remarks about ‘ Bharat Mata ’ and Hindu religion. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Kuzhithurai condemned his comments made last Sunday. Addressing a meeting at Arumanai in protest against the closure of churches, the ban on conducting prayers in houses and the denial of permission for renovating or constructing churches on private ‘ patta ’ lands, he made disparaging remarks about Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. He said Nagercoil BJP MLA M.R. Gandhi was responsible for the Mandaikaadu communal riots in 1982. He said the DMK’s victory in the Assembly election was the “alms given by the Christians and the Muslims”. His speech was condemned, among others, by State Minorities Commission chairman S. Peter Alphonse. Acting on a complaint, including from the BJP, the Arumanai police booked him under Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups of religion, race, etc.), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage the feelings of any class by insulting religion or religious beliefs), 505 (ii) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. He was also booked under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 143 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act for organising the meeting, violating the restrictions. The BJP and some Hindu outfits are gearing up for demonstrations on July 28 to seek his arrest under the National Security Act. Fr. Ponnaiah said his speech was distorted. “My speech has been edited and circulated on social media to show that I hurt the sentiments of Hindu brothers and sisters. None of us on the dais spoke anything hurting religious sentiments,” he said. “If my speech hurt anyone, I apologise wholeheartedly.” In a statement, Rev. Antony Pappusamy, Archbishop of Madurai and Apostolic Administrator of Kuzhithurai, said the diocese did not share Fr. Ponnaiah’s views. “His comments are condemnable. The diocese has nothing to do with his Democratic Christian Forum,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roman-catholic-priest-booked-for-hate-speech/article35502750.ece
24 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||2.7 tonnes of gutkha seized in Namakkal||In a special drive conducted against sale of gutkha in district, Namakkal police seized 2.7 tonnes of gutka and Rs. 7.16 lakh cash, Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur has said. Special drive Mr. Thakur said that special drive was conducted by ADSPs and DSPs here since early hours of Thursday to seize and destroy sale of gutkha and tobbaco products based on instructions from DGP’s office. Mr. Thakur said that the drive was conducted at Namakkal, Rasipuram, Tiruchengode and Velur. Mr. Thakur said that at Namakkal alone 1,750 kg of gutkha products were seized by the team. He added that all the accused had been arrested and they will questioned regarding manufacturing units. Mr. Thakur advised the public not to use gutkha products and alert police if they come across any sale of contraband goods. In Salem, the district police as directed by Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav conducted special drive on Friday and Saturday and seized 570 kg of banned gutkha products. Police have also registered 65 cases and arrested four persons who were involved in wholesale trade of the goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-tonnes-of-gutkha-seized-in-namakkal/article35502905.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 3 deaths and 98 new cases||The Union Territory recorded three COVID-19 deaths and 98 new cases against 132 recoveries on Friday. Puducherry registered two deaths and Mahe one to raise the toll in the Union Territory to 1,786. Puducherry recorded 69 of the new cases, which were detected from 6,255 tests, followed by Karaikal (12), Yanam (4) and Mahe (13). The test positivity rate was 1.57%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.75%. The active cases in the Union Territory continued to decline and stood at 918, with 152 patients in hospitals and 766 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,20,101 COVID-19 cases against 1,17,397 recovered patients. Of an estimated 14.54 lakh tests administered to date, over 12.40 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of persons vaccinated against COVID-19 aggregated to 6,59,466, including 37,724 healthcare workers, 22,953 frontline personnel and 4,65,702 members of the public. No deaths Cuddalore district reported no deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday. As many as 71 persons tested positive, taking the overall tally to 59,889. Villupuram district reported one death and 37 fresh cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 43,554. Kallakurichi district reported 41 cases, taking the overall tally to 28,718. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,827 with 35 new cases reported on Friday. In Ranipet district, 24 cases were reported positive and the tally stood at 41,781. In Tirupattur district, 27 new cases were reported. In Tiruvannamalai district, 58 new cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-3-deaths-and-98-new-cases/article35503207.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen ride boats with black flags in protest||A section of fishermen rode about 200 boats with black flags on the Bay of Bengal near the shoreline across the Chief Secretariat on Friday to demand enforcement of the ban on purse seine nets. According to the protesters, which include owners of Fibre Reinforced Plastic vessels, some fishermen continued to use the banned purse seine nets for fishing and hence posed a threat to the fish and other marine resources.  The purse seine net is banned by several governments as it had a ruinous impact on marine life. The protest on Friday was an escalation of an ongoing stir by fishermen communities in about 18 villages in the Kanakachettikulam-Moorthikuppam coastal belt to press for the ban on purse seine nets. Another section of fishermen have been protesting demanding permission to use these nets to sustain their livelihood. Three weeks ago, a section of traditional fishermen were blocked by the police as they thronged the Assembly to meet Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and press for this demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-ride-boats-with-black-flags-in-protest/article35503209.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||A house for a family and 1,000 dusky leaf-nosed bats||At a time when bats are being looked upon with suspicion and vilified as carriers of coronavirus, a family in Puducherry has been co-existing with over 1,000 dusky leaf-nosed bat ( Hipposideros ater ) in its house for the past two decades. Most of the family members have grown up watching the nocturnal mammals in their two-storey house at Lawspet in the past 21 years, and they coexist without disturbing each other. Prabhu A. Ponmudi, a businessman-cum- environmentalist, started constructing his house in 2000. A few bats started to roost while construction was under way. By the time the building was completed, an entire colony of bats had settled. “We built a swimming pool on the first storey of the house and left space on all the sides of the pool to prevent water seepage into the house. The bats started to occupy the space on the unplastered walls, and we didn’t disturb them,” said Mr. Ponmudi, who opens a glass door to show the bat colony occupying the walls. The L-shaped space separating the swimming pool from the rooms on its sides are occupied by the bats, and there are multiple hives of rock bees too. “We have learnt to coexist and haven’t faced any issue so far,” said Mr. Ponmudi. “When children in the house open the glass door adjoining the swimming pool, the winged mammals fly inside the rooms. We switch off the ceiling fans for two hours and the bats use a range of ultrasonic sounds to detect obstacles and navigate through vents connecting the swimming pool. The mammals swoop down to drink from a pond in front of the house at 6.30 p.m. and exit. They again enter the roost at dawn through these vents,” he said. According to S. Vimalraj, a naturalist, “There are so many misconceptions about bats. This species is an insectivorous bat and helps to eliminate insects, including moths. Bats are important nocturnal pollinators and seed dispersers. They pollinate flowers of mangroves and are pest controllers for farmers.” “The dusky leaf-nosed bats eat thousands of insects, including mosquitoes, every night and help in keeping diseases at bay. Bats, like other wild animals, are natural carriers of viruses. However, they should not be vilified with new diseases,” he said. Destruction of their fragile habitats and contact with their body fluids and consumption of bush meat would put humans at risk of encountering new viruses, Mr. Vimalraj said. K. Raman, founder of Indigenous Biodiversity Foundation (IBF), a non-profit organisation, said bats normally roost in abandoned buildings, disused wells and palm trees. “Tiled roof houses built in the Tamil style had separate vents for natural lighting. These vents were used by bats for roosting. Their numbers are decreasing owing to the destruction of their habitats and hunting,” he said. The IBF has started making artificial houses for insectivorous bats. A single box can support a colony and the idea is to increase awareness through conservation and education, Mr. Raman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-house-for-a-family-and-1000-dusky-leaf-nosed-bats/article35502755.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Consultant for grade separators soon: Minister||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has incorporated a proposal to engage a consultancy service for the construction of grade separators at Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi squares in the current year annual plan, said Union Minister for MoRTH Nitin Gadkari. He was replying to a query raised by Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam in Lok Sabha on Thursday. The Minister said the projects fall under the Puducherry-Tindivanam section of NH-66. The road was widened in 2011 and at present was under Operational and Maintenance stage. The proposal to appoint a consultancy service for the construction of grade separators has been incorporated in the current annual plan, he said. Replying to another question by the MP, Mr. Gadkari said there was no proposal to construct grade separator at Marapalam junction since a bypass for Puducherry has been proposed. Mr. Vaithilingam had raised the issue of heavy traffic congestion at Marapalam junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consultant-for-grade-separators-soon-minister/article35503211.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Forum writes to PM Modi||The Puducherry Thinkers Forum has appealed to the Centre to advise the territorial administration keep a vigil on social gatherings to prevent third wave of novel coronavirus in the Union Territory. President of the forum Pudhuvai G. Selvam in a letter to the Prime Minister and Union Ministers said though the government was taking all steps to prevent further spread of the virus people are not following COVID-19 protocols. People are gathering in large numbers at various events violating COVID-19 guidelines after the administration relaxed lockdown norms, he said in the letters. The Health Department had warned about children getting infected of the virus. So, the Centre has to issue necessary direction to the government to follow COVID-19 protocols, Mr. Selvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-writes-to-pm-modi/article35503210.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G inaugurates vaccination camp in U.T.||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday inaugurated a special vaccination camp for persons with co-morbidities at the community hall of the Housing Board colony in Kurumbapet. Ms. Soundararajan hoped that the special drive would help reach the left-out groups and attain the goal of 100% vaccination by August 15. Civil Supplies Minister A. K. Sai Saravanan Kumar, T. Arun, Health Secretary and other officials participated. The Health Department is concurrently organising a two-day vaccination festival across 100 session sites in the Union Territory on Friday and Saturday to ramp up coverage of the population. According to Mr. Arun, the focus of the two-day drive is on inoculating persons with co-morbidities and to completely prevent deaths due to coronavirus. This is the fourth mass vaccination drive after the first nation-wide ‘Tika Utsav’ rolled out in April. Puducherry had held mass vaccination campaigns in June (that was extended from the initial four days to six days) and a three-day drive from July 10. A host of departments have teamed up with the health units to address the public's misgivings about the vaccine. Door-to-door visits are being organised to dispel misconceptions and motivate vaccination among the public. Mobile vaccination centres have been introduced to provide free vaccination to people who are reluctant to be vaccinated or are immobile due to disease or age. Soliciting cooperation Health officials have sought the cooperation of the public in the efforts to make the Union Territory fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The Lt. Governor later held a virtual conference at the Raj Nivas with officials in Telangana to assess the flood situation.  A number of departments have teamed up with health units to address the public's misgivings about vaccines. Door-to-door visits are organised to dispel misconceptions and motivate vaccination among the public||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-inaugurates-two-day-special-vaccination-camp-across-ut/article35503213.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Raja appears before Tirumayam court||BJP’s former national secretary H. Raja on Friday appeared before the Judicial Magistrate court at Tirumayam in connection with a case that was booked against him by the Tirumayam police in September 2018 for his alleged derogatory remarks against the High Court and his barbs against the police. The police had registered a case against Mr. Raja and seven others after they got into an altercation with the law enforcers who denied permission to erect a stage on the road during the Vinayaka Chathurthi celebration citing a High Court order. A video of the incident at Meyyapuram near Tirumayam depicted Mr. Raja abusing the police and passing derogatory remarks against the High Court. The video went viral on social media platforms. The case against Mr. Raja was booked under various IPC sections. The Tirumayam police had filed the charge sheet against the accused and the Judicial Magistrate Court summoned them to appear before the court on July 23. The anticipatory bail petition filed by Mr. Raja was recently dismissed by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which directed him to appear before the trial court. The Tirumayam Judicial Magistrate Court adjourned the next hearing in the case to September 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raja-appears-before-tirumayam-court/article35502882.ece
24 July 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No vendetta behind the searches’||Minister for Law S. Reghupathy on Friday said that the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption had not carried out the searches on the premises of former Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar out of vendetta. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Reghupathy said, that there was no vendetta behind the searches would be known from the chargesheet to be filed. The action was conducted based on inquiries and information collected. If there was no information, the ‘raids’ would not be conducted against anyone, the Minister said. The DVAC conducted searches at 26 places in Karur and Chennai. Mr. Vijayabhaskar’s house at Andankoil and his dyeing unit in Karur were also searched on Thursday. Asked whether there was a chance of the raids to continue, Mr. Reghupathy said evidence was being collected against those who had committed wrongful deeds and based on that the raids were being conducted. It was not being carried out against innocent persons, he said. Mr. Reghupathy said his party leader and Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had no intention in carrying out raids out of political vendetta. “He is a political leader who wants to take the opposition parties along,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-vendetta-behind-the-searches-law-minister/article35502773.ece
24 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest demanding land||The residents of MGR Nagar protested in front of Salem Collectorate recently demanding alternative land as the place they were staying was taken over by railway authorities. In their petition, the residents said that they were residing on railway land at Vellakalpatti, near Omalur here. The petitioners complained that revenue and railway authorities issued notices to them in 2019 and asked them to vacate the land in 10 days. Houses demolished However, officials demolished their houses after the notice period and revenue officials then reportedly told the residents that they would be provided with alternative land. The petitioners complained that they were not provided with any land for the past two years and urged the district administration to take necessary measures in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-protest-demanding-land/article35502902.ece
24 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner inspects smart city works||Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj inspected works being carried out under Smart Cities Mission at Erumapalayam dump yard here on Thursday. Mr. Christuraj along with senior officials reviewed bio-caping works and development of multi-tier recreational centre at the dump yard site. According to officials, works are being carried out to the tune of Rs. 20.45 crore. A release said, waste dumping was stopped at the site in 2011 and as part of the project, through scientific methods, the corporation is working on setting up a green cover. Waste dumped here has been contracted into 7.9 acres of land and it is being redeveloped into a recreational space with open park, play area, open gym, walkers’ path, cycle track and others. Inspecting the site, Mr. Christuraj assessed progress of work and advised officials to expedite works within schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-commissioner-inspects-smart-city-works/article35502918.ece
24 July 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Road across temple land, a bone of contention||Demanding appropriate action against authorities who had laid a road without seeking permission from the HR and CE department, former High Court judge Selvam has urged the Collector to intervene and solve the issue swiftly. The former judge has said in a memorandum that about five acres of land belonged to Sri Uruman Temple, at Poolankurichi, near Tirupathur in Sivaganga district, and this was under the HR and CE administration. Under such circumstances, a road had been laid by the authorities. Inquiries revealed that they had not obtained permission from the HR and CE department, to which the land belonged to. Hence, it has been put to use by the public and over a period, the adjacent land may also be encroached, he apprehended and urged the Collector to immediately solve the issue by closing the road. When contacted, Collector Madhusudan Reddy said that the HR and CE officials have inspected the place. The villagers in and around the temple would be consulted on the issue before a final decision was taken. The matter has been conveyed to the former judge as well, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-across-temple-land-a-bone-of-contention/article35502886.ece
24 July 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||VAO suspended on bribery charges after video goes viral||Collector P Madhusudan Reddy has suspended a Village Administrative Officer (VAO) on charges of bribery. Following a video, which went viral in the social media over the last two days, the Collector ordered a probe. According to the revenue officials, an applicant Pandi (50) of Shanmuganathapuram, near Aravayal in Devakottai had applied for a few documents including ‘chitta adangal’ for his property for which the VAO Gopi Kannan had allegedly demanded Rs. 500 as bribe. Giving the bribe, the applicant had recorded the images and posted them on social media. The applicant had told the officials that the VAO was in the habit of demanding bribes. He further claimed that when he had asked for issuance of a patta for a ‘natham poromboke’ land in his favour and a case in this regard was pending in the court, the VAO had allegedly recommended issuance of patta in another person's name to the RDO after taking a hefty bribe. Hence, to expose that he was corrupt, Pandi claimed to have taken the video and posted it on social media, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vao-suspended-on-bribery-charges-after-video-goes-viral/article35502888.ece
24 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Take precautionary measures, PESO tells fireworks units||With north east monsoon round the corner, fireworks units have been asked to take up maintenance of lightning conductors installed on their premises and not continue with routine manufacturing during rainy or cloudy days. Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) has reminded the fireworks units to provide adequate lightning conductors, wherever required. “The foremen who are responsible for the safety of workers and premises, should get the lightning conductors tested and ensure that the earth pits are in proper condition,” Joint Controller of Explosives (PESO), K. Sundaresan said. Often, the lightning arresters do not work as the connection in earth pits are not maintained and lead to accidents, he explained. “At least six to seven accidents are reported in fireworks units every year. And in those places, where the rules are properly followed, lightning strikes stop with minimum damage,” he said. The magazines and working sheds are prone to lighting strikes due to presence of trees in the vicinity. The units should take up trimming up of trees near magazine / vulnerable sheds especially during rainy season. Mr. Sundaresan said that the foremen should ensure that the workers do not leave any unfinished pyrotechnic mixture or powder anywhere in the factory at the end of the day. “Even when lightning strikes at magazines, it will result in mere fire without any explosion, if no mixture or loose powder is left inside it. However, the presence of mixture and loose powder will definitely lead to explosion causing severe damage to the buildings,” he added. Finished goods kept in carton boxes will not be impacted by lightning. Similarly, the magazines should be kept clean and dry. Work in the fireworks units should be immediately stopped whenever the weather turns cloudy or starts raining. “The foremen should ensure that the residual chemical mixture is destroyed properly,” he said. Ingress of water due to drizzle or rain will lead to self decomposition when falls on aluminium powder or pyrotechnic mixture and would cause destruction as they are susceptible for fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-precaution-fireworks-units-told/article35502891.ece
24 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Release water for irrigation: farmers||The Thalanmai Uzhavar Iyakkam and the Samaveli Vivasayigal Iyakkam have urged the district administration to ensure that adequate quantity of water for irrigation is released into Cauvery and Vennar rivers and Grand Anicut Canal. In a memorandum submitted to the Collector on Thursday, the representatives of these two organisations claimed that a team formed by them had inspected recently the areas irrigated by Cauvery and Vennar rivers and the GA Canal. They found that though the water had reached the tail-end areas, it was not sufficient to carry on ‘kuruvai’ cultivation with ease. Asserting that water was yet to be diverted into some canals branching off from the GA Canal, the memorandum claimed that inadequate release of water into Cauvery and Vennar rivers had caused apprehensions among farmers who geared up to ensure that the government’s ‘kuruvai’ coverage target was achieved this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-water-for-irrigation-farmers/article35502872.ece
24 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Children injured after jumping from vehicle||Five children sustained injuries after they reportedly jumped from a moving vehicle near Usilampatti in Chengipatti police station limits on Friday. According to sources, locals who found about 20 children walking towards Usilampatti after collecting the noon meal ration from their school at Killukottai on Friday prevailed upon the driver of a goods carrier passing through Killukottai to give lift to the children. Sources said the driver Rajasekaran was proceeding towards Kavalarthottam near Thanjavur after delivering the haystack load at Keeranur in Pudukottai district when the children boarded the vehicle. While the load van was nearing Usilampatti, some children jumped from the moving vehicle as their shouts for a halt went unnoticed by the driver. Five students – Marimuthu, Ramya, Saranya, Sasireka and Kalaivani – jumped from the moving vehicle and sustained injuries. Rajasekaran immediately called up ‘108’ ambulance service to move the injured children to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. While the children were about to be taken to the hospital, a group of local residents picked up a quarrel with Rajasekaran. Later, Rajasekaran handed over his vehicle to the Sengipatti police and rushed to TMC Hospital to attend to the injured children until their family members arrived. The Sengipatti police also held inquiries with the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-injured-after-jumping-from-vehicle/article35502875.ece
24 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive begins||Administration of Pneumococcal Conjugate vaccine to infants aged below two years began in Thanjavur district on Friday. Launching the vaccination drive carried out by the Health and Family Welfare Department under the National Health Mission at the Panchayat Union Primary School, Pillayarpatti, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that infants less than two years old, aged people, and immunity/ nutrient-deficient persons were susceptible to pneumococcal disease, and that the administration of the vaccine to the children would save them from getting afflicted. The plan was to administer this vaccine to 28,750 infants on the 45th day after birth, third month and on the ninth month, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-begins/article35502876.ece
24 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to relay roads in Thanjavur||All major thoroughfares in Thanjavur must be relaid on a war-footing, said ‘Azhagiya Thanjai – 2005,’ an organisation involved in creating public awareness of historical and cultural importance of the town. The Director of the organisation, R. Ravichandran, has urged Corporation Commissioner K. Saravanakumar and Executive Engineer Jagadeesan to address difficulties faced by road users in negotiating the Raja Veedhis, particularly the South, West and North Streets. Mr. Ravichandran also sought renovation of the car parking area in front of the World Heritage Monument and to shift the garbage bin placed near the Narasima Perumal Temple at Kondirajapuram so that the space could be used for parking of vehicles by devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-relay-roads-in-thanjavur/article35502874.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Up on the hills, vaccines go abegging||While people at Uppiliyapuram Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) on the foothills of Pachamalai wait for days to get a jab of the COVID-19 vaccination, the empty PHC at Top Sengattupatti on the hills presents a picture in stark contrast. Health workers are having a tough time due to vaccination hesitancy among tribal people. In March, officials at Top Sengatupatti Additional PHC, attached to the Uppiliyapuram PHC, began setting up COVID-19 vaccination camps to vaccinate 4,016 people who reside in 16 villages attached to Tiruchi district. In the four-month-period, they have been able to vaccinate only about 1,000 people of whom a majority were required to get the shot as per norms at their workplace. Those who work in agricultural lands in the villages ran and hid in the forests on learning about the visit of a medical team to vaccinate them. “We are all hale and healthy. A staff nurse at the PHC herself fell ill for a week when she took the vaccine. We will not be able to work and when we do not work, we do not get paid. For us, ensuring food to eat every day is the priority,” said R. Jyothi, an agricultural labourer. Sampath Kumar, Medical Officer in charge at the PHC, said that the department had organised an event in which Collector S. Sivarasu motivated people to get themselves vaccinated. “The whole village gathered to listen to the Collector, but only 19 people took the shot,” he said. No serious case While the first wave of COVID-19 did not cause any noticeable impact, the second wave saw at least 30 people testing positive, but none were in a serious condition. “This could also be a factor causing their hesitancy. Those who tested positive were home quarantined or admitted to Covid Care Centres; none of them needed hospitalisation,” a health worker said. Dr. Sampath and his team also tried door-to-door awareness campaigns, laying emphasis on the importance of inoculation, but they were met with resistance and in some cases even anger. “A shepherd asked if we will take care of his cattle, while some even sought to give us innovative ideas for preventing COVID-19 without vaccination,” he said. “A small number of people who travel to Uppiliyapuram or Thuraiyur for work, and some pregnant women did take the jab, but, by and large, the vaccine hesitancy continues,” he said.  Vaccine hesitancy Only about 1,000 of the targeted 4,016 people vaccinated The tribal people hide in the forest during visit of medical team Door-to-door campaign is met with resistance and anger||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/up-on-the-hills-vaccines-go-abegging/article35502878.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against privatisation||Members of various trade unions staged a demonstration here on Friday opposing privatisation of various sectors and in support of their other demands. Office-bearers representing Labour Progressive Front, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Indian National Trade Union Congress, All India Central Council of Trade Unions and Hind Mazdoor Sabha participated in the nearly hour-long demonstration in front of the BSNL telephone exchange office on West Boulevard Road. The union members urged the BJP -led government at the Centre not to privatise defence production. The demonstrators demanded the Central government to withdraw amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act and give up the amendments in the Electricity Act. The protesting union members urged the Central government not to privatise railway, electricity, mines, public sector banks, airports, ports and insurance firms and not to sell them to big corporates such as Ambani and Adani. The demonstration was led by S. Joseph Nelson, organising secretary of the Labour Progressive Front ,in which K. Suresh, secretary, AITUC, S. Rengarajan, secretary, CITU, K. Venkat Narayanan from the INTUC and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-privatisation/article35502871.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Self-confidence, hard work and discipline are success mantras’||Self-confidence, hard work and discipline were the mantras for success, cricketer T. Natarajan said while interacting with students on Friday. “While there will be trials and tribulations, imbibing noble values will help in acting as a support system,” he told students of Sri Jayendra Matriculation Higher Secondary School. The interaction was part of a ‘Meet and Talk’ series organised by the school for the benefit of students. Such interactions with eminent personalities would help keep the children motivated at trying times such as these, teachers said. Students had submitted questions to their teachers, who read them out for Mr. Natarajan to answer. Some children had the privilege of posing questions directly. Looked upon as a rising star of the Indian cricket team, Mr. Natarajan who hails from a village in Salem district learnt his basics playing tennis ball cricket like most young boys in the country. “Anyone can succeed if they have a mindset to learn and utilise the opportunity they are given,” he said. Mr. Nararajan stressed the importance of teachers in guiding pupils. A. Jayaprakash, a division-level player identified his talent and pushed him to where he is today. “If not for JP sir, I would not be where I am. If someone sees talent in you and provides encouragement, you must work twice as hard to succeed,” he said.  Anyone can succeed if they have a mindset to learn and utilise opportunities T. Natarajan Cricketer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/self-confidence-hard-work-and-discipline-are-success-mantras/article35502869.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report dip in fresh cases||Central districts reported 314 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. But the day saw 10 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Of the 10 deaths, three were reported in Pudukottai and two each in Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur districts. One death each was reported in three districts - Karur, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts. The remaining three districts reported no deaths. All the districts in the region reported less than 100 fresh cases. Thanjavur reported 98 fresh cases, while Tiruchi reported 66. Pudukottai reported 30 fresh cases, Nagapattinam 29 while the neighbouring district of Mayiladuthurai and Tiruvarur reported 25 each. Ariyalur reported 21 fresh cases while Karur reported 12. Perambalur district continued to report the lowest COVID-19 cases in the region with eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-dip-in-fresh-cases/article35502879.ece
24 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Upgrade of State Highway roads put on fast track||Collectors across Tamil Nadu have been instructed to identify two-lane and four-lane State Highway roads that can be upgraded into four-lane and six-lane respectively to ensure hassle-free vehicular movement, Minister for Public Works Department and Highways A.V. Velu has said. Speaking to reporters here on Friday after chairing a meeting to review the progress of the ongoing projects being executed by his departments in five southern districts, Mr. Velu said the Tamil Nadu Government that was according highest priority for ensuring high quality roads across the State was aiming at laying State highways for about 2,000 km during this fiscal with bridges, bypass roads for which land acquisition was actively going on. Moreover, Collectors in the State have been asked to identify two-lane and four-lane State Highways that could be upgraded into four and six-lanes even as project estimates for these possible upgrading was being worked out. He said that sufficient number of trees would be planted wherever trees were cut as part of the widening of roads. “Besides pooling in the resources of the State Government, steps are being taken to rope in industrial biggies to sponsor tree saplings and maintenance of the saplings through their Corporate Social Responsibility funds,” Mr. Velu said adding that Minister for Thangam Thennarasu was actively working on this project. The PWD was involved in projects worth Rs. 427.44 crore in Virudhunagar, Rs. 144.49 crore in Tenkasi, Rs. 103.88 crore in Tirunelveli, Rs. 80.80 crore in Thoothukudi and Rs. 60.52 crore in Kanniyakumari districts. A 140-metre-long suspension bridge between Vivekananda Rock Memorial and Thiruvalluvar Statue in Kanniyakumari would be erected on an outlay of Rs. 37 crore to add more colour to the international tourist destination. “Even as a study on this project will be done shortly by the Indian Institute of Technology – Madras, tender will get finalized shortly so that the Chief Minister can inaugurate the suspension bridge,” the Minister for Public Works Department and Highways said. Land acquisition On the delay in commencement of some of the projects, including the rail over bridge at Kulavanigarpuram manned level crossing, the Minister said these projects were getting delayed due to land acquisition. “A total of 53 projects are getting delayed due to this issue. We’re taking all-out efforts to take up these projects forward at the earliest,” he said. He said Tirunelveli would get its outer ring road in the west to ease traffic congestion caused in the city by west-bound vehicles especially trucks. Tiruchendur would get a new circuit house. Ministers Anita R. Radhakrishnan, P. Geetha Jeevan, Thangam Thennaras and KKSSR Ramachandran, District Collectors V. Vishnu of Tirunelveli, K. Senthil Raj of Thoothukudi, S. Gopala Sundararaj of Tenkasi, M. Aravind of Kanniyakumari and J. Meghanatha Reddy of Virudhunagar, MLAs and senior PWD and Highways Department officials from these districts participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgrade-of-state-highway-roads-put-on-fast-track/article35503080.ece
24 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Leaders pay tributes to tea estate workers||Leaders of various political parties offered floral tributes to 17 persons who drowned in the Tamirabharani when violence broke out in the procession taken in support of wage hike for Maanjolai tea estate workers 22 years ago. Accompanied by party cadres, Congress MLAs Ruby R. Manoharan, Palani Nadar and Selvaperunthagai placed wreath in the Tamirabharani. BJP MLA Nainar Nagenthran and the party office-bearers showered flower petals in the river in memory of the 17 persons drowned in the river. Accompanied by party cadres, Puthiya Thamizhagam president K. Krishnasamy placed wreath in the river. Cadres of Naam Thamizhar Katchi, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist Leninist), Thamizh Maanila Congress, Aathi Thamizhar Paeravai, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Thamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, Bahujan Samaj Party, Tamil Nadu Government SC / ST Employees’ Union, Puratchi Bharatham, Thamizhar Viduthalai Kalam, Hindu Makkal Katchi and a few more outfits paid respects to the victims of the Tamirabharani tragedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leaders-pay-tributes-to-tea-estate-workers/article35503268.ece
24 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Udumalpet veterinary college works to be completed by 2022’||Construction work for the Veterinary College and Research Institute (VC&RI) near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district will be completed by the end of 2022, said Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan. The Minister inspected the ongoing construction work at Pannaikinaru village in Udumalpet taluk on Thursday. According to a press release, Mr. Saminathan said that the VC&RI will sprawl across 40.92 acres and is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 82.13 crore. The college will comprise eight blocks, which will include a livestock autopsy centre, a veterinary hospital, an integrated livestock farm complex, hostel buildings and a canteen, the release said. Classes for first-year students will be conducted on the premises of a private school on Udumalpet-Palladam Road for this academic year and the classes will continue in the new VC&RI building from next year, Mr. Saminathan said. Meanwhile, the Minister also inspected other works in the district such as flyover construction work at Anaipalayam, railway overbridge construction work at Mannarai and Vavipalayam, and the construction of an auditorium and multi-level vehicle parking buildings within Tiruppur Corporation limits under the Smart Cities Mission on Thursday evening. District Collector S. Vineeth and other officials were present with Mr. Saminathan during the inspections, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udumalpet-veterinary-college-works-to-be-completed-by-2022/article35502781.ece
24 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Slow underpass work hits traffic on Bengaluru Highway||The slow pace of the ongoing pedestrian underpass work is taking a toll on the traffic movement along the busy Chennai - Bengaluru Highway (NH-48) with vehicles, especially goods-laden lorries and trailers, taking at least 15 minutes to pass through the Vellore - Katpadi intersection. On Friday, a trailer that was proceeding towards Chennai was stopped on the highway near the intersection by the traffic police and the officials of the Larsen & Toubro Ltd (L&T), which executes the underpass project on behalf of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), as the trailer was wider than the narrow road space available for vehicles on the highway, which has a median too. As a result, other vehicles were diverted to the service lane for a distance of around 500 metres before the vehicles were allowed to join the highway again. "An alternative traffic arrangement, including diversion of lorries and trucks to service lanes, especially during night with safety features will be introduced soon," said a senior police officer in Vellore. As per the existing traffic arrangement, two-wheelers, autorickshaws and cars use the service lanes on either side of the highway to reach Vellore and Katpadi via the Green Circle and the bridge across the dry Palar river. Other vehicles, especially container lorries and trailers, have to use the narrow road space available near the underpass work area on the highway. Many times, especially during night, long trailer vehicles find it difficult to negotiate the narrow road space at the intersection on the stretch. Currently, a police patrol team has been deployed at the intersection to regulate traffic. At present, the work on the underpass has been completed towards Benguluru. The roof work is being done on the box type structure towards Chennai. Around 20 feet of carriageway space has been given for vehicles on the highway at the intersection. Motorists said that the intersection is a key route for Vellore as most of the government offices and public institutions are located near the intersection. The Rs. 2-crore-pedestrian underpass will be 25 metres in length, 5.5 metres in width and 3 metres in height. It will have equipment to pump out water, CCTV cameras and LED street lights. Three such underpasses will be built.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slow-underpass-work-hits-traffic-on-bengaluru-highway/article35503277.ece
24 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||86 para-medical staff to be recruited||The district administration is recruiting 86 para-medical staff on contract basis for six months as part of its preparation to fight COVID-19. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the monthly consolidated pay will be between Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 15,000. The recruitment is for five posts of Radiographer, 10 posts of Dialysis Technician –II, ECG Technician (15), CT Scan Technician (5), Anesthesia Technician (15), Lab Technician (5), Pharmacist (5), Staff Nurses (15), and Multipurpose Health Workers (11). Those interested should apply with their educational certificates addressed to Dean, Government Medical College Hospital, Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital premises, Ramamoorthy Salai, Virudhunagar 626-001. The applications can be handed over in person or sent through post by August 8. The applicants should have got their education in institutions recognized by Tamil Nadu Government, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/86-para-medical-staff-to-be-recruited/article35502892.ece
24 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Powerlooms warned against producing articles reserved for handlooms||Collector J. Meghanath Reddy has warned powerlooms against manufacturing articles that have been reserved for handlooms. In a press release, he said that saree, dhothi, towel, angavastram, lungi, bedsheet/bedcover, furnishing clothes, jamakkalam, dress materials, kamblies, shawls and woollen tweed were among those reserved for manufacturing only by handlooms under the Handloom (Reservation of Articles for Production) Act 1985. The decision was taken to protect the culture and handloom industry and to protect the handloom weavers. Stating that manufacturing the reserved articles by powerlooms was illegal, he said the Enforcement officials from the Department of Handlooms will inspect the powerlooms to check violation. If any powerloom was found to have violated the reservation law, penal action would be initiated through the police which would attract upto six months of imprisonment or Rs. 5,000 fine or both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/powerlooms-warned-against-producing-articles-reserved-for-handlooms/article35502894.ece
24 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president found dead||President of Uppathur village panchayat, A. Senthilkumar (50), was found dead near Vannimadai under Sattur Taluk police limits on Friday morning. The police said that he could have died on Thursday night after tripping while walking on the road. Senthilkumar had sustained injuries on the back of his head. However, police have ruled out any foul play. Sattur Taluk police have registered a case of suspicious death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-president-found-dead/article35502887.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||135 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 135 new cases on Friday taking the total cases to 92,578. While 211 persons were discharged, 1,773 continue to be under treatment. A total of 110 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 74 cases were indigenous and 22 were reported in Salem Corporation limits. 36 patients had returned from other districts like Namakkal, Erode, Dharmapuri and other places. In Namakkal, 49 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, a 85-year-old male died at Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/135-cases-in-erode-district/article35502916.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 177 new cases, four deaths||Coimbatore district reported 177 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 2,27,825. The Health Department reported four deaths, which took the district’s toll to 2,151. The district, as on Friday, had 2,293 active cases and saw the discharge of 268 persons after treatment. Tiruppur district reported 92 new cases on Friday. The district’s overall tally rose to 87,111 cases. No new deaths were reported. The district reported 1,491 active cases and 140 persons were discharged on Friday. In the Nilgiris, 58 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 30,131. The death of a person took the toll to 174. A total of 780 persons were under treatment as on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-177-new-cases-four-deaths/article35502786.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protection/article35503272.ece
24 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain, water release cause floods in the Krishna||Heavy rain and water release from Maharashtra caused floods in the Krishna and its tributaries in Belagavi district on Friday. In Belagavi city, water entered houses in low-lying areas, including Goods Shed Road, Shivaji Nagar, Maratha Colony, Mandoli Road and the Old PB Road. Residents were forced to shift their belongings to safer places in their houses or outside. They also tried to throw out water using buckets and pots. Around 150 houses were so affected, officers said. Residents of around 15 houses in Peeranwadi in Belagavi took shelter in the houses of their relatives and friends when water entered their houses on Friday. Babloo Pawar, one of the affected persons, said that some books, documents and electrical equipment were damaged in his house. A house belonging to Congress MLA from Khanapur Anjali Nimbalkar was flooded. She was not inside when the Malaprabha waters entered the house which is near Lakshmi Grounds on the outskirts of the town. Some security staff and domestic help who were in the house rushed out to safety. A mass vaccination drive that was started at the Deccan Medical Centre was disrupted after rainwater entered the premises. Two roads between Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra were closed after mudslips occurred on Amboli Ghat, Chorla Ghat and Panhala Road. However, minor roads remained open, the officers said. Rakkasakoppa Reservoir began overflowing and water entered fields in villages, including Rakkasakoppa, Belagundi and Benakanahalli. SDRF personnel rescued at least six persons affected by heavy rain or floods. They rescued Sri Siddeshwar Swami and three of his associates who were stuck on the mutt premises in Kundaragi near Gokak. SDRF personnel rescued a fisherman Ganapati Mithari who got stuck in a shed on the river banks in Londa town, when the waters of the Pandari entered the fields. Tahsildar of Khanapur Reshma Talikoti contacted her counterpart and other officers in neighbouring Uttara Kannada district. Forest officers in Ganesh Gudi adventure camp called SDRF personnel who used a boat to reach the spot. They threw a rope towards Ganapati Mithari. He held onto it and swam towards them. He was brought ashore. SDRF personnel and police rescued a young farmer Bharmu Patil who had climbed a tree to save himself from the rising waters in the Markandeya in Waghawade village. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that the district administration has opened five care centres in Nippani and Sankeshwar taluks to house persons whose villages are flooded. Sankeshwar Town Municipal Council Commissioner Jagadish Eeti and Police Sub-Inspector Ganapati Kanganoli were engaged in shifting affected people to care centres. Access was cut off to Sri Shankarlinga temple and Sri Mahalakshmi temple in Sankeshwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-water-release-cause-floods-in-the-krishna/article35502928.ece
24 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||PDO killed in road accident near Athani||Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) Gundurao Mirajkar died in a road accident near Athani on Friday. He was going from Sambaragi to Habyal village when the motorcycle skidded and he suffered a head injury. He died before he could be treated in a hospital, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pdo-killed-in-road-accident-near-athani/article35502930.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ongoing development works likely to be completed by year-end: CM||Amidst speculation on his future as Chief Minister of Karnataka, B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the key portfolio of Bengaluru Development, inspected some of the roads and junctions taken up for development on Friday. Every other road in the city, especially those in the Central Business District, have been dug up for ‘development work’. However, there may be some relief for motorists and pedestrians, as barring a few roads, work on many others will likely be completed by the year-end. Sitting by the window in a bus, the Chief Minister, accompanied by a few Ministers, conducted the inspection, only getting off to unveil the redeveloped Nayandahalli Junction on Mysuru Road, the ongoing work on the K-100 drain at Shantinagar, and Subedar Chatram Road that has been whitetopped. He stopped for some refreshments at a restaurant in the developed Commercial Street. Speaking to reporters after the inspection, he said the State government was committed to the city’s overall development, and that the roads once developed would last for at least 20 years. “The government is committed to making Bengaluru an international tourist destination. We hope to develop all roads, lakes, drains, and parks in the city. There is no paucity of funds for this,” he said, and added that ongoing work on many roads would be completed by year end. Of the 36 roads being developed by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL), work on nine has been completed. The delay has been attributed to the outbreak of the pandemic, lack of manpower, and problems with utility shifting. Ten roads are reportedly in the final stages of completion, including Planetarium Road, Infantry Road, Dickenson Road, Ulsoor Road, Brigade Road, Palace Road, Raj Bhavan Road, and Kasturba Road. Of the 29 roads taken up under TenderSURE over the past six years at Rs. 400 crore, work on 20 have been completed. These include Subedar Chatram Road, Dhanvantri Road, W.H. Hanumanthappa Road, Cottonpete Main Road, Vani Vilas Road, and roads in Gandhinagar. Similarly, of 69 roads measuring 147 km taken up for whitetopping over the past five years, 10 have been completed in the last 12 months. Work on Annaswamy Mudaliar Road, Bhaskaran Road, Thanisandra Road, Kodigehalli Main Road, and a few others are expected to be completed by October.  The Chief Minister unveiled the junction improvement at Nayandahalli on Mysuru Road. With the theme ‘Mysuru Dasara Dibba’, the junction has been improved at a cost of Rs. 6.3 crore, which includes beautification, whitetopping, and installation of the ‘Dasara Dibba’ statue. The installation that cost around Rs. 65 lakh has statues of three Dasara elephants, with one lead elephant carrying the golden howdah, and a mahout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ongoing-development-works-likely-to-be-completed-by-year-end-cm/article35502695.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC quashes U.P. police notice indirectly portraying Twitter India MD as accused||In a relief to Manish Maheshwari, managing director (MD) of Twitter Communications India Pvt. Ltd. (TCIPL), the High Court of Karnataka on Friday quashed the notice issued to him by Uttar Pradesh police indirectly portraying him as an accused in the Ghaziabad case related to uploading and circulating a “communally sensitive” video and tweets on the microblogging platform. However, the court said the notice, issued to him under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure on June 21, would now have to be treated as the one issued under Section 160 of the Cr.PC, which treats a person as a witnesses. Also, the court said the Loni Border police of Ghaziabad district could record his statement either through virtual mode or by visiting his office or residence in Bengaluru city. Justice G. Narendar, while disposing of Mr. Maheshwari’s petition, also said that the High Court of Karnataka had the jurisdiction to entertain the petition as a part of the cause of action had occurred in Bengaluru as the petitioner was residing and working in the city though the incident of uploading video took place in U.P.  “Issuance of notice to Mr. Maheshwari under Section 41A of the Cr.PC appears to be an arm-twisting method as he had refused to heed to the notice issued earlier [on June 17] under Section 160,” the court said while observing that “the provisions of the statute cannot be permitted to become tools for harassment”. None of the three ingredients — a reasonable complaint has been made or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognisable offence — that are pre-requisite for issuance of notice under Section 41A of the Cr.PC exists against Mr. Maheshwari, the court observed. Stating that the U.P. police had “not placed an iota of material” that would show prima facie involvement of Mr. Maheshwari, the court pointed out that the U.P. police themselves had made it clear that Mr. Maheshwari was not summoned in his individual capacity as he was not named as an accused in the First Information Report but he was asked to take part in the investigation in representative capacity of the MD of Twitter India, which was arraigned as an accused. The court also said that records indicate that TCIPL or Mr. Maheshwari had nothing to do with contents uploaded on Twitter, as Twitter Inc., U.S., which controls the contests, does not possess any share in TCIPL as only Twitter International and Twitter Netherlands respectively hold 99% and 1% shares of the TCIPL. As records also indicate that TCIPL has been engaged only in advertising and market research, it cannot be said that Mr. Maheshwariis indirectly capable of controlling contents of the microblogging platform owned by Twitter Inc., the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-quashes-up-police-notice-indirectly-portraying-twitter-india-md-as-accused/article35502715.ece
24 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Choice of BSY’s successor depends on BJP road map for State unit||The indication that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is getting set to step down has triggered speculation on who will succeed him. Though the ball is in the court of the Bharatiya Janata Party high command, which is known to make surprise decisions, State political circles are abuzz with different theories and formulae that will be at play while making the choice. Another Lingayat? The foremost question is whether the high command would want to appoint a Lingayat leader to assuage the feelings of the community, especially because it constitutes a big support base. The party is yet to forget the defeat suffered by it in the 2013 Assembly polls after a portion of the Lingayat vote base drifted away from it when Mr. Yediyurappa had severed links with it to float a new political outfit. Seers from the community are said to be trying to send a similar message this time too by rallying behind Mr. Yediyurappa. If this is the line of thinking, then Mines and Geology Minister and sugar baron Murugesh Nirani may be a contender, say insiders. Mr. Nirani has been making repeated Delhi visits to meet central leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah. He hails from the Panchamashali sect, which is dominant among Lingayats. Another Lingayat MLA Arvind Bellad, who had been demanding leadership change, too has camped in Delhi. From Sangh Parivar However, one section feels that it is important not to be confined by community calculations alone and stress on its Hindutva ideological base while picking a successor. Among the names doing the rounds in this category are BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, a Vokkaliga, another dominant community in Karnataka. The party old guards, who are of the view that “outsiders” who have entered the BJP through ‘Operation Kamala’ have been getting a major share of power and “diluting” ideology, are pitching for this line of thinking. The name of Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, another Vokkaliga, is also being floated. Some party hard-liners are of the view that the party should bring someone from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh like how it brought Narendra Modi to the post of Gujarat Chief Minister in 2001. They argue it is necessary for damage control and retain its traditional support base. Such people are pitching for party national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh, a Brahmin. But it is not clear whether the party central leadership would relieve a key strategist. Another section of the party feels that Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, also a Brahmin, could be an option, considering his “clean image and administrative prowess”. A young face A party strategist said the high command appeared to be looking for, after all things considered, a relatively younger leader, preferably in the 50s and definitely not someone over 65, who is here for the long haul. “This will be the moment of generational shift in the State unit and the party is looking at someone who has the potential to lead the party for at least the next 10 years,” he said. Many of the probables whose names are doing the rounds are in their 50s: Mr. Joshi, 58; Mr. Nirani, 56; Mr. Ravi, 54; Dr. Ashwath Narayan, 52; and Mr. Santhosh and Mr. Bellad, 51.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/choice-of-bsys-successor-depends-on-bjp-road-map-for-state-unit/article35502723.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Varsities, colleges get set to welcome students||Universities and degree colleges that are all set to reopen on Monday have decided to conduct awareness programmes on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour for students and staff. Some colleges have taken the extra step to organise ‘welcome back to campus’ programmes. Campuses were closed in March this year during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. Lingaraja Gandhi, Vice-Chancellor, Bengaluru City University, said they want to greet students returning to campus. “We will give them masks, sanitisers, and a rose to welcome them back and instil confidence to attend offline classes,” he said. He added that students who are vaccinated and attending classes will be asked to spread awareness about the importance of vaccination among their family members, friends, and neighbours. Prathima, principal, Government First Grade College, Malleswaram, said they will conduct offline classes on a shift basis to ensure that students maintain physical distance. “We will ask lecturers to conduct awareness on COVID appropriate behaviour. We will also check vaccination certificates of students,” she said. During the first wave, when colleges resumed physical classes in November 2020, most reported 60%-70% attendance. However, they continued to hold online classes for the rest of the students. This time around, with staff and students vaccinated, managements are undecided on whether they will continue online classes. T.D. Kemparaju, Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru North University, said they will have orientation sessions on Monday on how the academic session is likely to pan out. “We will have crash courses and review many of the lessons conducted online. Students are free to clarify their doubts before regular classes commence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsities-colleges-get-set-to-welcome-students/article35502703.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nandi Hills to get more facilities||With more than 5,000 tourists visiting Nandi Hills every day, the Karnataka Tourism Department has decided to push for a range of projects at the site. Nandi Hills draws a large number of people from Bengaluru, particularly on weekends. Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar visited Nandi Hills on Friday to inspect development works undertaken for providing facilities to tourists. The Minister told reporters after the visit that Nandi Hills would get a ropeway. A detailed project report on it would be finalised in aday or two. The project would be implemented on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The Minister said Nandi Hills could accommodate up to 6,000 tourists at a time. The government owns seven acres at the bottom of Nandi Hills, which would be developed. More land would be purchased from private parties for providing parking slots and other facilities, the Minister said. Arrangements would be made to supply water from a nearby lake in view of shortage of drinking water on Nandi Hills. Developmental activities would be undertaken without adversely affecting the ecology and without compromising the safety of tourists. The Minister said online entry ticket booking facility would be set up for the convenience of tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nandi-hills-to-get-more-facilities/article35502721.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB raids houses of rowdy-sheeters associated with active gangs||The city police have intensified their special drive against rowdy-sheeters in the city. Central Crime Branch (CCB), on Friday, targeted four of the most active gangs in Bengaluru led by Ravi, Sunila, Naga from Wilson Garden and Narayana on Friday. Police teams raided the houses of 58 such persons known to be associated with these gangs, and are questioning them. Over the last one month, Bengaluru has seen three high-profile and brazen murders — of Rekha Kadiresh, Lakkasandra Madhu and Joseph Babli — prompting police to take up special drives against rowdy-sheeters. Two weeks ago, the city police had raided the houses of 116 such persons across the city. Changing strategy on Friday, CCB targeted all members of the most notorious groups currently active. “Of the four main rowdies targeted, only Ravi is absconding. The other three were there at their residences,” said a senior official. “The recent murder of Joseph Babli was a revelation to us. While he had no case since 2011 and was considered to be inactive, investigation into his murder has revealed he was active in dispute settlements and gang rivalries as well, though he took care not to be noted explicitly. This has been a wake-up call to us, prompting us to conduct a drive to probe rowdy activities in the city more deeply,” said another senior officer. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said there would be zero tolerance for rowdy activities. During the raids on Friday, police found a cache of 254 Aadhaar cards at the house of rowdy-sheeter Shahnawaz from Shivajinagar, a known associate of Ravi. Shahnawaz is absconding. “We are yet to ascertain as to why he had collected Aadhaar cards of so many people. We suspect it may be related to some property issues,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-raids-houses-of-rowdy-sheeters-associated-with-active-gangs/article35502691.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas from July 26 to 31 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. for replacing 15 old 11KV Areva switchgear with new MEI switchgear of Bank-1 and Bank-2, at 66/11kv Austin Town Sub-Station. According to a BESCOM release, the areas affected are: Victoria Layout, Palm Grove Road, Agaram,Viveknagar, Sonnenahalli, Vannarpet. Austin Town, Anjaneya Temple Street, KSRP Quatrus, Lindon street, Palm Grove Road, Xavior Layout, Y.G. Palyam F2 FEEDER: Air Force Hospital, Domlur, Lifestyle, Campbell Road Junction, Richmond Road, Rudrappa Garden, Austin town, Neelasandra, Bazar Street, R.K. Garden, Rose Garden, ORC road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article35502705.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students say CLAT 2021 was ‘moderately difficult’||Students who wrote the competitive Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2021, which was held amidst safety protocols on Friday, said that the test was moderately difficult. Varsha Ramesh, a class XII student from a CBSE-affiliated school in Bengaluru, said even though she had been preparing for the examination for almost two years, she found Friday’s paper tough. “The mathematics and the General Knowledge sections were difficult,” she said. Another candidate, Harshitha G., said: “While the legal section was difficult, the English section was easy. I hope that my performance in the test helps me get into one of the NLUs.” Many students said that the safety protocols put in place due to COVID-19 had been adhered to “extremely well” at examination centres. Candidates were screened and many wore masks. Some also chose to wear face shields and gloves while writing the examination. Career Launcher, a coaching centre which trains students for the test, said that CLAT 2021 was surprising in several aspects. “Overall, the paper was quite lengthy and moderately difficult which meant that a well-prepared student could perform well and score relatively high,” said the coaching centre in a statement. The national-level entrance exam conducted by the Consortium of National Law Universities is a gateway for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate law programmes offered by 22 National Law Universities across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-say-clat-2021-was-moderately-difficult/article35502701.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protests staged against price rise||The Communist Party of India held a protest demonstration against the rise in price of fuel and other essential commodities, at Gandhinagar here on Friday. A release said that economic policies of the Union government were resulting in record levels of inflation and unemployment, combined with negative economic growth. A memorandum detailing these issues was submitted to the Governor by Siddangouda Patil, CPI State council member, Vijaybhaskar CPI State secretariat member, and others. Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) also held a demonstration at Malleshwaram on the same issue. Speaking on the occasion, M.N. Sriram, secretary, Bengaluru District Committee, condemned the Union and State governments for “disregarding the plight of people” reeling under the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-staged-against-price-rise/article35502716.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Agriculture Grand Challenges launched to promote startups||The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP), the country’s premier biosciences technology and innovation hub, on Friday announced the first nationwide Agriculture Grand Challenges under K-tech Centre of Excellence for Agri-innovation to identify promising innovations to address major problem areas of Indian agriculture. For each winning startup, funding of up to Rs. 25 lakh, incubation, mentorship, and hand-holding, would be provided by C-CAMP. The initiative is jointly supported by the Agriculture Department and Department of Electronics, IT, Biotechnology and S&T of the State, for promoting technology-driven entrepreneurship in the agriculture sector. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister of IT, Biotechnology and S&T, launched the programme. MoU A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed for ‘Indo-Israel Innovation Bridge’ which has the objective of bringing together the startup ecosystems of both the countries in life sciences and agri-tech. Zonathan Zadka, Consul General of Israel to South India, said, “The potential of the initiative is enormous and has already generated tangible cooperation between startups of the two countries.” On the occasion, C-CAMP assisted indigenously developed portable COVID-19 vaccine coldchain equipment was officially handed over to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-grand-challenges-launched-to-promote-startups/article35502719.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cut in stamp duty won’t help homebuyers’||The State government’s decision to reduce stamp duty on the registration of homes in the Rs. 35-45 lakh bracket from 5.5% to 3% may not give a fillip to housing sales in Bengaluru, as per realty observers. “With this cut in stamp duty, Karnataka joins the bandwagon of States that understand the need of the housing sector. It is a welcome move. However, the cut is unlikely to give a significant boost to housing sales in Bengaluru,” said Anuj Puri, Chairman, ANAROCK Property Consultants, a realty advisory firm. Recently, Maharashtra made a similar move, and stamp duty for homes across all budget segments and not just one category, unlike Karnataka. “The fact is that the housing demand in Bengaluru is largely skewed towards the mid-segment – properties priced within Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. For these properties, the stamp duty charges, unfortunately, remain unchanged at around 5%,” Mr. Puri added. Umakanth Y., Director, Advisory Services (South India) at Colliers said, “There are certain caveats in this notification. In a tier 1 city like Bengaluru, affordable homes in the Rs. 35 to 45 lakh bracket are very limited while smaller cities may offer more options. Also, it is only applicable for first-time buyers and hence not an investor-friendly announcement by the State.” According to Mohan Narayan, director, Raintree Realtors, “The cut is too small to excite prospective budget homebuyers. But, they may be able to save a little money that can be invested in interiors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cut-in-stamp-duty-wont-help-homebuyers/article35502699.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka sees 1,705 cases, 30 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 1,705 new COVID-19 cases and 30 deaths, taking the overall tally to 28,91,699 and toll to 36,323. The total number of active cases in the State now stand at 24,127. Out of the new cases, 400 were from Bengaluru Urban, which also saw three deaths. Dakshina Kannada saw 295 new cases, Mysuru 157, and Udupi 131. Cumulatively, 3,75,51,620 samples have been tested in the State so far, out of which 1,25,426 were on Friday alone. Among recoveries, Bengaluru Urban topped with 11,99,859, followed by Mysuru and Tumakuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-sees-1705-cases-30-deaths/article35502689.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UVCE examination||The theory examinations of I and III semester B.Tech and I semester B.Arch of University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) will start from July 28. UVCE, in a release, said the hostel will open for students on July 26 for those who will be writing examinations from July 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uvce-examination/article35502697.ece
24 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seers to hold convention tomorrow||Though Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa himself has appealed to seers of various mutts to desist from campaigning for his continuation as Chief Minister, various seers have decided to organise a convention in Bengaluru on Sunday. Seers claimed that the convention was being held not to back any particular individual, but to takestock of various developments and to take a stand. They also clarified that the convention was not confined to only Lingayat mutts and that seers from across communities would participate in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seers-to-hold-convention-tomorrow/article35502717.ece
24 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Curbs on movement of vehicles on ghat stretch||The incessant rains in the Malnad region have hit vehicular movement on two major ghats that connect Dakshina Kannada with the rest of the State. Shiradi Ghat on National Highway 75 has been closed for all types of vehicles as a portion of the highway caved in near Donigal on Thursday. Similarly, Chikkamagaluru district administration banned night traffic on the Charmadi Ghat stretch with effect from Friday. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish issued an order on Friday banning vehicles between Maranahalli and Donigal in Sakleshpur taluk till further orders. This applies to all types of vehicles. The administration has suggested alternative routes for travellers to Dakshina Kannada. Those travelling by light motor vehicles – car, jeep, tempo, mini-van, two-wheelers, KSRTC buses (ordinary), ambulance vehicles and six-wheel luggage carriers can take the Hassan-Belur-Mudigere-Charmadi Ghat route. Heavy vehicles such as Rajahamsa, Airavata, bullet tankers, cargo containers, long chassis vehicles, heavy commercial vehicles, multi-axel truck trailers and all other luggage-carrying heavy vehicles have to take the Hassan-Arkalgud-Kushalnagar-Sampaje-Mangaluru route. In both the routes, the travellers have to maintain the speed between 30 km to 40 km per hour, the order said. Similarly, Chikkamagaluru district administration has banned movement of all types of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat stretch of National Highway 73 between 7 p.m. and 6 a.m. Light motor vehicles will be allowed on the stretch only between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. However, these restrictions do not apply to vehicles offering emergency services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-on-movement-of-vehicles-on-ghat-stretch/article35503123.ece
24 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Girl assaulted, murdered||A minor girl was raped and murdered in a maize field in broad daylight at Isamudra village in Bharamasagar, Chitradurga taluk, on Friday. The 13-year-old girl had gone out to answer nature's call around 12.30 p.m. As she did not return, her family members went in search and found her dead body, with no clothes. The family had been staying put in a community hall in the village, as the construction of their house was going on. They had no toilet facility at the community hall. Chitradurga Superintendent of Police G. Radhika and other officers visited the spot. The officer told media that a case had been registered under the Sections of 376 and 302 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-assaulted-murdered/article35502704.ece
24 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Water release imminent, warn officials||Following heavy rains, inflow into the major reservoirs in Malnad region has been increasing, forcing the officers to issue warnings to the people in the downstream as water could be released from the dams anytime. The Karnataka Power Corporation Limited, on Friday evening, issued a press release warning the people residing downstream of Linganmakki dam. As of Friday, the water level stood at 1800.9 ft. against the full reservoir level of 1,819 ft. “The inflow has been increasing. It has already crossed 1 lakh cusecs. If the inflow increases further and water level reaches the maximum, the excess water has to be released from the dam”, the press release said. The officer appealed to the people to shift to safer places along with cattle. The release of water from the Tunga dam at Gajanur near Shivamogga, which is already full, has been increased. According to the reports on Friday evening, the release of water to river has been increased up to 70,000 cusecs. In Hassan district, the officers of Hemavathi and Vathole reservoirs have issued warnings that water could be released anytime as the inflow has been increasing. At 6 p.m. on Friday, the water level in Hemavathi stood at 2,912 ft. against the full reservoir level of 2,922 ft. and the inflow was 28,981 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-release-imminent-warn-officials/article35503124.ece
24 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Trains cancelled after landslips at two locations||Following incessant rainfall in the ghat section of the Hubballi Division of South Western Railway, landslips were reported at two locations, one between Dudhsagar and Sonaulim and the other between Caranzol and Dudhsagar, on Friday, which consequently resulted in the cancellation and diversion of various trains. Meanwhile, Train No 01134 Mangaluru Jn.-Chhatrapathi Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Special (which was running on the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj due to an overflowing Vashishti between Chiplun and Kamathe), suffered a derailment on the Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section. The first general coach next to the engine and the engine partially derailed. However, no passenger casualty has been reported. Subsequently, the passengers of the affected coach were shifted to other coaches and the train is being pulled back to Kulem, a press release said. Consequent to the landslips, Train No 02780 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Vasco da Gama Express Special (which was bound for Vasco da Gama) was detained in the section between Caranzol and Dudhsagar. This train is being pulled back to Castle Rock. The Chief Public Relations Officer has said that Accident Relief Trains from Castle Rock as well as from Vasco da Gama were immediately despatched to the site, as per the standard protocol, to carry out restoration measures. As part of Monsoon Reserve, JCB, Hitachi and wagon loaded with boulders are kept ready at Castle Rock, Tinaighat and Kulem. These have been pressed into service at landslips spot, along with a team of trained technicians, to carry out restoration of track/train services at the earliest. A team of senior officials of the Hubballi Division, including Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede and senior officers from zonal headquarters, have rushed to the site and are taking steps to carry out restoration. Precautionary measures to prevent further landslips at the site are being taken, the release said. The track restoration works were going on till late in the evening South Western Railway authorities said that about 500 cubic metres of rubble, muck, boulders had fallen on the railway track due to landslips. Two earthmovers, 15 trackmen, 50 additional workers have been mobilised for track restoration work. All 345 passengers onboard Train No 01134 and 887 passengers onboard Train No 02780 are safe and arrangements for their transhipment onto buses are being made at suitable locations. For passengers of Train No 02780, buses are being arranged at Londa towards destinations such as Vasco da Gama, Belagavi, Hubballi. For passengers of 01134, alternative transportation arrangements are being made from Madgaon/Mangaluru Jn. based on feedback from passengers, the release said. Meanwhile, arrangements for tea, snacks, drinking water have been made at Castle Rock and Kulem for passengers of Train No 02780 and Train No 01134, respectively. A medical team from Belagavi was also pressed into service. Cancelled Train No 08048, Vasco Da Gama-Howrah Express Special, Train No 07420, Vasco Da Gama-Tirupati Express Special and Train No 07420/07022, Vasco Da Gama-Tirupati/Hyderabad Express Special; Train No 06550 Belagavi-KSR Bengaluru Express from Belagavi, Train No 06549 KSR Bengaluru-Belagavi Express from KSR Bengaluru on Friday; Train No 06589 KSR Bengaluru-Miraj Express from KSR Bengaluru, Train No 07415 Tirupati-Chhatrapathi Sahu Maharaj Terminus (Kolhapur) Express from Tirupati were cancelled.  Train No 07326 Mysuru-Belagavi Express was partially cancelled between SSS Hubballi and Belagavi. Train No 07325 Belagavi-Mysuru Express (scheduled for Saturday) will be partially cancelled between Belagavi and SSS Hubballi. And, Train No 02780 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Vasco da Gama Express Special, which commenced its journey from Hazrat Nizamuddin on July 21, was partially cancelled between Londa and Vasco da Gama, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trains-cancelled-after-landslips-at-two-locations/article35502933.ece
24 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Flood-like situation in Dharwad district||Incessant rainfall in the last couple of days has resulted in a flood-like situation at various places in Dharwad district even as low-lying areas in the twin cities have reported instances of inundation. Meanwhile, Alnavar, Kalghatgi and Dharwad taluks have received the maximum rainfall in last 24 hours leading to swelling of various streams in the district. Against a normal rainfall of 4.5 mm, Alnavar taluk received 126 mm rain in the last 24 hours, while Kalghatgi has received 80 mm rainfall against an average of 4 mm. Dharwad city and Dharwad Rural have recorded rainfall of 50 mm each. On Friday, Bhavikatti Plot, Sadhunavar Estate, Lakshmi Singankeri, Ravindra Nagar in Dharwad and various localities in Old Hubballi were waterlogged. Inflow into Kelgeri and Sadhankeri tanks has increased drastically. Although the Tupparihalla is overflowing, as the road between Dharwad and Saundatti has been built at a height, there was no problem caused to vehicular movement this time. Huliyammankere in Alnavar has breached and water has entered low-lying areas. Dogi Nala too is overflowing. Hikeri Tank in Mukkal village of Kalghatgi taluk is overflowing and so is Unkal Lake in Hubballi. Nine rescued Meanwhile, nine persons, who were stranded in Navalgund and Kundgol taluks, were rescued by the Fire and Emergency Services personnel, along with 500 head of cattle. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that eight persons were stranded on a bridge across the Tupparihalla in Navalgund taluk and they were rescued immediately. A shepherd stranded in Kundgol taluk too was rescued. Nearly 800 people residing downstream of Hulikeri in Alnavar have been shifted to flood relief centres. Eight such flood relief centres with food and medical facilities have been set up in Alnavar, Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-like-situation-in-dharwad-district/article35502931.ece
24 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Missing youths traced||Six youths from Hubballi who had gone missing near the Shirle Falls in Uttara Kannada district were traced on Friday morning. The youths from Navanagar in Hubballi went missing on Thursday and the incident came to light after their two-wheelers were found parked by the roadside outside Shirle village. Officials and staff from Yallapur Police Station and the Forest Department launched search operations on being informed. The forest officials had said that they youths had probably lost their way in the forests. According to sources, the youths were found on Friday morning on the farmland of Raghavendra Bhat. The youths had crossed a stream in a bid to reach the Shirle Falls but could not return as the narrow path was washed away in flash floods. Having lost their way, they spent the night in the forest and on Friday morning reached Mr. Bhat’s farmland where they took shelter in a corner. Mr. Bhat found them on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/missing-youths-traced/article35502934.ece
24 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Battu Satyanarayana is Central University VC||Battu Satyanarayana, retired professor, Osmania University, Hyderabad, has been appointed Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the Central University of Karnataka. President Ram Nath Kovind, who is Visitor to the Central University, on Thursday, appointed Prof. Satyanarayana as per Statute 2 of the Central Universities Act 2009 for a term of five years from the date on which the appointee assumes office or until he attains the age of 70, whichever is earlier. After the retirement of H.M. Maheshwaraiahin March last year, the post of Vice-Chancellor was managed by Acting VCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/battu-satyanarayana-is-central-university-vc/article35502724.ece
24 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vittappa Gorantli passes away||Koppal-based progressive activist, writer and journalist Vittappa Gorantli (73) died of a heart attack at his residence in Koppal on Thursday. He collapsed on the road when he was returning home after completing Satsang at his Sadananda Jnanashram situated close to his residence. He was immediately rushed to his residence where he breathed his last. He is survived by his wife and two sons.  Mr. Gorantli developed an interest in spiritual activities after he came in contact with his Guru Kalappa which led him to establish the Sadananda Jnanashram in 2005. He was, since then, actively involved in spiritual activities such as Satsang in the ashram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vittappa-gorantli-passes-away/article35502929.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Restore road connectivity, says KCCI||With the Hassan district administration completely banning vehicular movement on National Highway 75 between Maranahalli and Donigal in Sakleshpur taluk on Friday, the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mangaluru, has sent an SoS to the Union government to temporarily restore road connectivity immediately. A portion of National Highway 75 embankment near Donigal slipped early on Thursday morning prompting the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Hassan district administration to regulate vehicular movement on the stretch. Sensing further danger, Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish on Friday completely banned vehicular movement on the stretch. KCCI president Isaac Vas in letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that National Highway 75 is a crucial link between the coastal region and other parts of the State as well as other States. The stretch of the highway between Sakleshpur in Hassan district and Gundya in Dakshina Kannada district has been under repair for over a decade thereby affecting trade and commerce in the region severely, he said. The national highway has been the lifeline for export and import trade through New Mangalore Port, Mr. Vas said and added that it also facilitates movement of LPG to many parts of the State and Andhra Pradesh. It is of strategic importance for the country as the State’s only refinery, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., the Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve and the upcoming Coast Guard Academy are located around Mangaluru. The closure of the highway will cause significant disruption of trade and commerce activities, including shortage of LPG, agricultural products and affect EXIM shipment. Despite undergoing repairs many a time in the last decade, nothing worthwhile has happened on the national highway to ensure seamless road connectivity, Mr. Vas regretted. As such, the Union government should take immediate steps to temporarily restore road connectivity. It also should take long-term measures to provide an all-weather road connectivity through the stretch, he said. Alternative routes Meanwhile, the Hassan Deputy Commissioner has suggested that Charmadi Ghat be used as an alternative route for light vehicles (up to six wheels) and Sampaje Ghat (via Madikeri) for heavy vehicles in view of the closure of National Highway 75. Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh Babu in his Friday order said that ordinary KSRTC buses, goods vehicles up to six wheels and light motor vehicles as well as commercial vehicles can operate via Charmadi Ghat between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. He has completely banned vehicular movement on the stretch between 7 p.m. and 6 a.m.  ‘The closure of the highway will cause significant disruption of trade and commerce activities, including shortage of LPG, agricultural products and affect EXIM shipment’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restore-road-connectivity-says-kcci/article35503094.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train services on Konkan Rly. network yet to be restored||Train service between South India and North India via Mangaluru continues to remain affected as the flood-affected Konkan Railway network in the Ratnagiri region of Maharashtra is yet to be opened for rail traffic. Landslips on the Braganza Ghat section between Madgaon and Londa on the South Western Railway network on Friday morning after which a loco and one general class coach of a train got derailed added to the woes of travellers. Consequently, the Railways cancelled several trains between Mangaluru and Mumbai and Madgaon-Mumbai/ Londa. Long distance trains between North India and Kerala were diverted via Palakkad, Coimbatore/ Salem. Flooding Flooding caused by the swollen Vashishti between Kamthe and Chiplun in the Ratnagiri region of Konkan Railway on Thursday forced the authorities to suspend train services on the Mangaluru-Mumbai section. Since the situation is yet to improve and the affected tracks are to be restored, there is a delay in restoring train services, according to KRCL authorities. The authorities hope to restore normal services by Saturday morning if there is no heavy rain and flooding. Cancelled Meanwhile, a communique from Palakkad Railway Division said that four services of Train No 01134 Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT Express Special is cancelled between July 25 and July 28. And, four services of its pairing train, 01133, Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction, too are cancelled between July 24 and July 27. Train No 02198 Jabalpur-Coimbatore Express Special of Friday and Train No 02197 Coimbatore - Jabalpur express Special of July 26 too are cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-services-on-konkan-rly-network-yet-to-be-restored/article35503097.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Officials told to hasten pit-line, platform work||Southern Railway Additional General Manager B.G. Mallya on Friday directed the divisional railway authorities at Palakkad Division to complete the ongoing pit-line and platform works at Mangaluru Central Railway Station at the earliest. He was on an official visit to the divisional headquarters at Palakkad and inspected Palakkad Junction Railway Station, MEMU Shed and held a performance review meeting with Divisional Railway Manager, Palakkad, Trilok Kothari. Speaking at the review meeting, Mr. Mallya pointed out that the focus should always be to improve the workplace, have an open approach to problems of customers and staff and to encourage innovative thinking and solutions, which might be beneficial to the administration. He also insisted on time-bound completion of installing sliding booms on railway gates, as an additional safety feature. The additional sliding booms will further ensure punctuality and safety of trains and the road traffic, whenever repair works on the existing lifting barrier is undertaken. Mr. Mallya asked the division to evolve a mechanism for monitoring water logging in subways and stressed the urgent need for finding a permanent solution to the problem of water logging. During the first quarter of the financial year, the revenue earned by the division touched Rs. 151.2 crore from all sources, including passenger train operations, freight train operations, other coaching and sundry works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-told-to-hasten-pit-line-platform-work/article35503096.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. school adds fun to bridge course learning||As part of the weekly basic science activity, students from Classes 6 to 8 of Government Higher Primary School in Moodambailu in Sullia taluk received last week a link related to creating spinner out of plastic bottles. This video was among the several available on Arvind Gupta Toys YouTube channel. Having watched the videos, Class 8 student S. Madhushree and Class 7 student Manvith from Punacha village were among those who made these spinners. They decorated the blades of the spinners and sent short videos of their work back to their teachers. In relation to the lesson on Panchayats in Social Science subject, teachers on Thursday asked the higher primary students to mention about their gram panchayats, the facilities they can get and and what they will do if they become president of the panchayat. On Friday, Class 6 student Prateeka and Class 8 student Preetam, who have shops close to panchayats, wrote about pension, job cards under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and Swachh Bharat initiatives taken up by the panchayats. Madhushree, who is daughter of Ananda Naika, president of Punacha Gram Panchayat, wrote about initiatives she would take as a panchayat president. These are among the activities taken up by Head Master Arvind Kudla and his team of five teachers as part of bridge course for 60 students of Classes 1 to 8 of the school since June 15. Pictures and videos about the activities are being regularly uploaded on the school’s Facebook page. Apart from focusing on basic Science and Mathematics concepts, teachers are involving children in speaking, listening and writing activities related to Kannada, English and Hindi. “The activities are designed in a way to make parents also be involved in it,” Mr. Kudla said and added that it was an effort to enable parents to play an active role in the learning process of children. Most of the activities devised have both language learning and basic science and mathematics concepts, he said. Among the interesting activities that the children are involved in include asking students to come up with a list of native proverbs. “Some students submitted a list of more that 100 proverbs, which included many native proverbs that are in use,” Mr. Kudla said. Higher Primary students actively participated in an activity to prepare an invitation for a function to be held at home and making an estimate of expenses to be incurred. The higher primary school students were so enthusiastic that they even participated in an activity for students of Classes 1 to 5 of enacting a Kannada rhyme “Ondu Kaage Banditu”, which deals with counting and language comprehension. Students also actively participated in an activity that involved singing Hindi film songs and also, comprehending in Kannada a story they have heard in Hindi. This bridge course, Mr. Kudla said, has helped teachers understand the level students have reached in languages, Science and Mathematics. “We will shortly start giving workbooks to address the lacunae,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-school-adds-fun-to-bridge-course-learning/article35503102.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six convicted of murder||First Additional District and Sessions Judge T.P. Ramalinge Gowda on Friday convicted six persons on finding them guilty of murdering a 30-year-old man and setting him on fire. Those convicted are Anand Naik, Praveen Naik, Vinay Kumar, Prakash, Lokesh and Nagaraj. According to the charge-sheet filed by Belthagandy Police, 30-year-old Suresh Naik, a resident of Malavantige village of Belthangady, was to get engaged with a girl on April 30, 2017. On April 29, 2017, he left for Ujire to buy a sari for the girl. Meanwhile, he received a call from Vinay Kumar, who asked the former to approach him for getting relief under a government scheme. Suresh Naik then went missing and his body was found burnt a week later at a secluded place in Alekki village of Belthangady. Belthangady Circle Inspector Nagesh K. first arrested Vinay Kumar and then arrested the others. The police found that Anand Naik hatched a conspiracy to murder Suresh Naik as he did not want the latter to marry the girl he loved. The police seized the car in which Suresh Naik was abducted and also the can in which the accused had carried petrol to set the body on fire. DNA test was carried out to confirm that the body found in Alekki village was that of Suresh Naik. The court posted the case to July 28 for hearing on sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-convicted-of-murder/article35503103.ece
24 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah challenges BJP to name a Dalit CM||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Friday challenged the BJP to make a Dalit as the next Chief Minister of Karnataka. The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly told mediapersons that earlier State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel had challenged the Congress to name a Dalit as the Chief Minister. Now that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was likely to resign, let the BJP announce a Dalit as his successor, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that instead of coming to the rescue of flood-affected people in the State, the BJP was busy changing its Chief Minister. Those affected by the floods during 2019 still had not got compensation, he added. Referring to seers coming to the support of Mr. Yediyurappa, he said they could express their opinion but should not indulge in politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-challenges-bjp-to-name-a-dalit-cm/article35502726.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Leopard caught||A leopard was trapped in a cage kept by the Udupi Forest Department officials in Pernankila village on Thursday night and it was released into the forest on Friday. The big cat had created panic among villagers in the last one month. The leopard caught in Gundupade area in the village was about seven years old, a Forest Department official said. The cage had been kept in the plantation of Ashok Nayak in Gundupade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-caught/article35503099.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||All students of Boscos pass II PU exam||Boscos Pre University College in Mangaluru has recorded 100% passes in the second pre-university examinations results of which were announced a few days ago. Of the 190 students who appeared for the examinations, all have passed. Of these, eight students have scored 100% marks, a release said. In all, six students have scored 599 marks out of 600 marks and 148 students have passed out with distinction, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-students-of-boscos-pass-ii-pu-exam/article35503100.ece
24 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Oscar Fernandes critical but stable||The health condition of senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha Member Oscar Fernandes continues to be critical but stable, Medical Director of Yenepoya Hospital Muhammed Thahir said here on Friday. In a statement, Dr. Thahir said that the 80-year-old former Union Minister has incurred intracranial bleeding following a trivial head injury during his routine workout (on Sunday last). “His condition is complicated by his cardiac and kidney issues for which he has been on treatment for some time in our hospital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oscar-fernandes-critical-but-stable/article35502698.ece
24 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rain intensifies in Kodagu||The south-west monsoon intensified in Kodagu and gained vigour since the last few days. The district received 92.4 mm of rainfall for the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday and the low-lying areas have been flooded owing to increase in the flow in the rivulets. During the last seven days, Kodagu received 229.4 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 191.2 mm. Authorities have been directed to be on standby and full alert for possible evacuation of people. Local MLA Appachu Ranjan visited some of the affected areas. He visited the main road connecting Mukkodlu and Tanthipala with Hattihole which was blocked due to a vast mound of mud caving in consequent to the collapse of the retaining wall. The road was cleared of the mud mound while people living in the downstream of Hatihole were advised to relocate to safer places as it was overflowing. The inflow into the Harangi reservoir had increased and it was at the rate of 20,000 cusecs on Friday afternoon. A giant tree that had fallen on the Thithimathi-Nayimane Colony Road was cleared by the Forest Department personnel from Thithimathi range office. Power lines and poles which were damaged were replaced and inspected by the CESC officials at Bethri and Murnad villages. The Cauvery was also swollen due to incessant rains; Virajpet tahsildar Yogananda visited the riverbanks at Bethri to take stock of the situation. The retaining wall of the road near Hodakana village has breached. It rained incessantly during the last 24 hours in Bhagamandala, Napoklu, Sampaje, Kodlipet, Santhahalli, Virajpet, Srimangala etc. Bhagamandala received 112.4 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours as against the normal of 68.3 mm. However, during the last seven days it received 315 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 487.4 mm while the shortfall is 53 per cent for July. As against the normal of 1532.2 mm of rainfall Bhagamandala received only 719 mm so far during the month. But the rainfall pattern since the last few years indicate that the shortfall is made up by incessant rains that lash the district in the last week of July or the first week of August. This has caused concern to the local community as the downpour in a short span of time causes havoc resulting in loss of life and damage to property. Red alert The Indian Meteorological Department has issued a red alert for Kodagu valid till 8.30 a.m. of Saturday. A red alert is issued when there is a possibility of rainfall in excess of 204.5 mm. In case of any emergency, people of Kodagu should call the district control room number 08272-221077, WhatsApp number:8550001077.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-intensifies-in-kodagu/article35503130.ece
24 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 52.39 cr. loss in Kodagu so far this season||Kodagu in-charge Secretary and senior IAS officer V. Anbu Kumar on Friday warned the officials of instituting inquiry against them if they failed to complete all pending works following damage caused by heavy rains in the previous years, by August 20. At a meeting in Madikeri to discuss monsoon preparedness and COVID-19 control, Mr. Kumar, who presided, said works sanctioned after the previous years’ deluge should not be delayed anymore and the bills of those works must be submitted immediately. The engineers must ensure that works meet the quality standards. The Secretary told the officials to immediately report rain-related incidents and damages to the Deputy Commissioner and take up relief work immediately. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal said steps had been taken to complete all pending works and also those taken up this year following damage caused by rains. The district administration has taken all adequate measures for handling this year’s monsoon. Additional Deputy Commissioner Raju Mogaveera said one person died and 47 houses were damaged in heavy rains recorded in the current season. The loss so far was estimated to be around Rs. 52.39 crore. District Health Officer K. Mohan said Kodagu’s positivity rate stands at 2.19 per cent and all steps had been taken to bring the pandemic under control. Heavy rains have been lashing Kodagu since the past few days with officials rushing to the sites of landslides reported on Friday to clear the roads from sludge and fallen trees for traffic movement. Several electric poles had been damaged this season so far in the district and most of them had been repaired to restore electricity supply. The Deputy Commissioner had said during a recent video conference with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa that Kodagu has recorded 744.7 mm rainfall in June and so far in July this year. In the same period in 2018, the district had received 2,219.7 mm. In 2019 and 2020, 856.4 mm and 849 mm was recorded. As many 70 areas in Kodagu have been identified as “flood-prone” and nearly 85 relief centres had been established for temporary housing of the rain-affected. The Geographical Survey of India (GSI) has identified 85 places in Kodagu, including areas in Madikeri and Virajpet towns, as vulnerable to floods and landslips, and the district administration had said earlier that the local authorities were in the process of shifting people in those areas to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5239-cr-loss-in-kodagu-so-far-this-season/article35503126.ece
24 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sowing in State higher than last year thanks to copious rain||The State’s overall sowing is higher this year compared to the same period last year with more than 44.18 lakh hectares under cultivation. This is higher than the normal coverage of 39.06 lakh hectares that is brought under cultivation. The statistics, updated till July 9, 2020, indicates that the actual area sown was 5.11 lakh hectares more than what is normally sown for the period, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). As of July 9, the sowing status was above normal in the 15 districts and normal in eight districts while there were seven districts where the sowing was below normal. The 15 districts which completed sowing in excess of the target area include Hassan, Mandya, Dharwad, Belagavi, Gadag, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Yadgir, and Kalaburagi among others. The eight districts where sowing was between 75% to 100% of the target fixed including Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Davanagere, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Raichur etc. According to the State Agriculture Department, the area under food grain is almost 28 lakh hectares while oil seeds and cash crops account for the 6.3 lakh hectares and 9.04 lakh hectares respectively. The target area for foodgrains has been pegged at 52.43 lakh hectares and for oil seeds it is 10.67 lakh hectares while for cash crops the target area is 13.89 lakh hectares. Under cereals, the actual area covered by rice is 1.28 lakh hectares while the target for the kharif season is 9.7 lakh hectares. The total area covered by cereals so far is 13.65 lakh hectares against the target of 31.37 lakh hectares. More than 15.08 lakh hectares have been brought under pulses so far as against the target of 21.06 lakh hectares for the kharif season. According to the department, the area sown during the current year is more than the last year’s coverage for all the major crops so far. The sowing and the thrust in agricultural activities has been attributed to adequate rainfall so far across the State. However, the water levels at the major reservoirs present a different picture. In KRS, the storage level is less than the average of the last 10 years for the period though the levels at Harangi, Hemavathi and Kabini reservoirs are more as on July 15, according to KSNDMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sowing-in-state-higher-than-last-year-thanks-to-copious-rain/article35502712.ece
24 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Illumination, Sound and Light Programme to resume||The Mysuru palace will begin glowing again from this Sunday after a three-and-a-half month-long hiatus. It will be illuminated between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. on all Sundays and general holidays from July 25, Deputy Director of Mysuru Palace Board T.S. Subramanya said in a statement here on Friday. Illumination had been suspended since April 10, 2021, due to the restrictions imposed in the wake of spread of COVID-19. The public can visit the premises between 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. after purchasing tickets from the counters at the entrance gate or through the official website of Mysuru Palace www.mysorepalace.gov.in The Sound and Light programme will also be resumed from July 26. It will be held from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. from Monday to Friday and from 7 p.m. to 9.15 p.m on Saturdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illumination-sound-and-light-programme-to-resume/article35502696.ece
24 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||SSLC results by August 10: Suresh Kumar||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Suresh Kumar said the results of the recently held SSLC examinations in the State are likely to be announced by August 10. He was responding to queries from reporters at Chamarajanagar near here on Friday. More than 8 lakh students had appeared for the abridged version of the SSLC examinations on July 19 and 22. To a question on the reopening of schools and start of physical classes, he said the government will discuss the matter after the scheduled submission of a report in the regard by an expert committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-results-by-august-10-suresh-kumar/article35503128.ece
24 July 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Founding principal of Bishop Moore College dies||Rev. K.C. Mathew, founding principal of Bishop Moore College, Mavelikara, passed away on Friday. He was 92. He was also manager of the UC College, Aluva His funeral will take place at St. Andrews CSI Church, Machukad, Kottayam, at 3 p.m. on July 26. Rev. Mathew started his teaching career at CMS College, Kottayam. He served as the principal of Bishop Moore College for 25 years. He also held various other positions, including CSI Synod member, Senate member of the University of Kerala, Syndicate member, manager of the UC College, Aluva, president of the CSI Central Kerala Youth League and secretary of the Mundakapadam Mandiram Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-manager-of-uc-college-dead/article35503024.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||MBA graduate creates fake websites||An MBA graduate in international marketing who developed fake grocery and furniture websites and cheated hundreds of people was arrested by the Cyberabad police here on Friday. The accused, Rishabh Upadhyay alias Chandan, 30, is a web developer from Bengaluru. He is a native of Sudhamapur in Banaras in Uttar Pradesh. His associate, Rahul, a digital marketing professional from Punjab, is at large. Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said the two websites ostensibly sold groceries and furniture at cheap rates, and hundreds of gullible people across the country were duped. Police seized Rs. 40 lakh in cash, two mobile phones, two laptops, 20 debit cards and six bank passbooks from his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mba-graduate-creates-fake-websites/article35503036.ece
24 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||3 Air Customs officials dismissed||The Customs Preventive Commissionerate has issued an order of dismissal from service to three customs officials, sending out a strong message against abetting smuggling. Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner (Preventive), Cochin, issued the dismissal orders of Rahul Kumar Sharma from Delhi, Sakendra Paswan from Bihar and Krishan Kumar from Uttar Pradesh. Their services were terminated after they were charged with abetting attempted smuggling of over 11 kg of gold through the Kannur airport on August 19, 2019. The three were charged along with Rahul Pandit, Inspector of Customs, who was dismissed in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-air-customs-officials-dismissed/article35503037.ece
24 July 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Ayanki’s friend killed in bike accident||Gold smuggling case accused Arjun Ayanki’s friend, who was questioned in the Karipur case, died in a road accident here on Friday. Rameez, 26, was riding a motorbike when he met with the accident. The police said the motorbike crashed into a car at Kappakadavu, near Azhikode, on Thursday night.. Though he was rushed to a hospital, he succumbed to injuries on Friday morning. He was not wearing a helmet and speeding could have resulted in the accident, the police say. The car was driven by Ashwin, a resident of Talap. He was returning from a hospital after a medical check-up of his uncle. Rameez was a close friend of Arjun. The Customs had earlier raided his house on the suspicion that Rameez was involved in the gold smuggling case. They also questioned him .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayankis-friend-killed-in-bike-accident/article35503042.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Concerns over misuse of KOMN data||Even as proponents of the Kochi Open Mobility Network (KOMN), which was launched here on Friday evening under the aegis of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), say that the network’s data protection has been assured and that its specifications and ownership will be handed over to the KMTA after six months, critics say grey areas abound and that it needed comprehensive political vetting. After identity, finance, health, education and agriculture, it could be an attempt to garner data on transport and commerce. The transport-related data could ultimately end up being used for “digital colonisation”, more so since a commuter’s identity and travelling pattern will be known, says Anivar Aravind, a public interest technologist and digital rights’ activist based in Bengaluru. ‘No consultations’ “I wonder on what basis the government and the KMTA roped in stakeholders that have a history of technological and civil rights violations. The “surveillance app” will help garner information on traffic-data, which could be shared with start-ups that are in their ecosystem. No proper stakeholder consultations were done prior to finalising the initiative that will begin as a traffic project and could end up in e-commerce,” says he. Data protection The KOMN’s proponents say that this is contrary to facts, since the network has a data-protection and security-audit certificate. The conclusion in the audit certificate issued by a Kolkata-based firm, a copy of which was made available to The Hindu , says “Application is free from OWASP Top 10 (any other known) vulnerabilities with exceptions and is safe till any changes.” The annexure ends with a list of five recommendations. Official sources say the ‘beckn’ protocol, which the KMTA intends to bank on, is just a set of open standards and specifications that is publicly available and it is for inter-operable digital commerce transactions. “The trademark of the ‘beckn’ brand is to avoid misuse of the brand mark. The trademark classes which the beckn brand mark is registered also include class 9 that mentions Privacy Protection and class 42 that mentions Interoperability Protocol. It requires harmonious reading of all classes to understand how the beckn brand is registered, to avoid any misuse of the brand mark beckn. There are no standards related to surveillance in beckn,” they add. KMTA stakeholders say that beckn is like Linux or Android, may be more open to public, but less critical. “It is similar to alphabets — anyone can learn them to write and speak. Beckn will extend its support for the first six months, following which it will hand over the server to the KMTA,” they add. Promotion of apps But detractors say that there is every possibility of select apps being promoted. “The minimum that the KMTA’s technology partners should have done is helped the agency ready a website and also help promote AuSa app of autorickshaws. These remain unaddressed. The KMTA remains sans a website, which is crucial to get suggestions from members of the public, nine months since it was inaugurated,” they say. Mr. Aravind says the beckn protocol is not like Linux or Android which come with a lot of protection to end users. End users were not consulted in the case of the transit-data sharing protocol in Kochi, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concerns-over-misuse-of-komn-data/article35503030.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi Open Mobility Network launched||Efforts are being made to shift the transport of goods through the Kovalam-Bekal waterway in a phased manner to decongest roads and to reduce accidents, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. Speaking at the launch of the Kochi Open Mobility Network (KOMN) at a function organised by the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) here on Friday, he said Kochi, which had taken the lead in introducing innovative schemes in the mobility sector, had the open mobility network which could be considered the first of its kind globally. The network will bring multiple mobility under a single network. Other cities in Kerala too could emulate it, he said. Mr. Raju added efforts were under way to digitalise accounting and other processes in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) since much of the works were being done manually. CNG conversion “A total of 1,000 KSRTC buses will be converted to CNG in a year. A total of 3,000 buses will be converted to CNG over the next few years at a cost of Rs. 300 crore, resulting in saving Rs. 500 crore annually on fuel bills,” said the Minister. Principal Secretary (Transport) K.R. Jyotilal said there was no scope for misusing the transit data gathered under KOMN (which relies on the ‘beckn’ protocol) since it was under the control of government agencies like the KMTA. Speaking on the occasion, Nandan Nilekani, co-founder of beckn.org, said the KOMN was a model for the entire world. Mayor M. Anilkumar and Sudarshan Venu, Joint MD of TVS Motor Company, spoke. Unlike mobility apps of many private players, the KOMN does not levy commission on drivers, neither do commuters have to pay surge charge during peak hours. The Minister also launched ‘iQUBE’, an e-scooter from the stable of TVS Motor Company, at the function. The e-scooter is among the models which can be recharged from the grid. The KMTA has envisaged electric two-wheelers along the metro corridor and in other passenger-dense hubs, to redress complaints about inadequate first and last-mile connectivity and to lessen reliance on private vehicles. Yatri app Mr. Raju also launched the Yatri app introduced by the KMTA with the help of the Beckn Foundation, which will fetch taxi car drivers the government fare. The drivers will not have to pay commission (which ranges between 25% and 40% of the fare for global taxi aggregator firms). Over 1,000 drivers Over 1,000 car drivers, mostly members of five trade unions, have attached with the new app in Kochi city. The KOMN will in the long run help commuters avail different commuting modes, including bicycles and also help streamline parking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-open-mobility-network-launched/article35503005.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC nod to kill wild boars in select areas||The Kerala High Court permitted the killing of wild boars in the agricultural land of a few farmers as the steps taken by the State government to curb the menace had not yielded any results. The court passed the order after it was convinced that the properties of the petitioners were under threat of wild boar attack. The only way to protect the interests of the farmers was to declare wild boars as vermin in specified areas in the State, the court noted. The court directed the Chief Wildlife Warden to permit the petitioners, who are agriculturists holding land in Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, and Kozhikode districts, to hunt wild boars in the areas where their agricultural lands are situated. The petitioners contended boars from the nearby forest frequently entered their land, causing massive damage to their crops. Heavy losses resulted.  The remedial measures taken by the government did not yield any result, they submitted. The petitioners also sought directions to the Union government to declare wild boars as vermin in the affected areas in the State, invoking Section 62 of the Wildlife Protection Act. Centre rejects proposal The State government had in November 2020 requested the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to declare wild boars as vermin in specific areas of the State. The proposal was rejected. The Union government is yet to take a decision on a fresh request made by the State government on June 17 this year, the court noted. The Act empowers the Chief Wildlife Warden to permit the hunting of animal or group of animals in a specified area if he is satisfied that a wild animal specified in Schedule II, Schedule III or Schedule IV, has become dangerous to human life or to property including standing crops on any land, the court noted. The Kerala High Court permitted the killing of wild boars in the agricultural land of a few farmers as the steps taken by the State government to curb the menace had not yielded any results. The court passed the order after it was convinced that the properties of the petitioners were under threat of wild boar attack. The only way to protect the interests of the farmers was to declare wild boars as vermin in specified areas in the State, the court noted. The court directed the Chief Wildlife Warden to permit the petitioners, who are agriculturists holding land in Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, and Kozhikode districts, to hunt wild boars in the areas where their agricultural lands are situated. The petitioners contended boars from the nearby forest frequently entered their land, causing massive damage to their crops. Heavy losses resulted. The remedial measures taken by the government did not yield any result, they submitted. Centre rejects proposal The petitioners also sought directions to the Union government to declare wild boars as vermin in the affected areas in the State, invoking Section 62 of the Wildlife Protection Act. The State government had in November 2020 requested the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to declare wild boars as vermin in specific areas of the State. The proposal was rejected. The Union government is yet to take a decision on a fresh request made by the State government on June 17 this year, the court noted.  Dangerous The Act empowers the Chief Wildlife Warden to permit the hunting of animal or group of animals in a specified area if he is satisfied that a wild animal specified in Schedule II, Schedule III or Schedule IV, has become dangerous to human life or to property including standing crops on any land, the court noted.  The court passes order after it was convinced that properties of the petitioners are under threat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-lets-hunting-of-wild-boars-in-select-areas/article35503016.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sanskrit varsity gropes in the dark over answer script loss||The continuing deadlock over the loss of 276 answer scripts of the third semester M.A. Sanskrit Sahitya exam of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit has added to the worries of the aspirants. With the answer scripts yet to be traced, the students worry that the inordinate delay in resolving the issue will affect their plans to apply for higher studies. The varsity Syndicate had suspended a senior faculty member of the department, who was the chairperson of the exam evaluation while holding him responsible for the loss. He had denied the allegations stating that the answer scripts and grade sheet were handed over to the head of the department on March 17. The department head had denied receiving the answer scripts. A section of the teachers had demanded that the suspension of the Associate Professor should be revoked immediately. The students had petitioned Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor of the university, against the loss of answer scripts and pointed out that any delay in finding a solution would affect their future programmes. A student, who wished to apply for B.Ed programme, said that the deadlock over the answer scripts would foil her chances to apply for the course. “We are all worried that the authorities have not yet recovered the answer scripts,” she said. The students had also objected to the proposal to conduct a re-examination in the wake of the loss of the answer scripts. Vice Chancellor P.K. Dharmarajan said that the police were probing the loss of answer scripts. A Syndicate sub-committee has also launched an inquiry. The Syndicate meet to be held on July 30 will discuss the issue, he said. On whether the entry was made in the transit register confirming the handing over of the answer scripts from the department to the exam wing, Prof. Dharmarajan said that no such entry was recorded. There was also no record available in the exam wing of having received the answer scripts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanskrit-varsity-gropes-in-the-dark-over-answer-script-loss/article35503029.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Steps taken by local bodies with low TPR to be studied||Chief Secretary V.P. Joy has suggested considering the remedial measures taken by local bodies that had never figured in the ‘D’ category (test positivity rate above 15%) in Ernakulam district. Mr. Joy, who presided over a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation here on Friday, recommended improved measures to create awareness among the public and the need to ensure physical distancing and wearing of masks to check the spread of the disease. The tests to ascertain positive cases have to be stepped up. It should not be restricted to those showing symptoms alone, he said. The meeting observed that the steps taken by the local bodies that had been successful in managing the situation on a sustained basis could be emulated in regions that had recorded increased TPR. It decided to appoint duty magistrates to ensure stringent compliance with the pandemic protocol. The police will also join such efforts. The monitoring in wards having high TPR will be strengthened. The ward-level samithis have been told to step up surveillance. The monitoring in airports and railway stations will also be improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-taken-by-local-bodies-with-low-tpr-to-be-studied/article35503034.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Decentralised management of solid waste yet to pick up||The efforts to implement and sustain decentralised systems for solid waste management have not yet picked up in Ernakulam despite tall claims by local bodies. Only a handful of local bodies have been found to be managing decentralised systems such as biogas plants, bio-bins, Thumboormuzhi-model aerobic bins, and vermicompost units in the district. An assessment by the Department of Local Self Government held last week has revealed that the decentralised systems initiated by some of the local bodies have turned defunct. The Suchitwa Mission has been told to provide technical support to the local bodies to make it operational. According to official estimates, the biogas plants in Manjapra, Koovapady and Pallipuram were not working. These panchayats had set up a unit having the capacity to treat 0.25 tonnes of waste per day. The lack of maintenance and proper monitoring had resulted in the poor functioning of the biogas plants. The local bodies have requested government support in reviving the decentralised models of waste management. The Aluva municipality was found to be lagging behind in setting up Thumboormuzhi-model aerobic units. The civic body, which received a poor rating for waste collection from households and institutions, have been told to explore ways to revive such decentralised systems to treat waste at its source. The Thumboormuzhi-model unit in Kumbalanghi was also found not working properly. The previous samithi had taken efforts to operate it, but no concrete measures were taken to sustain its working after the formation of the new council in December last, according to the assessment by the Local Self Government Department. The Kochi Corporation has also been asked to promote division-level decentralised models of waste management. The move is expected to reduce the burden on the defunct solid waste management plant in Brahmapuram. The new council has proposed biogas and other source-level waste management systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decentralised-management-of-solid-waste-yet-to-pick-up/article35503035.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ayanki’s bail plea rejected||Arjun Ayanki, the second accused in the Karipur gold smuggling case, had maintained a gang that included murder case convicts Kodi Suni, Shafi and also Akash Thillankeri, another accused in the smuggling case, according to a trial court. Rejecting the bail plea of Arjun, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) on Thursday noted that the nexus of the accused with the gang members and his involvement in gold smuggling required to be seriously probed. Arjun, with the help of these persons, used to snatch smuggled gold from the carriers of rival smuggling gangs. The support the accused is said to have received from the airport officials was also under investigation, the court noted. ‘False statement’ The court found force in the contention of the Special Public Prosecutor that petitioner was not cooperating with the investigation. The statement of Arjun that he went to the airport along with one Rameez to receive a sum of Rs. 15,000 from the first accused, Mohammed Shafeeque Melethil, lacked credence. The falsity of Arjun’s statement was exposed by the WhatsApp chats retrieved from the phone of Shafeeque, the court noted. Considering the facts and circumstances, including the non-cooperation of the petitioner and his active complicity in the offences, the court rejected the bail plea. If released on bail, the petitioner may influence or intimidate witnesses and tamper with evidence. His chance of absconding with the intention of undermining the investigation also cannot be ruled out, the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayankis-bail-plea-rejected/article35503040.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lube Shop on Wheels launched||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s Lube Shop on Wheels venture, which is aimed at mobilising alternative revenue sources for the organisation, was launched here on Friday by Transport Minister Antony Raju. The first such remodelled bus from among the fleet of buses which cannot normally be operated has been stationed at the Ernakulam Boat Jetty bus stand. Oil majors have tied up with the KSRTC in this regard, to sell lubricants and to enable speedy changing of oil in two-wheelers without levying service charge. KSRTC staff will man these units where lubricants will be sold at 15% discount. Customers will also be given snacks free of cost while those who purchase over 3.50 litres will get an umbrella free of cost. Mr. Raju said bus lodges launched in Munnar and the Pink Cafe launched jointly with the Kudumbashree and Milma parlours in modified buses were part of the venture. The KSRTC aims to sell 800 litres of lubricants per month per bus initially. The operational profit is expected to be Rs. 25,000 per bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lube-shop-on-wheels-launched/article35503022.ece
24 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Anannyah’s friend found dead in Kochi||Jiju, a friend of transwoman Anannyah Kumari Alex, was found dead hanging at an apartment on Jawahar Road, near Thaikkoodam, here around 3 p.m on Friday. The police suspect the 32-year-old hailing from Thiruvananthapuram to have committed suicide. Anannyah was found dead hanging at her apartment at Edappally on Tuesday. “They were living together for a few months and he was the one who found her dead,” said a member of the transpeople community, who knew them both. He had reportedly set a WhatsApp status expressing his grief at the death of Anannyah just before he died. The Maradu police have registered a case for unnatural death. Meanwhile, the Kalamasserry police probing the death of Anannyah said they were yet to get her post-mortem examination report. A two-member team from the Government Medical College, Kalamasserry, conducted the post-mortem examination on Anannyah, whose death has kicked up a row after the LGBTQ community attributed it to complications after the gender affirmative surgery held at a private hospital here a year back. Suicide prevention helpline number: 0484-2540530.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anannyahs-friend-found-dead-in-kochi/article35503054.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Techies vent WFH blues through hilarious memes||What do techies think of the seemingly never-ending Work From Home (WFH) arrangement? An ongoing meme contest organised by Progressive Techies (PT), a combine of IT employees, has thrown up hilarious reflections of techies' take on WFH. Launched a couple of days ago, the contest has attracted 30-odd entries so far, capturing the numerous laugh-out-loud and thought-provoking moments that occur when the professional world gets mixed up with the personal. One of the memes features an IT employee on WFH seeking a week's leave. The boss grants it with a rider that she should reply to the client mails, track the issues and fix the bugs on a war footing, leaving the employee to wonder what the point really was in applying for leave in the first place. Another one compares the morning online meetings after a late-night work session to falling into a deep gorge and struggling to make sense of the numerous assignments thrown at breakneck speed when one is hardly awake. “We are planning to run the contest till the end of this month and are releasing a couple of memes on our Facebook page every day. The ones garnering the most number of likes will be adjudged the winner,” says Aneesh Panthalani, State president, Progressive Techies. The organisation had held a similar contest on a different theme last year. While the entries are less this time, the quality has definitely gone up, he said. Time with family “Majority of the techies find WFH quite frustrating, citing that blending professional and personal lives is quite distressing. They keep complaining of not being able to find quality time with family. Work calls even at odd times, making them feel that they go to sleep, only to wake up in work mode,” says Mr. Panthalani. Nevertheless, there is a minority who find the arrangement quite comfortable and helpful for their family life. Progressive Techies has organised three sessions in as many weeks on WFH complexities faced by techies on the social media platform Clubhouse. The sessions are aimed at helping them cope with stress and find ways to vent their frustrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/techies-vent-wfh-blues-through-hilarious-memes/article35503057.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,832 more test positive||Around 1,832 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. Nearly 1,798 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 24 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 10.8%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Kizhakkambalam (55), Pallipuram (53), Keezhmad (48), Thrikkakara (46), Thripunithura (46), Vadakkekara (38), Kuzhippalli (36), Payipra (35), Kuttampuzha (34), Kunnathunadu (33) and Puthenvelikkara (32). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayampuzha, Elanji, Pachalam, Manjapra, Edakochi, Thammanam, Panampilly Nagar, Vennala, Elamkulam, and Poonitura, according to a release. Around 17,500 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1832-more-test-positive/article35503031.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses petition against land acquisition||God will forgive us and protect the petitioners, the authorities, and also the author of the judgement if religious institutions are affected during the development works of the National Highways, according to the Kerala High Court. Dismissing a batch of petitions challenging the acquisition of land for the widening of National Highway-66 on a stretch in Umayanalloor village, Thazhuthala, and adjacent villages of Kollam district, Justice P.V. Kunjikrishnan on Friday said that the country needed National Highways with sufficient width, and straight roads so that citizens, businessmen, industrialists, and people from all walks of life can use it. “If this court starts to interfere with the land acquisition proceedings of National Highways on the basis that there is a curve or a mosque or a temple or a school there, the procedure cannot be completed,” the court noted. Petitioners’ stance The petitioners contended that the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) was not following the directives of the State government about the alignment of the proposed widening of National Highway-66. According to the petitioners, the Kerala government’s suggestion to introduce some changes in the alignment was neglected. Their grievance was that the alignment of the National Highway itself was changed and the land acquisition was concentrated on the northern side of the existing National Highway, to save a Mosque. Refusing to accept the contention of the petitioners, the court said it would not be able interfere with the acquisition proceedings unless there was patent illegality or mala fide action.  Petitioners contended that the NHAI was not following the directives of State government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/god-will-forgive-if-nh-work-hits-places-of-worship-hc/article35503067.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Panel to study health services for transpersons||A meeting of the Transgender Justice Board on Friday decided to constitute an expert committee to study and report on the health services to transpersons, including their gender affirmative surgery. R. Bindu, Minister for Social Justice Department, convened the meeting to discuss among other things the death of the transwoman Anannyah Kumari Alex. The meeting observed that the surgeries are now being held in private hospitals and there is no uniformity in terms of treatment methods, cost, follow-up treatment and quality of service. This is leading to numerous physical and mental issues among transpersons. The expert committee will study the scope of training doctors in the government sector to conduct such surgeries and related services. The social justice director has been entrusted with exploring the scope of introducing a health insurance scheme for the transpersons and to give them priority in the government's housing scheme. The meeting also decided to approach the general education and higher education departments about the possibility of including sexual orientation and gender identity in the syllabus and the curriculum for teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-study-health-services-for-transpersons/article35503027.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Language lab at Maharaja’s||The Maharaja’s College is set to have a “language lab” with the participation of all five language departments in the college. The lab is being set up using the CSR funds provided by the Cochin Shipyard. An agreement was signed between CSL assistant general manager Sampath Kumar and college Principal Mathew George on Friday. The lab is expected to cost Rs. 10 lakh. CSL deputy manager Sasindradas P.S., college Vice Principal K.V. Jayamol, governing council member Suja T.V., Internal Quality Assurance Cell coordinator Santhosh T. Varghese, and English department head Rekha Kareem took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/language-lab-at-maharajas/article35503028.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4 tonnes of e-waste sent for recycling from Civil Station||Around four tonnes of e-waste at the Civil Station and its offices were sent for recycling on Friday. The e-waste was collected from 23 government offices and handed over to the Clean Kerala company for recycling, according to an official release. The drive was carried out jointly by the Haritha Keralam Mission and District Suchitwa Mission. Clean Kerala company will give Rs. 15 for 1 kg of e-waste to the offices from the materials were collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-tonnes-of-e-waste-sent-for-recycling-from-civil-station/article35503032.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tree-felling: 296 cases booked||The Forest Department has booked 296 cases in various forest ranges of the State in connection with the felling of trees on assigned lands, the State has informed the Kerala High Court. It was in a petition seeking CBI probe into the felling incidents that the State submitted the statement. The offences were registered under the provisions of the Kerala Forest (Prohibition of Felling of Trees Standing on Land Temporary or Permanently Assigned) Rules, 1995, and the Kerala Forest Act. The police have registered 10 cases in various stations Mahazars were drawn up in 405 incidents and the process of booking Occurrence Report in these incidents was progressing. A total of 791 cubic metre of wood had been seized. The seizure of substantial quantity of timber revealed that the investigation was on the right tract, submitted DIG Sreejith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/296-cases-booked-on-tree-felling-hc-told/article35503025.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects Sooraj’s plea in flyover case||The plea of former PWD Secretary T.O. Sooraj to quash the Vigilance inquiry report and the FIR registered in connection with the Palarivattom flyover corruption case was rejected by the Kerala High Court. Counsel for the petitioner contended that Mr. Sooraj was a public servant employed in connection with the affairs of the State and the preliminary inquiry by the Vigilance without the approval of the State government, as envisaged under Section17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was illegal and improper.  The court noted that the object of Section 17A of the Act was to protect public servants from malicious, vexatious and baseless prosecution. However, it cannot be considered as a protective shield for corrupt public servants. It was a safeguard only for the honest officers, the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-rejects-soorajs-plea-in-flyover-case/article35503041.ece
24 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man held on charge of smuggling in liquor||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) special squad arrested a man on the charge of smuggling 73 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor from Puducherry, at the South railway station on Friday. The arrested man was identified as Bipin Mohan, 20, of Changanasserry in Kottayam district. He was nabbed with the bottles, valued at Rs. 18,395, in three plastic carry bags from aboard the Karaikal-Ernakulam Express.  The RPF has strengthened security measures in trains and railway premises in view of reintroduction of more passenger trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-smuggling-in-liquor/article35503026.ece
24 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam logs 1,568 cases||Kollam district reported 1,568 new cases of COVID-19 and 734 recoveries on Friday. While 1,566 patients contracted the virus through direct contact, others include two health workers. The district has 29,646 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected for testing is 18,57,038. While 2,390 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 3,03,659 primary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-logs-1568-cases/article35503072.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Thousands still struggle to get slots for COVID-19 vaccination||Thousands of people in Kozhikode district are struggling to get vaccination slots booked via CoWIN portal set up by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Many in the 45-plus age category who had received the first jab are now unable to book a slot on the portal for their second dose. “My wife and I took the first Covishield dose at a private hospital in the city on April 12. Based on the revised interval for the second dose after 84 days, I started receiving SMS on my registered mobile number reminding us to schedule the appointment as the second dose was due on July 5. But I was unable to book a slot for 10 days,” Vinay Krishnan, a resident, said. The 50-year-old sales manager said he used to look for a slot at 8 a.m., noon, 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. as the CoWIN portal said that slots are updated by State vaccination centres and private hospitals at these timings everyday. His neighbour P.S. Gafoor suggested that he contact an accredited social health activist (ASHA) or someone he knew at a private hospital. “I had to rang up a friend attached to a city hospital. After a rigorous process, we got an appointment and received the second dose on July 17,” he said. People have no option but to use multiple methods, including networking with private hospitals or their circle of friends and acquaintances at health centres, to get first and second doses. “I managed to get the first dose at a private hospital. The second one was at a primary health centre after getting notification via Paytm’s vaccine finder,” Mr. Gafoor said. Young people get their slots after getting alerts on COVID-19 vaccination slot availability via Telegram. “But that requires nimble fingers to login to the portal and enter the OTP sent to the registered mobile number,” Abel John, an engineering student, said. Nevertheless, the harrowing ordeal of getting COVID-19 vaccine slots is the same for young people too. “I got the first dose in the student portal category after contacting an ASHA volunteer,” Manish Kumar, a youngster, said. As of July 22, nearly 10,96,467 got their first dose in Kozhikode district and 4,38,074 got the second dose. In the 45-plus category, 7,03,233 received the first dose and 3,31,989 two doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thousands-still-struggle-to-get-slots-for-covid-19-vaccination/article35503010.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Land acquisition for Marakkar bridge to begin soon||The procedures to acquire private land for the construction of the proposed Kunjali Marakkar memorial bridge connecting Iringal with Vadakara sandbanks will shortly begin in the district. According to Public Works Department officials, 2.45 acres will have to be acquired within a year to start the construction of the Rs. 59-crore bridge project. No landholders have come up with any objection against the fast-track land acquisition process. The department will have to acquire land from 31 persons in the project area. A small portion of the Vadakara coastal police station’s land will also be used for the project. The new bridge, to be constructed by maintaining many architectural specialities, will have a length of 564 metres. As it is part of the coastal highway project, the Kerala State Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will fund the mutli-crore construction, which has already approved the detailed project report. One of the architectural highlights of the bridge is the sword-based design paying tribute to Kunjali Marakkar. It is the first such bridge project incorporating a unique designing theme as a memorial. According to officials, the innovative design is the effort of the Design Research Investigation and Quality Control Board under the Public Works Department. Apart from the unique design, it will be the first bridge in the country which will be fitted with solar power panels for power generation. The proposal says the solar project will have the capacity to produce electricity worth Rs. 27 lakh a year. For over a year, paper works have been under way to get approval at all levels. The Kerala State Electricity Board will also team up with the innovative project for which the DPR had already ben submitted to KIIFB. Nearly 1,400 square metre area is expected to be covered using solar panels under the grid-connected project. The east-west direction of the bridge will be used to fit the solar panels to produce the maximum power.  One of the architectural highlights of the bridge is the sword-based design paying tribute to Kunjali Marakkar The new bridge, to be constructed by maintaining many architectural specialities, will have a length of 564 metres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-for-marakkar-bridge-to-begin-soon/article35503008.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode steps up vigil against pandemic||COVID patients in the district who do not have enough facilities at home to remain in quarantine will be shifted to the nearest domiciliary care centre soon as part of preventing further spread of the disease. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy has asked local bodies that do not have a domiciliary care centre at present to set up them immediately. Speaking at the district-level review meeting on Friday, he asked private clinics to mandatorily share information on those who underwent COVID test with officials at panchayat level. Following the decision to increase COVID tests, two testing camps will be held in every local body, one in the evening and another in the afternoon. All local bodies have been asked to open COVID control rooms. Contact tracing will be strengthened in local bodies. All those who turn up at hospital OPs have to undergo COVID test. If anyone refuses to undergo a test, they will be quarantined, the Collector said in the online meeting. Meanwhile, the police have strengthened vigil against COVID by deploying 530 personnel in urban areas and 300 personnel in rural areas in the district. A new checking point was set up in front of every police station and four-member squads have been deployed to ensure physical-distancing. The test positivity rate in the district has crossed 15% again. On Friday, 12,080 people were tested, of which 1,870 turned positive. The test positivity rate is 15.76%. As many as 780 people recovered from the disease. At present, there are 19,778 COVID patients in the district and 44,565 under observation. Eight local bodies in the district reported a TPR above 30%. Changaroth panchayat reported a TPR of 42.6%. Thalakkulathur, Kattippara, Omasseri, Kayakkodi, Kuttiady, Chathamangalam and Karasseri are the other panchayats that recorded a TPR of above 30%. Kayanna, Madavoor and Mavoor panchayats recorded a TPR of 30%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-steps-up-vigil-against-pandemic/article35503013.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bus operators seek tax waiver to tide over crisis||The district unit of the All Kerala Bus Operators Organisation has appealed to the State government to exempt them from paying the vehicle tax in the wake of the continuing COVID-19 crisis and financial constraints. At a press conference here on Friday, association leaders pointed out that the last three months’ tax alone would come around Rs. 36,000 and it would not be possible for many bus operators to bear the huge sum at a time of restricted operations. K. Radhakrishnan, president of the organisation, said operators resumed the limited services very recently suffering huge operational loss. Though fuel price increased multiple times, there was no proportionate increase in the travel fare, which would again trouble the industry, he claimed. Mr. Radhakrishnan also alleged that the State government was cheating bus workers by ignoring the Justice Ramachandran Nair committee report which recommended a 50% hike in travel fare. The leaders, who put forth a set of demands including an interim relief aid for bus workers, said they would organise a protest in Kozhikode city on July 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-operators-seek-tax-waiver-to-tide-over-crisis/article35503015.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Teacher arrested on molestation charge||The Thamarassery police on Friday arrested a physical education teacher from a rural school on the charge of molesting a girl student. The teacher, V.T. Maneesh, was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police sources said a few other students also came up with similar complaints against him. A few of them accused him of using lewd language during training sessions and on phone, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teacher-arrested-on-molestation-charge/article35503017.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bird flu suspected in Kozhikode||Kozhikode is on high alert after a suspected bird flu outbreak has been reported from a private poultry farm at Koorachundu panchayat. The results of samples, sent to the Regional Laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram after 300 birds in the farm were found dead, have come out positive for bird flu. However, the outbreak will be declared officially only after confirmation from the Bhopal laboratory, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bird-flu-suspected-in-kozhikode/article35503038.ece
24 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||SHRC directive to solve drinking water issue at colony||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC)has asked the District Collector and the Secretary of Kottur grama panchayat to take immediate steps to resolve issues at the Kunnaram Velli Laksham Veedu Colony in Kottur grama panchayat. The commission has taken note of the situation in the colony based on a complaint filed by Kottur native Bineesh Athooni that highlighted drinking water crisis as the most important issue in the colony. The colony houses four Scheduled Caste (SC) families and six general category families. Most of the houses in the colony are in a poor condition. A year ago, the panchayat had spent Rs. 7 lakh to construct a drinking water tank in the colony and the well in the colony was repaired, but in vain. It didn’t result in getting them potable water. Meanwhile, new water pipelines were laid in the colony, benefiting only the SC families. The complainant demanded that the water through the pipelines be made available to all in the colony and that the well be maintained properly so that the water in it could be used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-directive-to-solve-drinking-water-issue-at-colony/article35503011.ece
24 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Scholarship: IUML to form committee||A meeting of Muslim organisations convened by the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in the wake of the State government’s decision to redesign the minority community scholarships at 59:41% ratio for Muslim and Christian communities, has decided to form an expert committee and appeal to the government against the decision that made Sachar committee report insignificant. Briefing the media about the outcome of the online meeting at his house at Panakkad on Friday, IUML district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal said all Muslim organisations shared the same feeling that the community was “wounded by the government decision”. “The hurt caused by the government decision is palpable within the community irrespective of their political affiliations. They have entrusted the Muslim League to take the initiative to address the issue without hurting the sentiments of other communities. So we have decided to form an expert committee by including representatives of all organisations to address the matter,” said Mr. Thangal. Sachar report  He said the committee would meet the authorities concerned, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and press for the implementation of the Sachar committee report. “It’s not a question of denying any aid for other backward communities. We will try to convince other communities too,” said Mr. Thangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scholarship-iuml-to-form-committee/article35503043.ece
24 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Farmer found dead on rail track||A farmer, Velukkutty, 56, was found dead on the railway track at Vallikkode, near here, on Friday. His family alleged that he was being threatened by a moneylender. The moneylender had threatened to grab Velukkutty’s property despite him returning more than Rs. 10 lakh for a principal amount of Rs. 3 lakh he had borrowed in 2016, the relatives said. He had borrowed Rs. 3 lakh in connection with his daughter’s wedding. His family said he had repaid more than Rs. 10 lakh in many instalments. However, the moneylender reportedly demanded Rs. 20 lakh and threatened to usurp Velukkutty’s 37 cents of land. The family has appealed to the District Police Chief to conduct a detailed investigation into the death. Suicide prevention helpline (1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmer-found-dead-on-rail-track/article35503002.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jagratha samithis to be rejigged||In view of the increasing number of domestic abuse and dowry-related cases being reported in recent months in the State, the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat has decided several measures including the reconstituting of jagratha samithis and the introduction of pre-marital counselling. Meeting A meeting of the district panchayat council on Friday decided to re-constitute the committees at the district, panchayat and ward levels, following a recommendation of the welfare standing committee. The district panchayat aims to form the committees at various level before August 15, and make a declaration of Sampoorna Jagratha district on that day. Welfare standing committee chairman Vilappil Radhakrishnan said that the existing jagratha committees, formed following an order of the Supreme Court, had been mostly non-functional. Namesake committees “There are namesake committees existing in many panchayats. Only some of them meet at least once in a while. So, we decided to reconstitute the samithis in each of the wards, panchayats and at the district level. We need a more systematic arrangement with constant monitoring at the grass-root level to ensure that the kind of incidents being reported do not repeat,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. The grama panchayat leadership will head the jagratha samithis, with the supervisors of the Integrated Child Development Services and Kudumbashree facilitators, who constantly interact with the local population being part of the committees. Need to keep a tab The ward members and anganwadi workers need to keep a tab on the weddings happening in the locality. At the district panchayat division level will function monitoring committees with the district panchayat member, police officials, retired judicial officials and others as members. Pre-marital counselling for people from all religions is also being considered. Contact details The contact details of the jagratha samithis will be shared widely so that women who face issues related to domestic violence or dowry can contact them at the local level or at the district level. On July 26, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan will chair a meeting at the district panchayat ahead of the formation of the jagratha samithis.  The grama panchayat leadership will head the jagratha samithis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jagratha-samithis-to-be-rejigged/article35503239.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Coop. bank fraud rocks House||An estimated Rs. 350 crore siphoned off from a CPI(M)-controlled cooperative bank at Karuvannur in Thrissur rocked the Assembly on Friday. Congress member Shafi Parambil raised the ‘bank fraud’ through an adjournment motion. Mr. Shafi narrated how an agent of the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank had canvassed the client of a nationalised bank by promising her a quick and hassle-free loan of Rs. 50 lakh. The woman put up the title deed of her house as collateral for the loan. She neither got the credit nor the title deed. Instead, she received a revenue recovery notice from the bank a year later, threatening to attach her property if she defaulted on ‘her loan.’ Mr. Shafi said the deception by the CPI(M)-controlled bank was merely the tip of the iceberg. The victims of the elaborate bank fraud ‘hatched’ by CPI(M) members included manual labourers, autorickshaw drivers, headload workers and daily wage earners. The CPI(M) leaders had siphoned off huge sums from the bank using fraudulent loan applications as a cover. They had exploited working class members of the bank to enrich themselves and their families. They chiefly used forged title deeds as security for loans. The fraudsters availed themselves of loans in the name of deceased and non-existent persons. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said several agencies had flagged the fraud in 2018. The CPI(M) itself had conducted an inquiry that revealed the depth of the deceit. However, the previous Pinarayi Vijayan government ignored the cautionary reports. The government allowed the fraud to continue into 2021. Finally, the government was constrained to disband the cooperative society on Thursday after the embezzlement went viral on mainstream media. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan said the bank fraud had no particular political colour. Similar fraud had occurred in cooperative banks controlled by the Opposition. Moreover, the government had followed due process and disbanded the bank. The police were hot on the trail of the suspects. Dissatisfied with the Minister’s reply, the UDF legislators walked out of the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coop-bank-fraud-rocks-house/article35503047.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State has a GLOSTAR connection||Mention astronomer and the first image that pops up in your mind is probably that of someone who spends the best part of the night peering through telescopes. Serious stargazing in the 21st century, Jagadheep D. Pandian will tell you, is a whole lot more complex than that. Dr. Pandian, Associate Professor at the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) here, is one of the Indian scientists in the GLOSTAR (Global View on Star formation in the Milky Way) project, an international collaboration of astronomers that performed an extensive survey of the Milky Way. Initial series The team’s initial series of papers, published recently, has offered new insights into the amazing process of star formation. Dr. Pandian grew up in Thiruvananthapuram and studied at the Loyola School here as his father Dhanasekara Pandian, who hails from Sivakasi, worked at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Thumba. The GLOSTAR project is expected to revolutionise our understanding of the universe, says Dr. Pandian who has been part of it since its inception in 2012. From the earth, stars—except for our own star the sun—are those twinkling little things up in the sky. In reality, they are enormous celestial factories where things happen on an unbelievably grand scale. Yet, why study them at all? “They are bits and pieces of a big puzzle. They are one of the fundamental building blocks of any galaxy. You have a cycle of stars forming and stars dying and that gas going back into the stellar medium, eventually forming the next generation of stars. Everything that you see around us, from sand to the components in our body, metals, everything, are formed in some way or the other in processes related to stars,” says Dr. Pandian, who graduated in electrical engineering from IIT-Madras and did his MS and PhD in astronomy at Cornell University. There are certain aspects of star formation that is little understood. For example, how exactly do high-mass stars form? “Some of them live only for a few million years, which is short on a galactic time scale,” he says. The GLOSTAR project used two powerful radio telescopes, the Karl G Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO), US, and the Effelsberg 100-metre radio telescope operated by the Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy (MPIfR), Germany. The VLA data alone revealed 80 new supernova remnant (SNR) candidates and more are expected from the combined data from both telescopes. “A lot of people when they find out that professional astronomers never look through a telescope in the old way, they are surprised,” says Dr. Pandian whose research areas include observational astronomy, high-mass star formation, galactic structures, and radio astronomy instrumentation. He was a postdoctoral fellow at MPIfR, and SMA fellow, Institute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii, before joining IIST. Two aspects There are two groundbreaking aspects to the GLOSTAR survey, according to him. Usually surveys study the Milky Way at a very high-angular resolution or at a very low-angular resolution. Any one by itself will not give you a complete picture. However, the present survey combines both. “The second aspect where the survey is expected to make significant contributions is in terms of frequency coverage. Earlier instruments allowed you to study the early stages of high-mass star formation alone or the late stages. Because the frequency coverage was limited. This survey has a wide frequency coverage, and looks at both simultaneously,” he said.  Dr. Pandian grew up in the capital city and studied at the Loyola School here||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-has-a-glostar-link/article35503007.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU decries attempts to malign VC||The Syndicate of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has decried the alleged attempts being made by certain quarters to tarnish the image of its Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. Unanimously approving a resolution moved by member I. Saju, the Syndicate claimed coordinated efforts were being made to disseminate misinformation to tarnish the university’s reputation even while concealing the various student-friendly measures that were adopted. The allegations against the Vice Chancellor who strove to safeguard the best interests of students could only be treated with disdain. The condemnation comes amid social media campaigns critical of various decisions adopted by the KTU, the most recent being its decision to persist with offline examinations. Justifying its decision to go ahead with the examination schedule, the Syndicate said the university’s principal goal was to ensure that brilliant engineering students did not miss out on any opportunities for employment and higher studies, even in the thick of the pandemic. Options offered While students were offered the option of changing their examination centre to ensure that they did not encounter any travel issues, those who could not appear owing to COVID-19 were provided assurances of another chance. Considering the shortcomings of online teaching, students were given the option to attempt only 70 marks out of the maximum 100 marks. Duration reduced The exam duration was reduced from three hours to two-and-a-half hours, while minimum pass marks was reduced to 28 from 40. The Syndicate wondered whether the ‘anti-university propaganda’ was meant to derail its activities to benefit an ‘inter-State education lobby.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-decries-attempts-to-malign-vice-chancellor/article35503076.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vigil up as rain gains strength||The State government has stepped up vigil with heavy rainfall continuing in several districts, especially the eastern high ranges. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said district authorities had been directed to evacuate people from vulnerable locations, if needed. The continuing heavy rain in the eastern high ranges could trigger landslips. “The monsoon has gained in strength with the formation of a low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal. Rainfall is especially heavy in the hilly regions in the eastern parts of the State,” he said adding that the districts of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu bordering Kerala had reported heavy rainfall. The India Meteorological Department has put Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on yellow alert till July 26, given the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Fishers have been warned against venturing out to sea till July 27 as strong winds are likely along the Kerala and Karnataka coasts and the Lakshadweep region. High waves in the range of 2.5 to 3.4 metres are likely to lash the Kerala coast till Sunday night, the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services has warned. The offshore trough, which runs at mean sea level from Maharashtra coast to north Kerala, is likely to weaken from July 26, the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-up-as-rain-gains-strength/article35503051.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||17,518 test positive in State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph climbed to register 17,518 cases on Friday when 1,28,489 samples were tested over 24 hours. The test positivity rate is rising again and was 13.63% on the day. The State’s active case pool is also rising steeply in accordance with the rise in daily new cases and on Friday, had 1,35,198 patients. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 11,067. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 15,871, with the State adding 132 recent deaths to the official list on Friday. On Friday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 was 2,241. However, total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID-19 continued to remain more or less steady at 25,691. ICU admissions Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State on Friday rose to 1,917, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also showed a significant increase from 708 on Thursday to 744 on Friday. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 32,35,533 cases. Most in Malappuram Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,871, Thrissur, 2,023, Kozhikode 1,870, Ernakulam 1,832, Kollam 1,568, Palakkad 1,455, Kannur 1,121, Kottayam 1,053, Thiruvananthapuram 996, Alappuzha 901, Kasaragod 793, Pathanamthitta 446, Wayanad 363 and Idukki 226 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/17518-test-positive-in-state/article35503045.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No privatising power sector: Krishnankutty||The State government has reiterated its commitment in preserving electricity distribution in the public sector. Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty, in a letter to Union Minister for Power and New and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh, reiterated the State's concerns regarding the contents and intention of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. In deciding unilaterally to present the Bill in the ongoing Parliament session ignoring objections, the Centre had challenged the federal set-up, Mr. Krishnankutty said, adding that the State was committed to maintaining power distribution in the public sector. He conveyed to the Union Minister the State's concerns regarding the Bill and stressed the need to keep power distribution in the public sector. Opening up electricity distribution to private companies without any checks entailed grave implications for the consumers, he said. Profit-focused private players would seek to corner the high-paying, high-end power consumers leaving State-run distribution companies to cater to the low-paying consumers. This would ultimately lead to huge losses for the public sector companies. Once the cross subsidy mechanism was stopped, weaker sections of society and farmers would be denied access to low-cost electricity, Mr. Krishnankutty said. The Centre had sent the draft Bill to the States on February 5. Kerala had conveyed its opinions. However, the Centre declined to consider the State's stand, Mr. Krishnankutty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-privatising-power-sector-krishnankutty/article35503202.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Kanal’ launched for women’s safety||The society has to come together and take a strong stand to end the scourge of dowry, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the Department of Women and Child Development’s ‘Kanal’ project for women’s safety, here on Friday. “Kerala is ahead of the other States in various indices including women’s education. Opportunities have been created for young women to choose areas of their choice and to gain knowledge and employment in sectors of their choice. However, even being a State with such educated young population, it is unfortunate that we still have cases of harassment and domestic abuse over dowry. The ‘Kanal’ project has been formulated with an aim to end all domestic and dowry abuse, to empower women and to create awareness among the entire population,” said the CM. Minister for Health and Women and Child Development Veena George said that only few women had made use of the Dowry Prohibition Act to lodge complaints. She said that it was unfortunate that young girls were facing violence and losing their lives even in these times. As part of the launching of ‘Kanal’, Integrated Child Development Services supervisors and anganwadi workers have been provided training. Awareness campaigns are being organised in colleges. Over a lakh awareness posters will be displayed in various parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kanal-afoot-for-safety-of-women/article35503078.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SIT to probe loan scam||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said a special investigation team (SIT) will probe the Rs. 350-crore loan scam centred on the CPI(M)-controlled Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank in Thrissur. He said some bad apples had caused the scam. The CPI(M) would never condone their action. The party had never benefited from fraud. Some quarters were using the one-off bank fraud to tarnish the State’s cooperative sector. The party would act strongly against the perpetrators, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the Opposition’s attempt to wrong-foot the LDF government on the trumped-up charge that Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran had shielded a sex offender had failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-to-probe-loan-scam/article35503048.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SC/ST panel asks for funds recovery||The State Commission for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes has directed the District Police Chief to take steps to recover all the misappropriated funds from the officials who have been accused of embezzling the funds meant for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe beneficiaries. The Commission had earlier taken cognisance of the case involving alleged misappropriation of funds that were meant for beneficiaries for educational and other purposes under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the city Corporation office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scst-panel-asks-for-funds-recovery/article35503077.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BTech exams postponed||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has postponed the third-semester BTech regular examinations that were scheduled to be held on Saturday. The decision has been made in view of the Statewide lock down. The revised exam date will be published soon. Result The university has published the results of the sixth-semester BTech Honors examination. The deadline for applying for a copy of the answer book copy and revaluation is July 28. The fees for answer script and revaluation are Rs. 500 and Rs. 600 respectively. Admit card Candidates appearing for the PhD entrance examination scheduled to be held on July 27 have been advised to download their admit cards from the university website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/btech-exams-postponed/article35503003.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU dismisses reports on online courses||Kerala University has dismissed reports that claimed that the university has applied to the University Grants Commission (UGC) for commencing online UG programmes. Online programmes While the School of Distance Education had discussed the possibility of commencing online programmes at the Department Council meeting held on July 12, the proposal was currently under the consideration of university authorities, an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-dismisses-reports-on-online-courses/article35503233.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Flood cess to end on July 31||The flood cess on goods and services will be applicable only till July 31, the State Goods and Services Tax Department said on Friday. The department has asked traders to make the necessary changes in their billing software so that the cess is not collected on sales after July 31. Tax slabs The 1% Kerala Flood Cess on goods and services was imposed from August 1, 2019 for mobilising resources for rebuilding the State. The cess was imposed on goods and services that figured in the tax slabs above 5% and 0.25% for gold. Objective The State government had decided to levy the Kerala Flood Cess as per Clause 14 of the Kerala Finance Bill, 2019 for the “purposes of providing reconstruction, rehabilitation and compensation needs” which had arisen due to the devastating floods of 2018. “The change would eliminate the 1% price increase on local supplies to consumers of Kerala which was caused by this cess. Businesses should be ready to make necessary system changes so that no cess is collected post 31 July,” Abhishek Jain, Tax Partner, Ernst & Young, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-cess-to-end-on-july-31/article35503050.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held on charges of murder attempt||The Poonthura police have arrested one person for an alleged attempt to murder a youth over a dispute related to raising pigeons. Sameer Khan, 24, of Beemapally was arrested over the attack on Afzal Khan and his relative Sameer Khan of Manikyavilakom on July 20. The group of five people including Sameer allegedly assaulted the duo and bludgeoned them using a rock. The victim in this case, Ajmal Khan and another relative Afsal Khan, were arrested in connection with the same clash a day ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charges-of-murder-attempt/article35503237.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||30 passengers injured in accident||Nearly 30 passengers were injured when the KSRTC bus they were travelling in rammed a tipper lorry at the Kallambalam junction along the National Highway 66 on Friday. The incident occurred around 8.45 a.m. when the over-speeding Thiruvananthapuram-bound bus that came from Alappuzha crashed into the stone-laden lorry that came from Nagaroor. Many passengers sustained injuries on their heads and faces. Traffic could be restored along the NH only after 30 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-passengers-injured-in-accident/article35503238.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New COVID restrictions announced||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has announced new restrictions given the COVID-19 situation in Kerala. He said the government has reduced attendance in government offices. Reduced attendance From now on, in A and B zones (where the average TPR is less than 10%), government offices should function with less than 50% of the staff. The rest of the staff would be deploy for COVID-19 duty. Offices in C-Zones (less than 15% TPR) can function with 25% of staff. The rest will report for COVID-19 duty. Only essential services will be allowed in category D localities (TPR above 15%). Preventive measures Since only essential services operate in the D category, the vast majority of employees will be part of the preventive measures. Areas with a high prevalence of the disease are considered clusters. At the same time, a micro-containment system will be introduced. District Collectors will initiative to give them the responsibility for the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-covid-restrictions-announced/article35503046.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Order issued on redeployment of surplus posts||The surplus posts in the Commercial Taxes Department, after the implementation of Goods and Services Tax, will be redeployed in the Department of Panchayats, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. An order has been issued creating an additional post of office assistant in grama panchayats and the panchayat deputy directors have been instructed to report the new vacancies due to the creation of posts to the Public Service Commission. As many as 208 office assistant posts from the Commercial Taxes Department, which would have automatically become non-existent, are being redeployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-issued-on-redeployment-of-surplus-posts/article35503049.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANATHAPURAM,KERALA||District reports 996 new cases||The district recorded 996 COVID-19 cases and 684 recoveries as the number of active cases continued an upward trend to reach 10,638 on Friday. The test positivity rate also marginally increased to 8.8%. As many as 911 of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection, while the source is unknown in the case of the others. One health worker has also tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 31,069 people in quarantine. Twelve recent deaths were attributed to the disease on the day. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared Powdikonam, Sreekaryam, Chempazhanthy, Njandoorkkonam and Chellamangalam wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation as containment zones, and the VSSC colony premises in Pallithura ward, and Cheriyathoor and Veppinmoodu areas in Beemapally East ward as a micro-containment zone. Shops that sell food and essential commodities can operate in these places from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Ration outlets, Maveli stores, Supplyco shops, and Milma booths, can function on all days until 5 p.m. Only home delivery will be permitted in restaurants that can operate from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-reports-996-new-cases/article35503236.ece
24 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur braces for potential third wave||Even as Thrissur district is struggling to bring down the test positivity rate (TPR) of COVID-19, preparations have commenced to tide over a potential third wave. TransGlobal Inland Container Depot (ICD), the dry port facility at Mathilakam, will become the first mother-child COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (CFLTC) in the district. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is set to inaugurate the centre, which has 400 beds earmarked for women and children, on Saturday. The coastal belt in the district has been recording a high TPR of 13%-15%. The Customs cargo centre, situated on a 12-acre compound at Mathilakam near Kodungallur, has been converted into a CFLTC at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh. In case of emergencies, patients will be shifted either to the Kodungallur COVID-19 hospital or Thrissur Medical College Hospital. The pandemic scenario continues to be grim in Thrissur, with the district recording a TPR of 16.91% on Friday. In all, 2,023 people tested positive for the disease on the day, while 1,826 made recovery. Among the cases on Friday, as many as 1,996 people, including 11 health workers, were infected through direct contact. Special officer Meanwhile, a special officer has been appointed to monitor the COVID-19 situation in the district. The government appointed Dr. S. Karthikeyan as the special officer.  2,023 people test positive in Thrissur on Friday, 1,826 recover||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-braces-for-potential-third-wave/article35503200.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In spate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-spate/article35503001.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For the Onam spread||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-the-onam-spread/article35503020.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||When duty beckoned||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fond-remembrance/article35503074.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Maximum utilisation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maximum-utilisation/article35503204.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against Centre and State||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-centre-and-state/article35503241.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Airing concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airing-concerns/article35503053.ece
24 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walking track for Chittoor denizens soon, says Mayor||Chittoor Mayor S. Amuda has said that the walking track around the Gangineni Cheruvu alongside the Chittoor-Vellore road would be developed into a recreation spot. Inspecting the walking track at the tank zone on Friday, the Mayor said that there had been a growing demand from the people to develop the walking track and the adjoining park . “We are contemplating to protect the tank bed from encroachment,” she said. Later in the day, accompanied by Deputy Mayor R. Chandrasekhar, Ms. Amuda went round the tank bund. She inspected the ongoing maintenance works there such as removal of weeds and repairs to the track, which was in bad shape due to the recent rains. Some walkers informed the Mayor that many elderly people could not make it to other walking tracks in the Forest Department’s park and the Mesanical grounds, located away from the Chittoor city. The residents had represented that as the Gangineni Cheruvu is located on the Vellore road, it would be very convenient to a more number of families to avail of the recreational facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walking-track-for-chittoor-denizens-soon-says-mayor/article35503171.ece
24 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala presents cheque for Rs. 50,000 to poor athlete||Public Affairs Adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Friday presented a cheque for Rs. 50,000 to Sk. Abdullah who was selected for the South Asian Games to be held in Bhutan from August 5. District Collector Vivek Yadav said that Mr. Abdullah belonged to a poor family from Vinukonda and his father ekes out a livelihood by pulling a banana cart. The amount was donated by Indian Red Cross Society Guntur. IRCS vice-president P. Ramachandra Raju was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sajjala-presents-cheque-for-rs-50000-to-poor-athlete/article35503281.ece
24 July 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain triggers landslips, trains cancelled||Heavy rainfall in Karnataka left rivers in spate and led to cancellation of many trains in key routes across the State. Rain that continued to lash many parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Hassan districts resulted in loss of lives and damage to property on Friday. A farmer died in Chikkamagaluru, while many houses and fields were flooded across the three districts. Emergency response teams were busy rescuing stranded people. Tunga and Bhadra rivers are in spate. In Belagavi district, heavy rain and water release from Maharashtra caused floods in Krishna river and its tributaries on Friday. In Belagavi city, water entered houses in low-lying areas, including Goods Shed Road, Shivaji Nagar, Maratha Colony, Mandoli Road and the Old PB Road. Parts of the Belagavi-Kolhapur National Highway were closed due to heavy rain. In the ghat section of the Hubballi Division of the South Western Railway, landslips were reported at two locations, one between Dudhsagar and Sonaulim and the other between Caranzol and Dudhsagar, on Friday. This resulted in cancellation and diversion of various trains. Meanwhile, train no 01134 Mangaluru Jn.-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Special (running on the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj due to an overflowing Vashishti river between Chiplun and Kamathe), suffered a derailment on the Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section. The first coach and the engine partially derailed. However, no casualty was reported. The passengers of the affected coach were shifted to other coaches, a press release said.  (With inputs from Belagavi and Hassan bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-triggers-landslips-trains-cancelled/article35502373.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||MBA graduate held for ‘creating’ fake websites||An MBA graduate in international marketing who developed a fake grocery and furniture website and cheated people was arrested by the Cyberabad police here on Friday. The accused, Rishabh Upadhyay alias Chandan (30), is a web developer from Bengaluru. He is a native of Sudhamapur in Banaras in Uttar Pradesh. His associate, Rahul, a digital marketing professional from Punjab, is still at large. Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said the duo developed two websites on the pretext of selling groceries and furniture at cheaper rates when compared to open market and duped hundreds of gullible people from across the country. According to him, on April 24, a techie from Khajaguda approached them stating that there is a website called www.zopnow.in which was similar to the website www.bigbasket.com. He had placed an order for groceries worth Rs. 1544.40 and after completion of transaction he did not get any confirmation from the website. Later, he contacted the customer care number and sent an email to care@zopnow.in but in vain. Soon, he realised he was cheated and lodged a complaint. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and Upadhyay was arrested by Raidurgam police. Mr. Sajjanar said the arrested person was staying at a PG in Bengaluru and registered in freelancing websites with his name ‘Rishabh Upadhyay’ and started working as a freelancer. About three years ago, one Prince from the USA contacted him for designing a new website. He completed the project and handed it over to him. “After 45 days, he searched for the reviews of the website and found that it was not a genuine one and many people got cheated through the website by paying $1 by each,” the Commissioner said. So, he hatched a plan to earn easy money in a similar way and he created fake Skype accounts with false names and designated roles like ‘Michael Brake’ as HR, ‘Ronald’ as Hiring Expert, ‘Jason’ as Technical Expert, ‘Roy Reny’ as Legal Expert’ etc... to contact job aspirants in the site and he contacted Rahul who is a Digital Marketing expert from Punjab and took online digital marketing services from him. Further, the accused developed a furniture website using the credentials of Shivendra Singh Rana. During the COVID lockdown when many people faced problems in buying groceries offline, he created two websites and cheated people. The websites were developed on the advice of Rahul, Mr. Sajjanar said. People across the country including nine victims from Cyberabad Commissionerate had visited these fake websites and got cheated. Police seized Rs. 40 lakh in cash, two mobile phones, two laptops, 20 debit cards and six bank passbooks from his possession. “If you get any suspicion please contact 9490617310 (Cyber Crime PS, Cyberabad) or WhatsApp no. 9490617444,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mba-graduate-creates-fake-grocery-furniture-websites/article35502356.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sriramsagar, Jurala projects receive heavy inflows||Despite let-up in rain in Telangana on Friday, major reservoirs both in the Krishna and the Godavari basins kept getting heavy flood with a rising trend as the catchment areas in Maharashtra and Karnataka were receiving heavy rains. Flood into Sriramsagar in the Godavari Basin was steady at over 2.15 lakh cusecs throughout the day, while it was rising at Jurala from 92,000 cusecs at 6 a.m. to 1.66 lakh by 6 p.m. The discharge of flood at Jurala also went up steadily during the day from 85,000 cusecs to 1.92 lakh cusecs including 1.69 lakh cusecs from 27 crest gates. At Sriramsagar, the discharge remained 2.06 lakh cusecs including 2 lakh cusecs from 33 spillway gates. With the help of flood discharged at Jurala, the storage of Srisailam reservoir went up by 3 tmc ft from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. crossing 78 tmc ft in the evening against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft. The storage of the common reservoir for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh is forecast to swell considerably over the next few days as the discharge of flood at Almatti-Narayanpur in Karanataka was on the rise. At 6 p.m., the discharge of flood at Almatti was 3 lakh cusecs and at Narayanpur it was 3.08 lakh cusecs against inflows of 1.23 lakh cusecs and 2.38 lakh cusecs, respectively. Based on the rainfall in the catchment areas, the Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast rise in inflows into Almatti to over 1.75 lakh cusecs by midnight. According to an advisory of the CWC, 61 cm rainfall was recorded ast Koyna, 57.4 cm at Warana, 55.6 cm at Mahabaleshwar, 14.6 cm at Agumbe, 7.5 cm at Honnali, 6.1 cm at Sadalga and 5.6 cm at Shivamogga, all catchment areas of the Krishna and some of its tributaries in Maharashtra and Karnataka, during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Friday. In the Godavari Basin, Singur (4,400 cusecs), Nizamsagar (15,500), Mid Manair (9,600), Lower Manair (49,200), Kaddam (20,200) and Yellampally (4.03 lakh cusecs) were getting flood, with last four projects discharging flood. Most of the 36 medium irrigation projects in the two basins were discharging excess flood with their cumulative storage standing at 50.7 tmc ft against capacity of 62.1 tmc ft and cumulative inflows of 2.65 lakh cusecs and outflows of 2.02 lakh cusecs. Among the minor irrigation tanks, only 10.7% (4,698) of the 43,863 tanks were releasing excess water, another 7,574 filled from 75% to 100% of their capacity and the remaining filled up to 75% of their capacity so far. Meanwhile, flood from Wardha, Penganga, Manair, Pranahita and others was allowing an extremely heavy discharge of 11.58 lakh cusecs at Medigadda Barrage of Kaleshwaram project through 79 gates, with equal inflows. At Sammakka Barrage in the downstream the discharge was even higher with supplementation from Indravathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sriramsagar-jurala-projects-get-heavy-inflows/article35502941.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||New app now takes EPL to the cyber world||For the fans of English Premier League (EPL) giants Manchester United and Chelsea, the fun may begin a little before the new season kicks off in mid-August. Before their teams come head-to-head on the turf on EPL, the fans in the State will lock horns in a social media contest, thanks to the launch of Fun2, a sports-centric video-driven social media app developed by a startup, in Kerala next month. Fans can create videos on their teams and post them with a hashtag with each view, and like, share, and comment to generate points. Besides, the contestants can invite friends through referral code, bringing in a separate set of points. A leader board will display the top 10 participants at any point. “Four of the five contests marking our Kerala launch will be based on football, considering its immense popularity in the State," said Manoj Bhanu, one of the four co-founders of Fun2 and director of operations. The startup has developed a Malayalam football anthem and enlisted 100-odd young freestyle footballers for generating videos on their skills to mark the launch. The app comes embedded with a music library of 150 copyright-free BGMs of 20 seconds duration for users. Fun2 launched its Hindi version focused on cricket in Uttar Pradesh in April. “Despite the hiccups posed by the second wave of the pandemic, we have managed to clock 4.50 lakh downloads since then. We plan to seize the space for an independent sports-centric social media platform in Malayalam. We plan to further bolster our activities going forward,” said Mr. Bhanu. That Kerala has the second highest internet penetration in the country, nearly 1.80 crore social media accounts and a targeted audience of 13-65 years with access to internet and affinity for sports are among factors that attracted Fun2. “Notwithstanding the exponential rise in sports-related digital content consumption, there is no social media platform that caters to sports with regularity. It’s irregularly bunched up with other content, though some kind of sports at the national, international, or neighbourhood-level are happening round the year. We want to plug that hole leveraging people’s penchant for taking videos, thus maximising the reach of even local talents,” said Mr. Bhanu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-app-now-takes-epl-to-the-cyber-world/article35502358.ece
24 July 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beacon of learning, Kerala’s Bhageerathi Amma is no more||Bhageerathi Amma, 107, the oldest equivalency course student in Kerala, passed away at Prakkulam due to age-related ailments on Thursday. She was a recipient of the Nari Shakti Puraskar, the country’s highest civilian honour for women. She had cleared Class IV equivalency course of the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority and joined the next level two years ago. Icon of determination An icon of determination, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had narrated her story in his 62nd Mann Ki Baat . “If you wish to widen your horizons and accomplish key goals in your life, never let the student in you die,” the Prime Minister had said. Ms. Bhageerathi Amma could not continue her studies after Class III as she was supposed to take care of her younger siblings. She was married off at the age of 15 and once again the responsibilities of a homemaker kept her away from letters. But she pursued her dream and returned to studies after almost a century-long gap in 2019 and cleared her papers with good grades as a 105-year-old student. Preparing for exams Ms. Bhageerathi Amma, who was resolute in continuing her education, was preparing for Class VII equivalency exam when she passed away. The funeral was held at her house with State honours. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Ministers, politicians, literacy workers, and prominent persons from various fields condoled her death. The Governor, in his condolence message, said her unfailing will to succeed in learning at the age of 105 was an inspiration to everyone. “Bhageerathi Amma was an inspiring personality who epitomised women empowerment and the progress in female literacy,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beacon-of-learning-keralas-bhageerathi-amma-no-more/article35502360.ece
24 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. failed to resolve Krishna water row’||The TDP on Friday rejected the gazette notification issued by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, transferring the right to regulate water and control over the ongoing projects on the Krishna to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). The TDP also proposed to convene an internal meeting in Nellore soon to make arrangements for a dharna-cum-public meeting in Tirupati on the issue. At a meeting of the party district presidents from the Rayalaseema districts and Prakasam and Nellore on the management of Krishna waters, the TDP leaders lashed out at the YSRCP government for failing to resolve the crisis amicably with Telangana. Former Minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy said the meeting resolved to demand allocation of 45 tmcft of Krishna water permanently to the Rayalaseema region and Nellore, in lieu of the Godavari water the Krishna Delta would receive from Polavaram. ‘Unapproved’ status It was unfortunate that the control over 16 ongoing projects, including Handri-Neeva, Galeru-Nagari and Veligonda, was given to the KRMB, and their fate hanged in the balance as they were bracketed as “Unapproved” in the gazette. “This is the fallout of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s dictatorial attitude and his aversion to consult parties in A.P., or hold talks with his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrashekhar Rao,” the TDP leader alleged. Taking objection to the State not allowing the KRMB members to visit the proposed Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RILS) site for inspection, Mr. Chandramohan Reddy said the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had to intervene and direct the State to allow them. The Chief Minister should have allowed the team to inspect the site and fought for our rights by placing facts before it, he said. “Power generation can be done at Srisailam only in the Right Bank Canal above 834 feet with reverse pumping and not on the Left Bank Canal below that level,” Mr. Chandramohan Reddy said. Dig at KCR Mr. Chandrashekhar Rao had served as Anantapur in-charge Minister and knew about the drought conditions in the Rayalaseema region, but he did not consider it before going ahead with power generation, the leaders at the meeting observed. How can YSRCP leaders such as Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and the Chief Engineers welcome the gazette notification without regard to the sentiments of the farmers of the Rayalaseema region, the TDP leaders questioned. Addressing the media later, former Minister Kalava Srinivasulu said that the government must spend Rs. 10,000 crore annually to bring water to Rayalaseema. The TDP, during its term, had spent Rs. 65,000 crore by installing six pumps at Muchumarri, he added. The HNSS capacity should be increased to 10,000 cusecs and the concrete lining of the Galeru-Nagari project canal should be stopped as it would not allow replenishment of the groundwater table, he said. “The lower riparian rights of the State must be protected by utilising the 512 tmcft allocated from the Krishna. About 320 tmcft can be realised by taking up the Godavari-Krishna-Penna link project in the next two years,” he said. ‘Illegal projects’ “Karnataka and Maharashtra are constructing several illegal projects on the Krishna, and they must be stopped by taking up the issue along with Mr. Chandrashekhar Rao,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-resolve-krishna-water-row-tdp/article35503185.ece
24 July 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna SP launches ‘Prati Roju Spandana’||To take the police closer to the public, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal launched ‘Prati Roju Spandana’ programme at the District Police Headquarters here on Friday. As part of the programme, the SP will meet the petitioners from 12 to 1 p.m. regularly. Steps would be taken to clear the complaints received, Mr. Kaushal said. ‘Prati Roju Spandana’ was launched to make the police extend better service. Stern action would be taken against the police officers, who neglect, ill-treat or delay filing of cases and rendering justice to the victims, the SP warned. He released the poster ‘Prati Roju Spandana’, and received complaints from the public at his office on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kaushal said residents, who were staying in other districts and States, could also lodge complaints under the programme. Victims could post their petitions in Krishna district police Whatsapp No.9182990135, and can speak to officers by dialling Control Room No.08672-254200, Mr. Siddharth said. “Petitions received in ‘Prati Roju Spandana’ would be sent to the officers concerned. The officers, including the SP, ASPs and the DSPs will speak to the victims online,” the SP said and met the petitioners on the first day. Additional Superintendent of Police Satyanarayana, Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) Dharmendra, Bharat Mataji, Masum Basha, Rajeev Kumar, Murali krishna, Vijay Kumar and other officers participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-sp-launches-prati-roju-spandana/article35503279.ece
24 July 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. reports 462 infections in 24 hours||The coronavirus infections continued to decline in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as recovery count outnumbered the single-day tally again in the 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Friday. The region comprising Prakasam and Nellore districts recorded 462 new infections as 533 patients recuperated during the same period. Three more patients including two in Nellore district succumbed to the disease. With this, the total number of fatalities rose to 1,924 including 979 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.60-lakh mark as 239 persons in Nellore district and another 223 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the infection in 24 hours. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 71 as 279 patients in Nellore district and 254 patients who were undergoing treatment in hospitals, COVID Care Centres and at their respective homes in Prakasam district were cured of the disease. Meanwhile, the recovery rate improved to 97.19% much to the relief of the health authorities as a little over 2.53 lakh patients in the region, including 1.29 lakh patients in Nellore district won the battle against the virus so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-reports-462-infections-in-24-hours/article35503174.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||What material do you have against Fasal, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union of India what “material” it had against Thwaha Fasal, a Kerala youth booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for Maoist links. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said that a “lot of literature concerning revolution, violence and secessionist struggle in Jammu and Kashmir” were seized from him. Fasal had appealed to the apex court after the Kerala High Court reversed the National Investigation Agency Court’s decision to grant him bail. The High Court, however, had not interfered in the bail granted to Fasal’s co-accused, Alan Shuaib, citing mitigating circumstances, medical condition and his young age. Mr. Raju said the NIA was filing an appeal in the apex court against Shuaib’s bail. The Bench has decided to take up both cases together on July 30. Senior advocate V. Giri, for Fasal, submitted that his client was a young man of 23 years and a journalism student with no financial backing. “He has no antecedents and has already undergone 530 days of custody,” Mr. Giri said. He read out the titles of some of the books arraigned as evidence against Fasal, including one on the caste system, Rosa Luxemburg’s critique of Lenin, and ‘Hello Bastar: The Untold Story of Indian Maoist Movement’ by journalist Rahul Pandita. Mr. Giri informed the court that pamphlets calling for conservation of the Western Ghats was already available in the public domain. “Apart from these, was there anything else said by the witnesses?” Justice Lalit asked Mr. Raju. The law officer replied that pamphlets and notices of Maoist fronts were found with Fasal. Notes in Fasal’s own handwriting and circulars of the internal communications of the Maoists were found. “They showed an acceptance of the path of violence,” he submitted. Mr. Raju said the third accused in the case, known in the media as the “Pantheerankavu Maoist case”, had fled to the “jungles”. “Accused number three ran away and has gone into the jungles... The moment they are released, these people will go to the jungles... He [Fasal] was meeting with an absconding Maoist leader,” the Additional Solicitor General submitted. The High Court had dismissed the defence lawyer’s arguments that the youngsters were interested in understanding and assimilating new ideologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/what-material-do-you-have-against-fasal-asks-sc/article35502368.ece
24 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow health regimen, SP tells COVID-hit staff||Prakasam District Superintendent of Police Malika Garg on Friday assured the personnel infected by coronavirus of full support. Interacting with the infected police officers and personnel undergoing treatment in hospitals, quarantine centres and in their homes through video link, Ms. Garg instilled confidence in them for a quick recovery. She said the personnel should feel free to directly talk to her over phone about their health problems if needed, besides drawing the attention of their immediate superiors and COVID cell constituted to take care of them. There should be no room for complacency, she said and wanted the personnel to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. “Those undergoing treatment at their homes should use pulse oximeter to monitor oxygen saturation level from time to time and rush to hospital if needed to avoid complications, the SP said and asked the personnel to follow the advice by doctors. She asked all personnel to take vaccines without fail. Police clinic doctor S. Sunita shared health tips with the personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-health-regimen-sp-tells-covid-hit-staff/article35503172.ece
24 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala records 17,518 cases, positivity rate rising||Schools in Andhra Pradesh will reopen for the 2021-22 academic year on August 16, the State government announced on Friday. The decision to reopen schools was taken at a meeting of the School Education Department, chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Jagan said the government would come out with guidelines on August 16 on the implementation of the New Education Policy-2020. The Chief Minister said the Nadu-Nedu programme being pursued in Andhra Pradesh to refurbish government schools would transform them into lively institutions to get children interested in classroom lessons and school activities. The State planned to take up classification of schools into six categories from pre-primary-1 to Class 12 as per the NEP, he said. The government would spend Rs. 16,000 crore for implementation of the NEP-2020. TPR at 2.65% Andhra Pradesh reported a cumulative case tally of COVID-19 of over 19.5 lakh on Friday with 1,747 new infections. The virus claimed 14 more lives and the death toll rose to 13,223. Only 65,920 samples were tested on the day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 2.65%. Six districts reported no new deaths while Chittoor reported four, Guntur three, Krishna and Nellore two each and East Godavari, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam one each. Chittoor reported 293 new infections, Nellore (239), East Godavari (234), Prakasam (223), West Godavari (215), Krishna (127), Visakhapatnam (109), Guntur (86), Srikakulam (82), Kadapa (54), Anantapur (45), Vizianagaram (31) and Kurnool (9). In Tamil Nadu’s capital Chennai, for the second time in two weeks, no recorded no death due to COVID-19 on Friday. Along with Chennai, there were no fatalities in 21 districts. Chennai had earlier recorded no deaths on July 11. The city’s toll has touched 8,305. Across Tamil Nadu, fresh infections dropped to 1,830, taking the tally to 25,44,870. Only four districts saw over 100 fresh cases each — Coimbatore (177), Erode (135), Chennai (130) and Salem (110). The remaining 34 districts had fewer than 100 cases each. These included Chengalpattu (96), Thanjavur (98) and Tiruppur (92). The active caseload fell below 25,000 — presently 24,816 people are under treatment for COVID-19. The State had fewer than 25,000 active cases last during the first week of April, when fresh infections started soaring. Kerala recorded 17,518 cases on Friday, testing 1,28,489 samples with a TPR of 13.63%. The State’s active cases rose and on Friday had 1,35,198 patients. Karnataka on Friday reported 1,705 new cases and 30 deaths, taking the tally to 28,91,699 and the toll to 36,323. Out of 1,705 new cases on Friday, 400 were from Bengaluru Urban, and three more deaths were recorded, the health department said. Telangana on Friday reported 643 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to over 6.40 lakh while the toll rose to 3,778 with four more deaths. Greater Hyderabad accounted for the highest number of cases with 77.  (With inputs from Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram bureau and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-in-ap-will-reopen-on-august-16/article35502371.ece
24 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala steps up vigil due to heavy rain||The Kerala government has stepped up vigil with heavy rainfall continuing in several districts. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said district authorities had been directed to evacuate people from vulnerable locations, if needed. The continuing rain in the eastern high ranges could trigger landslips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-steps-up-vigil-due-to-heavy-rain/article35502362.ece
24 July 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stolen money was BJP’s election fund, says SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kodakara black money heist case submitted a chargesheet at the judicial first class magistrate court, Irinjalakuda, on Friday. A 22-member gang that allegedly made off with the money is on the list of accused, while Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, including State chief K. Surendran, are on the witness list. There are 216 witnesses in the case. According to the chargesheet, the stolen money, which came to Rs. 3.5 crore, was the election fund of the BJP. A gang had waylaid a car and decamped with the money kept in it at Kodakara on April 3. The car driver lodged a police complaint that Rs. 25 lakh and the vehicle were stolen. The police found that the stolen amount was in fact around Rs. 3.5 crore. The police arrested 22 people in connection with the case and recovered the car and Rs. 45 lakh of the stolen money. The SIT questioned many BJP leaders, including Mr. Surendran, for hours. Their statements too have been submitted along with the chargesheet. The police said the probe to recover the stolen money would continue. It should be investigated whether the BJP violated the model code of conduct, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stolen-money-was-bjps-election-fund-says-sit/article35502361.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on revolts against British is now in Telugu||The book titled ‘The early anti-British revolts in Andhra 1766-1857’, written by K.S.S. Seshan, a retired history professor at University of Hyderabad, is now available in Telugu. The English original, published in 2018, has been translated into Telugu as ‘Andhra – Hyderabadullo British Vyathireka Thirugubatlu’ and published by the Telangana State Telugu Akademy, Hyderabad, as part of the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations. Prof. Seshan, who hails from Chittoor district, highlighted a number of hitherto unknown anti-British revolts both in Andhra as well as the Nizam-ruled Hyderabad prior to the great revolt of 1857, commonly known as the ‘first war of independence’. The book elaborately discusses the revolt by Zamindars in the coastal Andhra, the Palegars in Rayalaseema and the violent incidents witnessed in the Hyderabad dominion. The revolt of Mahipath Ram in Hyderabad in 1808 finds a place in this book, apart from details on the various treaties signed by the British with the Nizams through which they acquired territories like the Circars and the Ceded districts, as well as Chittoor and Nellore from the Nawab of Arcot in 1801.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-revolts-against-british-is-now-in-telugu/article35503219.ece
24 July 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruia lodges police complaint on oxygen supplier for deaths||Reacting to the death of 23 patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the SVR Ruia Government General Hospital on May 10 owing to alleged delay in supply of liquid oxygen, the hospital authorities have squarely blamed the Kurnool-based Shree Bharat Pharma, supplier of the Liquid Medical Oxygen, and lodged a complaint with the Alipiri police. In the complaint filed on Friday, hospital Superintendent T. Bharathi said the oxygen supply contract agency had delayed the supply of oxygen from a plant in Tamil Nadu despite an alert raised by the hospital. Citing the preliminary inquiry by Collector M. Hari Narayanan, she said the agency had failed to maintain the emergency backup, forcing the hospital authorities to fix the cylinders by 7.30 p.m., by which time the deaths occurred. The hospital accused the supplier of breaching the terms of the tripartite agreement signed on September 20, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruia-lodges-police-complaint-on-oxygen-supplier-for-deaths/article35503188.ece
24 July 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sculpture on athletics unveiled||The Department of Physical Education of the Sri Venkateswara University (SVU) unveiled a sculpture on athletics on the campus on Friday. Vice-Chancellor K. Raja Reddy unveiled the sculpture in the presence of Registrar O. Mohammed Hussain, EC member M. Hanumantha Rao, Principals M. Savitramma (College of Sciences), B.V. Muralidhar (College of Arts) and university engineer Ajay Babu. Physical Education Director M. Sivasankar Reddy said the idea behind the sculpture was to wish the Indian team success at the Tokyo Olympics-2021. Sports lovers and students gathered at the campus to take a glimpse of the sculpture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sculpture-on-athletics-unveiled/article35503179.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IISER professor named UoH V-C||Basuthkar J. Rao, professor of biology in Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati, has been appointed as Vice-Chancellor of University of Hyderabad (UoH). Orders to this effect were issued by the Union Ministry of Education on Friday. Prof. Rao joined IISER-Tirupati as professor and Chair of Biology in April 2018 after a a distinguished research career at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai. With his interdisciplinary knowledge and interest in chemistry, physics, maths, earth/climate and social sciences, he motivated the young faculty in various disciplines. Prof. Rao was also instrumental in setting up the state-of-the-art COVID-19 testing centre at the institute to support the government’s efforts in tackling the pandemic. The lab had analysed more than 45,000 samples to this date. IISER Director K.N. Ganesh, Registrar C.P. Mohan Kumar and Assistant Registrar Inderpreet Singh Kohli felicitated Prof. Rao on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiser-professor-named-uoh-v-c/article35503187.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to ink pact with SVVU on embryo transfer||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) will soon ink a pact with Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU) for producing high-quality milk yielding cows through high-genetic merit embryo transfer, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy announced. Addressing a joint meeting of SV Gosamrakshanasala (TTD dairy farm) and university officials here on Thursday, he directed Dairy Farm director K. Haranatha Reddy to finalise the nuances of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) within a week by deliberating with SVVU Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy on promoting artificial insemination to beget cows with high genetic quality. He also sought technical support from the university to check and inspect cows at the Goshala and suggest steps for increasing milk production in the cows. Focus on R&D at BIRRD At another meeting to review the progress of research projects at Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD), the doctors were told to rejig their priorities and lay enhanced focus on R&D in orthopaedic medicine. Dr. Jawahar Reddy directed officials to set up a separate unit for treatment of children requiring bone correction, and those affected by polio, scoliosis and cerebral palsy. The OP section extended during the COVID season can be utilised for treating trauma and cerebral cases,” he said. Additional Executive Officer and BIRRD Managing Director A.V. Dharma Reddy, and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-ink-pact-with-svvu-on-embryo-transfer/article35502645.ece
24 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||90 doctors volunteer to serve at TTD hospital||There has been a huge response from the medicine fraternity to the invitation from the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to serve as visiting consultants at its Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD), which is considered Asia’s largest orthopaedic hospital. As many as 90 renowned doctors have responded to the offer and agreed to lend their services free of cost to the poor and needy patients in need of surgery of limbs. Some of them will be available once in a fortnight. “Sixteen doctors have already been scheduled to treat patients at the BIRRD from August 1,” said hospital’s Special Officer R. Reddeppa Reddy. The TTD offers VIP break darshan facility at the Tirumala temple to the doctors and their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/90-doctors-volunteer-to-serve-at-ttd-hospital/article35503180.ece
24 July 2021||VAKULURU (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||An embodiment of ethnic diversity of tribes||The government tribal primary school at Vakuluru habitation in Maredumilli mandal on the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border is an embodiment of the ethnic diversity of tribes of Andhra Pradesh. It brings together four tribes - Konda Reddy, Konda Dora, Kondh and Valmiki - who together spend a large part of their academic life here. The total student strength is 24 and half of them are girls. Three students have enrolled this month in the first class. “I belong to the Valmiki tribe, one student belongs to Kondh, another to Konda Dora and 22 students belong to the Konda Reddy tribe, the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) in Andhra Pradesh,” Boraga Yehoshua, the headmaster, tells The Hindu . He has completed four years of service here. “We together form the fabric of the diversity of tribes in the Andhra-Odisha tribal region, which I have never seen in any place that I worked before. The medium of teaching, however, is Telugu,” adds Mr. Boraga, who joined the service in 1987. I have come here for teaching while Konda Dora and Kondh families have been living here. “It is a ‘temple of learning’ with zero Out of School Children (OSC), a rare feat in the agency,” says Mr. Boraga, a native of East Godavari agency. Schooling must “We have realised the role of education in our lives. Every family sends their children to school. Until recently, parents used to send their children for cattle-rearing, agricultural work or to the forest to get produce. Now, schooling is almost mandatory for girls in our village,” says degree final year student Marigela Sridevi and Maddita Aiswarya, a class X student. The duo has completed their primary education here. Says Vantali Sitru, a Kondh tribal farmer and a father of three, “We have migrated from Gurtedu area to Vakuluru village. Two of my children have completed the primary education in the school here and now my youngest son is studying here.” As this Correspondent was going round the school, there was another visitor Pallala Lakshmi Radhika, who had come to collect her ‘Study Certificate’ almost two decades after dropping out of the school. “I had dropped out in Class III. Nowadays there are no such cases as everyone aspires to educate their children,” she says. She has been elected as a Ward Member in the recent Panchayat elections in her in-laws village. Management The School Managing Committee meeting is largely attended by women who discuss the issues of the school as well as the village, which has 54 families comprising 174 people. It has three Gondh families. In their social life, each tribe follows its own traditions and cultural practices. An interesting feature of the school life is that the children are encouraged to sing the songs of their respective tribes. “Children follow hygiene practices and dress up well. Women of the village deserve the credit for such changes,” remarks Mr. Boraga, who starts school an hour in advance as the bus to the area reaches early.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-embodiment-of-ethnic-diversity-of-tribes/article35503183.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s cumulative tally crosses 19.5 lakh-mark||The cumulative tally of COVID infections crossed 19.5 lakh on Friday with 1,747 new infections reported in the past 24 hours. During the same period, the virus claimed 14 persons and the death toll increased to 13,223. The cumulative tally reached 19,50,339. The last 50,000 infections were reported in 20 days at an average of 2,529 infections per day. During the same period, 17.06 lakh samples were tested. Meanwhile, only 65,920 samples were tested in the past day and their positivity rate was 2.65%. The overall positivity rate of the 2.39 crore samples tested so far remain at 8.13%, according to official figures. The number of recoveries increased to 19,14,177 including 2,365 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate was at 98.15% and the active cases came down to 22,939. New deaths and cases Six districts reported no new death in the past day. Chittoor reported four deaths, Guntur reported three deaths, Krishna and Nellore reported two deaths each and East Godavari, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 293 new infections. It was followed by Nellore (239), East Godavari (234), Prakasam (223), West Godavari (215), Krishna (127), Visakhapatnam (109), Guntur (86), Srikakulam (82), Kadapa (54), Anantapur (45), Vizianagaram (31) and Kurnool (9). District-wise tallies The district tallies are: East Godavari (2,74,885), Chittoor (2,28,505), West Godavari (1,68,550), Guntur (1,66,806), Anantapur (1,55,870), Visakhapatnam (1,51,583), Nellore (1,32,522), Prakasam (1,27,883), Kurnool (1,23,020), Srikakulam (1,20,199), Kadapa (1,09,537), Krishna (1,06,822) and Vizianagaram (81,262).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-cumulative-tally-crosses-195-lakh-mark/article35503195.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood level in Godavari rising||Water level in Godavari river is rising at Bhadrachalam and the water level may touch 43 feet, the first warning level, by Saturday. Owing to heavy downpour in the catchment areas, many tributaries and streams are in spate, the Central Water Commission officials have said. The water level at Bhadrachalam was 32.3 feet at 10 p.m. on Friday. Officials discharged 5.24 lakh cusecs from Bhadrachalam, the officials said. Due to incessant rains for the last three days, many streams and rivulets were overflowing in Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Officials cautioned the villagers staying on the river banks on the rising flood level. The CWC officials said the flood level at Peruru was 10.65 metres, Eturunagaram 5.55 metres, Dummugudem 7.32, and the Taliperu is in spate. Tribal people staying in Polavaram, Velerupadu, Buttaigudem, Jeelugumilli, Kukunoor, Devipatnam, Chinturu, Yetapaka and other mandals in the Agency area have been asked to shift to safer places. Irrigation authorities discharged about 2 lakh cusecs from Polavaram dam. About 1,64,897 cusecs was released from Sir Arhur Cotton Barrage (at Dowleswaram barrage) into the sea. In Krishna river, flood level was rising and the Irrigation officials released 1,15,,311 cusecs to the downstream by lifting 70 gates at the Prakasam barrage by Friday afternoon. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan said the force was asked to coordinate with the district authorities. Teams were deployed at vulnerable places, he said. Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Latha Kumari said patrolling undertaken along the river bund to prevent breaching as the flood level was rising. West Godavari district Collector Kartikeya Misra alerted the K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Authority (ITDA) Project Officer, Anand, Jangareddygudem RDO Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi, and other Revenue officials on the raising flood on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/level-in-godavari-rising/article35502363.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Secondary food processing units on the cards||The State government has chalked out plans to set up secondary food processing units in each parliamentary constituency. The objective is to utilise the surplus production in the State by creating value addition to the produce. Also, it helps in reducing the post-harvest losses. Andhra Pradesh Food Processing Society (APFPS) will set up the proposed units on a par with global standards. The government is establishing primary processing units, which will function as ancillary units of the Multi Purpose Facility Centres (MPFCs). The MPFCs will function under the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). The produce that could not be processed by the primary units will be sent for secondary processing. The government has identified crops such as millets, maize, tamarind, honey, jaggery, coconut, banana, tomato, groundnut, cocoa, venila, papaya, and mango for food processing. A.P. Agricultural Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy says that the farmers are suffering losses in absence of processing facilities. They hardly get remunerative prices if they sell their produce to the corporates that are into food processing. The proposed units will benefit the farmers, he says. Food Processing Policy APFPS CEO L. Sridhar Reddy says that the Andhra Pradesh Food Processing Policy - 2020-25 targets to make the State as the most preferred destination for food processing and minimise procurement losses. “The government will supply to the units the raw material by procuring it directly from the RBKs at MSP or market rate. After processing and value addition, the O&M operator will market the products and share the revenue with farmers, apart from the MSP,” says Mr. Sridhar Reddy. A variety of food processing units will come up. For instance, a cashew processing unit will be established in Srikakulam district. Similarly, a maize processing unit will come up in Vizianagaram district. In Vijayawada, ‘Balamrutham’ with a capacity of 30 tonnes is one of the units. A tamarind processing unit with a capacity of 25,000 tonnes per annum will be established in Chitoor constituency, he says. Lands have been identified in all districts, except Guntur, East Godavari and Chittoor. As many as 40 companies have shown interest in joining the initiative. The Detailed Project Reports are being prepared,” says the CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secondary-food-processing-units-on-the-cards/article35502643.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 IAS officers transferred across State||In a major reshuffle, the State government on Friday issued orders pertaining to transfer of 16 IAS officers with immediate effect. A G.O. issued by the Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das said the East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has been posted as the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC). The incumbent V-C and MD of APMSIDC V. Vijay Rama Raju has been posted as Collector of Kadapa district and the incumbent Kadapa Collector Chevvuri Hari Kiran has been transferred as the Collector of East Godavari district. Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand has been transferred to the Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department as the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust and the incumbent CEO A. Mallikarjuna has been posted as the Collector of Visakhapanam district. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has been transferred as the Commissioner, R &R and Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of A.P. Civil Supplies Corporation. A. Surya Kumari has been posted as Vizianagaram Collector. Ms. Surya Kumari’s post will being taken over by Kurnool Collector G. Veerapandian, while VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao has been posted as Kurnool Collector. Joint Collector (Rythu Bharosa & Revenue) of West Godavari district K. Venkata Ramana Reddy will take over as the Metropolitan Commissioner, VMRDA, Srikakulam. Joint Collector (Rythu Bharosa & Revenue) Sumit Kumar has been posted as the Joint Collector (Rythu Bharosa & Revenue), West Godavari district, while V-C and MD of A.P. State Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society B.R. Ambedkar has been posted as the Joint Collector (Rythu Bharosa & Revenue), Srikakulam district. Special Commissioner, Endowments P. Arjun Rao has been transferred as the Director, Handlooms and Textiles and Principal Secretary to Government (Endowments), Revenue Department is placed in full additional charge of the post of Commissioner, Endowments. Commissioner of Kakinada Municipal Corporation Swapnil Dinakar Pundkar has been posted as the Joint Collector (Rythu Bharosa & Revenue), Chittoor and M. Prabhakar Reddy, who is waiting for posting, will take over as the VC and MD of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-ias-officers-transferred-across-state/article35503289.ece
24 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reforms being brought in cooperative sector, says Minister||Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu administered the oath of office to the new members of Krishna District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB) here on Friday. “The government is initiating reforms to strengthen the cooperative sector. The reforms are being taken up to bring in greater transparency in the cooperative sector and cooperative banks. The government is marching ahead with a target of providing quality and corruption-free banking services,” Mr. Kanna Babu said. Total computerisation “The government would not tolerate misuse of funds and dereliction of duties. The audit system would be implemented perfectly in the cooperative sector. Total computerisation is being taken up in primary agricultural cooperative societies. A system with total transparency is being developed with the active involvement of the farmers,” he said. “The government is implementing welfare schemes over and above what has been promised in the manifesto. Andhra Pradesh has become a role model for other States and stands first in the implementation of welfare schemes,” he said. MLAs Malladi Vishnu, M. Jaganmohan Rao, S. Udayabhanu, K. Anil Kumar, Jogi Ramesh, Vasantha Krishna Prasad, and DCCB new chairman Tanneru Nageswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reforms-being-brought-in-cooperative-sector-says-minister/article35502646.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||EMC to elect Mayor on July 30||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Friday issued a notification for the conduct of a special meeting for the election of Mayor and two Deputy Mayors in Eluru Municipal Corporation (EMC) on July 30. SEC Secretary K. Kanna Babu said notices for the special meeting would be served on the elected ward members and ex officio members of the EMC by July 26. Indirect election for the offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor in 11 Municipal Corporations of Vizianagaram, Greater Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Machilipatnam, Guntur, Ongole, Tirupati, Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur, and Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons in 75 Municipalities / Nagar Panchayats in the State were conducted on March 18 this year.  In response to a request by the government, the SEC notified polls for the offices of second Deputy Mayor in the above mentioned 11 civic corporations and second vice-chairperson in 75 Municipalities/ Nagar panchayats also on July 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/emc-to-elect-mayor-two-deputy-mayors-on-july-30/article35503192.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A-G defends Sawhney’s appointment as SEC||Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram told the High Court on Friday that the suggestion of names of three IAS officers for the appointment of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) by the Chief Minister is not inconsistent with the scheme of the Constitution. Mr. Sriram argued, during the hearing on a petition that challenged the appointment of former Chief Secretary (CS) Nilam Sawhney as the SEC, that the Governor did not limit his consideration only to those names (Ms. Sawhney, L. Premachandra Reddy and M. Samuel) but applied certain objective parameters to the eligibility of 11 officers to the high post. He further said the neutrality of Ms. Sawhney could not be questioned for the reason that she was appointed as an adviser to the Chief Minister after her retirement as the CS. The appointment was to be based on suitability of the officer in the opinion of the Governor, the A-G said. Replying to a question by the court as to why only IAS officers were sought to be nominated and whether the A-G did not mention the names of those from other sectors to the Chief Minister, Mr. Sriram stated that the Chief Minister had a word with him before writing the letter to the Governor proposing the names for appointment as SEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-g-defends-sawhneys-appointment-as-sec/article35503283.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||China rejects Indian seafood exports citing COVID-19 threat||In a major setback to the Indian seafood industry, China has reportedly rejected marine products being exported from India citing the presence of dead COVID-19 cells. India is exporting seafood from 30 ports to countries across the world. In the last few months, China rejected stocks worth thousands of crores and has delisted many international exporters, with Indian seafood containers being stopped at various ports in China. On receiving information, officials of Marine Products Exports Development Authority (MPEDA), Export Inspection Agency (EIA), Directorate General of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry have swung into action to deal with the matter. In Andhra Pradesh, a team of officials of Food Testing Laboratories (Seafood) of MPEDA visited processing and packing units at Bhimavaram in West Godavari recently and tested the stocks for alleged presence of COVID, and submitted a report to the Government of India. Speaking to The Hindu , MPEDA Chairman K.S. Srinivas said that China rejected many seafood containers shipped from India, alleging that dead coronavirus cells were detected on the cartons and packings. “We alerted the officers on the issue, who in turn will alert the aquaculture farmers, staff working at the processing and packing units and at the ports on taking necessary precautionary measures. We are trying to resolve the problem,” Mr. Srinivas said. During the 2019-20 financial year, India exported 12,89,651 Metric Tonnes (MT) of seafood worth Rs. 46,662 crore. Major importers of Indian seafood are the United States, followed by Europe, China, Japan, Vietnam, and the Middle East. Frozen shrimp continues to be a major item of export in terms of quantity and value. The overall exports of shrimp during 2019-20 was to the tune of 6,52,253 MT, of which Vannamei variety accounted for 5,12,189 MT. India exported 51.07% Vannamei shrimp in value terms to the USA, followed by 21.81% to China, 8.19% to European Union, 4.73% to South East Asia, 4.51% to Japan, 3.66% to Middle East and 6.03% to other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/china-rejects-indian-seafood-exports-citing-covid-19-threat/article35502642.ece
24 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State’s borrowings in violation of FRMB limit’||Senior Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has asked Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy to clarify whether the Centre has increased the FRMB limit to 5% without any pre-conditions. “The State government’s borrowings and loans are in violation of the FRMB limits,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Friday. The Finance minister was misleading the people by asserting that there was no need for “government guarantee” for loans amounting to Rs. 25,000 crore availed by the government through the AP State Development Corporation Ltd. (APSDCL). If it were true, why did the government enter into escrow agreements, he asked. “The State government should give guarantee for all the loans taken by the corporations. These guarantees should not cross 90% of the State’s total revenue,” he said. ‘Serious financial lapse’ “It is a fact that the burden of loans given to the corporations will fall on the government naturally,” he added. Also, Under Article 293(3), the State should take the approval of the Union government for all budgetary borrowings. It was a serious financial lapse on the part of the State government not to inform the Centre about Rs. 77,700 crore loans taken in 2019-20 and Rs. 91,000 crore loans in 2020-21, the TDP leader said. As per the norms, the State’s overall loans should not cross 3% of the FRBM limit, the former Finance Minister asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-borrowings-in-violation-of-frmb-limit/article35503190.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC to launch train for ‘Uttara Bharat Yatra’||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will launch a pilgrim special train as part of the ‘Uttara Bharat Yatra’ initiative from August 28. The special tourist train will originate from Renigunta, and travel via Nellore, Ongole, Vijayawada, Guntur, Nalgonda, Secunderabad, Kazipet, Nagpur, said IRCTC Deputy General Manager (Tourism) Kishore Satya. Destinations Giving the details of the yatra here on Friday, the DGM said the special train comprising 13 coaches including five sleeper, three AC, one pantry car and an two SLR will cover Agra, Mathura, Vaishnodevi, Amritsar, Haridwar and Delhi. IRCTC Vijayawada Area Manager T. Murali Krishna said the tariff for the special tourist train is Rs. 10,400 (standard) for sleeper and Rs. 17,330 for III-tier AC travel. The government employees can avail of the LTC facility. Mr. Kishore said the package includes night stay for tourists at dharmasalas or dormitories, breakfast, lunch, dinner, one litre drinking water per day, Non-AC bus transportation and tourist escort. For more details, pilgrims may dial 040-27702407 (IRCTC zonal office), 9701360701 or 8287932228 (Secunderabad office) and 0866-2572280 or 8287932312 (Vijayawada office), said Mr. Murali Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-to-launch-train-for-uttara-bharat-yatra/article35503286.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raw deal to weaker sections: TDP||MLC of the TDP Beeda Ravichandra Yadav has accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of taking the downtrodden for a ride by allocating them nominated posts that have no powers and funds. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Ravichandra said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy made tall claims that he would do justice to the weaker sections. “But his sincerity and genuineness are questionable if the allocation of the nominated posts is any indication. All prestigious institutions or organisations have been given to persons belonging to his community. The posts that neither have decision making power nor funds have been allocated to the weaker sections,” Mr. Ravichandra alleged. The TDP, during its term, had allocated 60% posts to the BCs, SCs, STs and Minorities. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had brought it down to 50%, he said, and added that the BCs were given a raw deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raw-deal-to-weaker-sections-tdp/article35503189.ece
24 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP forms panels for all three regions||The BJP has constituted three committees for various regions in the State. In a press release on Friday, it said that the committees were constituted for strengthening the party in the State. Former MLA Gadde Babu Rao would be convener of the Uttarandhra Party Development Committee. Gorle Satyanarayana would be its co-convener. Senakkayala Aruna would be the convener of the Coastal Development Committee. Chinnam Ramakotaiah and Talla Venkatesh Yadav would be its co-conveners. Byreddi Rajasekhara Reddy would be convener of the Rayalaseema Party Development Committee. M.S. Parthasarathy and Srihari would be its co- conveners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-constitutes-three-panels/article35503191.ece
24 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eve-teaser held after girl’s SOS on Disha App||The Satyanarayanapuyram police took a youth, who was allegedly teasing a girl, into custody. The girl alerted the police through Disha App by touching the SOS button from her mobile phone on Friday. The college student told about the behaviour of the eve-teaser to her father and college principal, and they cautioned him. However, the youth reportedly accosted her and allegedly started teasing her. She alerted the police at 12.31 p.m. and they reached the place and took him into custody and registered a case, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eve-teaser-held-after-girls-sos-on-disha-app/article35503287.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District officials gear up for ‘third wave’ of COVID-19||Ever since the onset of COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, the district had a bad experience, especially during the second wave. Both number of cases and deaths peaked during April and May this year. Though the number of cases has declined now, it is still to slide below the 1% positivity rate. The district administration is gearing up for the third wave. Officials have been taking steps to increasing the number of hospital beds and strengthening the oxygen supply. They are also planning to conduct awareness camps in the next 25 days. District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that there are around 3,450 oxygenated beds in the district and steps being taken to add 1,300 to them. “We are laying new pipelines and modifying the existing ones at the hospitals. Similarly, there are 995 ICU beds in the district and we have decided to add around 400 more beds to have a total of around 1,389 ICU beds,” he said. The Collector said that apart from increasing the bed capacity, the administration is also strengthening the oxygen supply to meet the demand. He said liquid medical oxygen is the first line of supply. That is backed by PSA-based gaseous oxygen plants which may be 1,000 or 500 LPM plants as per the hospital bed strength, in the second level. “For the third level, we will have D-type cylinders to back up the oxygen supply. There are around 2,500 of them in the district. The fourth line of supply will be oxygen concentrators,” he said. Paediatric care wards Mr. Vinay Chand said that exclusive paediatric care wards will be set up at the Family Welfare Ward at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC), King George Hospital (KGH) and Gosha Hospital. Apart from these, Special New Born Care Unit (SNBCU) and New Born Stabilisation Units (NBSU), at all existing paediatric facilities, will be strengthened and used as paediatric care units. Children hospitals (private) will also be notified at the appropriate time, he added. According to the Collector, vaccination is the key to control the spread of the disease and the Health Department is vaccinating people in four categories in a planned manner. As of now they are giving priority to complete the second dose of vaccine for the frontline staff and workers who have already taken their first dose in March. The second category includes pregnant and lactating women. About 38% to 40% of lactating mothers have been given the first jab. The third category which is for people above 45 years of age. About 72% in this category have been given their first dose. Apart from the three categories, the government has also decided to vaccinate teachers on a priority basis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-officials-gear-up-for-third-wave-of-covid-19/article35503297.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to crack down on violators to check spread of coronavirus||As the Visakhapatnam district has been reporting around 130 COVID-19 cases daily for the past few weeks, officials are planning to conduct more awareness programmes on appropriate behaviour and increase enforcement. As a large number of violations being reported at major tourist spots and public places, the officials have also decided to come down hard on the violators. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that they have identified Beach Road, fish/vegetable/fruit markets, malls, commercial establishments, 13 rythu bazaars in the city and a few other public places as possible super-spreaders. He said that the administration will be forming 26 teams with officials from the Town Planning wing of the GVMC, Revenue and the Health Departments. These teams will conduct surprise checks in all these places in all the eight zones of the city, apart from a few in the rural areas. Awareness programmes “Initially, we will warn the managements of commercial establishments then fines ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 will be imposed. In the third stage, the establishments will be closed for one or two days,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. He said it was the responsibility of the managements of malls and other commercial establishments to ensure that their customers wear masks and maintain physical distancing. The Collector also said that they have identified eight entry points to Beach Road, where police teams will be placed to ensure all beach visitors wear masks. Special teams will move in the beach to check violations and impose fines if people are found moving without a mask. During weekends, the enforcement will be more stringent. The GVMC officials were also directed to continuously announce about appropriate behaviour through smart poles and also arrange hoardings at the spots about COVID-19. “Imposing fines is not our intention. As on date, the COVID-19 positivity rate is hovering around 3% to 4% in the district, we want to bring it under one per cent, which is only possible with the cooperation of citizens,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. He said that with the help of ward secretariat staff and the Health Department, massive awareness programmes will be conducted in the next 25 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-crack-down-on-violators-to-check-spread-of-coronavirus/article35503299.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 cases solved, 20 persons arrested||The city police have completed investigation in 15 cases which were reported under various police station limits and recovered property worth around Rs. 9.28 lakh on Friday. The police also arrested 20 persons and have taken seven juveniles into their custody for their alleged involvement in these cases. Giving the details in a press conference, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes), V Suresh Babu said that among the 15 cases cracked, nine cases pertain to two-wheeler thefts. In these nine cases, police have arrested seven persons and took seven juveniles into their custody. Police have recovered about 15 two-wheelers from them. Among the cases, three cases were reported from Kancharapalem police station limits, while two cases each were reported from Parawada and MVP police station limits. Similarly, MVP Police station, Arilova and Dwaraka police station limits reported one case each. All these cases were reported since May, according to police. The police also arrested seven persons for allegedly being involved in committing house break-in in four cases in which two were reported from Gajuwaka and, one case each was reported from Malkapuram and Anandapuram. In another case, four persons were arrested for allegedly committing theft of a generator worth Rs. 3 lakh from a restaurant. The police arrested two persons including a woman for allegedly snatching away gold ornaments from a person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-cases-solved-20-persons-arrested/article35503301.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw Essential Defence Services Ordinance: unions||Leaders of all trade unions have demanded immediate withdrawal of the Essential Defence Services Ordinance (EDSO), which they alleged is intended to corporatise ordnance factories in the country. A rally was taken out from the Ambedkar statue, near the LIC to the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, as part of the nationwide call given by the Central trade unions to observe a protest day demanding withdrawal of EDSO on Friday. They formed a human chain near Asilametta Junction for sometime before holding a public meeting near the Gandhi statue. Addressing the meeting, CITU city committee general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu said that the Union government on June 16 this year has divided the crucial ordnance factories into seven corporate organisations. Though the defence experts have warned the Centre that corporatisation of ordinance factories could jeopardise the security of the nation, the BJP government was in no mood to listen, he alleged. The Centre has brought out the EDSO to arrest the defence civilian employees as they prepared to launch an indefinite strike from July 26. AITUC district leader G. Vamana Murthy presided over the meeting. INTUC district general secretary B. Nagabushanam, IFTU State vice president M. Venkateswarlu, AIFTU leader Ganesh Panda, AITUC leader SK Rehman and leaders of Praja Natya Mandali and Arunodaya Sangham were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-essential-defence-services-ordinance-unions/article35503293.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V students donate essentials||The first batch of the Post Graduate Program for Experienced Professionals (PGPEx) of IIM, Visakhapatnam (IIMV) donated essential items worth Rs. 1 lakh to the Ananda Marga Childern’s Home, as they joined hands and organised a welfare activity on Thursday. The PGPEx 19-21 batch, consisting of 27 students, formed a student society called “Stratex - Ingenuity Dynamism” to curate programs and activities tailored towards experienced professionals. The ‘Executive Social Responsibility’ is first initiative undertaken by the “Class of ’21”, according to a statement issued by IIM-V.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-v-students-donate-essentials/article35503294.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day jewellery expo begins in city||Chennai-based JJ Jewellery Mart is organising its first jewellery exhibition at Orafo Jewels premises, opposite Timpany School 'C' Gate, CBM Compound, here, on Friday. JJ Jewellery Mart is synonymous with couture, traditional and contemporary jewellery for the past 60 years, according to a statement issued here on Friday. The jewellery collections range from every day wear to unique bridal collection, meticulously crafted gold, diamond, jadau polki, antique, temple, Rajasthani thewa, kundan, kempu and Meenakari jewellery collections of earrings, neckwear, bangles, bridal wear and rings for all age groups of women and majestic men’s collection. The exhibition will be on till Sunday (July 25).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-jewellery-expo-begins-in-city/article35503296.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. places order for 2,000 MT of Vizag steel||The State government has placed an order for supply of 2,000 MT from RINL - Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. In an official release, RINL said the order was placed by AP Housing Corporation Limited for its housing project under the ‘Nava Ratnalu’ welfare scheme. The truck carrying the first consignment of Vizag Steel products was flagged off from the RINL stockyard in Vijayawada. RINL officials handed over the consignment of steel to the State government officials in Denduluru. “It’s a great moment to cherish and is just the beginning of RINL‘s share in this prestigious project of the A.P. Government, which envisages building over 30 lakh houses in the next few years in two phases of 15 lakh, each phase requiring more than seven lakh tonnes of steel. RINL is aiming for a major share in this project,” D.K. Mohanty, CMD (Additional Charge) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-places-order-for-2000-mt-of-vizag-steel/article35503284.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Collector for dist.||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has been transferred from the district and will now head the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust as CEO. He has been placed under the Health Medical and Family Welfare Department. In his place, the new District Collector will now be A. Mallikarjuna, who earlier served as CEO of Dr.YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust. Mr. Vinay Chand took over as the District Collector in June 2019, and handled both the COVID-19 waves in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-collector-for-dist/article35503302.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders submit memo to Venkaiah Naidu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju and MLC P.V.N. Madhav met Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu at his camp office in Delhi on Friday and submitted a memorandum to him and appealed to him make efforts to solve problems of the displaced persons of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Party State general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Gajuwaka coordinator Karanamreddy Narasinga Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-submit-memo-to-venkaiah-naidu/article35503295.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP delegation urges FM to rethink privatisation bid||A delegation of trade union leaders from Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), led by YSR Congress Parliamentary Party leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi on Friday and sought revocation of the decision to privatise VSP. Mr. Reddy explained to the Finance Minister that VSP had gained ‘Navaratna’ status in the Public Sector. It had 35,000 employees and workers and over one lakh families were dependent on the plant for their livelihood. The steel plant was competing with international steel producers in the quality of steel, he said. The plant was incurring losses due to non-allocation of captive mines to it. RINL, the corporate entity of VSP, was spending Rs. 300 crore additionally every year, on purchase of iron ore at market rate. Under these circumstances, allocation of captive mines to VSP and conversion of its loans to equity would ensure that the plant would be on the road to profit within a short time, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-delegation-urges-fm-to-rethink-privatisation-bid/article35503196.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains between Vizag and Gunupur from July 27||Special trains will be operated between Gunupur and Visakhapatnam with effect from July 27. Train no. 08522 Visakhapatnam-Gunupur special train will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 5.35 a.m. and will reach Naupada Junction at 9.10 a.m. and depart at 9.30 a.m. and reach Gunupur at 12.20 p.m. In the return direction, 08521 Gunupur- Visakhapatnam special train will leave Gunupur at 1.55 p.m. to reach Naupada Junction at 4.40 p.m. and depart at 5 p.m. to arrive in Visakhapatnam at 8.45 p.m, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager. Halts This train will have halts at Marripalem, Simhachalam, Pendurthi, Kottavalasa, Vizianagaram, Garividi, Chipurupalli, Sigadam, Ponduru, Srikakulam Road, Urlam, Tilaru, Kotabommali, Naupada, Takkali, Peddasana, Temburu, Ganguvada, Pathapatnam, Parlakhemundi, Sitapuram, Haddubhangi, Kashinagar, Lihuri, Banasadhara and Palasinghi. This train has 10 Second Class coaches and two Second class-cum-luggage coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-between-vizag-and-gunupur-from-july-27/article35503222.ece
24 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death, 109 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 109 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, taking the -19 cumulative tally to 1,52,095. The district also reported one death in the last 24 hours increasing the toll to 1,045. As many as 200 persons recovered during the same time period. According to the update, the number of recoveries and active cases stands at 1,49,036 and 2,014 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-109-new-cases/article35503300.ece
24 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases filed against MANSAS staff for protest against Executive Officer||Over 4,000 faculty members and employees of 12 educational institutions operated by the MANSAS Trust, who were reportedly not paid salaries in full for the past 16 months, are now facing police cases for allegedly violating COVID protocols in their agitation against the Endowments Department’s Executive Officer on July 17. The employees were agitating against the Executive Officer for reportedly ordering banks to freeze transactions of the Trust. In its First Information Report (FIR), the police department reportedly mentioned that the MANSAS Trust chairperson ‘provoked’ the employees to agitate against the Executive Officer. However, the police did not mention P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju’s name directly in the FIR though he is the chairperson of the trust. Mr. Ashok’s confidants told reporters that they had not received any communication from the police over the case filed against him. Professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and administrative staff were reportedly taken by surprise over the development. With the call given by the Joint Action Committee of the employees, all of them staged a protest at their respective colleges and educational institutions in Vizianagaram. Addressing reporters here on Friday, JAC convener M. Srikanth asked the government to withdraw the cases immediately as they registered their protest peacefully at the MANSAS office. “How can employees live without salaries for months? The Executive Officer who directed banks to freeze accounts also should not draw the salary hereafter. The government might have misgivings over MANSAS land issues. But it is unfair to trouble the employees of the educational institutions,” said Mr. Srikanth. Vizianagaram Pattana Powra Samskshema Sangham secretary Reddi Sankara Rao asked the government to find out an amicable solution for the smooth functioning of all the educational institutions with the beginning of the new academic year. He said that employees were in dire straits as they were unable to meet ends in the absence of a regular income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-filed-against-mansas-employees-for-protest-against-executive-officer/article35503176.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Divinity in green||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/divinity-in-green/article35502648.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Troubled waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/troubled-waters/article35503198.ece
24 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||At Bhadrachalam, Godavari level rises by more than 10 feet||Heavy inflows aided by huge volume of excess water released from dams and barrages in the Godavari’s upper reaches pushed up the water level in the river by more than 10 feet in a span of 20 hours at Bhadrachalam, since Thursday night. Water level in the river at the temple town reached 26.50 feet at 6 pm on Friday and continued to swell till reports last came in. The river carried a flood flow of 3.43 lakh cusecs late on Friday evening. According to an advisory forecast issued by the Lower Godavari Division of the Central Water Commission (CWC), the water level in the river at Bhadrachalam was expected to reach the first flood warning level of 43 feet by Saturday morning. The official machinery was gearing up to deal with any exigency due to the expected steep rise in the Godavari level at the temple town. Discharge of excess water from Medigadda (Laxmi) barrage and Sammakka (Tupakulagudem) barrage coupled with the flood from swollen tributaries of the Godavari was expected to bring in a huge volume of inflows of 13 to 14 lakh cusecs by Friday night. The flood level in the river was likely to cross the first and second flood warning levels of 43 feet and 48 feet before touching the third warning level (danger mark) of 53 feet in the next 24 hours, sources in the Irrigation Department said. In August last year, the river’s water level reached 61.5 feet at the temple town. The highest ever water level of 75.6 feet in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam was recorded in 1986. To effectively address rain-related issues and extend assistance to the needy in the event of flood, the district administration set up a 24X7 control room at the Collectorate (08744-241950) in Kothagudem and launched a WhatsApp helpline number 9392919743. Meanwhile, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar conducted a review meeting on the situation arising out of heavy rains and the increasing water level in the Godavari with Collector D Anudeep and other officials in Bhadrachalam. He asked the officials to constantly monitor the situation with forecast of heavy rains for two more days. Mr Anudeep apprised the Minister of the flood preparedness and emergency response measures in place. Four youths rescued Four tribal youths of C Kathigudem, who were stranded on an island encircled by the flood water on Friday, were rescued by officials. Alerted by relatives of the youths, revenue and police officials swung into action and deployed two country boats into the river, which brought all the four youths to the shore safely around 7 pm, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-bhadrachalam-godavari-level-rises-by-more-than-10-feet/article35502991.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||61% adolescents have COVID anti-bodies: study||About 60.1% population, including 55% children in the age group of 6-9 years, has had a silent prior exposure to SARS-CoV-2 as per the sero-positivity rate found during the fourth round of the sero-prevalence study led by the ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (ICMR-NIN) in the districts of Jangoan, Nalgonda and Kamareddy recently. In an official communique on Friday, the ICMR-NIN informed that the survey has been taken up in association with the State Health department. It covered all age groups, like in the previous three phases, in addition to children in the age group of 6-7 years, for the first time in this fourth phase. About 61% adolescents had COVID antibodies and among healthcare workers, the sero-positivity was as high as 82.4%, and this is being attributed to early vaccination to frontline workers. The ICMR strategy has been to do repeat cross-sectional sero-studies in the same geographic locations so that the infection transmission trends could be documented and studied. The first round of the sero-survey, conducted in May 2020, and the second and third rounds, conducted in August and December 2020, in the same districts showed a sero-prevalence of 0.33%, 12.5% and 24.1% respectively. The sero-prevalence at the national level went up from 24% in December 2020 to 67% in June 2021. However, in Telangana State, it went up from 24.1% to 60.1% during the same time of the year. Interestingly, the study also found that among those who were not vaccinated at all, the sero-positivity was low at 51.3%, while among those who received one dose of vaccination, it was 78.5 and it was 94% among those who got both the shots. “Near 100% sero-positvity among those vaccinated clearly indicates that vaccines are effective. This should remove any vaccine hesitancy and encourage people to get vaccinated as early as possible,” said head of Public Health Division, ICMR-NIN and nodal officer for the Telangana study Dr. A. Laxmaiah, “Over 40% of population is still susceptible to the virus, although over 60% people have anti-bodies. This is not the time to lower our guard. All non-pharmacological COVID measures like wearing masks, hand sanitisation, and physical distancing should be continued,” cautioned ICMR-NIN director Dr. Hemalatha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/61-adolescents-have-covid-anti-bodies-study/article35502945.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU gets new VC||Noted Persian scholar Syed Ainul Hasan has been appointed as the new Vice-Chancellor of Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU). Prof. Hasan is a professor at Persian & Central Asian Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Earlier, he served as the Dean, School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies, JNU. He is the fifth VC of the university and will hold the office for five years. A visiting professor of Rutgers State University, New Jersey, USA, under Fulbright, Prof. Hasan has authored 13 books. He has more than 34 years of teaching experience and produced 87 research scholars. He is a specialist in the field of Indo-Iran, Indo-Arab relations and comparative literature. He is also the president of the All India Persian Scholars’ Association. In-charge VC Prof. S.M. Rahmatullah and registrar I/c Prof. Siddiqui Mohd. Mahmood congratulated Prof. Hasan on his appointment and expressed hope that under his leadership, MANUU will attain new heights of excellence. New UoH VC Professor Basuthkar J. Rao of the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Tirupati, has been appointed as the new vice-chancellor of the University of Hyderabad (UoH). He is likely to take charge on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manuu-gets-new-vc/article35502951.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AOC Centre gets ISO certifications||Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) Centre, Secunderabad, received ISO certifications for its various training institutes from HYM (High Yielding Management) International Certifications Private Limited, Hyderabad, on Friday. ISO certificates were awarded by managing director and CEO HYM Sivaiah Alapati to Lieutenant Navdeep Singh Ashok Chakra (P) vocational junior college, No. 2 training battalion, for providing technical education services. Deputy director of education, Board of Intermediate Education, M.L. Reddy also handed over orders to establish Lieutenant Navdeep Singh, Ashok Chakra (P) vocational junior college in AOC Centre to enhance professional competency of trainees in technical trades by offering two year course equivalent 10+2 / ITI. AOC Centre is also affiliated to BRAOU for providing administrative, management and technical diploma and vocational course certificates to all ranks to improve and upgrade their educational qualification as well as make them eligible for a ‘second career option’ post-retirement. BRAOU VC professor K. Seetharama Rao offered more additional course programmes like advance diploma, graduate, PG and PG diploma in management for troops and their families through the university cell located at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aoc-centre-gets-iso-certifications/article35502947.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Home Centre directed to pay Rs. 25,000 compensation||After Home Centre claimed that a product sold at a discounted price was not covered under warranty as it was not handled properly, a district consumer commission found the statement contradictory and directed the company to pay Rs. 25,000 compensation for a sofa set that developed tears. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission – II, Hyderabad, was dealing with a complaint filed by Niyathi Reddy (39) against Home Centre at Inorbit Mall and its head office (opposite parties). The complainant stated that on January 28, 2018, she bought a sofa set for Rs. 61,020, a discounted price, and claimed that the opposite parties assured her that it is durable and comes with a one year warranty. But, within four months, it developed tears, and she opined that the product was of inferior quality. On July 11, 2018, she informed the opposite party of the issue, who registered a complaint, sent a representative to inspect the sofa set, and promised to resolve the issue. She claimed that the company also told her that the sofa set would be replaced, but did not do so. However, Home Centre denied all allegations and claimed that the tears developed due to improper and inadequate maintenance. The product, they further stated, was not covered under warranty, and this was brought to the attention of the complainant in an email sent on July 25, 2018. Taking the evidence placed on record, the commission stated that on the one hand, the tax invoice filed by the opposite parties does not show that the product is not covered under warranty, but on the other, in the email sent on July 25, 2018, it stated that the damage “has occurred due to improper or inadequate maintenance of the product, hence, we deeply regret to inform you that warranty shall not apply in this case’. “In order to evade the refund and replace the product, the opposite parties had taken different versions and thus admitted the case of the complainant as evidenced in Ex. B3,” the commission stated, with Ex B3 being the e-mail. The commission held that the opposite parties had indulged in unfair acts and deficiency in service and directed them to refund Rs. 61,020, pay Rs. 25,000 compensation and imposed costs of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-centre-directed-to-pay-rs-25000-compensation/article35502959.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC forms 324 special monsoon teams||The GHMC has formed 324 special teams with 200 motor pumps to deal with emergency situations of pumping out excess water during the current monsoon season. Besides, close to 3,900 manholes have been repaired, said Mayor Vijaylakshmi on Friday. The Mayor visited the special control room started at the head office and interacted with the staff and urged citizens to call up 040-21111111 or 100 or reach out through the GHMC app or through the website for any grievance redressal. Already 296 such complaints have been received and most of them have been attended to, she said. The special teams have been tasked to take up immediate road works, disaster management of shifting people from low-lying areas and so on. A rehabilitation centre has been established in every circle. Officials drawn from the water board, revenue, police, tourism and others have been drafted for the emergency works, she said. Dilapidated buildings Meanwhile, the municipal corporation has appealed to people living in 610 dilapidated buildings and also those living in the immediate environs to vacate and move to safer places in view of the incessant rains in the twin cities as there’s a danger of collapse anytime. Till date, about 175 such buildings have been demolished and another 84 were renovated with necessary repairs. Last year, 231 old structures were demolished and 129 buildings were seized. Barricading of the structures on verge of collapse and counselling people living in them was taken up by the engineering and town planning wings, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-forms-324-special-monsoon-teams/article35502969.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two more gates of Himayatsagar lifted||Two more gates of the Himayatsagar reservoir were lifted in addition to the 5 lifted the day before, releasing 2,400 cusecs of flood water from the drinking water reservoir into the Musi, following the visit of Municipal Administration and Urban Development secretary Arvind Kumar on Friday. Accompanied by Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) MD Dana Kishore, the secretary inspected the manually operated floodgates and had discussions with officials. A few gates were lifted on Tuesday once the reservoir reached the full tank level of 1,763.50 ft., releasing 1,000 cusecs and later 3 more gates were lifted on Thursday releasing 1,700 cusecs of water. The officials later inspected Osmansagar (Gandipet) also and went round the valve room. It was decided to keep a tight vigil on the inflows and outflows as well as the Musi flood flow downstream across the banks to ensure that people don’t venture anywhere nearby. Mr. Kumar wanted the Hyderabad and Rangareddy collectorate staff as well as the GHMC and police to be ready to shift people living in the low-lying slums and the colonies in case of more flows. Water Board executive director M. Satyanarayana, technical director Ravi Kumar and other top officials -- Dasarthram Reddy and G.M. Ramakrishna were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-more-gates-of-himayatsagar-lifted/article35502975.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC reserves orders on hearing CBI cases first||Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana High Court on Friday reserved orders in the writ petitions seeking directions to hear CBI cases first before taking up Enforcement Directorate (ED) cases involving Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. The petitions were filed by Vijayasai Reddy, Jagathi Publications, Carmel Asia Holdings Private Limited and Bharati Cements. Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy was MP when CBI arrested him in 2012 with charges of quid pro quo deals during his late father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s tenure as Chief Minister of the undivided Andhra Pradesh. The ED cases followed. He eventually became Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. Appearing for Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy and Jagathi Publications, senior counsel S. Niranjan Reddy it would not be fair to first conduct trial of ED cases which were registered based on the First Information Reports (FIRs) issued by the CBI. Lose legal sanctity If the CBI special court acquits the accused in CBI cases, the cases filed by the ED would lose legal sanctity and hence would be null and void. The CBI charged that money was made illegally. If that case was struck off, then the cases initiated by the ED based on the premise that money was illegally earned would not stand before the law. The special court had earlier consented to conduct trial of both the CBI and the ED cases simultaneously. However, the special court eventually consented to hear the ED cases first. Power to amend The special court did not have the power to amend its own directions, the senior counsel said. Additional Solicitor General T. Suryakaran Reddy representing the CBI and the ED argued that the burden of proof lies with the investigators in criminal cases. Whereas it was the responsibility of the accused to prove that the money belonged to them in money laundering cases registered by the ED, he said. An amendment was made to Section 44 of the ED Act in 2019 facilitating conducting of trial in ED cases irrespective of the status of criminal cases. Even if the criminal case was dropped, the case filed by the ED can be continued, he contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-reserves-orders-on-hearing-cbi-cases-first/article35502967.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power distribution hit||Incessant rains in the State for the last couple of days have left the power distribution infrastructure damaged, causing interruptions/breakdown in power supply. In the areas coming under Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL or Southern Discom), 517 electrical poles and 33 distribution transformers were affected, with stoppage of supply to 5 distribution transformers as they were inundated. Besides, there was also breakdown in 117 11 KV feeders due to rains, officials said. Except such minor incidents, there was no interruption in power supply, Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy said on Friday. He also told the officials not to take up seasonal maintenance and repair works till the rains were stopped. He held a tele-conference with Chief General Managers and Superintending Engineers to review the situation. He told the officials concerned to be extra cautious about power supply in low-lying areas and catchment areas of Musi river as also habitations abutting the river course, particularly in the city. He directed the engineers to stop supply to apartments whose cellars were in water as a measure of precaution and told the staff to be available for any emergency at all section offices to take up restoration work. Mr. Raghuma Reddy advised people to stay away from damaged, bent electrical poles, electrical conductors hanging close to the ground/water, not to touch electrical cables in case they were snapped/fallen on vehicles/buildings, tree branches, not to disturb stray wires and report any problem, if noticed, to the control rooms on numbers 1912 and 100, through tssouthernpower.com and on social media handles of the discom. The discom officials said number of damaged electrical poles was 386 in rural areas and 131 in GHMC, distribution transformers 32 in GHMC area and one in rural area and breakdown of 11 KV feeders was 30 in GHMC and 87 in rural areas. Authorities of Northern Discom issued similar advisory to people with regard to power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-distribution-affected/article35502982.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BIS mobile app to check product quality||Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has developed a mobile app to help consumers verify authenticity of a marked product, an article of hallmarked jewellery, or electronic equipment. It will have an R-number based on which a complaint can be lodged with the BIS in case a fraud is detected. This app can be downloaded through Google App store. Head of the BIS Hyderabad branch K.V. Rao informed that every ‘ISI’ marked article has a ‘CWL’ number and if the product is genuine, the app will display complete details of the licence and will also display ‘not available’ if no such licence exists. Complaints can be lodged through the app from where it will automatically get reflected under the complaint management system of BIS. In a communication to Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana, the scientist requested that information be put out in the municipal office premises across the State to create awareness among the public and also ensure procurement material subscribe to the specified standards. An offer to hold a workshop to sensitise the stakeholders was also made. Joint director K. Phalgun Kumar directed municipal commissioners to adhere to the prescribed standard in an official communique with the BIS claiming to have developed more than 20,000 Indian standards in various fields. It has recently made domestic Indian standards free of cost which can downloaded from portal www.manakonline.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bis-mobile-app-to-check-product-quality/article35502943.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Patent for improved biodiesel extraction||Muffakham Jah College of Engineering and Technology (MJCET), Hyderabad has secured a patent for ‘Bio-diesel Production Process’ which improves the extraction process. A statement from the college said that the process was developed by M.G.V. Satyanarayana of Chemistry Department and Ishrat Meera Mirzana of Mechanical Engineering Department. The patented project was accomplished in different phases, starting from extraction of biofuels from algae, then extraction of biodiesel from waste cooking oil, improvement in the extraction process to increase the yield using microwave and glass reactor, then automation of biodiesel pilot plant using continuous flow process. The produced biodiesel was tested on VCR and it produced good results as a dual fuel combination of biodiesel and diesel, said Director of MJCET Basheer Ahmed. The patents holders were felicitated by honorary secretary of Sultan-Uloom Education Society Zafar Javeed and MJCET registrar K.V. Narshima Rao. Muffakham Jah College has earlier also got a patent on ‘Solar Powered Spinning Wheel’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/patent-for-improved-biodiesel-extraction/article35502952.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OU professor is Karnataka varsity VC||Prof. Battu Satyanarayana has been appointed Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Karnataka by Visitor of the University and President Ramnath Kovind. A professor of chemistry, he had served in various universities in Telangana as an administrator, teacher and researcher for over three decades. He obtained his Ph.D in Organic Chemistry from the Osmania University and had served there for nearly three decades. He has over 75 publications to his credit and has guided over 20 students in obtaining Ph.D. Prof. Satyanarayana was an active member of the teachers unions, having served the OU Teachers Association as president and also general secretary of the Federation of University Teachers Associations in the combined Andhra Pradesh. He also served in various UGC committees, including the Committee on UGC Regulations for Minimum qualifications for appointment of teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ou-professor-is-karnataka-varsity-vc/article35502954.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New registration charges to add to coffers||The Registration and Stamps department is expecting an additional revenue to the tune of Rs. 3,000 crore to Rs. 3,500 crore during the current financial year consequent on the upward revision of the land prices and registration charges. The department which saw a sharp decline during the previous fiscal on account of the COVID-19 pandemic is hopeful of the transactions of both agriculture and non-agricultural properties returning to normalcy. As against the normal revenue of around Rs. 7,000 crore in 2019-20, the department reported Rs. 5,200 crore income during 2020-21 due to the impact of the coronavirus. The sector was however on the revival path, going by the amount of transactions witnessed during the first three months of the financial year. As many as 82,164 transactions of non-agricultural properties, primarily apartments/flats, were witnessed in the first 20 days of the current month fetching an income of Rs. 700 crore. The quantum of agricultural land transactions was no less impressive with 5,000 transactions being reported every day this month. Senior officials said the government has kept in mind the aspirations of the middle and lower classes while effecting the revision of market values of land and other charges pertaining to registration. The charge per square feet had been increased by 30 % in case of higher range apartments while it had been kept at 20 % in the event of areas where the rates are Rs. 4,000 a sq.ft. or less. The revision was made consequent on the steep appreciation of land values in different areas after the government successfully put in place the necessary infrastructure. “Market values have not been revised for quite some time. As a result, the gap between the actual prices and book value is too stark and wide. There were 5,000 villages where the book value per acre is Rs. 10,000 before the revision was made,” a senior official told The Hindu . Elaborate exercise The department therefore conducted an elaborate exercise to arrive at market values that are at least closer to reality. “The revision will also curtail the scope for unofficial transactions in the interest of genuine buyers and sellers,” the official said. Asked about the ambitious target of Rs. 12,000 crore set in the current year budget through Registration and Stamps, officials said it was an estimate based on the potential the State had after the infrastructure improved. The department was confident of achieving the target as the transactions are set to pick up further in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-registration-charges-to-add-to-coffers/article35502981.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Kaleshwaram water discharged into the sea’||Former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah said the opening the gates of Lower Manair Dam (LMD) proved that the 33 tmcft water lifted from Kaleshwaram project since June 10 had gone into the sea as he had been arguing since the Kaleshwaram project was taken up. Mr. Lakshmaiah, who was irrigation minister in the combined Andhra Pradesh, said the government lifted 33 tmcft from Kaleshwaram sine June 10 this year and pumped into LMD through Yellapmpalli project, but that water was now discharged into the sea, wasting the whole effort. The government had incurred Rs. 1,000 crore for power charges to lift water. “I have been arguing that lifting water in the rainy season was of no use but the reason for lifting is more political than needs on the ground. Engineers know the availability of enough water during rainy season but on whose instructions are they unnecessarily lifting the water?” he asked. Mr. Lakshmaiah said lifting the water and discharging the same into the sea had been repeating for the last three years and demanded an explanation from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “It has been proved yet again that lifting of Kaleshwaram water was to gain publicity putting burden on the exchequer while serving nothing for the farmers,” he claimed. The Congress leader said Kaleshwaram project would remain a tourist spot and not a viable irrigation project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kaleshwaram-water-discharged-into-the-sea/article35502987.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIIT-H to upskill teachers to deal with online education in villages||There exists a rural-urban disparity in online education and that has become acute due to the novel coronavirus. Schools in several rural areas are facing challenges, including lack of internet connectivity, and online education enabling devices like smartphones. Though gadgets are given to students, there are many who do not know how to use them. Also, there is a concern of unbridled internet access among those who know how to use them. These were some of the observations made at a round table meeting on “AI and Emerging Tech for Grassroots School Education Post-pandemic”, organised by the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad. The discussion saw experts including Collegiate Education Commissioner Naveen Mittal, Kautilya School of Public Policy founding director Sridhar P and former commissioner of Navodaya Vidyalaya A.N. Ramachandra. Speakers opined that with each student having different sets of strengths and weaknesses, Artificial Intelligence can bring about an intervention which would take these into consideration, and design curriculum in a customised fashion in line with the student’s latent abilities. Given the several challenges today, IIIT-H’s Prof. Raj Reddy Centre will intervene and provide training to teachers who are discharging duties in rural areas. This will include equipping teachers with better skills so as to handle virtual education, creating state-of-the-art teaching tools, and developing an online buddy system, which would enable students to chat, play and learn, as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iiit-h-to-upskill-teachers-to-deal-with-online-education-in-villages/article35502961.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||C-DAC offers new PG course in cyber security||The Hyderabad centre of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), which is the R&D organisation of the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), has designed a course — Post Graduate Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development (PG-DASSD) — to address the growing requirements of cyber security professionals in the Information Technologt industry focusing on software security. The course helps engineers to write secure software, carry out advanced research in cyber security, and prepare them on a par with the changing technologies and the requirements of the IT industry. All the course modules of the post graduate diploma are practical oriented. Online course The course being offered online is of 30 weeks (900 hours) duration and the last date to apply is July 29. Campus placements will be conducted for the eligible candidates after their successful completion of the course, according to a statement released here. Interested candidates can get the details from ‘www.acts.cdac.in’ or by calling 7382053731.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/c-dac-offers-new-pg-course-in-cyber-security/article35502963.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Keep close watch on children during rains: Sajjanar||To take stock of the situation of the rain inundated areas, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar on Friday visited lakes and rain effected areas in his jurisdiction. Mr. Sajjanar along with DCP (Traffic) Vijay Kumar SM and other officers visited Himayatsagar, Palle Cheruvu, Appa Cheruvu and other lakes. “All precautionary measures are being taken and we are closely monitoring the situation,” he said. He said that personnel are deployed round-the-clock in the areas surrounding lakes and that officials are well equipped to meet any kind of crisis. “Parents are requested to keep a close watch on their children and ensure that they do not go near the lakes or streams,” Mr. Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keep-close-watch-on-children-during-rains-sajjanar/article35502971.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. writes to CS, seeks panel on COVID deaths||Telangana Congress has appealed to the Chief Secretary to constitute an apex-level committee to audit the death reports, including hospital medical treatment records, and arrive at the factual number of deaths. At a press conference on Friday, AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said that the actual number will provide a basis for receiving financial relief from the Government of India as per Supreme Court directions. Mr. Sravan said that during the second wave, countless people died not only in hospitals, both public and private, but also at homes while taking self-treatment due to lack of access to beds in hospitals, oxygen and other life-saving drugs. But the government has claimed only 3,710 deaths so far. He said the average number of deaths in GHMC limits for 2017, 2018 and 2019 was 55,791 whereas during 2020, deaths reported were 76,375, an increase of 73%. From January to June, 2021, the number of deaths reported is 50,548. Similarly, the average number of deaths in the rest of Telangana for 2017, 2018, and 2019 was 45,220, whereas in 2020, the number increased to 79,827. This year from January to June, the number of deaths reported is 57,841. The figures expose how the numbers were under-reported by the government, he said, and demanded compensation to all those needy spouses and orphaned children who lost their bread-earners to the virus. “The government should also issue a formal document wherein the cause of death for those who succumbed to COVID is stated as ‘Death due to COVID’,” he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-writes-to-cs-seeks-panel-on-covid-deaths/article35502955.ece
24 July 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Clean to Green on Wheels||To curb the hazards of e-waste generation, RLG India, a subsidiary of Reverse Logistics Group, announced its “Clean to Green on Wheels” initiative on Friday. With this initiative, RLG India, a global service provider of comprehensive reverse logistics solutions, will put on the road nine mini commercial vehicles, which would cover over a lakh kilometre across the country. They will travel to 110 cities and 300 towns and engage with diverse audience, including students, corporations, bulk consumers, retailers, Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), dealers, informal sector, and healthcare providers, spreading the dos, don’ts and hazards associated with e-waste. A collection drive was flagged off on Friday at the TSPCB. “Even as technological advancements are opening up new and unique doors of opportunities for growth and development, they are creating a greater and more urgent need for each individual to become conscious of appropriate methods to dispose of electronics once they become obsolete,” said TSPCB member secretary Neetu Kumari Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clean-to-green-on-wheels/article35502958.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four more succumb to COVID||Telangana continued to have a positive case rate in 600 plus range as the number stood at 643 on Friday against 648 the previous day. Casualties on Friday were four. The number of positive cumulative cases were 6.40 lakh and the deaths 3,778. As many as 1.20 lakh samples were tested during the day. GHMC and Karimnagar continued to log the highest number of positive cases at 77 and 68 respectively. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday that a total of 1.59 crore doses of COVID vaccine have been supplied to Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-more-succumb-to-covid/article35502949.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cream Stone introduces 2 new flavours||Ice cream brand Cream Stone has introduced two new flavours ‘Fossil Fuel’ and ‘California Roasted Almond Malai’ to its menu while launching its 23rd store in the city at Attapur. Actress Snehal Kamat launched the new flavours. Operations manager of Cream Stone Franklin said that the brand has 85 outlets in the country. Apart from 23 stores in the city, it also has seven cloud kitchens serving customers everyday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cream-stone-introduces-2-new-flavours/article35502965.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC JAC ups the ante on demands||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Joint Action Committee (JAC) on Friday upped the ante in their demands to be paid salaries on time and fair treatment of employees. Speaking to the media, TSRTC JAC office bearers K. Raji Reddy, from the TSRTC Employees Union, and K, Hanumanthu Mudiraj, from the Telangana Jathiya Mazdoor Union, among others, laid out plans which entail meeting top officials of the State and Union government and explaining to them their grievances. Mr. Reddy said that a representation on these issues was given to the office of Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, even as he maintained that despite comments to the contrary, unions of the TSRTC continue to function. JAC units in place Units of the JAC have been established in all regions and conveners have taken charge. He said that the JAC plans to meet Labour Commissioner Ahmad Nadeem on July 26 to submit a representation which will touch upon working conditions, including frequent delays in crediting salaries to workers. On August 3, the JAC will convene a meeting to discuss a future course of action. Mr. Mudiraj said that on August 7, the JAC will stage a protest outside the Bus Bhavan, and on August 10, will submit memorandums to depot managers. Plans are afoot to meet Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. The TSRTC JAC demanded that the government come clean on Cooperative Credit Society and release five instalments of pending dearness allowances. They also demanded that the TSRTC Hospital in Tarnaka be upgraded to a super speciality hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-jac-ups-the-ante-on-demands/article35502978.ece
24 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||HM inaugurates blood donation camp||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Friday inaugurated a blood donation camp and newly constructed vehicle parking shed at Amberpet Special Armed Reserve Central Police Line here. Amberper MLA Kale Venkatesh, Additional Commissioners of Police Shikha Goel, Anil Kumar, DS.Chauhan, Joint CP (East Zone) M. Ramesh and other officers participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hm-inaugurates-blood-donation-camp/article35502973.ece
24 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||STATE PAGE - For Briefs/ Gampa Gopal takes charge as TSSPDCL Director||Gampa Gopal assumed charge as director of Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) here on Friday. According to Southern Discom officials, he will handle Energy Audit, Personnel, Establishment and Assessment Departments. Mr. Gopal retired as Executive Director with Bharat Dynamics Ltd (BDL) Hyderabad and is a brother of TRS MLA representing Kamareddy Gampa Goverdhan. Mr. Gopal called on chairman and managing director of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy after assuming charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-for-briefs-gampa-gopal-takes-charge-as-tsspdcl-director/article35502984.ece
24 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Relief camp set up||A flood relief camp was set up on Nayabazar government school premises to accommodate people living in low-lying areas abutting the Munneru in the wake of forecast of heavy rain in the catchment areas of the river in the next 48 hours. The increase in water level in the river prompted the officials to shift some dwellers from low-lying areas such as Saradhinagar, Bokkalagadda, Venkateshwaranagar and Jubileepura to the relief camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/relief-camp-set-up/article35502992.ece
24 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Narrow escape for 30 RTC passengers||In a yet another accident involving the State Road Transport Corporation buses, a ‘Super Luxury’ service bound for Hyderabad caught fire on NH-163 (Hyderabad-Warangal), near Ghanpur of Jangaon district, on Friday. Thirty passengers in the bus – AP 28Z 5403 – at the time of accident, had a safe and timely escape as the alert driver raised alarm after observing smoke emanating from the engine compartment, located in the rear. The bus belongs to Warangal-1 depot and its source terminal was Hanmakonda. According to local officials, the accident was reported at around 3.45 p.m., and no occupant suffered any injuries. But the bus was completely burnt after it was engulfed in uncontrolled fire and plumes of thick black smoke continued billowing from the vehicle for at least an hour. The bus body was reduced to a charred metal frame in the accident. Immediate fire control measures were also not possible as Ghanpur lacks a fire station and the nearest resource was at Palakurthy, about 25 kms away. Warangal-1 depot manager said technical snag in the engine is the preliminarily suspicion behind the fire accident. An investigation was taken up. On Wednesday, a TSRTC ‘Express’ service was also involved in an accident in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. Rear tyres of the Torrur-depot bus that was carrying 45 passengers came off the wheel hubs while running. All the occupants had a narrow escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/close-shave-for-rtc-passengers/article35502993.ece
24 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Three of a family found dead||Bodies of three members of a family, who were reported to have ended life in a suicide pact, were retrieved from the Krishna near Chintalapalem and neighbouring villages of Peddavoora on Friday. Police identified the victims as 37-year-old employee at the TS-GENCO in Nagarjunasagar town M. Ramaiah, his 30-year-old wife Nagamani and their 12-year-old son Sathvik. Police had initially suspected it to be a case of missing persons, with the members of the family missing. Following CCTV footage, the police ascertained that the trio had left the town at around 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday. A note was left behind by the family coted ill-health and emotional distress as reasons for their resorting to the extreme step, police said. The bodies were handed over to the next of kin after post-mortem. (Contact nos. of Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni, 040 66202000/    66202001)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-of-a-family-found-dead/article35502979.ece
24 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Agriculture officer in ACB net||Officials of Anti-Corruption Bureau on Friday arrested an agricultural officer at Miryalaguda, allegedly for demanding and accepting bribe to process a Rythu Bhima insurance claim. The officer, B. Srinivas, was caught red-handed outside his office, at a local store, while taking Rs. 12,000 for the favour. Officials said Srinivas Reddy of Kothagudem village had approached the officer for claim insurance of his deceased relative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agriculture-officer-in-acb-net/article35502980.ece
24 July 2021||NIRMAL,TELANGANA||Residents of Nirmal district heave a sigh of relief||After a gap of four days, residents of Nirmal district in North Telangana heaved a sigh of relief on Friday as they could see the clear skies. Rains lashed the town and adjoining villages in the district since Monday, followed by heavy showers on Wednesday and Thursday, during which hundreds of residents were evacuated from their houses in low-lying and inundated areas with the help of local administration and NDRF teams. Speaking to The Hindu , Inspector General of Police (North Zone) Y Nagi Reddy, who visited the rain-affected areas in Nirmal district, said that the situation was under control and no rescue operations were carried out on Friday. “Residents were evacuated to safer places last night itself. Today there was no need for the rescue operation. However, the NDRF and local teams are on standby,” he said. According to Mr. Reddy, police teams were deployed in whole of north zone near the bridges and overflowing culverts to restrict the movement of people. “People should not come out of their houses unnecessarily,” Nirmal Superintendent of Police Ch. Praveen Kumar said. He said the town and adjoining areas received a rainfall of more than 40 cm in the past 28 to 30 hours. “There was no loss of life,” Mr. Kumar said. Earlier, IG North Zone said that 15 shops-cum-houses near Kaleshwaram were vacated due to heavy inflow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/residents-of-nirmal-district-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article35502986.ece
24 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H, PharmCADD ink deal to co-develop new drugs||Korean firm PharmCADD (AI and Physics/Quantum-based drug discovery company) has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Institute of Technology - Hyderabad (IITH), for co-developing new drugs and advancing platform technology PharmulatorTM. Under this MoU, IIT-H will provide PharmCADD key members to conduct academic research in the field of AI, MD simulation, and quantum calculation for new drug development. PharmCADD and IIT-H also agreed to promote collaboration by jointly participating in global R&D projects. “PharmCADD has designed and optimised the mRNA sequence for developing COVID mRNA vaccine and the mRNA vaccine candidate has been recently applied for IND (Investigational New Drug) to begin clinical trial 1/2a study in Korea. Based on this experience, we have expanded a vaccine developing platform and enhancing the technology with IIT-H resources,” said PharmCADD CEO Taehyung Kwon. Expressing his happiness on this momentous occasion, IIT-H Director Professor B.S. Murty said, “IIT-H is the only institute in the country with UG programmes in both Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology and Bioinformatics. IIT-H has dedicated faculty working on many novel techniques and drugs. This global collaboration in the field of drug development will definitely strengthen our capabilities to develop novel formulations and make a healthier society.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iit-h-pharmcadd-ink-deal-to-co-develop-new-drugs/article35502957.ece
24 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||We want Bahujana Rajyam, says R. S. Praveen Kumar||It was a gathering of Social Welfare AEROs (SWAEROs) held at the district headquarters town. All those who attended the meeting were charged with emotions. They raised slogans for power. Not to sell their votes for money. A speaker described R. S. Praveen Kumar, the former IPS officer who resigned from the post of Secretary, Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutes Society, as future chief minister of Telangana. Not only that, he was described as Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Kanshi Ram and Sahu Maharaj. They said that they were unable to find any leader after Kanshi Ram. They warned that they would not allow arrest of Mr. Praveen Kumar in any case. This was the first meeting attended by Mr. Praveen Kumar after resigning from his position. Calling him ‘Supreme SWAERO’, the speakers promised to rally behind him in his efforts. They claimed that it would be between K. Chandrasekhar Rao and R.S. Praveen Kumar in future. “This is not a single day’s struggle. Decades of struggle. We want power. We want chances. We want equality. Why should we be kept away from education? Why can't our children go to US? I came here to ask on behalf of all of you,” asked Mr. Praveen Kumar while addressing a charged gathering. He said that he had informed his mother that he had started fighting for others among depressed sections. Stating that the day after his resignation, a case was filed against him, Mr. Praveen Kumar said they would not fear cases. He suggested that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao spend Rs. 1,000 crore for Dalit families’ education so that they could go to US and reach top positions. There was not a single judge in the Supreme Court and only 2% in educational institutes from SCs/STs and minorities. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had announced that the Dalit Bandhu programme would be launched at Huzurabad with Rs. 1,000 crore. “We will establish Bahujana Rajyam and for that we will fight unitedly. And we have to fight now or never. Leaders come in the name of dalit Chief Minister. Do not trust them. Use social media for campaign. Do not get cheated once again. Take the message to rural areas. Let us get untied and build an agitation,” said Mr. Praveen Kumar. A large number of people attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-want-bahujana-rajyam-says-r-s-praveen-kumar/article35502989.ece
24 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Oustees complain of leaking houses||It was living in a hell for many of the oustees of Mallannasagar who were provided accommodation at Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Mutrajpally near Gajwel town. For the past three days, incessant rains have been taking place in the district and Gajwel received 42 mm rainfall followed 49 mm in Jagadevpur. 36.6 in Markook and 68 mm in Kondapaka mandals. With heavy rains rains taking place, several houses have been facing the problem of leaking of water from rooftops. They had to keep some plastic vessels to arrest the spread of droplets of water. At some places in the colony drains got clogged, making water come back into houses. Many oustees shared the pathetic conditions prevailing in the colony on social media, alleging that officials were not paying the required attention. They claim that their old houses in the village were far better than the new ones. “We came, here leaving our houses in villages. They are far better than the new houses constructed here by the government. All the new clothes kept in steel almirah were totally damaged.” said a person in a video shared on social media. Rain water seeped in even in the almirah. Another expressed fear of electrocution stating that power was passing through walls. In a related development, oustees of Vemulaghat, one of the villages facing submergence under Mallannasagar, staged dharna at the RDO office at Gajwel and submitted a memorandum to RDO D. Vijayender Reddy, urging him to address the problem of rain water seepage. They also said that oustees were unable to get any employment. They said the RDO had told them of appointment of a special officer to look into the problems and that land was being acquired for establishment of industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-complain-of-leaking-houses/article35503232.ece
24 July 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt. to join Climate Group’s EV100 drive||Weeks after unveiling its electronic vehicle (EV) policy, the Maharashtra government on Friday announced its decision to become the first State in the country to join hands with Climate Group’s EV100 campaign. The drive aims to make electric transport the new normal by 2030 by encouraging companies to switch from vehicles running on fossil fuels to EVs and install charging infrastructure. Maharashtra’s EV policy aims to achieve 25% electrification of last-mile delivery vehicles by 2025. Within six months from the day of notification of the policy, e-commerce companies, delivery and logistics players, and mobility aggregators will submit EV transition plans to the Transport Department. Climate Group, an international non-profit, will act as a bridge between private companies and the State government to ease the process of shifting their fleets to EVs. As per Climate Group and SYSTEMIQ research’s Fleets First study, the majority of EVs today are privately-owned passenger vehicles, while only 11% are part of fleets. Focussing on fleets can spur electrification and boost infrastructure, it said. State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray, who had unveiled the policy, said, “Investing in a clean transport system is an essential part of our State Climate Action Plan. With the revised EV policy, we want to engage early on with the most important stakeholder — businesses. The EV100 partnership aims to build a robust demand for EVs that can enable key linkages for the vibrant business community in Maharashtra, and support faster uptake of the policy.” Divya Sharma, India executive director, Climate Group, said, “We urge businesses in Maharashtra to utilise the incentives offered by the State and join EV100 to drive 100% fleet transition by 2030. Companies should set interim targets aligned with the State’s EV policy to accelerate electric mobility.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-govt-to-join-climate-groups-ev100-drive/article35502859.ece
24 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Court extends Raj Kundra’s police custody till July 27||A Mumbai court on Friday extended the police custody of actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband and businessman Raj Kundra along with his business associate, Ryan Thorpe, till July 27, for allegedly producing and circulating pornographic videos through social media. The police suspect that money earned was used for online betting and he had financial transactions with Yes Bank and United Bank of Africa. The police have sought custody to find out their revenue channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-extends-raj-kundras-police-custody-till-july-27/article35502863.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Jaipur Golden Hospital deaths report ‘preliminary’: Minister||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that a report submitted by the Delhi government to the High Court in May, which said that 21 deaths in Jaipur Golden Hospital was not due to oxygen shortage, was a “preliminary report”. “In that particular case, they [committee members] had to submit the report in one day. It can be called a preliminary report,” Mr. Jain said during a media briefing. “We had formed a committee to look into all such cases, but the Central government through the L-G ended that committee,” he added. The four-member committee, which prepared the report, was formed by the Delhi government on the directions of the High Court and nowhere in the report it was mentioned that it is a preliminary report. “Report of the Committee on Death in Hospital due to insufficiency of oxygen supply” is the name given in the document submitted to the High Court. On Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said the Delhi government does not have any data on oxygen shortage-related deaths as the Central government did not allow them to form another committee to look into all claims of deaths due to lack of oxygen and give compensation to the families. Mr. Sisodia made the comment in response to the Centre’s statement in Parliament that “no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States/UTs” during the second wave Hospital’s contention But Jaipur Golden Hospital had said that the deaths were linked to oxygen shortage. “Twenty critically-ill COVID patients died last night over oxygen crisis. The oxygen stock was never completely dry, but the pressure was low as we were running out of stock,” Dr. D.K. Baluja, Medical Director of Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi had said on April 24, adding that the deaths were “linked” to the oxygen shortage. The report submitted to the High Court also said that Jaipur Golden Hospital has “claimed” that the reported deaths were “due to the deficiency of oxygen”. Panel report “In view of the above observations, the committee was of the opinion that all 21 recorded patients were sick or critical and suffering from COVID-19 infection. As per the case records made available to the committee, all the reported patients were getting oxygen therapy or ventilation throughout the hospital stay including the time of resuscitation and there was no mention of any oxygen shortage in any of the case records. In view of the natural virulent course of the disease and lack of any evidence suggestive of oxygen shortage in the case records, the committee was of the opinion that shortage of oxygen as the cause of death could not be ascertained,” the report by the committee read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jaipur-golden-hospital-deaths-report-preliminary-minister/article35502853.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Unlocking can lead to rise in COVID-19 cases, warns V.K. Paul||NITI Aayog member Dr. V.K. Paul has asked the Delhi government during a meeting to be “watchful” and warned that unlocking can lead to an increase in COVID-19 cases. “The next three months are important. We need to be watchful,” Dr. Paul said at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on July 9, as per minutes of the meeting released later. He said “unlock activity could lead to an increase in cases, though at present the positivity rate of cases is at its lowest point”. Dr. Paul also said that the Delhi should take the advice of Centre before imposing any restrictions on inter-State travel Also, Dr. Samrian Panda of the Indian Council of Medical Research said that the “third wave is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave”. But he warned that a substantial third wave would be plausible if any new variant emerges, which is more infectious and escapes prior immunity in the absence of adequate lockdown measures. “In the absence of these two factors, the projected third wave is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave. The timing of the third wave remains uncertain and it would be driven by factors outside the scope of modelling,” he said. 62 new cases Meanwhile, the city reported 58 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,35,778, according to a Delhi government bulletin. There was only one death and the total number of deaths stood at 25,041. A total of 67,817 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.09%. Of the total cases, 14,10,164 people have recovered and there are only 573 active cases. Also, the COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city will last for only less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin. The city has been facing a similar situation for more than 10 days and the Health Minister had said last week that 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/unlocking-can-lead-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-warns-vk-paul/article35502852.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. to give Rs. 1 crore each to kin of six bravehearts||.The Delhi government will give a ‘Samman Rashi’ of Rs. 1 crore each to the families of six “bravehearts of Delhi” who lost their lives in the line of duty. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Cabinet regarding the grant of ex-gratia to the families. In the meeting, the Revenue Department proposed to provide the ex-gratia, which was approved by the Cabinet on the instructions of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The families of the brave citizens who will be given the ex-gratia include two officers who were posted with Delhi Police, three with the Indian Air Force and one jawan posted with Civil Defense. “The people of Delhi who lost their lives in the line of duty cannot be compensated, but the family will get some help from the amount given by the government to honour their sacrifice,” Mr. Kejriwal was quoted as having said. According to the government, the ex-gratia will be given to the families of six martyrs. Sanket Kaushik, an ACP in Delhi Police, who is from Ajmer in Rajasthan and residing in Vasant Vihar died after a speeding mini truck coming from Gurugram hit him at Rajkori flyover on July 25, 2020. Constable Vikas Kumar, a resident of the Jhajjar in Haryana, was posted at the Vasant Vihar police station. He was doing picket duty between Jiya Sarai and Nehru Place near Outer Ring Road on September 15, 2016 when a speeding car from Munirka side hit the barricade and injuring him. He died at the hospital on October 1 . Civil Defence Volunteer Parvesh Kumar, a resident of VPO Khaira in south west Delhi was with his team checking vehicles near the Mangolpuri flyover when he was hit by a truck, resulting in his death in September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-govt-to-give-rs-1-crore-each-to-kin-of-six-bravehearts/article35502847.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Apex court says Aravali forest land encroachments will be cleared||The Supreme Court orally said on Friday that structures encroaching into the ecologically fragile Aravali forest land at Lakarpur Khori in Haryana will be cleared. The court had on June 17 refused to halt the demolition of about 10,000 unauthorised residential constructions encroaching into the forest land. On June 7, it had directed the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to “take all essential measures to remove encroachments on the forest land without any exception”. The court had categorically said that “land-grabbers cannot take the refuge of the rule of law”. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari on Friday gave the corporation four more weeks to complete the demolition. Additional Advocate General of Haryana, Arjun Bhardwaj, informed the court that 74 acres of land had been cleared. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, for some of the residents, said there was no effective rehabilitation policy for them. “The situation is very tragic. Everyone is on the streets. All houses are empty,” Mr. Gonsalves submitted. He highlighted the COVID-19 situation. He said the current policy suffered from defects. The court pointed out that Mr. Gonsalves was referring to a draft policy. The Bench directed the corporation to consider a representation to be made by Mr. Gonsalves for the residents before finalising the policy. The court listed the case for hearing next on August 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/apex-court-says-aravali-forest-land-encroachments-will-be-cleared/article35502849.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||L-G grants powers of detaining authority to Delhi Police chief||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has granted the powers of detaining authority to Delhi Police chief till October 18 under the National Security Act, according to a notification. It comes ahead of Independence Day and at a time farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agriculture laws have been holding ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar. The Delhi Police said it is a routine order and is issued regularly. The NSA allows preventive detention of an individual for months if the authorities feel that the individual is a threat to the national security, and law and order, police said. “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 3, read with clause (e) of Section 2 of the National Security Act, 1980, the Lt. Governor pleased to direct that during the period July 19 to October 18, the Delhi Police Commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub-section (2) of t”he Section 3 of the aforesaid Act," the notification stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/l-g-grants-powers-of-detaining-authority-to-delhi-police-chief/article35502838.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSUI calls for vaccination policy for students||The National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Friday demanded a vaccination policy for all the students across the country before opening educational institutions and conducting any examinations. The students organised a demonstration and attempted to march from the NSUI office on Raisina Road to Parliament House. But they were stopped by the police and detained.  The students demanded that entrance examinations and other examinations being held across the country be conducted keeping in mind the safety of students. It also demanded compensation to students for the lost academic year. The NSUI said that the Central government has not declared any relief package for the students’ fraternity even after 1.5 years of the pandemic has passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccinate-students-before-opening-institutions-nsui/article35502839.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Confer highest civilian award on Siddiqui: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking him to confer the highest civilian award of the Delhi government on photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed while on assignment in Afghanistan. He also demanded that an honorarium of Rs. 1 crore be paid to his family. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that Mr. Siddiqui as a photographer with Reuters had captured mass cremation of bodies of COVID victims in Delhi that had attracted international attention and had called the bluff of both the Central and State governments about the number of actual COVID fatalities during the second wave of the pandemic in the Capital. “Siddiqui leaves behind his parents, two siblings, his wife and two children, and a financial reward to his family will be a befitting tribute to this brave man, who had earned name and fame not only for himself and Delhi, but also for the country,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/confer-highest-civilian-award-on-siddiqui-cong/article35502841.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will take cue from others on school reopening: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that the Delhi government would review the experience of other State that have opened school and would take a decision regarding opening schools in Delhi based on the information received. He added that the ideal situation for reopening schools would be after vaccination is complete. “Ideally, we will not open the schools until everyone is vaccinated. However, seeing that other States are also reopening schools we will review how it goes for them and accordingly plan out. We have been receiving a lot of messages from the parents regarding the safety of the children and want to assure that the safety of the children will be our priority,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that there are not enough vaccines being supplied to Delhi and that the centre needs to rethink its system of supplying vaccines so it can provide the States with more stock. Mr. Kejriwal was speaking on the sidelines of an event where he inaugurated the country’s first ISO 9001 certified AAP MLA office in the Timarpur constituency. He informed the public that the office will follow a system that will solve the grievances of the public while making sure they are at convenience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-take-cue-from-others-on-school-reopening-cm/article35502844.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Advance of Rs. 293 cr. given to North body for salary: Jain||Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that Rs. 293 crore has been released to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) to give salaries. “On Thursday, the Delhi government gave an advance of Rs. 293 crore to the North body to help them pay the salaries of employees. They were facing a problem in paying the salaries. Now, we hope that they release the salaries as soon as possible. We have given them an advance for the next instalment, which is not due yet,” Mr. Jain said. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has said that Delhi government has not released any specific advance amount for salary payment to North body employees and Mr. Jain’s statement in this context is “misleading”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/advance-of-rs-293-cr-given-to-north-body-for-salary-jain/article35502850.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||32 ex-engineers and technocrats join the BJP||Over 32 retired engineers and technocrats from the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council joined the BJP on Friday. State BJP president Adesh Gupta, while welcoming them into the party fold, said he hoped they would work for the welfare of the society and country as per party policies. “It is for the first time that such a large number of technocrats have joined the party to work for the people,” Mr. Gupta said on the occasion. Param Yadav, one of the joinees, thanked the party and said this would be the first time that a political party would have an engineers cell. “We are always eager to work for the party and the country. We are hopeful that the vast experience of so many engineers would give a distinct direction to the party and would take it to a new height,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/32-ex-engineers-and-technocrats-sign-up-for-bjp/article35502846.ece
24 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 6,753 new cases||Fresh COVID-19 recoveries in Maharashtra dipped again to 5,979, while the State reported 6,753 new cases on Friday, pushing the active case tally to 94,769. As many as 167 deaths took the total toll to 1,31,205, with the case fatality rate rising to 2.09%. The total case tally has reached 62,51,810, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 60,22,485, with the recovery rate at 96.33%. “Of a total of 4,64,46,360 laboratory samples tested thus far, 62,51,810 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 13.46%) have returned positive, with over 1.82 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.  1,144 cases in Pune Pune recorded 1,144 new cases taking its tally to 10,81,200. Twelve deaths pushed the total death toll to 18,218. As per district authorities, the active case tally has again risen to 9,900. Mumbai reported 373 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,33,344, while the active cases dipped to 10,068. Eight fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,818. Kolhapur reported 900 new cases, taking its case tally to 1,89,616. The active cases rose to 11,492. As many as four deaths saw the cumulative death toll rise to 5,375. Satara reported 817 cases and 15 deaths as its total cases rose to 2,11,999, of whom 7,281 are active, while the death toll climbed to 5,098. Neighbouring Sangli district reported 944 new cases and 15 deaths. The total case tally stands at 1,78,023, with the active cases rising to 10,689, while its total death toll reached 4,910.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-6753-new-cases/article35502861.ece
24 July 2021||Pune,||No milk supply to Mumbai today due to rains: Gokul||Gokul, the largest milk brand in the State’s milk cooperative sector, on Friday said there would be no supply of milk to Mumbai on Saturday due to rains in Kolhapur and Sangli districts. Vishawas Patil, chairman, Kolhapur Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh Limited, which owns the brand, said: “The collection was largely affected on Thursday and Friday due to downpour in western Maharashtra and Konkan. Against the daily collection of 13 lakh litres, we could collect 2.5 lakh litres on Friday. It had dropped by 76,000 litres on Thursday. Flooding has not only affected collection of the milk, but also transportation due to closure of State and national highways. We will not be able to supply milk pouches to our Mumbai consumers on Saturday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-milk-supply-to-mumbai-today-due-to-rains-gokul/article35502862.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi visits Tibet, first trip by leader in years||China’s President Xi Jinping this week became the first Chinese leader in many years to visit Tibet as well as its southeastern border region with India, as he inspected a newly opened and strategically important railway line. The official Xinhua news agency reported on Friday Mr. Xi arrived in Tibet on Wednesday on a three-day visit, landing at the airport in Nyingchi, which is located less than 20 km from the border with India's Arunachal Pradesh. The Xinhua report said Mr. Xi drove to the Nyang river bridge to inspect the Yarlung Zangbo river, or Brahmaputra river — the Nyang is its second largest tributary. He also visited Nyingchi town and its railway station to inspect the newly built Sichuan-Tibet railway. This is Mr. Xi’s first visit to the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) since taking over as the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China in 2012. He had visited in 2011 when he was Vice-President. That visit was to mark the 60th anniversary of what the Communist Party calls “the peaceful liberation of Tibet”, and this week’s trip was timed to mark the 70th anniversary. The Seventeen Point Agreement was signed on May 23, 1951. China refers to the agreement as heralding what it calls “the peaceful liberation of Tibet”. The agreement has been rejected by the Dalai Lama, who has said the Communist Party had both forced it on Tibet and subsequently violated its commitments, leading him to eventually flee to India in exile in 1959. From Nyingchi, Mr. Xi travelled to Lhasa, where he visited the Potala Palace — the traditional home of the Dalai Lamas — and Drepung monastery. He called on monks there “to support the leadership of the Communist Party of China” and “maintain the unity of the motherland”. He said the Communist Party would “actively guide the development of Tibetan Buddhism”, part of a broader effort to promote what the Party calls the “Sinicisation” of Tibetan Buddhism with an emphasis on patriotism and ensuring Beijing’s authority on the appointment of lamas and key religious figures. Military ideology Mr. Xi on Friday, the last day of the trip, met with soldiers of the Tibet Military Command of the People’s Liberation Army, state media reported, calling on them to “implement the Party’s military ideology in the new era” and to “comprehensively strengthen training and preparation work”. Developing connectivity to border areas was a particular focus of the visit, evident in the visit to Nyingchi, which assumed particular significance coming a month after China started operating the first bullet train line in Tibet, linking Lhasa to Nyingchi near the border with Arunachal Pradesh. The China State Railway Group said the 435-km line, on which construction began in 2014, has a designed speed of 160 km per hour and would connect the capital city of the Tibet Autonomous Region to the border city of Nyingchi with a travel time of three and a half hours. The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one among several major infrastructure projects recently completed in Tibet’s southern and southeastern counties near the Arunachal border. Last month, China completed construction of a strategically significant highway through the Grand Canyon of the Yarlung Zangbo river, the “second significant passageway” to Medog county that borders Arunachal. The Lhasa-Nyingchi rail is one section of the Sichuan-Tibet railway line connecting the two provincial capitals, a strategic project described by the Chinese leader as “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting economic and social development of the western region.” This will be the second railway line connecting Tibet to the hinterland, following the already open Qinghai-Tibet rail. The first section of the new line, from Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan, to Yaan, was finished in December 2018, while work on the 1,011 km Yaan-Nyingchi line will compete the entire railway line by 2030. Zhu Weiqun, a senior Party official formerly in charge of Tibet policy, was quoted as saying by state media the railway will help "transport advanced equipment and technologies from the rest of China to Tibet and bring local products out”. “If a scenario of a crisis happens at the border,” he said, "the railway can act as a 'fast track' for the delivery of strategic materials.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-visits-tibet-first-by-leader-in-years/article35502303.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Ben & Jerry’s angers Israel by boycotting settlements||Ice creams hardly play a role in international conflicts. But the U.S.-based ice cream brand Ben & Jerry’s decision to stop selling its products to the Jewish settlements in the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories of East Jerusalem and West Bank has triggered an uproar in Israel, which has taken the battle against the brand to its parent company and 35 American States. Israel Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has warned Unilever, the London-based parent company, of “severe consequences” over its subsidiary’s decision. ‘Values’ over profit In its July 19 statement, Ben and Jerry’s, known for taking up progressive causes such as Black Lives Matter, said the sales of its products in the occupied Palestinian territories was “inconsistent with our values”. Israel seized the West Bank and East Jerusalem in the 1967 war and has promoted Jewish settlements in the territories since the 1970s. Currently, there are about 140 Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem where more than 6,00,000 Jews live. Ben & Jerry’s, founded in the 1970s by two American hippies, operates in Israel through a licensee, Ben & Jerry’s Israel, which makes and distributes its products in Israel and the occupied territories. “We have informed our licensee that we will not renew the license agreement when it expires at the end of next year,” the company said. It added that it would seek another arrangement to sell its ice creams within the internationally accepted borders of Israel. The Palestine Solidarity Campaign, an activist group based in the U.K. that promotes boycotting Israeli goods, has welcomed Ben & Jerry’s decision. “This is Huge. Very important step by Ben & Jerry’s and a message to all complicit companies. The tide of history is turning. #BDS,” the PSC tweeted on Monday. Activists who support the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement has been campaigning for a years for economic measures to put pressure on Israel to change its policies regarding settlements and occupation. Unilever’s position Unilever, the British multinational, acquired Ben & Jerry’s in 2000 for $326 million in an unusual agreement that allowed the brand to keep an independent board with the right to make decisions on its social missions and brand integrity. The decision to end sales to the Jewish settlements came from the Board. In a statement, Unilever said: “Ben & Jerry’s was acquired by Unilever in 2000. As part of the acquisition agreement, we have always recognised the right of the brand and its independent Board to take decisions about its social mission. We also welcome the fact that Ben & Jerry’s will stay in Israel.” There were signs of tensions between the parent company and the independent board of Ben & Jerry’s. Anuradha Mittal, the Board’s chair, told NBC that Unilever issued the statement against the wishes of the Board. Israel’s response Gilad Erdan, Israel’s Ambassador in Washington, has written to each of the 35 Governors of American States that have passed laws against BDS, urging them to sanction the ice cream brand. In the letter, a copy of which was posted on Twitter, Ambassador Erdan wrote Ben & Jerry’s decision amounted to “de-facto adoption of anti-Semitic practices and the de-legitimization of the Jewish state”. In 2018, Airbnb announced it would remove listings on its website in the Jewish settlements in Palestine, but reversed the decision a few months later after having come under enormous pressure from Israel and a lawsuit in a federal U.S. court. This time too, Israel is leaving no chance behind to mount economic and legal pressure on Ben and Jerry’s and Unilever to undo the decision. The challenge Israel faces is that if Ben and Jerry’s sticks to its decision in solidarity with the Palestinians, it could set a successful precedent for other corporations and give a boost to the BDS movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ben-jerrys-angers-israel-by-boycotting-settlements/article35502299.ece
24 July 2021||Islamabad,||For peace deal, Taliban say Afghan President must go||The Taliban on Friday said they don’t want to monopolise power, but insisted there won’t be peace in Afghanistan until there is a new negotiated government in Kabul and President Ashraf Ghani is removed. In an interview with the Associated Press , Taliban spokesman, Suhail Shaheen, also a member of the group’s negotiating team, laid out the insurgents’ stance on what should come next in a country on the precipice. The Taliban have captured territory in recent weeks, seized border crossings and are threatening a number of provincial capitals, as U.S. and NATO soldiers leave Afghanistan. This week, the top U.S. military officer, General Mark Milley, said that the Taliban have “strategic momentum,” and he did not rule out a complete Taliban takeover. But he said it is not inevitable. “I don’t think the end game is yet written,” he said. Afghans who can afford it are applying by the thousands for visas to leave Afghanistan, fearing a violent descent into chaos. The U.S.-NATO withdrawal is more than 95% complete. Shaheen said the Taliban will lay down their weapons when a negotiated government acceptable to all sides in the conflict is installed in Kabul and Mr. Ghani’s government is gone. “I want to make it clear that we do not believe in the monopoly of power because any governments who (sought) to monopolise power in Afghanistan in the past, were not successful governments,” said Shaheen, apparently including the Taliban’s own five-year rule in that assessment. “So we do not want to repeat that same formula.” But he was also uncompromising on the continued rule of Mr. Ghani, calling him a war monger and accusing him of using his Tuesday speech on the Islamic holy day of Id-al-Adha to promise an offensive against the Taliban. Shaheen dismissed Mr. Ghani’s right to govern, resurrecting allegations of widespread fraud that surrounded Mr. Ghani’s 2019 election win. After that vote, both Mr. Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah declared themselves President. After a compromise deal, Mr. Abdullah is now No. 2 in the government and heads the reconciliation council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/for-peace-deal-taliban-say-afghan-president-must-go/article35502301.ece
24 July 2021||Washington,||Pelosi says Capitol probe will go on despite GOP’s boycott plans||Unfazed by Republican threats of a boycott, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that a congressional committee investigating the January 6 Capitol insurrection will take on its “deadly serious” work whether Republicans participate or not. The Republicans’ House leader, Kevin McCarthy, called the committee a “sham process” and suggested that GOP lawmakers who take part could face consequences. Mr. McCarthy said Ms. Pelosi’s rejection of two of the Republicans he had attempted to appoint was an “egregious abuse of power.” The escalating tension between the two parties is emblematic of the partisan anger that has only worsened since former President Donald Trump’s supporters laid siege to the Capitol. With most Republicans still loyal to Mr. Trump, and many downplaying the severity of the violent attack, there is little bipartisan unity to be found. Mr. McCarthy said on Wednesday that he would withdraw the names of all five Republicans he had appointed after Ms. Pelosi rejected two of them. Ms. Pelosi made clear that she won’t relent, and Democrats mulled filling the empty seats themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pelosi-says-capitol-probe-will-go-on-despite-gops-boycott-plans/article35502304.ece
24 July 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. raises ‘concern’ over reports of spyware use||Pakistan on Friday voiced ‘serious concern’ over media reports about India allegedly eavesdropping on foreigners, including Prime Minister Imran Khan, using Israeli spyware Pegasus and urged the UN to thoroughly investigate the matter. According to reports, Mr. Khan was a potential target of the Israeli-made Pegasus spyware programme by clients of the NSO Group cyberespionage firm. The Foreign Office (FO) through a statement responded to the media queries related to India’s alleged use of the Israeli spyware. “We have noted with serious concern recent international media reports exposing Indian government’s organised spying operations against its own citizens, foreigners as well as Prime Minister Imran Khan, using an Israeli origin spyware,” the Foreign Office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-raises-concern-over-reports-of-spyware-use/article35502306.ece
24 July 2021||Washington,||U.S. sanctions Cuba over crackdown on protests||The U.S. imposed sanctions on Cuba’s Defense Minister and a special forces unit on Thursday for repressing peaceful protests, a step President Joe Biden warned is “just the beginning” of measures against Havana. The U.S. Treasury Department said its Office of Foreign Assets Control froze the assets of Alvaro Lopez Miera and the Special National Brigade (SNB), a division of Cuba’s Interior Ministry, in relation to human rights abuses committed during a crackdown on protests earlier in July. “This is just the beginning — the U.S. will continue to sanction individuals responsible for oppression of the Cuban people,” Mr. Biden said. The sanctions were imposed under the Magnitsky act, which allows a U.S. president to take action against human rights abuses and corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sanctions-cuba-over-crackdown-on-protests/article35502308.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Villagers flee fresh floods in central China||Villagers were evacuated on Friday as floods submerged swathes of central China following a historic deluge that claimed at least 56 lives. Millions have been affected by the floods in Henan province, which have trapped people for days without fresh food or water Adding to the misery, Typhoon In-Fa is forecast to bring further torrential downpours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/villagers-flee-fresh-floods-in-central-china/article35502309.ece
24 July 2021||Beijing,||China imposes sanctions on U.S. citizens||China said on Friday that it has imposed counter-sanctions on U.S. individuals, including former U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, in response to U.S. sanctions on Chinese officials in Hong Kong. The sanctions are the first imposed by China under new anti-foreign sanction law, and come days before U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman is due to visit China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-imposes-sanctions-on-us-citizens/article35502619.ece
24 July 2021||Kabul,||Taliban claim of controlling 90% of Afghan border is 'absolute lie': govt||The Taliban's claim to hold 90% of Afghanistan's borders is an "absolute lie", the Defence Ministry said on Friday, insisting government forces were in control of the country's frontiers. "It is baseless propaganda," deputy spokesman of the Ministry of Defence Fawad Aman said.AF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-claim-of-controlling-90-of-afghan-border-is-absolute-lie-govt/article35502307.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The city of dreams’ unending nightmare||Subhash Ghashing, 21, took out his mobile phone and logged on to play an online warfare game at around 12.15 a.m. on July 18. While heavy rainfall lashed the city, Subhash continued his virtual adventure in a makeshift balcony-cum-storage space, unaware of the real-life misadventure that was lying in store. His approximately 150 square feet house in New Bharat Nagar stood at the topmost residential lane on a hillock in Chembur, Mumbai, part of around 4,000 such houses packed like matchboxes  and spread on the hill slope. The night before, his cousin sister’s haldi ceremony (a pre-wedding ritual) had gone on for a long time, with close relatives visiting from different towns. Inside the small room, his brother-in-law and four-year-old niece were asleep on a bed, while others, including his sister and parents, were on the floor. Gifts and other items bought for the wedding took up the remaining space. “It was pouring. I have never seen anything like that. Muddied water was flowing from the top of the hills. Suddenly, I heard a loud noise. It felt like something had come crashing from the top. It was soil, lots of it, with rocks,” Subhash recalled. Unable to take the impact, the walls of his house broke down and he was thrown out on the road. “There were three other houses in line behind us. All of it went under the slush and rocks. That must have saved us. My family members were injured, but I took them out and thankfully, no one died. But look at our house,” he said, pointing to the destroyed room where he had lived for 21 years. At around 12.30 a.m., a two-decade-old retaining wall, a structure designed to resist the lateral pressure of soil, constructed by the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), almost 15 to 20 feet away from Subhash’s house, crumbled under the pressure from the muddied water flowing from the top of the hill. In certain areas, weep holes on the wall were clogged, leading to the accumulation of water and soil. The wall heaved and buckled under the pressure and collapsed in a matter of seconds. With it, it took around seven lives. The road to New Bharat Nagar is no less than a short hike for a newcomer. As one enters through the Hindustan Petroleum gate on Mahul road in Chembur, no two-wheeler can go beyond a point, let alone a fire brigade truck or an ambulance. A walk through the ascending, narrow lanes, dotted with small houses on both sides and countless pipelines snaking across the ground, takes one to New Bharat Nagar, where the recent landslide killed 19 people. All were sleeping peacefully when tragedy struck at midnight. Vijay Gupta, a local political worker with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), used to live in the area till a few years ago. He was one of the first individuals from outside who rushed to the spot after receiving a call from a resident. “I rushed here immediately and called the authorities. But it took a few hours before they reached,” said Vijay. The District Disaster Management Plan, 2019, for the Mumbai suburbs charted out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) states, “Several areas around hill slopes in Greater Mumbai are prone to landslides. The risk is more during the monsoon and heavy rains. Areas around hill slopes in Ghatkopar, Bhandup and Kurla in the Eastern Suburbs are prone to landslides, resulting in increased exposure of slopes to erosion and water infiltration. Slum populations residing on these hill slopes are at high risk.” The plan had identified 252 spots spread across the Mumbai suburbs, including Malad, Dindoshi and Jogeshwari in the western suburbs, that are prone to landslides. It repeatedly pointed out that slums were vulnerable primarily because of their location, density and lack of access to infrastructure. Civic officials estimate that around 70,000 to one lakh families in Mumbai live in those 252 spots. A ward official, from one of the vulnerable spots, said people lived in such dangerous areas despite knowing the risk. “Land prices are out of reach for common people, especially the working class labourers who stay here. Hence, they choose these spots that are cheap and affordable,” he said. As families grow, the official said, they tend to add more floors to the existing structure. Adjacent to Subhash’s house lives the Sakhare family. The Sakhares, the Gorses, the Ghavares, the Pardhes and the Dupargades are relatives and have been living in New Bharat Nagar for over two decades. Their families have grown as more and more flock to the city in search of a livelihood. Rupesh Sakhare, 24, was asleep when he heard the loud noise. As he opened the door to check the situation, he saw Priyanka Agrahari, 15, another resident of the area, soaked in water and mud, crying and climbing up to her home. “I asked her what she was doing outside so late in the night and why she was covered in mud,” Rupesh said. She pointed to her house, which was at a higher elevation than that of his. “She had been washed away from her house with the force of the water. She could have died. But some young men pulled her out in time,” he said. Rupesh and his brother, Bhimrao, rushed to see what had happened. Their uncle, Pandit Gorse, and his family lived adjacent to another retaining wall built by local MLA and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik. The Gorses had given a room on rent to Priyanka’s family, who had built an extra floor on the existing house using the retaining wall as support. The room that was built had completely blocked the drainage pipes meant for water seepage in case of heavy rainfall. “When we rushed there, we saw all five houses under the mud. The layer was over 8 feet thick. A feeling of fear and helplessness took over me,” Bhimrao said. “I saw my family — my sister, brother, uncle and aunt — buried under the thick layer of mud,” he added. Memories of a similar tragedy at Malin village in Pune district, where an entire village was crushed under a landslide after heavy rainfall, flashed through his mind. Living dangerously Lives are at risk in these comparatively cheaper localities. The slums on the hill slopes at Vikhroli, in the eastern suburb of Mumbai, is another such location that the civic body had identified as vulnerable. Ten others had lost their lives due to a landslide at Surya Nagar on the same day when the tragedy at Chembur occurred. Authorities from the BMC’s S Ward, of which Vikhroli is a part, had written to the office of the District Collector, Mumbai Suburban, and also to the Disaster Management Cell in May and June this year, about the possibility of landslides in Vikhroli, Powai and Bhandup due to heavy rainfall. The letter had also sought an arrangement for alternative accommodation to those in danger. Another letter to the Disaster Management Cell had even mentioned the inaccessibility to the interiors of the slum areas in case of an emergency. In reply, the Collector’s office said it was the responsibility of the civic body to prevent and remove encroachments irrespective of land titles. According to data collected by Anil Galgali, an activist and social worker, a total of 290 people have died and 300 others injured in Mumbai due to landslides between 1992 and 2021. A decade ago, former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan had ordered an action plan for the resettlement of those living in the slums on hill slopes and especially those in highly vulnerable places. The Urban Development Department (UDD) had been asked to design the plan, which is still in the preparation stage. Officials within the UDD stated that such a plan would require changes in the existing guidelines for granting additional Floor Space Index (FSI), and involve huge finances, etc. After the tragedy July 18, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with senior government officials from all departments, including those with the Disaster Management Cell. “Mumbai has a number of places that faces threats from landslides. At many places, retaining walls have been built. All these walls need to be examined with experts from the Indian Institute of Technology [IIT] and other institutes. Other options, if any, need to be analysed and implemented. The existing walls need to be strengthened,” he said. The Chief Minister also directed the civic administration to shift those in danger zones to houses built for Project Affected Persons (PAPs) in the city. Around 38 residents from Chembur have already been shifted to a nearby area called Vishnunagar. The BMC said it had also moved four families from GTB Nagar’s Mukundrao Ambedkar road after a landslide was reported in a nearby hill area. Slums on hill slopes is not the only problem in Mumbai. According to news reports, close to 50 people have already lost their lives due to buildings collapsing in 2021. The civic administration annually sends notices to dangerous and dilapidated buildings, asking citizens to vacate homes. “But the question is, where will they go? There has to be rehabilitation on a case-to-case basis,” said Bilal Khan, an activist with Ghar Bachao Ghar Banao Andolan (GBGBA). Bilal pointed out the need to set up infrastructure, for which, experts would have to be roped in. The activist also pointed out the need for accurate data. “We work and react whenever a disaster strikes. This has to be changed. A long-term strategy is needed,” he added. Urban planners and designers see this as a problem that can only be solved if adequate housing is made available. Instead of completing the target of building over 15 lakh houses in 20 years under slum redevelopment schemes in Mumbai, the State government has managed to build only 1.5 lakh. “Why would anyone build on a hill slope or a riverbed or on rocky terrain unless they are left with no options? Slums come up on land that are naturally unliveable. These were all non-buildable lands. Slum-dwellers know that the location is unsafe, but they have invested in that,” said Pankaj Joshi, principal director at Urban Centre Mumbai, which works on urban planning, research, design, advocacy and community outreach. “In Mumbai, land that houses slums has not increased, but the density has grown manifold, with two to three floors being constructed over the base slums. This has not been built following any structural engineering principles. They are extremely weak and can collapse at any time,” he added. He explained that this was resulting in an increase in the population living in slums. At the same time, more people were living in fragile structures that, if met with a disaster, would hardly be able to withstand the impact, he added. Pankaj said the latest Development Plan for Mumbai had noticed these dangerous slums in each of the wards. “But the question is where will you rehabilitate them? The only option is to build more houses,” he said. Maharashtra’s Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said he was aware of the problem. In his initial days after taking charge, the Minister had clarified that his priority would be to help builders build more houses under slum redevelopment schemes, which could be given to slum-dwellers. “We can support the civic body in low-cost housing schemes, which may require huge funds. But that has to be a policy decision for which deliberations at a higher level are required,” he said. According to Sayli Udas-Mankikar, a senior fellow at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), all slum land had to be treated as affordable housing reservations. “The Slum Rehabilitation Authority should fulfil its first objective of undertaking comprehensive planning of slum lands by modifying development control regulations in order to enable the production of affordable housing through the redevelopment route,” she said. A similar tragedy Around 25 kilometres away from Chembur stands Ambedkar Nagar at Kurar village in Malad, a western suburb of Mumbai. Two years ago, in July 2019, a retaining wall constructed by the BMC had collapsed due to the forceful flow of water from the Malad Hill Reservoir amid incessant rainfall. It killed 31 and injured over 110. On July 18, those who are yet to be rehabilitated faced the nightmare once again. “I lost my son in 2019. Water entered our hut and took him away from me. On Sunday, I held his two-year-old daughter to my chest and ran out in the dark. I thought the tragedy was being repeated and I did not want to lose more members of my family,” Munni God said, as she recalled her son Shravan’s death. Close to 75 families — who are yet to be rehabilitated — from Ambedkar Nagar were forced to spend the entire night in the heavy rain after water entered their huts made of tarpaulin and supported by bamboo. “We women work as domestic help in these big buildings,” said Supriya Goregaonkar, pointing to the newly built high-rises that offer a scenic view of the lush-green hills to buyers. “These days, we go to work in the morning, cook for the families in the afternoon and then worry about our safety at night. We were promised rehabilitation. But now, no one listens to us. The government should worry about us when we are alive, not spend money on our kins after we die,” she said. The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the situation for many who work as labourers, carpenters, tailors or as watchmen. Walli Sheikh, a carpenter who is unable to find work these days, can’t stop worrying about the safety of his hut. “We cannot build a pucca [brick] construction here as this is forest land. But despite being eligible, we are not rehabilitated,” he said. Aneesh Yadav, a resident who is fighting for the rehabilitation of the remaining families, shows a letter dated August 28, 2020, from G. Mallikarjun, Director, Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), who had asked the BMC to take action to rehabilitate the families. The letter said the remaining families were in a danger zone and the process of rehabilitation needed to be initiated soon. A 1997-Bombay High Court order, too, had directed the administration to shift these families from forest land and rehabilitate them. No action has been taken yet. “We have written to the Chief Minister requesting his intervention after the Chembur tragedy. It was only then that a team of civic officials came to meet us and recorded the details,” he said. During every election since the 1997 court order, politicians have promised these residents pucca houses. “All of us have voter IDs and we do vote. They want our votes and if we are shifted from here, they will not get our votes. We feel cheated and neglected. We live in the hope that at least one politician out there will fulfil the promise,” said Shriram Kadam, who works as a security guard. Meanwhile, after surviving the mayhem that the rains had brought with it, the wedding of Subhash’s cousin sister went on as scheduled. “How could we possibly postpone the date? It was simply not possible,” he said. Already embarrassed that his brother-in-law had to suffer an injury on his trip to attend the wedding, Subhash made arrangements for his sister and her husband at a private hospital and sent them back home. “The wedding had to go ahead as planned. Yes, it was difficult. But we completed all the rituals in the presence of four family members and sent my sister with her husband. I came here to join the others in digging the mud and cleaning my home,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-city-of-dreams-unending-nightmare/article35502297.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A serosurvey template for the whole of India||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) needs to be complimented for conducting seroprevalence studies on its own. The latest seroprevalence done in June 2021, for which the data was released a few days ago, has shown that the city population has COVID-19 antibodies in 81% of the population sampled. This is one of the highest rates seen anywhere. The study only measured antibodies, as there are no easy methods to check cell-mediated immunity or neutralising antibodies. Some studies in other countries have shown that besides the antibodies, there is a substantial proportion of infected people who will not show antibodies but will have cell-mediated immunity. Studies in Ahmedabad in earlier rounds of sero-surveillance showed that up to 30% of the population with past infection, which is not recent, do not show antibodies in such surveys. It is possible that the waning of antibodies and cell-mediated immunity together can indicate that an additional 10-15% of persons might be protected. Therefore, the proportion of people with some immunity protection at the population level in Ahmedabad may be close to 90-95%. On herd immunity The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is one of the most progressive municipal corporations to use serosurveys evidence to plan and decide the course of action. As part of the COVID-19 control work, besides the routine testing, tracing and isolation work — that most cities or districts have done — the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation also invested in conducting periodic sero-surveillance of its own. It is time to use the efforts of Ahmedabad city as a case study to revisit the discussion on the threshold for herd immunity. At the national level, the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has conducted four rounds of serosurvey; the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) too conducted a nationwide serosurvey. The States, including Karnataka, Kerala, Haryana, West Bengal, Odisha, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Punjab, have done citywide population-based serosurveys. The sero-surveillance from cities show the percent of the population infected with the virus and has antibodies in a specific time period. The threshold for herd or population-level immunity is a local geographical phenomenon, wherein the population or herd is intermixing with each other and spreading the disease within itself. Hence, it is reliable only to estimate the level of immunity at the city or town level, given that there are no sizeable amounts of migration occurring, changing the population dynamics of transmission. For example, in Gujarat, two nearby cities, Ahmedabad and Baroda, behave as two separate communities or herds as there is not much travel and intermixing between the people of the two cities compared to mixing within the same city. So, both cities may have very different immunity levels — say 80% in one and 20% in another. So, the disease might infect many people, as a greater proportion of the susceptible are present in the city with 20% immunity but not spread greatly in the city with higher levels of protection, say 80% immunity. Some serosurveys which combine smaller numbers from multiple studies might be misleading. For example, suppose we do a common study between two cities. In that case, we may estimate 55% of persons having immunity — inferring that both cities have a high degree of vulnerability. While a limited inference will mean that the disease will spread equally in both cities, it is not completely true as one city will have a lower burden in the future, with 80% of people having some form of immune response. Each of the major cities or towns must conduct its own sero-surveillance to estimate the level of protection and estimate the proportion of the susceptible population in that city. Other surveys A nationally representative sample of serosurveys is useful to provide a bird’s-eye view of the situation. The NIE should be complimented for its efforts and for conducting four rounds of serosurveys over the last 15 months. The efforts led by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India and the World Health Organization’s tuberculosis programme in the field and technical partnership led by the NIE are praiseworthy for any public health agency; comparable to the best in class in a rigorous process, and peer-reviewed publications in high impact journals. The results from these surveys showed that antibody levels increased from 0.7% in April 2020 to 67% in June 2021. There is also not much of a difference between urban-rural, and male-female groups. A higher prevalence is seen in people above the age of 45, in vaccinated people and health-care workers. But one must understand that all these are average numbers from a study of a total sample of about 29,000 people. As the sample is taken scientifically, we have to assume that it represents the true situation in the country. While the aggregated data at the national level inspires the good work done by the NIE-ICMR scientists and other researchers in the collaboration, it is not a reason to celebrate in enthusing unreasonable optimism. We should be careful and not jump the gun in declaring that we are nearing the threshold of population immunity at the national level. We can still have major outbreaks in specific geographical regions in the future, as seen in the United Kingdom, Israel, and others. There will also be regional and State-wise differences. Urban areas, as sampled by the ICMR study, showed a prevalence of 69% — slightly higher than in the rural areas, which had a figure of 65%. The rural areas have a greater spread of the virus similar to urban areas, despite rural areas being less congested with lower social interactions. There is not much crowding in the rural areas as seen in urban areas. Compared to the Indian urban sample of the ICMR, the Ahmedabad city seropositivity is higher at 81%. The time ahead will be a marker to know how many cases will be detected in Ahmedabad and how transmission dynamics and seroprevalence will change in the future. Hence, the surveys in this city provide a good case study for the country to review and plan city-specific actions. Ahmedabad experienced a very bad second wave. A similar second wave was also seen in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and other big cities. If sero-surveillance is done in these cities, we may see very high levels of antibodies. Urban local bodies and State governments should launch rapid and successive rounds of serosurveys. Aiding policy making A more efficient way is to set up sentinel surveillance sites in all public hospitals and estimate the trend in overall seroprevalence. One such effort was done by Karnataka in utilising the strengths of the National Aids Control Organization’s field team along with technical supervision by multiple academic institutions in Bengaluru, including the Public Health Foundation of India, the Indian Institute of Science, the Indian Statistical Institute, etc. These efforts can guide and inform decisions on the extent to which the city’s business, educational institutions, and markets can be opened up. Wider and faster vaccination coverage is an additional and absolute necessity. The distribution of vaccines, stepping up the hospital response, and severity in future waves can be understood and addressed by the periodic antibody prevalence from serosurveys. Based on sero-surveillance studies, such an evidence-based approach will be very useful in the process of decision making while unlocking cities and increasing economic activities. Till supply constraints are completely resolved, it will also help deploy scarce vaccine resources to the places in most need of them. Also, sero-surveillance does not cost much — at a price of Rs. 500 per test, it will cost Rs. 25 lakh to test 5,000 people. This is not a major cost for any major city. We constantly face one problem: cities do not have mechanisms to use evidence generation and analysis expertise from public health professionals including epidemiologists. In summary, every major city with a population of more than 10 lakh should do a rapid sero-surveillance survey and set up sentinel surveillance to confirm the protection levels in the existing population and plan. It is time to use the information on existing levels of antibodies in the population to guide evidence-based policymaking. These efforts will help understand and mitigate the risk of opening up the economy and society, and deciding the priority for vaccination. Over 40 cities have a million population, and another 300 cities have a population between one lakh to 10 lakh. There is an urgent need to take up sero-surveillance studies to help guide the COVID-19 control strategy throughout rural and urban India. Dr. Dileep Mavalankar is Director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. Dr. Giridhara R. Babu is a Professor, Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-serosurvey-template-for-the-whole-of-india/article35502293.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Empowering nature with biocentric jurisprudence||The Great Indian Bustard, a gravely endangered species, with hardly about 200 alive in India today, came under the protective wings of the Supreme Court of India in a recent judgment. The Court said, in M.K. Ranjitsinh & Others vs Union of India & Others (https://bit.ly/372sm5v), that in all cases where the overhead lines in power projects exist, the governments of Rajasthan and Gujarat shall take steps forthwith to install bird diverters pending consideration of the conversion of overhead cables into underground power lines. The overhead power lines have become a threat to the life of these species as these birds frequently tend to collide with these power lines and get killed. The Ministry of Power, in an affidavit dated March 15, 2021, has said: “The Great Indian Bustard (“GIB”) lacks frontal vision. Due to this, they cannot detect powerlines ahead of them, from far. As they are heavy birds, they are unable to manoeuvre across power lines within close distances. Thus, they are vulnerable to collision with power lines.” In protecting the birds, the Court has affirmed and emphasised the biocentric values of eco-preservation. The philosophy of biocentrism holds that the natural environment has its own set of rights which is independent of its ability to be exploited by or to be useful to humans. Biocentrism often comes into conflict with its contrarian philosophy, namely anthropocentrism. Anthropocentrism argues that of all the species on earth humans are the most significant and that all other resources on earth may be justifiably exploited for the benefit of human beings. Expressions of such line of thought date back many centuries and find mention in Politics , a well-known work of Aristotle, as also the moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant amongst many others. The ‘Snail darter’ case A noteworthy instance of the application of anthropocentrism in the legal world is in that of the “Snail darter” case in the United States. In 1973, a University of Tennessee biologist David Etnier, discovered a species of fish called the “Snail darter” in the Little Tennessee river. Etnier contended that the snail darter was an endangered species and that its existence would be gravely threatened by the continuation of development works relating to the Tellico Reservoir project. Following this revelation, a lawsuit came to be filed challenging the continuation of the Tellico Reservoir project. The challenge travelled all the way to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court of the United States of America in Tennessee Valley Authority vs Hill , held that since the “Snail darter” was a specifically protected species under the National Environmental Policy Act, the executive could not proceed with the reservoir project. However, after the Supreme Court delivered its verdict, Congress enacted a law excluding retrospectively the snail darter from statutory protection. The project progressed and the fish suffered. Species in danger Humans share the world with countless other species, many of which are nearing extinction on account of man’s imprudent insensitivity. About 50 years ago, there were 4,50,000 lions in Africa. Today, there are hardly 20,000. Indiscriminate monoculture farming in the forests of Borneo and Sumatra is leading to the extinction of orangutans. Rhinos are hunted for the so-called medicinal value of their horns and are slowly becoming extinct. From the time humans populated Madagascar about 2,000 years ago, about 15 to 20 species of Lemurs, which are primates, have become extinct. The compilation prepared by the International Union for Conservation of Nature lists about 37,400 species that are gravely endangered; and the list is ever growing. Some green shoots Some aspects of constitutional law on ecoconservations are significant. The Constitution of India declares that it is applicable to the territory of India. While making such a declaration, it very obviously refers to humans within that territory and its predominant aim was to give them rights, impose obligations and to regulate human affairs. The Constitution is significantly silent on any explicitly stated, binding legal obligations we owe to our fellow species and to the environment that sustains us. It is to the credit of the judiciary that out of these still and placid waters, it has fished out enduring principles of sustainable development and read them, inter alia , into the precepts of Article 21 of the Constitution. Amid such a gloomy landscape, one is heartened to observe some green shoots emerging. Pieces of legislations are slowly evolving that fall in the category of the “Right of Nature laws”. These seek to travel away from an anthropocentric basis of law to a biocentric one. In September 2008, Ecuador became the first country in the world to recognise “Rights of Nature” in its Constitution. Bolivia has also joined the movement by establishing Rights of Nature laws too. In November 2010, the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania became the first major municipality in the United States to recognise the Rights of Nature (https://bit.ly/3iHkKuK). As a first step, these laws empower people in a community to “step into the shoes” of a mountain, stream or forest ecosystem and advocate for the right of those local communities”. These laws, like the Constitution of the countries that they are part of, are still works in progress. In times like this the Supreme Court’s judgment in M.K. Ranjithsinh upholding the biocentric principles of coexistence is a shot in the arm for nature conservation. One does hope that the respective governments implement the judgment of the Court and that the fate of the Great Indian Bustard does not go the way of the Snail Darter. N.L. Rajah is Senior Advocate, Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/empowering-nature-with-biocentric-jurisprudence/article35502295.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Ganga’s message||The Ganga might have stood witness to many stages of India’s civilisation, as Mahatma Gandhi once noted, but in recent decades it has become a conduit for sewage, solid waste, industrial effluents and other pollutants. It is depressing, though not surprising, therefore, that a new study by an NGO has found evidence of a modern-day scourge, microplastics, in the river, with the highest concentrations in Varanasi and Kanpur, followed by Haridwar. What the data show is the alarming presence of plastic filaments, fibres, fragments, and in two places, microbeads, with their composition pointing to both industrial and secondary broken-down plastics from articles of everyday use. These range from tyres, clothing, food packaging, bags, cosmetics with microbeads, garland covers and other municipal waste. The finding of significant levels of microscopic particles invisible to the naked eye at below 300 micrometres to 5 millimetres in the country’s holiest river calls into question the progress of two high-priority, well-funded missions of the NDA government, Swachh Bharat, to deal with solid waste, and Namami Gange, to rid the river of its pollution. Surprisingly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support for the river clean-up, originally scheduled to be implemented by December 2020, has not saved it from serious deficits; official data indicate that 97 Ganga towns may be discharging about 750 million litres of untreated sewage a day into the river. An environmental activist, Guru Das Agrawal, died in 2018 after fasting in protest, and his letter to Mr. Modi did not change the situation. Microplastics, recorded in recent times in the remotest of places — Mount Everest, Arctic snow, Icelandic glaciers, the French Pyrenees, and the depths of the Mariana Trench, among others — pose a hazard as plastics production outpaces the ability of governments to collect and manage waste. Successive governments issued waste management rules, but dropped the ball on implementation. Although the Centre recently issued a draft to tighten the Plastic Waste Management Rules, cities have failed to implement existing rules as well as the Solid Waste Management rules, on ending single-use plastics, waste segregation, recycling labels on packaging, extended producer responsibility for manufacturers and recovery of materials. Moreover, growing plastic waste will far exceed the capacity of governments to manage it, given that recycling has its limits. Swachh Bharat, therefore, must mean not merely keeping waste out of sight, achieved through costly dumping contracts, but sharply reduced generation, full segregation and recycling. Plastic waste around the world is threatening the food web and the crisis demands a new global treaty modelled on the Montreal Protocol and the Paris Agreement. India needs to demonstrate that it is serious about a clean-up at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-gangas-message/article35502286.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Return to troubles||The British government’s demand to renegotiate parts of the Northern Ireland Protocol of the Brexit agreement with the EU has set the stage for another round of clashes between London and Brussels. Just seven months after the agreement came into force, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government now says the Protocol, which was accepted by both sides to avoid physical and economic barriers between Northern Ireland, a part of the U.K., and the Republic of Ireland, an EU member, hampers trade inside the U.K. When the Brexit agreement was signed in 2020, Mr. Johnson agreed to set up checks at the British side for goods entering Northern Ireland. This meant, in order to avoid an economic barrier between the two Irelands, Britain effectively set up one between the British mainland and the Island of Ireland. The decision had economic and political repercussions, affecting British traders every time they move goods across the Irish Sea. Within Northern Ireland, the Irish nationalists who support unification are in favour of the Protocol, while the unionists, including the Democratic Unionist Party that was once an ally of Mr. Johnson, do not want it. In a difficult economic and political situation now, Mr. Johnson’s conservative government is seeking a way out. The government wants all customs checks on goods entering Northern Ireland to be removed. It has also sought to end the role of EU institutions in enforcing the Protocol and introduce a dual regulatory system that would allow products to freely circulate in the province if they comply with either British or EU standards. But the problem is that this is part of an agreement which Mr. Johnson signed in 2020, and welcomed. The EU has said it remained open to “practical, flexible solutions” to the controversial clauses. Many had warned even before the 2016 Brexit vote that Northern Ireland would be a thorny issue if the U.K. chose to leave the EU, given Ireland’s violent history. The economic integration and soft borders between the two Irelands were one of the key aspects of the 1998 Good Friday agreement that brought peace to the island after 30 years of Troubles. Now Mr. Johnson, a Brexit supporter, is caught in a difficult situation, thanks to Brexit. For London, continuing with the protocol will have economic and political consequences. If the U.K. moves the customs checks to the border between the two Irelands, it can upset the peace agreement. In the event of the absence of an agreement, either party can suspend the Protocol using Article 16, which means the crisis would be back to square one. Both sides should realise the seriousness of the situation and be ready for talks. Any amends to the Protocol should not compromise on the conditions that guarantee peace in the island of Ireland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/return-to-troubles/article35502287.ece
24 July 2021||MUMBAI,||RIL net rises 4.2% to Rs. 13,806 cr. as refining lifts revenue by 57%||Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) on Friday reported first-quarter net profit rose 4.2% to Rs. 13,806 crore, as higher price realisation in the oil to chemicals (O2C) business helped propel a 57% jump in overall revenue. Revenue surged to Rs. 1,58,862 crore, from Rs. 1,00,929 crore a year earlier, aided by a doubling of revenue from the Oil & Gas business due to incremental production from KG D6 block, and increased revenues from the Jio and Retail units, RIL said in a release. “Our company has delivered robust growth despite facing a highly challenging operating environment caused by the second wave of the COVID pandemic,” CMD Mukesh D. Ambani said in the release. “The results... clearly demonstrate the resilience of Reliance’s diversified portfolio of businesses that cater to large parts of the consumption basket.” Jio Platforms Ltd. reported consolidated net profit rose 44.9% to Rs. 3,651 crore as services revenue increased 9.8% to Rs. 22,267 crore. The telecom unit’s customer base rose to 440.6 million as on June 30. Total data traffic jumped 38.5% to 20.3 billion GB during the quarter. “Jio has posted yet another record quarterly performance with industry leading operating metrics,” Mr. Ambani added. COVID curbs hit retail Stating that COVID-related restrictions had impacted the Retail unit’s operations and profitability, he said RIL remained focused on ensuring supplies through a combination of online-offline channels. “I am confident that the retail business is poised to create exponential value and growth,” Mr. Ambani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-net-rises-42-to-rs-13806-cr-as-refining-lifts-revenue-by-57/article35502658.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||HC upholds CCI probe against Flipkart, Amazon||E-commerce majors Amazon and Flipkart on Friday lost their legal battle in the High Court of Karnataka, as a division bench upheld the Competition Commission of India’s decision to conduct an investigation through its Director General into whether they had entered into anti-competitive agreements in violation of the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002. Observing that the inquiry initiated by the CCI “cannot be crushed at the initial stage”, the court said that if both the companies were “not involved in violation of any provisions of the Act of 2002 they should not feel shy in facing enquiry by the CCI.” The Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy delivered the verdict while upholding the June 11 verdict of a single judge bench, which too had upheld the CCI’s decision. Amazon Sellers Services Pvt. Ltd. and Flipkart Internet Pvt. Ltd. had appealed against the single judge Bench’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hc-upholds-cci-probe-against-flipkart-amazon/article35502652.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects telcos’ plea on AGR ‘arithmetic errors’||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed pleas filed by telecom firms including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone-Idea for a chance to place grievances about “arithmetical errors” in their Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) dues before the Department of Telecommunications (DoT). The telcos had sought an opportunity to correct mistakes in the calculations. A Special Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah pronounced the order. In September 2020, the court had ordered that the annual 10% instalments for payment of AGR dues would commence from April 1, 2021, up to March 31, 2031. “If I have paid Rs. 1, only 50 paisa is reflected... in one entry, the actual payment made is Rs. 155 crore, payment shown in DoT is Rs. 153 crore,” senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Vodafone-Idea, had submitted. The Bench had however reminded the telcos about the express bar imposed on reassessment of AGR dues. “The Supreme Court has said not just once, but twice and thrice that the amounts cannot be recomputed,” the Bench said at the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-rejects-telcos-plea-on-agr-arithmetic-errors/article35502661.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tax revenues may surpass target: ICRA||The government’s gross tax collections may surpass the budget target for this year, as high taxes on fuels and a ‘relatively faster recovery in international trade’ have spurred excise and customs duties collections to 30% of the full-year estimate in the first quarter itself, ratings agency ICRA said. Healthy inflows in the first quarter, with overall gross tax revenue at 25.1% of budget estimates, indicated there was room to reduce cesses on petrol and diesel, said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at the agency. “This would allow monetary policy normalisation to be postponed, in a bid to continue to support economic activity in an uncertain growth environment,” she added, stressing that lowering fuel taxes will boost consumption sentiment and ease inflationary pressures .  Compared to the pre-COVID era, tax inflows were 39% higher in the first quarter at Rs. 5.6 lakh crore, despite the impact of the second COVID-19 wave and corporation tax, personal income tax and central GST receipts being about 21%-22% of their full-year estimates. ICRA also noted that GST compensation cess collections were Rs. 24,600 crore in the first quarter, almost 25% of the full-year estimate of Rs. 1 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tax-revenues-may-surpass-target-icra/article35502662.ece
24 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Biocon Q1 net plunges 44% to Rs. 84 crore||Biocon reported a 44% decline in net profit to Rs. 84 crore for the quarter ended June on account of losses at an associate firm. Revenue grew 6% to Rs. 1,808 crore. Profit was impacted by a share of loss in its Boston-based associate entity Bicara Therapeutics Inc., it said. Before including losses incurred by Biscara, the firm had a net profit of Rs. 142 crore. “Biocon has seen a strong 41% year-on-year growth in research services and a steady growth in its biosimilars business, reporting a revenue of Rs. 758 crore, up 10% over the same period last year” said Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, executive chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/biocon-q1-net-plunges-44-to-rs-84-crore/article35502653.ece
24 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Magma is now Poonawalla Fincorp||Non-banking financial company (NBFC) Magma Fincorp Ltd. has been renamed Poonawalla Fincorp Ltd. following the acquisition of controlling stake by the Adar Poonawalla-led Rising Sun Holdings in May. The company had initiated a rebranding exercise, the NBFC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/magma-is-now-poonawalla-fincorp/article35502655.ece
24 July 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI eases loan restrictions for bank directors||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has relaxed regulatory restrictions on loans and advances to bank directors and their relatives, six years after they were announced. As per the revised guidelines, the threshold limit for board approval for personal loans granted to directors of other banks has been raised to Rs. 5 crore, from Rs. 25 lakh. However, considering the sensitivity of the issue and to ensure that directors continue to carry out their functions without being influenced by extraneous considerations, the new threshold would apply only for grant of ‘personal loans’ and not for business loans, banking industry officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-eases-loan-restrictions-for-bank-directors/article35502656.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tweak draft e-com rules, says Nasscom||Consumer consent for sharing information, limiting fallback liability to timely refund, and aligning some of the proposed amendments that are currently beyond the scope of the Consumer Protection Act 2019 with the objective of the Act, are some recommendations that National Association of Software and Services Companies (Nasscom) has made on the draft e-commerce rules. Its suggestions on proposed changes to the Consumer Protection (e-Commerce) Rules focus on “strengthening consumer protection, ensuring that obligations are proportionate to underlying risks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tweak-draft-e-com-rules-says-nasscom/article35502663.ece
24 July 2021||Mumbai,||Zomato debuts at 66% premium||Shares of online food delivery and restaurant listing platform Zomato Ltd. debuted on the BSE at 66% premium, closing at Rs. 125.85.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zomato-debuts-at-66-premium/article35502659.ece
24 July 2021||Chennai,||Sridhar Raju powers Kovai Kings home||His muscles glowing under the lights, he looked every inch a pocket powerhouse. Ganga Sridhar Raju can smash deliveries square off the wicket or send the sphere soaring over the straight-field. The left-handed opener’s 52-ball 74 was the explosive effort in Lyca Kovai Kings’ thumping eight-wicket win over Ruby Trichy Warriors in the Shriram Capital TNPL match at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Friday. Immaculate strokes The in-form Sai Sudharsan, all footwork and fluency, essayed some immaculate strokes, finding the gaps with clinical precision on both sides. Ganga and Sai (57 n.o. off 43 balls) took the game away from Ruby and then skipper Shahrukh Khan (18 not out off five) delivered the knock-out blow. When Lyca Kovai Kings pursued 172, seamer P. Saravana Kumar caught the eye on a surface where there was good carry. The experienced Sunil Sam struggled for rhythm and Ganga smote him over wide long-on for the maximum. Apart from pulling and collecting runs with his pick-up strokes, Ganga used the depth of the crease capably, cutting and slicing the ball late. Sai could not be kept quiet either. A straight six off Dhas was a compelling blow. To make matters worse for Ruby, catches were put down. None was easier than Dhas grassing Sai (on 24) off Sam at third man. Ruby elected to bat and the in-form Amit Sathvik (42 off 32) garnered eyeballs with his timing and balance. For Lyca, lanky and loose-limbed left-arm spinner, Ajith Ram bowled with control. Nimble southpaw Nidhish Rajagopal struck three successive boundaries off Ajith, a whip being the pick. Then the languid Sumant Jain, twice, timed left-arm seamer E. Srinivasan over cover for sixes. Nidhish’s 28-ball 45 and Sumant’s handy 29, apart from some big blows from Dhas (20 off 11) and Saravana (12 off three) lifted the total beyond 170. It did not prove to be enough though.  The scores: Ruby Trichy Warriors 171/7 in 20 overs (Amit Sathvik 42, Nidhish Rajagopal 45, Sumant Jain 29, Antony Das 20, Abhishek Tanwar two for 32, K. Vignesh two for 30, N. Selva Kumaran two for 26) lost to Lyca Kovai Kings 175 for two in 18.1 overs (Ganga Sridhar Raju 74, Sai Sudharsan 57 not out). Points: Lyca 2; Ruby 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sridhar-raju-powers-kovai-kings-home/article35502728.ece
24 July 2021||KOCHI,||AFI clears Sreeshankar and Irfan for Tokyo||The Athletics Federation of India has cleared long jumper M. Sreeshankar and race walker K.T. Irfan for the Olympics after their coaches submitted written assurance their athletes would produce at least their qualification performance in Tokyo. The AFI conducted “fitness trials” for the two athletes in Bengaluru recently and made it clear that it was not happy with their form. Sreeshankar, who qualified for Tokyo after breaking his own National record with an 8.26m jump in the Federation Cup in March, had jumped 7.48m in his trials a couple of days ago. “But there was no officially-set target for the trials, that was the problem, that was the only reason they managed to slip out. The selection committee said we should have informed them in writing earlier what they should jump or what the target was,” Adille Sumariwalla told The Hindu on Friday evening. “The coaches (Sreeshankar's dad S. Murali and walks' Alexander Artsybashev) said it was one bad day (at the trials) and that they would reproduce the qualification standard. “We asked them whether they were ready to take the responsibility. They said yes and we asked them to give it in writing. Action will be taken against the coaches if they don't,” Sumariwalla said. Warning That could also be a warning to all the coaches in the team. Sreeshankar was part of the first athletics batch, a 28-member group that included 18 athletes, that left for Tokyo on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afi-clears-sreeshankar-and-irfan-for-tokyo/article35502667.ece
24 July 2021||Tokyo,||Pandemic-hit Tokyo Olympics off to a muted, subdued start||“It’s finally happening! We did not know until last week if this would be possible,” beams a volunteer as the five gigantic wooden Olympic rings make their way into a near-empty Olympic Stadium on Friday. The volunteer is ecstatic to see the Games, postponed by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic, get underway, while hundreds of locals gather outside the stadium to protest the holding of the Games. Such is the contrast, such are the two parallels in Japan — where some see the Games as an opportunity to show the world that Japan can host the Games even in such testing conditions, while others protest the very decision. In fact, such is their antipathy to the Games that a 53-year-old woman named Kayoko Takahashi tried to douse the Olympic torch last week. She reportedly screamed “No Olympics. Stop the Games,” and tried to squirt water with a watergun during the torch relay before being arrested.  Back at the Olympic Stadium, the opening ceremony was a rather subdued and muted affair as the stands sat empty. The 205 contingents walked out gleefully, waved their flags with gusto, to be greeted by the officials, journalists and volunteers. Keeping up with the times we live in, the ceremony featured a segment with a performer running on a treadmill and surrounded by darkness — depicting how athletes had to train in isolation during the pandemic. The opening ceremony also had a strong Manga (Japanese comics and graphic novels) flavour as all the text on the placards was inspired by the speech bubbles featured in comics. Nineteen Indians took part in the ceremony and were marshalled by 2012 London Olympics bronze-medallist Mary Kom and the Indian men’s hockey team’s captain Manpreet Singh. A 114-member Indian contingent had marched at the 2016 Olympics’ opening ceremony, which was held in front of a capacity crowd of 78,000 people at Rio’s Maracana stadium, while 81 Indians marched on at the 2012 Games. But such is the world we are now in — where masks and social distancing are the need of the hour and the razzmatazz of an opening ceremony at Tokyo’s $1.45 billion stadium is curtailed by the sight of thousands of empty seats. Japanese tennis star Naomi Osaka lit the Olympic cauldron. She lifted the torch to the gleaming cauldron, which had unfurled at the top of a ramp representing Mount Fuji. Japan's Emperor Naruhito officially opened the Games. “I declare open the Games of Tokyo,” said the monarch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-subdued-and-muted-event-marks-opening-ceremony/article35502380.ece
24 July 2021||TOKYO,||Olympic cauldron to be powered by hydrogen||Inspired by the sun, the Tokyo Olympic cauldron is designed to be better for the planet. The flame at Tokyo’s National Stadium and another cauldron burning along the waterfront near Tokyo Bay throughout the Games will be sustained in part by hydrogen, the first time the fuel source will be used to power an Olympic fire. Previous flames have usually run on propane, although magnesium, gunpowder, resin and olive oil have also been used since the first modern cauldron was lit for the Amsterdam Games in 1928. The torch relay was introduced eight years later for Berlin. Unlike propane, hydrogen does not produce carbon dioxide when combusted. The Tokyo cauldron is fuelled by hydrogen produced by a factory in the Fukushima prefecture that runs on renewable energy. Propane and hydrogen were both used during the torch relay. Organisers for the London Games in 2012 touted plans for a low-carbon torch but couldn’t get the design right in time. They instead used a mix of propane and butane. Smaller size Brazilian officials commissioned a smaller cauldron for Rio in 2016 to reduce the amount of fuel needed. The Tokyo cauldron was designed by Canadian architect Oki Sato. His sun-inspired orb unfolds like petals from a flower, which organisers say “embody vitality and hope.” The first torch for these games was lit in Olympia, Greece, 16 months ago, but the relay was suspended for much of 2020 due to the pandemic. Officials put the torch on display at prefectures affected by the earthquake and tsunami that ravaged the region in 2011 until the relay was officially restarted in Fukushima on March 25, 2021. Some stages of the relay were pulled off roads this month due to fears about spreading the coronavirus before the flame made its way to the National Stadium in Tokyo’s Shinjuku City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-cauldron-to-be-powered-by-hydrogen/article35502281.ece
24 July 2021||Colombo,||Fernando, Rajapaksa guide Lanka to consolation win||Avishka Fernando and Bhanuka Rajapaksa hit half-centuries as Sri Lanka beat India by three wickets for a consolation win in the rain-hit third ODI here on Friday. Century stand Chasing 226 for victory in the reduced 47-overs-a-side contest, Sri Lanka rode on a 109-run second-wicket stand between Fernando (76) and Rajapaksa (65) to achieve the target with 48 balls to spare in Colombo. India won the three-match series 2-1. Debutant leg-spinner Rahul Chahar returned figures of 3/54 to put Sri Lanka in trouble before Ramesh Mendis steered the team home with an unbeaten 15. Earlier spinners Akila Dananjaya and debutant Praveen Jayawickrama took three wickets each to help bowl out India for 225 in 43.1 overs. Jayawickrama, a left-arm spinner who returned figures of 3/59 on his ODI debut, combined with Dananjaya to trigger a middle-order collapse as India slipped from 179/4 to 195/8. India elected to bat and started strongly, only to lose its way after a 100-minute rain delay. The visitors were 147/3 when rain stopped play. Earlier skipper Shikhar Dhawan was out early, caught behind off Dushmantha Chameera for 13, but fellow-opener Prithvi Shaw and Sanju Samson took the attack to the opposition bowlers. Shaw made a run-a-ball 49, and Samson, hit 46 off 46 balls, put on 74 for the second wicket.   Sri Lanka 195 for five  Sri Lanka was 195 for five in 33 overs, with Avishka Fernando (73), Ramesh Mendis (0) at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaw-and-samson-come-good-before-dananjaya-jayawickrama-trigger-a-collapse/article35502374.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepika ninth in ranking round||World No. 1 Deepika Kumari logged 663 points to finish ninth in the individual women’s category while Indian men archers gave a below-par performance in the ranking round of the archery competitions on the opening day of the Tokyo Olympics on Friday. Pravin Jadhav, Atanu Das, and Tarundeep Rai scored 656, 653, and 652 respectively out of a maximum 720 to take 31st, 35th and 37th slots respectively on the men’s ranking list. Koreans Je Deok Kim (688) and Jinheyk Oh (681) were placed first and third with USA’s Brady Ellison second at 682. Deepika, who will face Bhutan’s Karma in the first elimination round, could run into South Korea’s top-ranked Olympic-record holder An San in the quarterfinals. An set an Olympic record with 680 points. Pravin will face Russian Galsan Bazarhapov, Atanu will meet Yu-Cheng Deng of Chinese Taipei and Tarundeep will take on Oleksii Hunbin of Ukraine in the opening elimination round. The Indian men’s team, which managed the ninth spot with 1961 points, way behind top-ranked Korea (2049), will square off against Kazakhstan on Monday. Pravin and Deepika, taking part in the mixed team event, were lying ninth with 1319 points while Korea topped with 1368. Deepika and Pravin will take on Chinese Taipei’s Chia-En Lin and Chih-Chun in the round of 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-ninth-in-ranking-round/article35502382.ece
24 July 2021||Tokyo,||Mirabai ready for lift off||Mirabai Chanu is all set to lift an Olympic barbell stacked with weights of different kinds in her weightlifting medal event on Saturday. Besides the hundreds of kilograms of steel, the weight of a billion expectations also lie on her shoulders. The Manipuri weightlifter is among India’s strongest medal contenders in a depleted field in the women’s 49kg category. Mirabai’s coach Vijay Sharma expects her to be engaged in a three-way battle with China’s Hou Zhihui, the current world record holder, and USA’s World Cup winner Jourdan Elizabeth Delacruz. Indonesia’s Asia Windy Cantika, who beat Mirabai to the silver at the Asian Championships, could also pose a threat. Vijay, however, felt that Mirabai is certain to seal a place on the podium. “Her preparations have been going on really well. Our training camp in the USA was the key to help her maintain her peak. We’re very confident of returning with a medal, but the colour of the medal will depend on how she performs on Saturday,” said Vijay here on Friday. He added that her stupendous show at the Asian Championships in May has put her in good stead for the Olympics. Mirabai set a new clean and jerk world record of 119kg and also set a new personal best with a combined total of 205kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-ready-for-lift-off/article35502384.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Apurvi, Elavenil poised to excel in air rifle||A golden start in shooting will be the best way forward for the Indian contingent in Tokyo. The onus will be on two of the best women air rifle shooters Apurvi Chandela and Elavenil Valarivan, who have dominated the event and taken turns to be World No. 1. After the breakthrough of Anjali Bhagwat and Suma Shirur, making the Olympic finals in the event in Sydney 2000 and Athens 2004, India has never had it this bright. Apurvi had won two World Cup gold medals in 2019 before the pandemic and shot a world record 252.9 in the Delhi final. That record still stands against her name. Incidentally, it is better than the men’s world record. The 28-year-old Apurvi, competing in her second Olympics after Rio, has the experience. A recent dip in her score has only helped Apurvi focus a lot more. The 21-year-old Elavenil, a prodigy trained by Olympic medallist Gagan Narang, will be happy to prove her class. From being the World Championship junior silver medallist in 2018, Elavenil has come a long way, winning the World Cup gold in Rio and the World Cup Final gold in Putian China, in 2019. The 20-year-old Mary Carolyn Tucker of the US and the 19-year-old Eszter Meszaros of Hungary will be the ones to follow. In men’s air pistol, India has Saurabh Chaudhary and Abhishek Verma, who have also taken turns to be World No. 1 in the event.  Both have taken quick steps to reach the top of the world, starting with their maiden international exposure in the Asian Games in Palembang in 2018. Saurabh won the gold and Abhishek a bronze in the Asian Games, in a world- class field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/apurvi-elavenil-poised-to-excel-in-air-rifle/article35502390.ece
24 July 2021||Sonipat,||Nivedita Karki clinches gold||Uttarakhand’s Nivedita Karki stunned reigning youth World champion Gitika of Haryana 3-2 in the 48kg final to clinch the gold at the youth National boxing championships on Friday.  Haryana women and Services Sports Control Board (SSCB) men retained the team championships. Haryana women claimed 12 medals, including seven gold and five silver while the SSCB men finished on top in the men’s event with 10 medals — seven gold and three silver. Haryana’s Tamanna outboxed Rajasthan’s Anjali Choudhary 5-0 in 50kg final. Neha (54kg), Preeti (57kg), Preeti Dahiya (60kg), Lashu Yadav (70kg), Khushi (63kg) and Deepika (+81) were the other gold medallists for Haryana in the women’s category. Meanwhile, Haryana men finished second with four gold and five silver medals. Bishwamitra Chongtham led the glorious run for SSCB in the men’s event as he blanked Himachal Pradesh’s Abhinav Katoch 5-0 in the 51kg final. Vishwanath Suresh (48kg), Vicktor Singh Shaikom (54kg), Vijay Singh (57kg), Ravichandra Singh (60kg), Jaydeep Rawat (71kg) and Deepak (75kg) were the others who claimed gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nivedita-karki-clinches-gold/article35502278.ece
24 July 2021||Milwaukee,||Milwaukee Bucks players return home to a rousing welcome||Thousands of fans lined downtown Milwaukee streets on Thursday to catch a glimpse of their beloved Bucks in a parade to celebrate the city’s first NBA championship in half a century. Victory parade Six police officers on horseback clopped past cheering fans at the head of a procession that included a hook-and-ladder fire truck, occasionally blaring its horn, and open-air buses and flatbed trucks carrying Bucks stars, including Finals MVP Giannis Antetokounmpo and Jrue Holiday, as well as the trophy they captured on Tuesday night with a Game 6 victory over Phoenix Suns. Fans could be heard chanting “Bucks in Six”, an odd but beloved rallying cry with roots in a former Bucks player’s fruitless prediction in 2013 that the team would take down the playoffs’ top seed at the time. Antetokounmpo held his son, one-year-old Liam, atop a bus as fans along the route chanted “MVP!” Later, he shot a basketball into the crowd. “Milwaukee, we did it baby! We did it!” Antetokounmpo said to a cheering crowd in the Deer District, the area outside the Bucks’ Fiserv Forum. Neil and Rachana Bhatia, both 34 and from suburban Waukesha, brought one-month-old son Zain to the Deer District, saying they wanted to give Zain an early taste of being a Bucks fan. “It unifies the city and puts the city on a global stage. It’s great for the city and the state. It’s just bringing everybody together to celebrate something that hasn’t happened in 50 years,” Neil said. “The city has had its struggles. What I know is that it’s been a city that’s coming together,” said longtime Bucks fan Dameon Ellzey. “In my neighbourhood, you could hear everybody on their porches screaming,” Ellzey said. “Black, white, Asian. In a city like Milwaukee, that’s big.” Milwaukee has long ranked among the most segregated cities in America. Team president Peter Feigin called it “the most segregated, racist place” he’d ever experienced, remarks he later softened. As the Bucks drove toward a championship this year, some people were cheered by the diversity of the massive crowds that gathered in the Deer District to watch the Bucks on big TV screens. The team’s ascendance has also invigorated a Midwestern city far from the league’s more cosmopolitan venues like Los Angeles, Boston or Miami — cities that have traditionally found it easier to attract the game’s top players. Loyalty One reason fans have embraced Antetokounmpo is his loyalty to the team that drafted him eight years ago when he was just 18. “He recognises the city and its quality and he resonates with it,” Timothy Seymour, 20, said of Antetokounmpo. “He really reflects our work ethic. He works hard. And he reflects how we’re only going to get better.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milwaukee-bucks-players-return-home-to-a-rousing-welcome/article35502280.ece
24 July 2021||Budapest (Hungary),||Tannu and Priya become cadet World champions||Young wrestlers Tannu and Priya became the latest world champions as India's spectacular run continued at the Cadet World Championship, here on Thursday. Tannu did not concede a single point en route the 43kg title, winning three of her four bouts by fall, including the final against Belarus' Valeryia Mikitsich. Priya grabbed the 73kg title with a 5-0 win over Belarus' Kseniya Patapovich.  Aman Gulia (48kg) and Sagar Jaglan (80kg) took titles in men's freestyle competition to propel India to the Team championship title for the first time in the history. Another Indian, Varsha won the bronze medal in the 65kg category with a victory by fall against Turkey’s Duygu Gen. India finished on top with 147 points, ahead of USA (143) and Russia (140). On Saturday, Komal will also be in contention for world title as she reached the 46kg final after beating Belarus’ Sviatlana Katenka by technical superiority. She will take on Azerbaijan's Ruzanna Mammadova. Nitika (61kg) and Harshita (69kg) though lost their semifinal bouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tannu-and-priya-become-cadet-world-champions/article35502282.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s domination set to continue||The Chinese juggernaut in table tennis is all set to roll on in Tokyo. On the first day of the tournament on Saturday, however, not many Chinese will be in action. Top seeds Xu Xin and Liu Shiwen will start the proceedings in the mixed doubles pre-quarterfinals, a category introduced in Tokyo. Men’s and women’s first round and intense action in mixed doubles will be thrilling to witness. The Indian connection Three of the four Indians will start their campaigns on Saturday. The mixed doubles pair of A. Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra, seeded 12th, will start against the third-seeded pair of Lin Yun Ju and Cheng I Ching. The match will be an acid test for India’s 2018 Asian Games bronze medal-winning pair. Manika and Sutirtha Mukherjee will also be seen in action in women’s singles. While Manika will be up against Ho Tin-Tin of Great Britain, Sutirtha will hope to repeat her recent exploits against Sweden’s Linda BergStrom. Manika holds a 2-0 advantage in head-to-head matches. Sutirtha, meanwhile, enjoys the advantage of winning the last of the two matches against Bergstrom, at the World Tour event in Hungary last year. Besides the Chinese pair, Japan’s veteran Jun Mizutani and Ito Mima will be hoping to get off the blocks quickly against Stefan Fegrel and Sofia Polcanova of Australia to enter the mixed doubles quarterfinals. Nikhil Kumar, who has joined Kanak Jha of Indian origin from the United States of America as the second paddler, will open his campaign against Mongolia’s Lkhagvasuren Enkhbat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chinas-domination-set-to-continue/article35502392.ece
24 July 2021||Belfast,||David Miller helps South Africa seal series||David Miller’s unbeaten fifty paved the way for South Africa's 42-run win over Ireland in the second Twenty20 International at Stormont on Thursday as the Proteas took an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series. South Africa was struggling at none for two after both captain Temba Bavuma amd Janneman Malan were dismissed without scoring by off-spinner Paul Stirling. But Miller’s 75 not out off 44 balls helped take South Africa to a total of 159 for seven. A target of 160 was within Ireland's reach but it lost wickets steadily, with Bjorn Fortuin and Tabraiz Shamsi taking three apiece. Shane Getkate and George Dockrell were the only Ireland batsmen to reach 20, with the hosts bowled out for 117 with three balls left.  The scores: South Africa 159/7 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 27, David Miller 75 n.o., Wiaan Mulder 36) bt Ireland 117 in 19.3 overs (Bjorn Fortuin 3/16, Tabriz Shamsi 3/14). Toss: SA; MoM: Miller; South Africa won match by 42 runs and leads three-match series 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/david-miller-helps-south-africa-seal-series/article35502668.ece
24 July 2021||Bridgetown,||Windies-Australia second ODI postponed||A positive COVID-19 test on Thursday resulted in the last-minute postponement of the scheduled second One-Day International between the West Indies and Australia at Kensington Oval, officials announced. “The second ODI between West Indies and Australia has been postponed due a positive Covid-19 test result from a non-playing member of the West Indies team,” said a Cricket West Indies statement. “This decision was taken after the toss at Kensington Oval once the result was known due to the Covid-19 protocols. All members of both teams and match officials will be retested today. A decision on when the match will replayed will be made at a later date once the test results are known,” the statement added.  Thursday’s postponement not only jeopardises the remaining two ODIs of this tour but also Australia’s tour of Bangladesh which was only confirmed on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/windies-australia-odi-postponed/article35502669.ece
24 July 2021||Harare,||Madhevere inspires Zimbabwe to series-levelling victory||Opener Wessley Madhevere top-scored with 73 as Zimbabwe beat Bangladesh by 23 runs on Friday to keep alive hopes of winning a three-match Twenty20 series against Bangladesh in Harare. Zimbabwe made 166 for six before bowling Bangladesh out for 143 with one ball remaining. Madhevere hit three sixes and five fours off 57 balls before being caught at extra cover by Afif Hossain after skying a delivery from left-arm medium fast bowler Shoriful Islam. Ryan Burl, who came in at number six, was the best of the other Zimbabwe batsman with an undefeated 34, including two sixes and two fours, while Dion Myers made 26. Shoriful was the most successful of the Bangladesh bowlers, also capturing the wicket of Luke Jongwe for two to finish with three for 33. Struggle Bangladesh openers never got on top of the Zimbabwe bowling. Naim and Sarkar were back in the pavilion with just 17 on the board, both dismissed by Blessing Muzarabani who finished with two for 21 from his four overs. Wellington Masakadza, who took three for 20, also got in amongst the Bangladesh batsmen, removing Shakib al Hasan, captain Mahmudullah Riyad and Mahedi in quick succession.   The scores: Zimbabwe 166/6 in 20 overs (Wessley Madhevere 73, Ryan Burl, 34 n.o., Dion Myers 26; Shoriful Islam 3/33) bt Bangladesh 143 in 19.5 overs (Afif Hossain 24; Luke Jongwe 3/31, Wellington Masakadza 3/20). Toss: Zimbabwe .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madhevere-inspires-zimbabwe-to-victory/article35502670.ece
24 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal camp begins||The Bengal camp for the upcoming domestic cricket season began here on Friday. All the probables, except for those who are doing National duty and two unwell players — Golam Mustafa and Sujit Yadav — attended the camp. “It’s very heartening to see the efforts put in. There will be a little time before they reach their peak. What I have seen is the intensity and the desire. It’s very encouraging. We want to try winning trophies for our state and that is the prime motivation. “Everybody needs to keep in mind that we are here to perform really well as a team,” Bengal head coach Arun Lal said. The camp will go on for a fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-camp-begins/article35503132.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Match-winning knock||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/match-winning-knock/article35502865.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Different hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/different-hues/article35502285.ece
24 July 2021||Cary (USA),||Ramkumar to face Prajnesh||Eighth seed Ramkumar Ramanathan of India ought his way past qualifier Alexis Galarneau of Canada 7-6(4), 4-6, 6-4 to set up a quarterfinal against second seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran, also ofi India, n the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here.  The results:   €44,820 Challenger, Pozoblanco, Spain:   Doubles: Semifinals: Igor Sijsling & Tim Van Rijthoven (Ned) w.o. Teymuraz Gabashvili (Rus) & Arjun Kadhe.   Quarterfinals: Gabashvili & Kadhe w.o. Benjamin Bonzi & Mathias Bourgue (Fra).   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, USA: Pre-quarterfinals: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Alexis Galarneau (Can) 7-6(4), 4-6, 6-4; Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Sam Riffice (US) 6-2, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo: Doubles: Semifinals: Claudia Hoste Ferrer & Leyre Romero Gormaz (Esp) bt Anastasia Sukhotina (Rus) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-0, 6-2.   Quarterfinals: Sukhotina & Ashmitha bt Ana Lantigua De La Nuez (Esp) & Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) 7-6(1), 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-to-face-prajnesh/article35502676.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Matches drawn||Budding Stars and Zinda Tilismath were locked in a draw in the A1-Division three-day league cricket championship here on Friday.  The scores:   A1-Division three-day league: Gemini Friends 103/3 in 37 overs drew with Cambridge XI.   Budding Stars 137 in 34.5 overs & 254/6 in 40 overs drew with Zinda   Tilismath 129 in & 64/4 in 12 overs.   Apex CC 219 in 70.5 overs drew with Gouds XI.   Charminar CC 259/7 in 68 overs drew with Jai Bhagwathi.     Tightend Global Sports and Skykings Football Academy will organise the inaugural Ultimate Football League on July 24 and 25 at Stratos Tightend Arena (KPHB) here in a league-cum-knockout format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/matches-drawn/article35502937.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sanjana, Shriya and Swara Lakshmi win titles||Sanjana Raghunath with 6.5 points from seven rounds Karnataka State online women’s open in the championship organised by United Karnataka Chess Association (UKCA) from July 19 to 22. Shriya Revankar with seven points (38.50) from eight rounds and Swara Lakshmi Nair, with 7.5 points from eight rounds, won the junior open and junior girls’ under-20 titles respectively. The top two players will represent the state in the Nationals.  Final placings:   Women’s Open (7 rounds): 1. Sanjana Raghunath (6.5), 2. S.S. Kaavya (5.5, 21.75), 3. A. Harshini (5.5, 19.25), 4. Shradha S. Rai (5, 19), 5. Swara Lakshmi Nair (5, 16).   Junior Girls U-20 Open (8 rounds): 1. Shriya Revankar (7, 38.50), 2. Shree Krishna Pranama (7, 36.50), 3. Leelajai N. Krishna (6, 29.75), 4. A.J. Pranav (6, 26.25), 5. Senthil Servad (6,24).   Junior Girls U-20 (8 rounds): 1. Swara Lakshmi (7.5), R. Sanjana (7), 3. Vaishnavi R. Rao (6, 27.25), 4. P. Anandhi (6,22.50), 5. S. Shriya Mallya (5.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjana-shriya-and-swara-lakshmi-win-titles/article35503088.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hail a cab for the pigeon||The door to the Audi opens, the seat is readied for the passenger: a pigeon swaddled inside a cardboard box. The injured bird has just been rescued off the street and is quickly being dispatched to the pigeon hospital for medical attention. “A number of rescuers are particular that the bird travels in comfort and often send them in their luxury cars, or the most high-end option that Uber has,” says Vasanthraj Ranka, treasurer of this unique pigeon-only hospital in Rajaji Nagar, Bengaluru. Launched in 2019, this is a project by Shree Shankheswar Parshwanath Jain KabootarDaana Seva Samithi, an NGO that was started in 1990 by Pukhraj Ranka, Vasanthraj’s father. The hospital created a buzz on social media recently when Shishira Suresh of RT Nagar, in Bengaluru, found an injured pigeon by the pavement. When she called the hospital, she was given detailed instructions on how to carefully pack the winged patient in a cardboard box, with ventilation and layers of old clothes for cushioning, before sending them the bird via Dunzo. As it turns out, the hospital regularly tells callers to send injured birds to them via Dunzo, Ola, Uber, or Swiggy Genie. “Sometimes, in the absence of a cardboard box, a handbag works too,” says Shisira, as she discovered recently while rescuing another bird. “The Dunzo professional who came to pick up my delivery had experience in carrying pigeons. He said he had carried one to the same hospital a while ago,” she adds, clearly still fascinated by the whole process. “This arrangement makes things efficient and we are able to help more birds,” says Vasanthraj. Initially, they had a representative who went around town picking up pigeons in need of help. “We get calls from as far as 40 kilometres away and it was not possible for one person to cover such long distances in a day. We ended up saving just one or two birds that way. Then we realised that tying up with service providers is a better idea.” Today, the hospital gets anything from 30 to 500 pigeons a week, including the ‘out-patients’. “Some of them were getting cut by manja , and some were affected by mosquito bites also known as pigeon pox. Sometimes we receive eggs, but we haven’t been able to hatch them artificially,” Vasanthraj adds. There are over 250 cages in the facility, where the birds recuperate for two to three weeks, after which, they can take flight to the skies again.  How to help an injured bird Call a bird rescue centre in your city. If you’re unsure about picking up the bird and placing it in a box, inform them and they will guide you. Carefully put it in a cardboard box with a lid or a towel over the top. You can use a bag if there are no boxes, but ensure that there is ventilation by poking some holes. Also ensure that the bag is closed fully. Do not force the bird to drink water or eat. Let the rescuers arrive and take care of its recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hail-a-cab-for-the-pigeon/article35503058.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A Bengali kitchen comes alive in Delhi||The dark clouds of the pandemic have a silver lining. People across the country are breathing life into talents that were perhaps known just to family and friends. Certainly, when it comes to food, a great many men and women have been demonstrating how well they wield a karchhi . One such talented chef is Dipayan Mazumdar, who used to earlier organise classical musical evenings in the capital. Now he runs BHK or Babo's Home Kitchen ( baboshomekitchen.in ; phone nos. 9769416232, 9810016405). Always fond of cooking, he took it up professionally last October once such concerts came to a standstill thanks to the pandemic. The food that he cooks and delivers is largely Bengali. He picked up the recipes from his mother and grandmother, he says. I ordered some food from BHK last week when two friends — one who loves fish and the other who is allergic to it — came over for dinner. So, to make both happy, we asked for a vegetarian platter (Rs. 999 for two) and fish combo (Rs. 750 for two). The platter comprised shukto , narkol mung dal, jhingey aloo posto , mochar ghonto, and aamer (mango) chutney. The fish combo consisted of two rotund fish chops and two large pieces of mustard fish. The friends had come with PotPot’s haleem and nihari, so there was no dearth of meaty dishes. We had the fish chops — mashed fish and potatoes crumbed and fried golden brown — as starters, and thought they were superb. Shukto, which is a Bengali dish of mixed vegetables cooked in a very light sauce, was excellent, as was the coconut-flavoured mung dal. The khus-khus ( posto ) with potatoes and ridge gourd was the way it is cooked at home — light, yet tasty. The fish-loving friend enjoyed the katla cooked in a sharply flavoured shorshe (mustard) sauce. The chutney was delicious — hot, sweet and sour. The mocha (banana florets) didn’t appeal to me much, but all in all, we had a great meal. BHK’s most popular dishes include Kolkata bhetki fish fry or cutlet: fillet marinated in lime and garlic, dipped in beaten egg and fried. Deliciously crisp, it has a minty flavour that I enjoyed. It is also known for its breakfast fare of koraishutir kochuri — puris stuffed with mashed and mildly spiced, hing -flavoured peas — and baby potatoes coated with asafoetida ( hing ). I had a bit of BHK’s shorshey ilish (hilsa in mustard) the next day for lunch, and found both the fish and preparation exceptionally good. A good chef has to know his fish (or fishmonger!) well, too. Next week it offers, along with other favourites, something called prawn- pouri, fried prawns and prawn malaikari (Rs. 750 for two). HBK only takes pre-orders and has limited slots. “Our goal is to help people discover Bengali cuisine,” Mazumdar says. I hope the kitchen continues post COVID-19, too. Food with music will be a good combo. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-bengali-kitchen-comes-alive-in-delhi/article35503154.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Animal instincts||Sir Attenborough has taught us so much about the animal kingdom, but he has never told us how to incorporate these learnings into our lives so that we can live better, happier, and with more #gratitude hashtag sprinkles. Thank the lord for me. Here goes:                   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/animal-instincts/article35502567.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Frames and the man||A man in a whitekurtacrouching on the road as a mob surrounds him, sticks raised and raining blows. An overhead drone shot of hundreds of pyres burning in the night sky. Labourers trudging home, children on their shoulders, bemusement in their eyes. These iconic images from the Delhi riots of 2020, the second wave of the pandemic, and the migrant crisis of the first lockdown are just some of the works of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui doing the rounds in the wake of his death while on duty for Reuters in Afghanistan. When I posted a few of these images on Facebook, I found them published with a trigger warning label. Such an irony, given that the same conglomerate allows dozens of videos of people being beaten, lynched, assaulted, and humiliated to be shared widely and triumphantly on WhatsApp, the messaging service it owns. Facebook’s action comes on the heels of thousands of trolls taking to social media claiming that Siddiqui deserved to die because he had shared images of the funeral pyres of Covid-19 victims; trolls who gave sanctimonious justification for their anger, who insisted that the privacy of the last rites had been violated by Siddiqui and other photographers. Yet, thinking back, what flashes in my mind’s eye are all-day telecasts of the funerals of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, with Rajiv and Rahul lighting the pyres of their parents. Images from glamorous world magazines that regularly trawl theghatsof Varanasi to capture the dramatic last rites conducted on the Ganga’s shores. Photo essays from inside burningghats, which capture the minutiae of ongoing funerals, thesadhuswho live there, the esoteric Tantric death rituals some of them practise. Indians don’t flinch from death — they live with death all around them. It’s a joyously messy relationship that accepts and celebrates death as a rightful end. From childhood, we are witness to bodies being borne away not in silence and secrecy but in loud and public procession, accompanied by flowers and chants, and sometimes with loud drumming and abandoned, drunken dance. Indians don’t hide from death or hide death. Rajasthan has its professional weepers or rudaali, women hired to perform grief, loudly and in public. Tamil Nadu has the oppari tradition, a complex genre of death music that’s both eulogy and dirge. Such rituals, which have their folk counterparts across the country, are accompanied by wailing, keening, chest-beating, and singing. Grief is exaggerated in order to be subsumed. Given this far from private embrace of death, the outrage about photographs of funeral pyres and the hatred directed against Siddiqui and others are inexplicable, and one must seek the reasons elsewhere. Through the second wave, a section of citizens insisted that data about deaths and the pictures and videos of pyres, graves and oxygen queues be kept out of the public domain. That such ‘negative’ news is demoralising. That people need to hear ‘happy’ news to stay upbeat. The concern, then, was not so much about privacy as about ‘negative’ news exposing gaps and deficits in the country’s administrative and medical preparedness. This distinction is important — thrusting a mike into a grieving mother’s face is an invasion of privacy, but photographs of hundreds of pyres burning or graves dotting a riverbank are public records. They chronicle a moment in history. And history isn’t only a happy sequence ofmehendiceremonies, masala movies, and cricket matches. It is naïve self-deception, therefore, to expect continuous anodynes from reporters and photojournalists as well. As I was writing this, I stumbled upon an old cartoon by the inimitable RK Laxman, which shows the common man with his head buried in the ground, while on him lies a newspaper covered with headlines that say ‘Positive news’, ‘Good news’, ‘Happy news’. Photojournalists like Danish Siddiqui risk their lives to be at the crossroads where history is taking a significant turn. Siddiqui took as many pictures of kite-fliers and festivals as he did of crematoriums and riots, but one hails the latter more because it’s disease and sectarian violence that can slip into the bloodstream unchecked if left unrecorded. It’s the fault lines of a nation that need watching so that the songs and the celebrations can go on like ever before. Danish Siddiqui did just that and it makes him a hero of our times.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/frames-and-the-man/article35502540.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Munk, the reigning Alchemist||Wearing a black Acne Studios T-shirt, chef Rasmus Munk is at ease in one of the many conceptual dining rooms in the three-storey space that makes up the Alchemist. The Copenhagen-based restaurant is part dining, part sensory, part social commentary, and wholly unique. As restrictions ease and people make their way back to restaurants, tables here are booked for months ahead (reservations for August to October sold out within 10 minutes). Small wonder, since it’s added another feather to its two-star Michelin status. Alchemist was recently crowned number one on OAD’s (Opinionated About Dining, a relatively new restaurant ranking that uses votes from globe-trotting guests to rank the best eateries) list of top dining experiences in Europe. There’s a lot that sets it apart from other fine dining pilgrimages in the city. For one, it’s housed in the former set-building workshop of the Royal Danish Ballet. For another, each meal is made up of 50 impressions (their name for the courses). And finally there’s Munk’s propensity to make diners ponder social and political issues of the day, from child labour to global warming, over artfully crafted dishes. “In the last couple of years, chefs have had a big voice in our society. It’s important to use that well, to bring awareness to something that’s important to discuss,” he says, adding, “I think Alchemist is this trial, where we use food as a communication tool and talk about something that is important, besides just the ingredients.”  Pushing the comfort factor  This means projecting visuals on a planetarium-like dome of plastic bags floating among jellyfish. And experimenting with produce and methods that have not been used before — one of the innovations had him working with cows’ Achilles tendons and lambs’ lungs, which are usually discarded. There’s a course served inside the skull of a lamb, and one that demands guests to suck on a pair of silicone udders. Munk calls his food “holistic cuisine” — a Nordic manifest like the one popularised by the other Copenhagen legend, chef René Redzepi’s Noma, but “with layers on top of it”. “It takes elements from the science world, from theatre, from all other kinds of cultural institutions to create a multi-sensory dining experience.” He prides himself in creating “food for thought” and spaces that provide the perfect setting for it. For example, last year he created the Rainbow Room after he read an article that said that 80% of LGBTQI+ couples felt uncomfortable holding hands in public because of potential public disapproval. Dancers in LED outfits lead guests into the neon hall, and after the meal, the last impression is a dessert shaped like a seahorse, the gender-swapping fish.  The Danish Indophile  Munk, who at 30 is an India neophyte, still speaks of travelling to the country when he “was not that old, not in chef training too long”. While there, he remembers trying a pani puri. He later recreated it on his menu with a porcini mushroom dough filled with smoke and topped with oyster, kale and caviar. “When you bite into it, the smoke escapes as an aroma. The smoke is of different spices and thyme, so you have the texture of the pani puri , very crispy and delicate, and you have the aroma and the spices,” he explains. He was to visit India last summer, but the pandemic delayed his plans. “I’ve been studying a lot in Japan over the last few years. 2020 should have been the year I visited India and discovered it with a chef’s mind and eyes,” he says. It would have been interesting to see what four weeks in the country would have inspired him to create. Meanwhile, Munk shares that after not operating for more than a year and a half because of the coronavirus, he is excited for the future. “I think we have only scratched the surface of what holistic cuisine and this restaurant can be,” says the chef, who wants his guests to experience a shift in consciousness after dining at the Alchemist. And to do this, he promises to continue to “collaborate with different kinds of people — from theatre, movies, even psychologists and magicians”. A meal is approx Rs. 29,300 per person. Book on tock.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/munk-the-reigning-alchemist/article35502546.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The feminist in burlesque||Conservative is not a word you’d call Sukki Menon. But surprisingly, the 31-year-old — born to a Singaporean-Malayalee father and an English mother — hails from a hyper traditional family. And she’s thankful for it. Sukki Singapora (as she is known to her fans and critics) is a burlesque dancer striving for Asian representation and women’s empowerment through her performing art. She is also a Netflix star, who shot to prominence after appearing on the popular 2019 docuseries, Singapore Social , which has since lead to movie offers and invites to Oscar parties. “Had my parents fully supported me [growing up], would I be as impassioned as I am?” she wonders out aloud, over a morning call from London. “Would I have had the angst, the fire in my belly, to take on a whole country, to travel the world and fight to make a difference for other young girls?” Because fight she did. First, she successfully campaigned for burlesque to be seen as a legitimate art form in Singapore. And now she’s her taking calling card of entertainer, feminist, activist and humanitarian across the world, to make inroads for brown performers. Perhaps why she isn’t too chuffed about being called Asia’s Dita Von Teese. “It is a compliment, of course; Dita is a queen. However, I do think as Asian artists we need to stop saying we’re the Asian version of something western. It’s an antiquated statement that somehow lessens us and our achievements to a subversive colonial thinking,” she says. “It’s like saying Shah Rukh Khan is the Indian George Clooney. No, George Clooney is like the western SRK!”  Taboo breaker  Burlesque may be viewed with prejudice by the majority, but it resonated with Sukki because it celebrated female sensuality, something that was seen as taboo in her childhood. “There are many misconceptions about the art form, such as it is a seedy activity in a night club with men crowded around. But it could not be farther from the truth. My shows are held in theatres around the world, and 80% of my audience is female.” To the staunch feminist — who believes that feminism is another word for human rights — burlesque is all about women taking charge, of their bodies, their choices. “I think that when a woman follows her heart and builds a career, she becomes an inspiration to other women. And while it is difficult when you are the first at anything, because you are inevitably alone, creating that role model for the next generation is important to me,” she concludes.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-feminist-in-burlesque/article35502550.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Irresponsibly yours||This city is full of irresponsible people. It makes me furious. Look at that stupid couple having a party, without even inviting me? Yesterday, I entered the lift and everyone inside rushed out. How do they expect us to spread cheer if people are taking social distancing to this degree? Of course, I had not worn my mask (it was a one-minute lift ride, after all — what can spread in one minute?). And then again, when was the last time they saw someone’s dazzling smile? (Lipstick shade Scandalous Ruby, in case you’re interested.) I mean, what’s the point of sending forwards that say ‘Keep Calm and Smile’ if no one can see that smile, and they are doing the opposite of keeping calm by stampeding over each other to avoid me and my Scandalous smile? I was the first to get my vaccine shot when they started it for senior citizens. Of course, you know I don’t appear remotely senior. I had to just flash my Aadhaar card, and can go back to being late-30s now. I made my husband’s driver (who is a senior citizen — I am honest that way) stand in the queue for three hours for my slot. The embarrassment! I saw a neighbour and before she opened her mouth, I pushed an old woman along, pretending I was there only to help my senior citizen aunt. My ‘aunt’ turned around and smacked my hand. My mean neighbour is now sending me ads for retirement homes and yoga for ageing bones. I shared my picture across social media. I put a flag emoji on the arm on which I got my vaccine. I have co-morbidities, I explained, even though I am in my late 30s. I had to make up some of the lesser co-morbidities to not appear both old and sick. Look at people thronging markets, to buy essential goods. When I threw a Covid party, I made sure everyone arrived at 10-minute intervals. No one ever saw crowds entering or leaving my house — I was super responsible like that. The building security said someone complained about the noise, and I said I was only watching TV. I am slightly deaf, I explained — it is one of my co-morbidities. They even tried to stop my maids from coming in. The maids are at risk from travelling, they said. Am I to now clean my own house? After the party that I (never) threw? I am throwing crying fits at the thought. Is that how you people want to spread cheer? Whenever someone sends me a link to donate for the Covid-unemployed, I tell them I am tirelessly supporting the economy. I spend days online-shopping for designer clothes, but where to wear them? Really! I even started a donation drive for myself and my co-morbidities. I am breaking my back being responsible, I said. No one has donated a single paisa . Irresponsible people.  Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/irresponsibly-yours/article35502554.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The modern brown woman experience in America||Never Have I Ever , as a show, has deeply divided South Asian audiences in its portrayal of an Indian transplant family in California, with the kids striving for western modernity and the elders clutching tightly on to traditions. One half of audiences claim the show is hyperbolic and unrelatable, while the other praises the portrayal of the struggle of the South Asian diaspora in the United States. The Netflix series, narrated by John McEnroe and written by Mindy Kaling and Lang Fisher, follows Devi Vishwakumar (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan), a straight-A student at a Sherman Oaks high school in California. She lives with her widowed mother, Dr Nalini Vishwakumar (Poorna Jagannathan), and her picture-perfect cousin, Kamala Nandiawada (Richa Moorjani), a brilliant scientist completing her PhD. Season two offers an uplifting take on brown feminism, where Nalini’s mother-in-law Nirmala (Ranjita Chakravarty) comes to live with the family.   Virtual prep  The second season was greenlit during the pandemic, so the table reads were all remote. Moorjani, 32, recalls being nervous about how the virtual reads would “kill the creative process and wouldn’t be that funny”, but then she realised “it is still performance” and everyone adapted seamlessly. Whereas Jagannathan, 48, brought a lot of collaborative energy to the show’s mission to be as authentic as possible. “Even the plate in which Nalini’s mother-in-law, Nirmala, offers food had to be right. Because you can’t cater during Covid, they had to teach someone how to make South Indian food; so eventually 11 dishes were made [including paruppu ],” she says. The STEM gap Moorjani collaborated with costume designer and Kaling confidant, Salvador Pérez Jr, to retain the essence of Kamala, while keeping it professional for her lab sessions. “When she wears a black leather jacket and goes to put her name on a research paper [omitted by a misogynistic male colleague], as the actor I felt empowered!” Speaking of labs and commitments, the actor duo is proud to portray strong women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics). “This season, I learned about how much women of colour in STEM go through. It’s a real systemic problem where their names are taken off research papers,” explains Moorjani.   Video games and short films  Beyond the quirky Kamala and the ever-witty Nalini, the actors strive to enrich their careers with different mediums such as video games, short films, theatre and dance. Having voice-acted in Fallout 76 — a video game by Bethesda — Moorjani is keen on diving deeper into this rich storytelling medium. She is also in post-production for Broken Drawer directed by Rippin Sindher — a film loosely inspired by true events about a young Sikh mother who was killed while working at her family-owned convenience store in rural California. Meanwhile, Jagannathan is in post-production for I’ll Show You Mine , portraying author Priya Suri. She had a busy 2020, assuming supporting roles in AppleTV+’s legal-drama Defending Jacob opposite Chris Evans, in Netflix’s Messiah , and in HBO’s Big Little Lies .  Season two of Never Have I Ever is now streaming on Netflix      Scan the QR code to watch the interview, or visit weekend. thehindu.com for the full article and video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-modern-brown-woman-experience-in-america/article35502572.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Saying goodbye: songs of loss||In April this year, Bengaluru-based composer Sanjay Sugumaran, 27, lost his father to the second wave. While most turn to art when coping with tragedy, artistes like Sugumaran have channelled their grief into their music. He chose rap to pay homage, and released the multi-lingual track, ‘Survive’, on YouTube a month later. He explains how he began making notes for the song right from the time his father was hospitalised. For ‘Survive’ (available on Spotify), the artiste recreated a phone conversation that he had with his father and the video for the composition as well as the artwork is an image of his father’s last CT scan. Unexpected death combined with the inability to spend enough time with Covid patients during their last days has left loved ones with unprecedented grief. “My uncle was the pillar of my family. He was my father figure and now that he’s gone, I feel so lost,” says Goa-based Allister Martins, 26, of his maternal uncle who passed away earlier this year due to Covid-related complications. Martins, who wrote the song ‘Without You’ the day his uncle passed away, has reflected on how those who are closest to the deceased deal with the situation. “His wife and he were high school sweethearts. So the lyrics are partly what I think and partly what could have been going on in my aunt’s mind,” says Martins, who also directed and shot the video (on YouTube, Spotify), which was out in June, on his phone. ‘You told me you’ll be there / Till we’re old and have grey hair / Now I’m sitting all alone in your chair,’ are lines that Martins wrote to depict his aunt’s emotions in the song.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/saying-goodbye-songs-of-loss/article35502537.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s Afro-Asia roots||Released this April on Netflix, Yasuke infuses several different kinds of genre sensibilities within its samurai origin story — there’s magic, gigantic fighting robots and a whole lot else within its six episodes. The anime series is also the latest example of Afro-Asian connections, both within Hollywood and across pop culture in general. Be it albums by hip-hop group Wu-Tang Clan or films like Ghost Dog: Way of the Samurai (1999), the strong connection between the two communities is apparent in pop culture.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cinemas-afro-asia-roots/article35502532.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Emotion is a female superpower’||Put your own oxygen mask on first. Award-winning fashion designer, successful entrepreneur and mother of five, Anya Hindmarch knows a thing or two about stress — juggling 60 stores, design, PTA meetings, and her Instagram-ready civil projects can’t have been easy (understatement!). Along with her emoji-inspired accessories, for 30 years this queen of handbags also has fans invested in the witticisms of her brand. But in her new book, If in Doubt, Wash Your Hair , Hindmarch, 53, embraces fear and self-doubt. And self-care. Thus the opening sentence, chapter three in her book. The increasing focus on the self, and the quest for mindfulness and calm, could explain why self-help books are back in demand in the West. Especially the ‘part memoir, part manual’ hybrid by celebrities. According to NPD BookScan, a retail sales monitoring service for books in the US, the number of unique ISBNs in self-help rose nearly three-fold from 30,897 in 2013 to 85,253 in 2019. And modern customers are no longer sounding apologetic about reading them. Recall the instant spike in interest last year when singer Adele recommended Untamed by activist and public speaker Glennon Doyle: “This book will shake your brain and make your soul scream,” she exclaimed on Instagram, crediting the source of her ‘joy’.  Room for tears  “I didn’t write it as a self-help book, but kind of vomited out my creative journey,” says Hindmarch about her own book, in a video call with The Hindu Weekend . Describing what went into her rather practical project, she continues, “I am a woman, a mother, a stepmother, a woman in business, a creative… it is about how doubt snakes through those roles. But I guess there is a lot of self-help in there.” Having started her brand as a teenager after a trip to Florence (her father, whom she names as her mentor in the book, also began his business at 18), the British designer was awarded an MBE in 2009 for her contribution to the British fashion industry. The former UK trade ambassador says that over the years she was often asked about the best bit of advice for busy mums and working women. “I’d say, ‘If in doubt wash your hair’. It’s one of those things that can change your day, even if it’s so trivial and silly; it stands for so much else.” That said, the biggest takeaway from her book is this motto: emotion is a female superpower. “Workplaces have traditionally been perhaps male, and emotion considered a weakness. I was upset after someone said something unfair to me at work once, and I was told, ‘Anya, you must take emotion out of this.’ The way he said it was a little bit stinging. It made me stop and think: no, I think emotion is what we do really well. Men know, too, that it is emotion that builds businesses and loyalties. We must never lose it, not just in the office but at home as well!” Since then she has been unabashed about celebrating people’s birthdays and promotions at work, and not hiding her tears. She says showing vulnerability is more authentic, and in the book writes about honest communication. “I think communication and organisation are pivotal to my managing work and home. It’s probably why I like handbags.” True, her passion for zips, compartments and pockets is no secret, and she has been labelling almost everything since her brother gifted her a label maker for Christmas. As for her bags, a bestseller on her website is the Working from Home tote, designed for the pandemic, with a padded pocket for the laptop, and labels for headphones, glasses, stationery… “making you feel in control when everything is out of control. There is a pleasure to have everything in its place”.  Power of lists  The designer who gave Princess Diana her ‘‘cleavage bags’’ (in an interview in The Telegraph , Hindmarch revealed that Lady Diana used her matching satin clutches to cover her cleavage when stepping out of cars), and whose clients include Kate Moss and Duchess of Cambridge, is also rather private. “The small things are the big things. A good cup of coffee with a friend is so much more important than going to some fashion party,” she explains. One of the exercises in the book is to write down what makes one happy. “It isn’t always money, so sit down and unravel from a personal perspective: what is success to you, the people who make you happy. There are common threads. What are your happiest moments? It’s not a new car.” She has been criticised for her lists, which are at odds with her whimsical designs and her unusual promotional events — at a London Fashion Week, she got customers to take part in meditations and talks while lying on a giant bean bag — but insists they keep her head clear. The book is packed with parenting tips too (see box), many of them simple yet ingenious. As for the oxygen mask, “Life is stressful, with lots of role changes. We need to be quite kind and manage to prioritise ourselves. As foundations of family, it doesn’t work if we don’t. We need to put on our oxygen masks.” Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/emotion-is-a-female-superpower/article35502599.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hello, Anastasia||Out-of-towners, up your eyebrow game. American cosmetics company, Anastasia Beverly Hills, is opening its first standalone store in India, in Noida, by the end of the month. But if you can’t travel, don’t worry. Shop brow pomades, eyeshadow palettes, mascaras, and more on Nykaa, which recently rolled out the brand’s products in the Rs. 1,200-Rs. 6,000 price range. Meanwhile, city slickers, if shopping is still on your mind, head to Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium. Their special three-day ‘up to 60% off’ sale is on till tomorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hello-anastasia/article35502574.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Nature diaries||A world without seeds; it’s a scary thought. This dystopian idea, pegged on a real-life incident — of cotton farmers from Odisha’s Bhimdanga village — had formed the backbone of Bijal Vachharajani’s 2018 book,The Seed Savers. Now, Mumbai-based Repertory Theatre is turning the tale about how the villagers came together to open a seed bank into a one-hour shadow theatre show and workshop. This Sunday, at 4.30 pm, for children between six and 12 years. Tickets at Rs. 349.in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/nature-diaries/article35502576.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||South Korea calling||It is BTS vs BTS. The K-pop group’s latest single, ‘Permission to Dance’, has beaten their May hit, ‘Butter’, to nab the no. 1 spot on Billboard Hot 100. The catchy tune, co-written by Ed Sheeran and with a five-minute MV, is an earworm. Meanwhile, if you are into all things Korean, head to InKo Centre’s Annyeong Station — a new platform for conversations, exchanges and demonstrations (last Thursdayjapchae, the popular Korean glass noodles dish, was on the menu).Details: inkocentre.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/south-korea-calling/article35502578.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A thayir saadam salad?||Chennai has a new takeaway counter. In Adyar (sharing the premises of Crimson Chakra in Gandhi Nagar), Butterheads serves up fresh, healthy salads, wholesome bowls, and yoghurt smoothies. The Thayir Saadam Salad and Dark Chocolate Pudding Smoothie are show stealers. Eid al-Adha may be over, but The Park still has festival meal boxes on offer, withkebabs,tawa gosht,biryani,gajar ka halwaand more. Rs. 1,699 + taxes (serves two) and Rs. 2,799 + taxes (serves four). Till July 25. 42676000, 9884401601||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-thayir-saadam-salad/article35502580.ece
24 July 2021||Tokyo 2020:,||Talking point||The Olympics is underway and you can catch the action on SonyLIV. The OTT platform is hosting 20 live streams, in Hindi, English, Tamil and Telugu (download the app for iOS and Android). Now there’s no excuse to miss Chennai sailor Nethra Kumanan hit the waves, catch Jaipur’s air rifle favourite, Avani Lekhara, in action at the Paralympics, or watch 13-year-old English girl Sky Brown conquer the skatepark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article35502582.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||LV for your ears||Thanos would love to steal this one! Looking like it would fit perfectly into the Marvel multiverse, Louis Vuitton’s new portable Horizon Light Up Speaker is futuristic and fashionable. Inspired by the Toupie handbag, the latest addition to the luxury brand’s collection of connected products incorporates glass, stainless steel, and leather, 35 LEDs, three-inch subwoofers, two 0.75-inch tweeters, and up to 15 hours of playback — all for the whopping price tag of approx Rs. 2,15,200. Out end of August.eu.louisvuitton.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lv-for-your-ears/article35502584.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Refills for the win||Here’s some good news for those looking for plastic packaging alternatives. Mumbai’s Reliance Smart Acme Mall is now home to a Unilever pilot project: the in-store vending model, Smart Fill. Set up in partnership with Reliance Retail, the initiative helps customers get a refill of their homecare products — for brands such as Surf Excel, Vim and Comfort — rather than purchase a new packet. As added incentive: consumers can get Rs. 30 off on the MRP if they get their own bottle and Rs. 15 off if they buy the Smart Fill bottle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/refills-for-the-win/article35502586.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Right of admission||What happens when four estranged college friends reunite on Zoom during the pandemic and then decide to stay in touch? That’s what stand-up comedian and writer Anuvab Pal explores inAdmission. Starring actors Kunaal Roy Kapur, Tillotama Shome, Rasika Dugal and Noah Lucé, the 55-minute play is directed by Rohan Sippy. Bookings are open now (tickets from Rs. 199 onwards), and the show, which opens on July 31 at 6.30 pm, will be available for streaming for 24 hours on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/right-of-admission/article35502588.ece
24 July 2021||3D-printed bridge:,||Instapick||Amsterdam is checking the innovative box yet again. It has just unveiled the world’s first 3D-printed steel bridge, fabricated from 4,500 kg of stainless steel rods. Designed by artist Joris Laarman, and built by Dutch robotics company MX3D, the curving S-shaped structure spans the Oudezijds Achterburgwal in the city's Red Light District.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article35502552.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Building better cities||The current Covid-19 crisis in the country leaves me thinking about the way our cities have developed. Last year, during the first wave, nearly 80% of the cases in India were from only 30 cities. During the second wave too, our big cities were the first to be affected. There is a definite link between the way our cities are today and the speed at which the pandemic spread. Our cities are crowded, filled with buildings, and overflowing with traffic. The percentage of green cover has rapidly depleted and there is no place for us to walk in peace, or even enjoy an entire day outdoors. One of the major factors behind the spread of contagious diseases is of course, high population density. The continuing migration of people to cities has resulted in rapid population growth. As land in cities is limited and expensive, the only way to accommodate the increasing population is to build upwards. This has led to the countless high rise building developments we are seeing today. Earlier, where one family would occupy five grounds of land, now there are 10 families, if not more occupying the same area. Such dense developments make it harder to maintain social distancing and prevent crowding. The biggest reason for high-rise construction in cities is to save ground space and accommodate more occupants, compared to lower density buildings. They allow cities to grow without expanding their boundaries. Once debated to be more environmentally sustainable than low-rise developments, this ideology needs to be questioned today. With pandemics such as the one we are seeing now, the context has changed enough that we should revisit the sustainability of high rise developments. It is time for us to reimagine and change the way we are building our cities. Since the end of last year we are seeing an increase in the number of people opting to buy even small parcels of land away from the city centres to build independent homes. Would a spread out, low-rise development be a better solution? This then would require more land area resulting in smaller satellite developments. These could become self-sufficient leading to a better quality of life for the occupants. This pandemic has largely been attributed to the human impact on climate, rapid urbanisation and overpopulation which has led to encroachment on wildlife habitats. This in turn has resulted in the spread of animal-borne diseases. Scientists say this is not the end and have predicted the occurrence of more pandemics in future. Keeping this in mind, we have to seriously rethink the way we build and grow our cities.  The author is   the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm   We are seeing an increase in the number of people opting to buy even small parcels of land away from the city centres to build independent homes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/building-better-cities/article35502608.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The beauty of precast||Builders of mass housing projects are increasingly looking at precast technology as a time-saver and resource-efficient option. With sustainability occupying the centre-stage in a world racing towards the future, precast homes are a viable option due to several reasons. They are known for their affordability, these homes consume lesser raw material and energy, thereby providing improved economies of scale. Precast technology also comes in handy for faster construction in times when authorities are faced with emergency situations. These include times when building rehabilitation centres are needed in areas hit by an earthquake or tsunami, and regions where homes need to be built for refugees. In such scenarios, the offsite construction of the structural components also leads to a significant reduction of waste. Myriad benefits With urbanisation moving into high gear, precast construction is being eyed primarily for faster timelines where schedules could be crunched by 40% to 50%. This contributes to a substantial reduction on overheads on men and machinery. Early lease of buildings results in early revenue accruals, thus resulting in shorter cycles of interest burden. Offsite manufacturing of components such as panels for walls and slabs and beams for roofs has now made it possible for residences to be built in a few weeks, and colonies in a matter of months. Though most precast structures still go for a conventional foundation, the introduction of readymade ‘Strip Foundation’ has recently come as a replacement for conventional methods. All eyes on Karnataka Capable of meeting high standards of quality and durability, precast is finding favour for building subsidised mass housing, apartments for the middle class, and even luxury homes and facilities such as clubhouses. Karnataka (Bengaluru in particular) has seen a spurt in such construction in the recent years. The year 2020 witnessed the completion of the first ever colony ‘Swarna Griha’ built in the State with precast elements under PMAY in flat 24 months. The 268-unit colony in the industrial hub of Annenahalli on the outskirts of Tumakuru was built by the Bengaluru-based firm Felicity Adobe LLP. Each one-BHK unit provides 325 sq. ft. carpet area. According to Girish K., GM-Operations, Swarna Griha projects, precast technology saves a lot of man-hours and construction which in turn reduced the construction cost by 10-15%, a benefit that can be transferred to the customers. “Moreover, there is greater control over material quality and workmanship in a precast plant compared to a construction site” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-beauty-of-precast/article35502617.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Realty investments top $1.35 billion in Q2||According to JLL’s recently-released ‘Capital Markets Update Q2 2021’ report, institutional investors deployed $1.357 billion into the Indian commercial real estate market in the second quarter (April- June) of 2021, representing a ninefold increase year-on-year. Capital deployments in the April-June period represented the most active second quarter in five years. According to the realty firm, the pace and volume of investments over the past decade have been supported by the introduction of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in 2014, the Real estate Regulation and Development Act in 2016 (RERA), Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act and progressive relaxation in foreign direct investment norms over the years. Radha Dhir, CEO and Country Head, India, JLL, says, “Despite the second wave of COVID hitting India in April this year, the first six months of 2021 saw investments of $2.7 billion which is 53% of the total investments seen in 2020. Investors are showing resilience and are adapting to the uncertain environment,” adding, “Relaxing lockdowns during the first three months of 2021 also gave investors a first-hand experience of the post-pandemic world. This led to risk re-rating and asset allocations witnessed a subsequent change in Q2 2021.” In numbers Dhir explains how the first half of 2021 saw broader investor participation and although the economic dent created by the second wave will lead to slower growth in 2021, investments in real estate are expected to maintain momentum. “From where we stand, institutional investors have passed the litmus test of resilience during pandemic resurgence and are expected to commit more capital in 2021,” she adds. Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research & REIS, India, JLL, explains that the warehousing and logistics sector has been the biggest beneficiary during the pandemic and attracted total investments of over $1 billion during Q2 2021. Warehousing accounted for 55% share while retail formed 20% of total investments during the quarter. In addition, the data centre industry has been drawing strong operator and investor interest with various funds exploring entry strategies. Emerging trends The report also highlighted that investments in the warehousing and logistics sectors were attractive due to the increasing shift to online shopping from discretionary to essentials. Major global funds have invested with warehousing developers and operators as scale and regional footprint are the key differentiators in the sector. Some funds are following opportunistic strategies by investing in marquee retail assets and have been selectively investing in well-established malls. The shift in investment strategy from specific assets to platform type investments with marquee developers has also led to a shift from asset and region to the portfolio approach. Since most warehousing, as well as retail assets, are also located in tier 2 and 3 cities apart from major metros, the share of ‘Pan-India’ has been gaining prominence. In the future The investment trends for the last three months underline one key trend — strong investor confidence in the Indian realty sector. The experience gained over the past year has helped investors to deal with the more severe resurgence of the pandemic and will guide the future course of action. Though the economic dent created by the second wave will lead to slower growth in 2021, investments in real estate are expected to stay strong through the year. Defensive sectors like warehousing and data centres are likely to gain centre stage, while office assets will gain interest with more visibility on work from office trends. The REITs market is expected to get a further boost as the reduction in lot size of REIT units is expected to drive more retail participation, states the report. The growth prospects of the data centres are expected to attract capital at the development stage with ambitious expansion plans by industry players. Institutional investors have passed the litmus test of resilience during pandemic resurgence and are expected to commit more capital in 2021.  JLL India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/realty-investments-top-135-billion-in-q2/article35502600.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Style it in stripes||Stripes have been a design staple for years — in fashion, interiors, and art. But have you contemplated using this bold element in your home? Stripes may seem overpowering, but if used in moderation they can be fun and can add an upbeat vibe to any space. Playful, dramatic, formal, casual…there’s no role that stripes can’t play. Bright and bold, subtle and thin, multicolour and monochromatic, this array of parallel lines lends a touch of whimsy and panache. Explore a material of your choice — paint, fabric, wallpaper or collages — to create a linear look. Depending on how they are used, stripes can be overpowering or subtle. The scale of stripes used to decorate everything from walls and furnishings to artefacts and paint determines the final look. Here are a few tips to get you started: Narrow vertical stripes create the illusion of more height in a room by guiding the eyes upwards, while broad stripes tend to make the ceiling appear lower.  Use vertical stripes on hugely visible elements such as walls and drapes.  Horizontal stripes create the feeling of spread-out space. Large-scale patterns work well on big elements such as walls and beams; smaller stripes provide an appealing texture to furnishings such as cushions and rugs.  Don’t overdo the stripes when going large as you want a chic effect, not a busy one. Also, a little visual clutter is a given with stripes, so opt for colours from the same family for a harmonious feel.  Stripes add a strong visual element and must be balanced with restful décor. Opt for simple designs. For instance, a plain sofa against a striped wall, or striped blinds against a solid, lightly hued wall.  Feel free mix and match. Juxtapose stripes and patterns to create stunning décor, especially if you limit yourself to a colour family. Be judicious — offset bold stripes on the wall with small prints on furnishings, and vice versa.  Rule of thumb: Stand striped furnishings against solid walls; furniture with solid upholstery against striped walls. This will ensure that the eyes get a breather from the busy pattern.  Make your choice regarding the look you would like. A dramatic look with contrasting colour combinations like black and white, red and white, grey and fuchsia is an option. You could go the subtle route with pastels or tone-on-tone combinations, or over the top with parallel lines painted at an angle.  If you want to start small, select accessories and artefacts that display stripes in small doses. Choose from drapes, rugs, vases, lamps, table mats, runners, crockery, and throw cushions.  Stripes can also be used to jazz up furniture in a jiffy. Who says the parallel lines have to be limited to walls and beams? This innovative decorating technique can spruce up old furniture — be it sofas, chairs, bookcases or tables — in a jiffy.  Play patterns against stripes on an oversized sofa. Or, experiment with the fabric on dining chairs. Since the area is smaller, bolder patterns can be used.  Transform old boxes into innovative coffee tables by painting stripes in colours that match your room. Or add stripes to an old book case to give it a new lease of life.  The look in a room also depends on the lighting, furniture, colours and accessories. Innovate with stripes and create a look that defines you!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/style-it-in-stripes/article35502607.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The June upswing||A recent report by property brokerage firm PropTiger reveals that the month of June has seen a pick-up in demand in real estate. Titled Real Insight (Residential) – April-June (Q2) 2021, it states that half of the sales in the April-June quarter of 2021 took place in June as restrictions lifted across States. In the three-month period, the supply of new apartments in India’s eight prime residential markets witnessed a decline of 59% when compared to the January-March period of this year. A total of 21,839 new units were launched in these markets during Q2CY21. However, when compared to the same period last year, new launches show an increase of 74%. The report also highlights that affordably priced housing continues to be the key focus area for India’s developers, and this is evident from the fact that a majority of the new supply was concentrated in the mid-segment. In fact, 35% of the projects launched in the second quarter were in the Rs. 45-Rs. 75 lakh price bracket. Sales decline 16% YoY Even though real estate has emerged as a popular asset class among consumers in the aftermath of the pandemic, housing sales in Q2 showed a decline on a sequential as well as year-on-year (YoY) basis. With 15,968 transactions being recorded across these eight markets during the second quarter, home sales during the three-month period ending June 30 declined 16% YoY while registering a 76% quarter on quarter(QoQ) fall. All cities saw sales declining QoQ while annual comparisons show some improvement for few cities. With the second wave of the pandemic posing questions about the certainty of incomes, home buyers put on hold their plans to invest in properties despite the fact that a 15-year low home loan interest rate currently makes property purchase a sound financial proposition. According to the report, 45% of homes sold during the three-month period were priced up to Rs. 45 lakh. Inventory overhang increases With a slight increase of 1% QoQ, housing stock in these residential markets reached 711,215. Inventory overhang — the average estimated time builders would take to sell the unsold stock, keeping in view the current sales velocity — has also increased by one month when compared to the previous quarter. The report pegs the inventory overhang at 48 months now as against 47 months in Q1. While the MMR and the NCR markets have the highest inventory overhang of 64 months each, Hyderabad had the lowest inventory overhang of 27 months. Even though Kolkata now has the lowest number of unsold units, the demand slowdown has kept its overhang higher than Hyderabad. On the other hand, the western markets of Mumbai and Pune hold the highest share of unsold stock, claiming a 54% share in the overall stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-june-upswing/article35502604.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sub-division of patta||Ours is a residential complex comprising 28 flats (with single and two-rooms plus kitchen). Though we haven’t registered it under the Societies Act, we have drawn our bye-laws and follow the same. We charge the same maintenance charges irrespective of the size of the flat. Whenever any major repairs come up, we share the total cost equally. Recently, there was a change in the ownership of one of the single-room flats. This new owner talks of charging maintenance and other common expenses towards repairs, etc, based on the undivided portion. This has created problems in an otherwise smoothly run Association. Yet another owner of a flat with a two-room and kitchen, has not been paying charges towards common repairs. In fact, the owner’s previous tenant vacated the flat without paying the maintenance. When the Association asked the owner to pay, the person abdicated the responsibility. Also, the said owner, who is always at loggerheads with the Association, is not prepared to listen to the complaints, leave alone carrying out rectifications, regarding seepage of water onto the flat below his.  V S Jayaraman Chennai Unless your Association is duly registered, the bye-laws will have no legal sanctity. In any event, it is advisable to charge maintenance based on the undivided share of land owned by each of the flat owners as the Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, though not notified entirely, stipulates that common expenses will have to be charged according to the percentage of undivided interest of the apartment owners in the common areas and facilities specified in the Deed of Apartment. As for arrears of maintenance and non co-operation in rectifying defects in the apartment, you may approach the Court for necessary directions, after issuing a legal notice. I inherited a plot in Chennai along with my two brothers. It measures two grounds, with some old unused buildings thereon. There is a common patta for the plot. We now want to subdivide the plot and obtain three separate pattas. What is the procedure and cost for the same? N.R. Krishnaswami Chennai You must make a sub-division drawing and obtain approval from the local authority. If your intention is to own the sub-divided portions individually, all three of you have to execute and register a Deed of Partition dividing the property by metes and bounds based on the sub-division approval. Thereafter, by submitting the above documents, each of you can get an individual patta for your respective portions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/sub-division-of-patta/article35502602.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnataka cuts stamp duty||With the Karnataka Cabinet’s decision to reduce stamp duty on the registration of housing prices between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 45 lakh from 5% to 3%, Karnataka joins the bandwagon of states which understand that this is by far the single-biggest housing demand booster. However, while the move is definitely welcome, it is not likely to give a significant boost to housing sales in Bengaluru similar to what was seen in Maharashtra, where the state cut stamp duty for homes across all budget segments and not just one category, says Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants The fact is that housing demand in Bengaluru is largely skewed towards the mid-segment —properties priced within Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 1 crore. For these properties, the stamp duty charges, unfortunately, remain unchanged at around 5%. The positive impact would be more visible in cheaper cities like Dharwad, Mysuru, Hubli and Belagavi. In Maharashtra, the stamp duty cut made a massive positive difference to sales while it lasted, and this State is still feeling negative after-effects in terms of slower sales after the stamp duty reduction period expired and was not revived, adds Puri. West Bengal recently followed suit with a 2% stamp duty cut coupled with a 10% reduction in circle rates, which will work wonders for Kolkata’s housing market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/karnataka-cuts-stamp-duty/article35502612.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Gated community at ECR||Chennai-based land aggregator G Square recently announced the launch of a gated community project at ECR. Named G Square Sunnyvale, the project comprises seven RERA-approved residential plots at Neelankarai’s Sunrise Avenue. Available in sizes ranging between 2,508 sq. ft. and 4,088 sq. ft., the plots are equipped with black top internal roads, and street lights. The upcoming neighbourhood also boasts of educational institutions, hospitals, shopping hubs, and restaurants in its proximity. Prices start at Rs. 1.7 crore onwards. For details, log on to gsquarehousing.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/gated-community-at-ecr/article35502615.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Realty investments top $1.35 billion in Q2||According to JLL’s recently-released ‘Capital Markets Update Q2 2021’ report, institutional investors deployed $1.357 billion into the Indian commercial real estate market in the second quarter (April- June) of 2021, representing a ninefold increase year-on-year. Capital deployments in the April-June period represented the most active second quarter in five years. According to the realty firm, the pace and volume of investments over the past decade have been supported by the introduction of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in 2014, the Real estate Regulation and Development Act in 2016 (RERA), Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act and progressive relaxation in foreign direct investment norms over the years. Radha Dhir, CEO and Country Head, India, JLL, says, “Despite the second wave of COVID hitting India in April this year, the first six months of 2021 saw investments of $2.7 billion which is 53% of the total investments seen in 2020. Investors are showing resilience and are adapting to the uncertain environment,” adding, “Relaxing lockdowns during the first three months of 2021 also gave investors a first-hand experience of the post-pandemic world. This led to risk re-rating and asset allocations witnessed a subsequent change in Q2 2021.” In numbers Dhir explains how the first half of 2021 saw broader investor participation and although the economic dent created by the second wave will lead to slower growth in 2021, investments in real estate are expected to maintain momentum. “From where we stand, institutional investors have passed the litmus test of resilience during pandemic resurgence and are expected to commit more capital in 2021,” she adds. Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research & REIS, India, JLL, explains that the warehousing and logistics sector has been the biggest beneficiary during the pandemic and attracted total investments of over $1 billion during Q2 2021. Warehousing accounted for 55% share while retail formed 20% of total investments during the quarter. In addition, the data centre industry has been drawing strong operator and investor interest with various funds exploring entry strategies. Emerging trends The report also highlighted that investments in the warehousing and logistics sectors were attractive due to the increasing shift to online shopping from discretionary to essentials. Major global funds have invested with warehousing developers and operators as scale and regional footprint are the key differentiators in the sector. Some funds are following opportunistic strategies by investing in marquee retail assets and have been selectively investing in well-established malls. The shift in investment strategy from specific assets to platform type investments with marquee developers has also led to a shift from asset and region to the portfolio approach. Since most warehousing, as well as retail assets, are also located in tier 2 and 3 cities apart from major metros, the share of ‘Pan-India’ has been gaining prominence. In the future The investment trends for the last three months underline one key trend — strong investor confidence in the Indian realty sector. The experience gained over the past year has helped investors to deal with the more severe resurgence of the pandemic and will guide the future course of action. Though the economic dent created by the second wave will lead to slower growth in 2021, investments in real estate are expected to stay strong through the year. Defensive sectors like warehousing and data centres are likely to gain centre stage, while office assets will gain interest with more visibility on work from office trends. The REITs market is expected to get a further boost as the reduction in lot size of REIT units is expected to drive more retail participation, states the report. The growth prospects of the data centres are expected to attract capital at the development stage with ambitious expansion plans by industry players. Institutional investors have passed the litmus test of resilience during pandemic resurgence and are expected to commit more capital in 2021.  JLL India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/realty-investments-top-135-billion-in-q2/article35502613.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Saying goodbye: songs of loss||In April this year, Bengaluru-based composer Sanjay Sugumaran lost his father to the second wave. While most turn to art when coping with tragedy, artistes like Sugumaran have channelled their grief into their music. He chose rap to pay homage, and released the multi-lingual track, ‘Survive’, on YouTube a month later. Like his other counterparts, 27-year-old hoped his song brought people together with its message of hope, with lines like ‘ I will stand, no matter what / I will fight no matter what / I will love, no matter what / Survive, no matter what. ’ “My father had taken a loan and bought me my first keyboard and without him, I wouldn’t have been the musician that I am today,” says the rapper, who collaborated with singer John Mozart and rapper Joshua Kirubagaran. Since the pandemic also robbed those in mourning the chance to bid farewell to their loved ones with a gathering of friends and family at a funeral, making music was especially healing for artistes. Last year, TV actor Siddhant Karnick saw his father, an ex- army man, fight Covid-19 and finally succumb to it. “Writing my thoughts down was the only way to make sense of the senseless,” says Nashik-based Karnick on how the lyrics of ‘Best Before’ — released on Father’s Day (June 20) this year — came to be. Phone calls and CT scans Sugumaran explains how he began making notes for the song (also available on Spotify) right from the time his father was hospitalised. He recreated a phone conversation that he had with his father, and the video for the composition as well as the artwork is an image of his father’s last CT scan. On the other hand, Karnick’s ‘ Best Before ’, available on Amazon Music, is surprisingly buoyant for a track about loss. “I wanted to use the principle of playing against the dialogue, which is a popular technique used in theatre. It’s where, for example, the darker dialogues are delivered by the villain with a sense of comic timing,” explains Karnick, who approached Pune-based producer Gandhaar Amin to compose it.   “I expected them [the lyrics] to be more about the incident, but Siddhant turned it around into something positive,” says Amin. “Siddhant is someone who is always on the go, so I wanted the song to reflect that.” Unexpected death, combined with the inability to spend enough time with Covid patients during their last days, has left loved ones with unprecedented grief. “My uncle was the pillar of my family. He was my father figure and now that he’s gone, I feel so lost,” says Goa-based Allister Martins, 26, of his maternal uncle who passed away earlier this year due to Covid-related complications. Martins, who wrote the song ‘Without You’ the day his uncle passed away, has reflected on how those who are closest to the deceased deal with the situation. “His wife and he were high school sweethearts. So the lyrics are partly what I think and partly what could have been going on in my aunt’s mind,” says Martins, who also directed and shot the video (on YouTube, Spotify), which came out in June, on his phone. ‘ You told me you’ll be there / Till we’re old and have grey hair / Now I’m sitting all alone in your chair ,’ are lines that he wrote to depict his aunt’s emotions. Finding a sense of community Music has been a cathartic experience not just for the artistes, but for listeners as well. “The most touching message was from a friend I had reached out to work with on a lyric video. I had sent him the audio and the lyrics and, in response, I found out that he had lost his father a week ago and that the song had helped give him a sense of closure,” says singer-songwriter Abhilash LR from Mumbai. His composition ‘Reminiscing’, that released on YouTube, is dedicated to his grandmother who passed away before the pandemic. Besides supporting the bereaved, these songs have also created a sense of community. “The pandemic has shown us that we’re all in this together,” says vocalist Sharoni Poddar of Kolkata band, The Miliputs. The five-member band recently released ‘Bhule Jawa Blues’, an indie blues song in Bengali (also on YouTube). “Whether it’s about losing a person eternally or having to let go of someone because of the physical distance during the lockdown, our new release is all about the memories that haunt us when someone moves on,” concludes Poddar.  The writer is the former editor of Rolling Stone India and teaches journalism at FLAME University.   The pandemic has shown us that we’re all in this together Sharoni Poddar,vocalist, The Miliputs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/saying-goodbye-songs-of-loss/article35503163.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Irresponsibly yours||This city is full of irresponsible people. It makes me furious. Look at that stupid couple having a party, without even inviting me? Yesterday, I entered the lift and everyone inside rushed out. How do they expect us to spread cheer if people are taking social distancing to this degree? Of course, I had not worn my mask (it was a one-minute lift ride, after all — what can spread in one minute?). And then again, when was the last time they saw someone’s dazzling smile? (Lipstick shade Scandalous Ruby, in case you’re interested.) I mean, what’s the point of sending forwards that say ‘Keep Calm and Smile’ if no one can see that smile, and they are doing the opposite of keeping calm by stampeding over each other to avoid me and my Scandalous smile? I was the first to get my vaccine shot when they started it for senior citizens. Of course, you know I don’t appear remotely senior. I had to just flash my Aadhaar card, and can go back to being late-30s now. I made my husband’s driver (who is a senior citizen — I am honest that way) stand in the queue for three hours for my slot. The embarrassment! I saw a neighbour and before she opened her mouth, I pushed an old woman along, pretending I was there only to help my senior citizen aunt. My ‘aunt’ turned around and smacked my hand. My mean neighbour is now sending me ads for retirement homes and yoga for ageing bones. I shared my picture across social media. I put a flag emoji on the arm on which I got my vaccine. I have co-morbidities, I explained, even though I am in my late 30s. I had to make up some of the lesser co-morbidities to not appear both old and sick. Look at people thronging markets, to buy essential goods. When I threw a Covid party, I made sure everyone arrived at 10-minute intervals. No one ever saw crowds entering or leaving my house — I was super responsible like that. The building security said someone complained about the noise, and I said I was only watching TV. I am slightly deaf, I explained — it is one of my co-morbidities. They even tried to stop my maids from coming in. The maids are at risk from travelling, they said. Am I to now clean my own house? After the party that I (never) threw? I am throwing crying fits at the thought. Is that how you people want to spread cheer? Whenever someone sends me a link to donate for the Covid-unemployed, I tell them I am tirelessly supporting the economy. I spend days online-shopping for designer clothes, but where to wear them? Really! I even started a donation drive for myself and my co-morbidities. I am breaking my back being responsible, I said. No one has donated a single paisa . Irresponsible people.  Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/irresponsibly-yours/article35503137.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The feminist in burlesque||Conservative is not a word you’d call Sukki Menon. But surprisingly, the 31-year-old — born to a Singaporean-Malayalee father and an English mother — hails from a hyper traditional family. And she’s thankful for it. Sukki Singapora (as she is known to her fans and critics) is a burlesque dancer striving for Asian representation and women’s empowerment through her performing art. She is also a Netflix star, who shot to prominence after appearing on the popular 2019 docuseries, Singapore Social , which has since lead to movie offers and invites to Oscar parties. “Had my parents fully supported me [growing up], would I be as impassioned as I am?” she wonders out aloud, over a morning call from London. “Would I have had the angst, the fire in my belly, to take on a whole country, to travel the world and fight to make a difference for other young girls?” Because fight she did. First, she successfully campaigned for burlesque to be seen as a legitimate art form in Singapore. And now she’s her taking calling card of entertainer, feminist, activist and humanitarian across the world, to make inroads for brown performers. Perhaps why she isn’t too chuffed about being called Asia’s Dita Von Teese. “It is a compliment, of course; Dita is a queen. However, I do think as Asian artists we need to stop saying we’re the Asian version of something western. It’s an antiquated statement that somehow lessens us and our achievements to a subversive colonial thinking,” she says. “It’s like saying Shah Rukh Khan is the Indian George Clooney. No, George Clooney is like the western SRK!”  Taboo breaker  Burlesque may be viewed with prejudice by the majority, but it resonated with Sukki because it celebrated female sensuality, something that was seen as taboo in her childhood. “There are many misconceptions about the art form, such as it is a seedy activity in a night club with men crowded around. But it could not be farther from the truth. My shows are held in theatres around the world, and 80% of my audience is female.” To the staunch feminist — who believes that feminism is another word for human rights — burlesque is all about women taking charge, of their bodies, their choices. “I think that when a woman follows her heart and builds a career, she becomes an inspiration to other women. And while it is difficult when you are the first at anything, because you are inevitably alone, creating that role model for the next generation is important to me,” she concludes.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-feminist-in-burlesque/article35503155.ece
24 July 2021||NEW Delhi,||SC dismisses plea challenging NGT ban on sale and use of firecrackers||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a challenge to a National Green Tribunal (NGT) ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during the pandemic in the NCR and all cities and towns where the ambient air quality is in the ‘poor’ or above categories. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said it does not require a report by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) to know that firecrackers are bad for the lungs. The court reminded the petitioners, mostly firecracker manufacturers who said the ban was an impediment to their livelihoods, that the world is in the middle of a pandemic. The NGT had in its December 2020 order that only green crackers would be permitted for Christmas and New Year — between 11.55 p.m. and 12.30 a.m. — in areas where the ambient air quality is in the ‘moderate’ or below categories. District Magistrates were directed to ensure that firecrackers were not sold and violators are fined. ‘Right to business’ The Tribunal had reasoned that the “right to business is not absolute. There is no right to violate air quality and noise level norms”. The court agreed with the Tribunal order and said no further clarification was required. In 2017, the apex court had banned the use and sale of toxic crackers on the basis of a petition filed by two infants — a six-month-old and 14-month-old. ‘Right to life’ They had said the air pollution caused by various factors, especially firecrackers, has made Delhi a gas chamber. They pleaded for their right to life. The court had said the sale of green and improved crackers would be only through licensed traders. The court had dismissed arguments that bursting crackers was a fundamental right and an essential practice during religious festivals like Diwali. “We feel that Article 25 (right to religion) is subject to Article 21 (right to life). If a particular religious practice is threatening the health and lives of people, such practice is not to entitled to protection under Article 25… Our endeavour is to strive at balancing of two rights, namely, right of the petitioners under Article 21 and right of the manufacturers and traders under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution,” Justice Sikri had observed. “If the situation is covered by general directions of the Supreme Court, it must be followed in letter and spirit. In other words, these appeals are devoid of merit and are dismissed,” Justice Khanwilkar’s Bench said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sc-dismisses-plea-challenging-ngt-ban-on-sale-and-use-of-firecrackers/article35502826.ece
24 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mosque panel gives land for Kashi temple corridor in exchange deal||The Gyanvapi Masjid committee in Varanasi said it had handed over a 1,700 sq feet separate plot of land in the periphery of the Kashi Vishwanath-Gyanvapi Masjid complex for the under-construction Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor project on the request of the administration in exchange of another plot. Sayid Yasin, joint secretary of the Anjuma Intejamia Masajid, the caretaker of the masjid, told The Hindu on Friday that it was done as a “goodwill gesture” but a senior official of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust described it as simply an exchange of plots. In lieu of the plot, which is separate from the land on which the mosque is situated, the mosque committee received a smaller 1,000 sq feet plot at a distance of 100 mts at Bansphatak, Mr. Yasin said. The registry for the land was done on July 8 and the land was handed over subsequently, he added. Chief Executive Officer of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust Sunil Verma said the “exchange” deal was carried out with the Uttar Sunni Central Waqf Board. “It has nothing to do with the mosque. It [the plot] was outside the periphery of the mosque,” Mr. Verma said. Explaining the difference in sizes of the two plots exchanged, Mr. Verma said the exchange was done as per the value of the land, and not the size. The exchange of land rule was based on land to value, he said. In monetary value, both lands were equal, he stressed. Mr. Yasin said the mosque committee had three plots in the complex. One housed the mosque; the second had a common passage for both Hindu and Muslim devotees and the third (plot no. 8276) had a police control room built on it for the security of the two sites. ‘Bigger security setup’ However, since the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor was coming up near the complex, it was felt that a bigger security setup would be required at the location, he said. “The passage that leads to the temple was not big enough,” he said. Mr. Verma, however, argued that the plot was surrounded by the temple property on all four sides. It would remain open, he said, when asked about the plans of construction on the plot. Mr. Yasin said though the property belonged to the Sunni Waqf Board, the mosque committee had entered into the exchange deed after the approval of the Board. It must be noted that a local court in Varanasi on April 8 had directed the Archaeological Survey of India to conduct a survey of the Gyanvapi Mosque compound adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple to find out whether it was a “superimposition, alteration or addition or there is structural overlapping of any kind, with or over, any other religious structure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mosque-panel-gives-land-for-kashi-temple-corridor-in-exchange-deal/article35502812.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||People speak on hunger at public hearing held by food rights group||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikaar Abhiyaan (DRRAA) on Friday held a public hearing on hunger and food insecurity in the Capital. Several people from different parts of the city shared their experiences on how during the pandemic and economic distress, they were unable to get ration from the government designated centres. Krishna Devi, a domestic help from Gautampuri, said: “My husband is unable to work owing to health issues. Even during the last lockdown, we did not receive any ration. I have visited several government offices and tried to arrange all kinds of documents. Despite that, I have struggled to even get a ration card made. It has become increasingly difficult to sustain ourselves without government aid.” Several people also said despite having applied for ration cards years back, they still haven’t received one. Amrita Johri of the DRRAA said according to an RTI response, around two lakh ration card applications are pending with the government. Veerwati from Pratapgarh said: “I had applied for a ration card in 2016 but still haven’t got one. I did not even receive any ration through the e-coupon system, which was launched last year during the lockdown. This time, I visited the designated schools several times but was told that the ration is out of stock. Not only did I not get ration, but I also ended up spending more on commuting.” Suman Devi, a resident of the Lal Gumbad camp, described how delayed ration distribution had affected the family of four. “My husband used to work in a factory, and he has been out of work since lockdown. I used to work as help but I lost that as well. My eldest child had to discontinue studies and we are trying hard to provide proper nourishment to the younger one as well. It was only in June that we got the ration designated for May and that too after much hassle. Expenses for everything have increased. They ask us to nourish our children well. How are we supposed to do that when we have no work and ration ourselves?,” rued Ms. Devi.  I had applied for a ration card in 2016 but still haven’t got one. I did not even receive any ration through the e-coupon system Veerwati A resident of Pratapgarh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/people-speak-on-hunger-at-public-hearing-held-by-food-rights-group/article35502821.ece
24 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana pvt. hospitals to refund excess amount to COVID patients||Private hospitals in Haryana’s Panchkula district will refund an amount of Rs. 21.46 lakh ‘overcharged’ from COVID-19 patients for their treatment, even as they are in the process of refunding a similarly charged amount of Rs. 35.43 lakh. The latest amount of Rs. 21.46 lakh has been calculated after self-audit of bills by the hospitals from March 1 to April 30. A district-level committee was constituted by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta to look into complaints of ‘overcharging’ by private hospitals during the second wave of COVID-19. Mr. Gupta said that on the recommendations of the committee an amount of Rs. 35.43 lakh in different cases that was ‘overcharged’ was already being returned by private hospitals. “Apart from this, an additional amount of Rs. 21.46 lakh calculated after self-audit of bills by private hospitals will be paid to the patients and their families,” he said. Panel recommendation B.B. Singhal, member of the Covid bill monitoring committee, told The Hindu on Friday that on therecommendation of the panel, Alchemist Hospital, Wings Hospital and Paras Hospital were in the process of refunding an amount of Rs. 35 lakh to patients and their families. “Apart from this, 33 cases were reviewed by private hospitals from March 1 to April 30 and, on the basis of self-audit of bills, an amount of Rs. 21 lakh would be refunded; 6 cases are from Alchemist Hospital, 10 from Ojas Hospital and 17 from Paras Hospital,” he said. ‘Self-audit continuing’ Mr. Singhal said the self-audit by hospitals was still continuing and they had been directed to submit a report before the committee by July 31. The committee was constituted under the chairmanship of Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Imran Raza. During the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, several patients and their families had met Mr. Gupta and complained that private hospitals were overcharging for treatment. Taking cognisance of the complaints, the Speaker had recommended the formation of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-pvt-hospitals-to-refund-excess-amount-to-covid-patients/article35502810.ece
24 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Released Manipur journalist to move Supreme Court against NSA||Manipur journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem, released after more than two months in jail, said he was considering petitioning the Supreme Court for scrapping the National Security Act (NSA). His petition against the sedition law is pending in the apex court. “I will talk to my lawyers and see if I can move the Supreme Court against the NSA just as I had done against the sedition law,” he said after his release from jail at 4:10 pm on Friday. He was arrested along with political activist Erendro Leichongbam on May 13 under the NSA for using the death of Manipur BJP president S. Tikendra Singh to comment on social media that “consuming cow dung and cow urine” cannot cure anyone of COVID-19. Mr. Leichongbam was released on July 19 following an order by the Supreme Court. Accusing the State government of abusing powers to silence dissenting voices, Mr. Wangkhem said he was targeted as he was conducting an investigation for a story relating to COVID-19. He claimed COVID-19 cases had surged in Manipur after the return of some 200-250 people from the Kumbh Mela. “The government probably got a wind of what I was trying to do and put me in jail to make sure I cannot speak the truth.,” Mr. Wangkhem said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/released-manipur-journalist-to-move-supreme-court-against-nsa/article35502811.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Apex court rejects DJB petition for contempt action against Haryana||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) seeking contempt action against Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan and Additional Chief Secretary Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Devender Singh, for wilfully disobeying a February 1996 order of the court to maintain the water level at the Wazirabad reservoir to serve the drinking water needs of the Capital. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, senior advocate Vikas Singh, for DJB, submitted Haryana was not supplying Yamuna water to the Capital as required under the court order. Mr. Singh said there was a shortage of 450 cusecs in the water supplied by Haryana to Delhi regardless of the court’s directions. ‘Water crisis in Delhi’ “Due to non-supply of adequate water by Haryana, the water level in the Wazirabad reservoir is only 31% of the capacity. This has the possibility of triggering a severe water crisis in Delhi. The petitioner has already had to curtail water for several areas in Delhi, including President’s Estate, Parliament House and other institutional and diplomatic buildings as well as many residential areas,” the DJB had submitted. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for Haryana, countered that the contempt petition was an “absolute abuse of process” by the DJB. Haryana is releasing more than 1,000 cusecs of water and sometimes even more, he submitted. The court dismissed the contempt petition after a short hearing. The DJB had accused Haryana of contempt for acting in clear violation of the apex court order of February 29, 1996, in the Delhi Water Supply and Sewage Disposal Undertaking versus State of Haryana case. The DJB, earlier in 2021, had approached the apex court to “immediately stop” Haryana from discharging pollutants into the Yamuna River.  Contempt petition was an absolute abuse of process by the DJB Shyam Divan Senior advocate for Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/apex-court-rejects-djb-petition-for-contempt-action-against-haryana/article35502824.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||IYC objects to Lekhi’s comment on protesters||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Sunday protested against “indecent” remarks made by Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi against farmers. The National president of IYC, Srinivas B.V., said remarks made by Ms. Lekhi towards the food givers of the country are highly condemnable. “For the last 8 months, the country’s food producers have been fighting day and night on the border of Delhi against the three black agricultural laws, leaving everything behind, but the BJP government of the capitalists is trying to crush the protest. The country’s youth will not let Modi government succeed in their conspiracy,” Mr. Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iyc-objects-to-lekhis-comment-on-protesters/article35502822.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP to launch protest if CM fails to fulfil promises made to farmers in a month||The BIP on Friday announced it was giving Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal a month to fulfil promises made to the Capital’s farmers failing which the party’s Kisan Morcha would launch an agitation. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri termed it “shameful” that courts had to remind the Chief Minister of the promises made to the people which he had “conveniently forgotten”, including those made to the farmers of Delhi. “The same kind of promises are being made to farmers in Punjab and they will face the same kind of betrayal at the hands of Mr. Kejriwal. He has become a promise making machinery but has been terrible at fulfilling them,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged at a meeting of the Delhi BJP Kisan Morcha Working Committee The LOP said Mr. Kejriwal had promised to the farmers of Delhi that if he came to power, he would give 50% more price than the MSP announced by the Centre but this has not happened. This announcement, Mr. Bidhuri said, was made around three years ago and if calculated in terms of value, the Delhi government owed Rs. 300 crore to the farmers and demanded that it be paid to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-to-launch-protest-if-cm-fails-to-fulfil-promises-made-to-farmers-in-a-month/article35502823.ece
24 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||No complacency in fight against COVID: Naveen||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday warned against complacency in the COVID-19 preparedness for the possible third wave as positive cases in the State steadily decreased in the last few weeks. “Although the situation is under control, we should not remain self-satisfied, but become more vigilant which will keep us safe,” said Mr. Patnaik reviewing COVID-19 situation here. He directed officials to strictly enforce the COVID-19 protocols. ‘First priority’ “If the third wave of COVID-19 hits us by end of August, we will have to tackle with full-preparedness. Healthcare is a first priority of the State government. We are giving emphasis on strengthening of health infrastructure as well as human resource development,” said Mr. Patnaik He said the State government had provided COVID-19 assistance to the tune of Rs. 2,004 crore in 10 different categories of beneficiaries including particularly vulnerable tribal groups, migrant labourers, street vendors and woman self-help groups. Meanwhile, 1.5 lakh vaccines have been administered which is almost 50% of targeted population of above 18 years in Odisha. ‘1.14 crore first jabs’ According to State Health and Family Welfare department, 1.14 crore people have received the first dose while 36 lakh have been administered the second dose. As many as 64,29,405 persons aged above 45 have taken the first dose while 42,89,450 in the age-group of 18 to 44 have received the first dose. Besides, around 7 lakh health and frontline workers have been given the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-complacency-in-fight-against-covid-naveen/article35502808.ece
24 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Now, Guwahati sees home delivery of liquor||Online sale and home delivery of liquor has come into effect in areas within the Guwahati Municipal Corporation following a notification by Excise Principal Secretary Rajesh Prasad. The facility, which may be extended to other areas of the State, has been provided to avoid overcrowding and to facilitate social distancing norms in terms of COVID-19 guidelines, the order said. The online sale is also envisaged to curb consumption of illicit liquor. An official statement on Friday said eligible retailers have been asked to register on an app developed solely for online sale by furnishing a copy of the valid licence, location of the premises, list of delivery agents with name, address, phone number, photograph, and other details. The delivery agent shall not be less than 21 years of age and each retailer can engage a maximum of 10 delivery agents, the order said. The home delivery period has been fixed from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. subject to compliance of the lockdown restrictions issued from time to time. “The online sale of liquor shall not be available for hostels of educational institutions, government, non-government, semi-government offices and other public and religious places,” the order said, adding that retailers would have to abide by the MRP fixed by the Assam Excise Department. Three litre limit The eligible customer could order online up to three litres (bulk litre) of liquor while the delivery agent could carry a maximum of nine litres at a time, it stated. Retailers of Indian made foreign liquor, beer and country spirit have been asked to charge Rs. 50 an order for a distance of less than 1 km and Rs. 75 an order for a distance between 1 km and 2 km. Service charges and Internet payment gateway charges, as may be applicable, will be borne by the customer. Assam is the second State in the Northeast after Meghalaya to allow home delivery of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-guwahati-sees-home-delivery-of-liquor/article35502809.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two criminals arrested in attempt to murder case||A 25-year-old man — out on special parole due to COVID in June — and his accomplice have been arrested after a brief exchange of fire in north-east Delhi’s Brahmpuri, the police said on Friday. DCP (North-East) Sanjay Kumar Sain said the accused have been identified as Arbaj and Shahwaj (25) — both residents of Zafrabad. A firing incident took place in Seelampur on July 14 following which a case of attempt to murder was registered. “The accused duo was identified. On Friday at 12.35 a.m., a police team raided a house in Nand Ram Mohalla in Brahmpuri in search of Arbaj and Shahwaj. The duo was found on the first floor of the house,” the officer said, adding that after seeing the policemen, they tried to flee the spot. A chase began. The police said they conducted an intensive search operation in the area and later, zeroed in a house, which was locked from inside. “The house owner was not opening even after repetative knocking. Later, the owner, who appeared scared, opened the gate and requested police to save his family as both the accused were hiding in his house,” the officer said.  The accused then fired three rounds at the police team. The team also fired in self-defense and the accused received gunshot injuries on their legs, Mr. Sain said. They were then shifted to a hospital where they are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-criminals-arrested-in-attempt-to-murder-case/article35502832.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Ishrat seeks bail, claims police have no evidence in riots case||Former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, arrested under the stringent law UAPA, sought bail on Friday in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case saying that Delhi Police does not have “an iota of evidence” against her. Ms. Jahan and several others have been booked under the anti-terror law in the case and are accused of being the “masterminds” of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. “The intent was to falsely implicate her. The investigating agency [police] does not have an iota of evidence to show that Ms. Jahan was connected to the conspiracy,” said advocate Pradeep Teotia, appearing for Jahan, while arguing for her bail before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. This is the first time the accused has sought regular bail in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ishrat-seeks-bail-claims-police-have-no-evidence-in-riots-case/article35502815.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC issues notice on plea for draft MPD in Punjabi, Urdu||The Delhi High Court Friday sought DDA’s reply on a petition seeking publication of the draft Master Plan of Delhi 2041 in Punjabi and Urdu languages. An HC Bench issued notice in the petition filed by National Hawker Federation and six individuals and granted time to Delhi Development Authority to file response. The petition, which is filed through advocate Anupradha Singh and Imsori Amri, also seeks a direction to DDA publish all the documents, including the preparatory studies and maps, relied upon by it while preparing the draft Master Plan 2041. The petition states that while the master plan was critical for envisioning the city’s upcoming 20 years, DDA published the published its draft for the general only in Hindi and English and excluded the two other official languages, Punjabi and Urdu. It is thus argued that such publication was discriminatory as it excluded the part of the population which cannot read Hindi or English. The petition also asserts that stakeholders would want to share suggestion but most of them are unaware of the draft master plan and are in no position to contribute. The petition submits that sharing information with respect to the plan was essential to not only ensure transparency but to also protect the right of citizens to participate. The matter would be heard next on August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-issues-notice-on-plea-for-draft-mpd-in-punjabi-urdu/article35502817.ece
24 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: HC seeks police reply on Tahir Hussain’s plea||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the police to respond to a plea by former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain — arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots last year — seeking to set aside UAPA provisions relating to terror activities invoked against him in the chargesheet. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police on the petition, which has also challenged grant of sanction to prosecute him in the case lodged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The court said a reply affidavit/ status report be filed by the authorities within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on September 28. Senior advocate Mohit Mathur, representing Hussain, submitted that although the provisions relating to terrorist activities have been invoked against him in the charge sheet, there is nothing to show that his act was that of a terrorist. Hussain has sought to set aside UAPA provisions including sections 13 (punishment for unlawful activities), 15 (terrorist act), 16 (punishment for terrorist act) and 18 (punishment for conspiracy) invoked in the charge sheet filed by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police. The chargesheet in the UAPA case relates to an alleged larger conspiracy that led to the riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-riots-hc-seeks-police-reply-on-tahir-hussains-plea/article35502820.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Jam session||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jam-session/article35502829.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wife of TMC MLA robbed||The wife of TMC MLA and former Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Vivek Gupta was robbed of her bag by a gang in south-east Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar on Friday afternoon, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said the victim, Kanika Gupta, is currently residing at a hotel in Lodhi Colony. A case charge of theft has been registered. The incident happened when she was in her car with her driver on Defence Colony flyover. A man intercepted their vehicle following which the driver deboarded the car. Suddenly, another person distracted her following which, she too, deboarded the car. Next, when she got inside the car, she found that her bag containing cash, phone, gold coin and documents was missing. Further probe is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wife-of-tmc-mla-robbed/article35502833.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Gond art on quinoa packs||The last year has been quite transformative for India’s traditional artists. As exhibitions got cancelled and inventories began piling up, they started looking at alternative ways to make a living. Pattachitra masks, Madhubani wall panels depicting scenes from the pandemic, and the like began popping up on e-stores and timelines. Brands, too, began doing their bit to help get them visibility. The latest champion is Taru Naturals. The grassroots movement that connects 10,000 small-scale farmers to markets has just launched its organic D2C (direct to consumer) brand — think stone-milled flour, ready-to-eat breakfast foods, indigenous grains, and more. What sets it apart, however, is its packaging featuring Gond art. Developed by Saurav Roy, founder of Goa-based Roy Studio, the vibrant artwork — by renowned artists such as Gati Rita, Suresh Kumar and Mukesh Varia — not only showcases the story of the farming community but pushes the Studio’s ongoing efforts to “re-contextualise how design and craft can come together”. The packaging also features the artist’s name and where one can get in touch with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gond-art-on-quinoa-packs/article35503135.ece
24 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan free rental scheme for farm tools a success||A scheme launched by the Congress government in Rajasthan for providing agricultural equipment, including tractors and seed sowing machines rent free to small and marginal farmers has turned out to be successful. Over 25,000 farmers have benefited from the scheme during the ongoing kharif crop season. Since June this year, 65,915 hours of operation were recorded on the agricultural fields measuring 40,578 acres, giving relief to the needy farmers with small land holdings. Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said here on Friday that the programme would continue till this month-end. Over 27,300 farmers across the State had benefited from the scheme with 1.03 lakh hours of operation during the COVID-19 pandemic between April and July last year. The free rental scheme has been launched for the farmers who own up to 2.5 acres of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-free-rental-scheme-for-farm-tools-a-success/article35502807.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/back-to-business/article35502814.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man nabbed for killing relative over ‘loan’ issue||A 36-year-old man allegedly killed his relative and another man in north-west Delhi’s Wazirpur, the police said on Friday. The accused — Sandeep Jain, owner of a utensil factory in Wazirpur Industrial area, and his accomplices — driver Sanjay Kumar (28) and rickshaw-puller Sunil — have been arrested, they said. The trio killed Surender Gupta (36), owner of a chemical godown in Bawana, and his friend Amit Goel (35). Jain had borrowed Rs. 20 lakh from Gupta but was unable to repay the loan following which he was threatened with dire consequences. Goel’s body was found inside his car in Timarpur on Thursday. Gupta was found dead inside Jain’s factory, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-nabbed-for-killing-relative-over-loan-issue/article35502831.ece
24 July 2021||Moga,||Three killed, 40 hurt in Punjab accident||Three persons were killed and forty others injured, nine of them seriously, in a collision between two buses on the Moga-Amritsar road in this district of Punjab on Friday, police said. Those killed and injured were travelling in a minibus which was on its from Zira town to Chandigarh carrying supporters of the Congress party who were to attend the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as State party chief. The minibus collided with a State-owned PEPSU roadways bus near Lohara village, police said. Moga Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said the deceased have been identified as Virsa Singh, Vickey and Gurtej Singh. The nine seriously injured were referred to a hospital in Ludhiana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-killed-40-hurt-in-punjab-accident/article35502806.ece
24 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shinjini- brief||The DMRC has installed several selfie points across the metro network to pledge support to Indian athletes at the Tokyo Olympics. The DMRC tweeted: “Many enthusiastic patrons joined the entire nation in cheering for our athletes. Show your support along with Delhi Metro to the pride of our nation at the Tokyo Olympics...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shinjini-brief/article35502827.ece
24 July 2021||3D-printed bridge:,||Instapick||Amsterdam is checking the innovative box yet again. It has just unveiled the world’s first 3D-printed steel bridge, fabricated from 4,500 kg of stainless steel rods. Designed by artist Joris Laarman, and built by Dutch robotics company MX3D, the curving S-shaped structure spans the Oudezijds Achterburgwal in the city’s Red Light District.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article35503136.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hello, shopping||American cosmetics company, Anastasia Beverly Hills, is opening its first stand-alone store in India, in Noida, by the end of the month. But if you can’t travel, don’t worry. Shop brow pomades, eyeshadow palettes, mascaras, and more on Nykaa, which recently rolled out the brand’s products in the Rs. 1,200-Rs. 6,000 price range. Meanwhile, Chumbak has launched the Squad Smartwatch that monitors blood oxygen levels, menstrual cycle, steps, and sports. Available in six designs; at chumbak.com; Rs. 4995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hello-shopping/article35503141.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Nature diaries||A world without seeds; it’s a scary thought. This dystopian idea, pegged on a real-life incident — of cotton farmers from Odisha’s Bhimdanga village — had formed the backbone of Bijal Vachharajani’s 2018 book,The Seed Savers. Now, Mumbai-based Repertory Theatre is turning the tale about how the villagers came together to open a seed bank into a one-hour shadow theatre show and workshop. This Sunday, at 4.30 pm, for children between six and 12 years. Tickets at Rs. 349.in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nature-diaries/article35503142.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||South Korea calling||It is BTS vs BTS. The K-pop group’s latest single, ‘Permission to Dance’, has beaten their May hit, ‘Butter’, to nab the no. 1 spot on Billboard Hot 100. The catchy tune, co-written by Ed Sheeran and with a five-minute MV, is an earworm. Meanwhile, if you are into all things Korean, head to InKo Centre’s Annyeong Station — a new platform for conversations, exchanges and demonstrations (last Thursdayjapchae, the popular Korean glass noodles dish, was on the menu).Details: inkocentre.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/south-korea-calling/article35503143.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading and viewing||A Begum & A Rani: Hazrat Mahal and Lakshmibaiin 1857captures the different struggles of the two women who chose to be a part of India’s first war of independence. Author Rudrangshu Mukherjee is the chancellor and professor of history at Ashoka University. Penguin Random House; Rs. 699. See rather than read at Terrain.art that has a solo exhibition by emerging contemporary artist Jayeti Bhattacharya. Shifting Coordinates shows the context of migration in many ways. On view until July 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reading-and-viewing/article35503145.ece
24 July 2021||Tokyo 2020:,||Talking point||The Olympics is underway and you can catch the action on SonyLIV. The OTT platform is hosting 20 live streams, in Hindi, English, Tamil and Telugu (download the app for iOS and Android). Now there’s no excuse to miss Chennai sailor Nethra Kumanan hit the waves, catch Jaipur’s air rifle favourite, Avani Lekhara, in action at the Paralympics, or watch 13-year-old English girl Sky Brown conquer the skatepark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article35503146.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||LV for your ears||Thanos would love to steal this one! Looking like it would fit perfectly into the Marvel multiverse, Louis Vuitton’s new portable Horizon Light Up Speaker is futuristic and fashionable. Inspired by the Toupie handbag, the latest addition to the luxury brand’s collection of connected products incorporates glass, stainless steel, and leather, 35 LEDs, three-inch subwoofers, two 0.75-inch tweeters, and up to 15 hours of playback — all for the whopping price tag of approx Rs. 2,15,200. Out end of August.eu.louisvuitton.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lv-for-your-ears/article35503147.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Refills for the win||Here’s some good news for those looking for plastic packaging alternatives. Mumbai’s Reliance Smart Acme Mall is now home to a Unilever pilot project: the in-store vending model, Smart Fill. Set up in partnership with Reliance Retail, the initiative helps customers get a refill of their homecare products — for brands such as Surf Excel, Vim and Comfort — rather than purchase a new packet. As added incentive: consumers can get Rs. 30 off on the MRP if they get their own bottle and Rs. 15 off if they buy the Smart Fill bottle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/refills-for-the-win/article35503148.ece
24 July 2021||July 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Right of admission||What happens when four estranged college friends reunite on Zoom during the pandemic and then decide to stay in touch? That’s what stand-up comedian and writer Anuvab Pal explores inAdmission. Starring actors Kunaal Roy Kapur, Tillotama Shome, Rasika Dugal and Noah Lucé, the 55-minute play is directed by Rohan Sippy. Bookings are open now (tickets from Rs. 199 onwards), and the show, which opens on July 31 at 6.30 pm, will be available for streaming for 24 hours on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/right-of-admission/article35503149.ece
