25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Private sector lagging in vaccination drive: Goyal||Taking on the private sector for failing to pick up the full 25% quota of COVID-19 vaccines allotted to it, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the government would ensure that everyone in the country got free vaccine with or without the sector’s help. Stressing that the Union government has been “responsive” to the demands of the industry and the States for a greater say in the vaccination drive, the Minister said business groups had made lofty promises about going to the hinterland and administering crores of jabs, but had failed to deliver. “You demanded and I remember how much you all fought with me and sought that vaccination be opened up for the private sector. Today, you are not even buying those 25% of vaccines [that has been allotted to you],” Mr. Goyal said. ‘Govt. committed’ “Please also calibrate your actions once you get what you demanded… But don’t worry, our government is committed to providing free vaccine to everybody that is eligible irrespective of whether the private sector does take the 25% quota,” he said. “I remember one industry group said, ‘I will do one crore vaccinations’ and another said ‘We will go to remote areas and do it’. Nobody has gone to Bihar, northeast, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh to run campaigns to remove vaccine hesitancy and use up that 25% quota,” the Minister said in an address at the plenary session of the CII-Horasis India meeting. Underlining that vaccination is critical to the economy’s turnaround, Mr. Goyal said he expected almost every adult to have at least one dose by December, with most of them getting a second dose as well. While vaccine hesitancy remained a concern, the Minister said “India should be proud of being the world’s largest vaccinator” with about 42-43 crore jabs already completed. “Our run rate is now 12 crore or so every month and soon to become 15 crore in the next one or two months and possibly, 20 crore by the end of the calendar year,” he said. Brushing aside Opposition jibes about the pace of vaccination in the country, he said politicians seek to “demean” the progress and talk about the percentage of vaccination in the population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-sector-lagging-in-vaccination-drive-goyal/article35518555.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Rain fury: death toll touches 112||The death toll in the torrential rain that deluged Konkan and western Maharashtra rose to 112 on Saturday. Over 99 are still missing. Water discharge from dams led to floods in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. Over 1.3 lakh people have been shifted to safer places as rescue work continued throughout Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted gradual reduction in rain over the region in four or five days, though severe weather and intense rainfall is forecast in isolated places. Apart from the 17 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the State, eight extra teams were called in from Bhubaneshwar. In addition, rescue teams from the Army, the Navy, the Coast Guard and the Air Force have been working to evacuate people. CM visits Taliye Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday visited Taliye village in Mahad tehsil of Raigad district, promising rehabilitation of the affected villagers. A total of 36 bodies were found at the village, while 34 persons are missing, according to the NDRF. However other reports put the number of dead at 49 and those missing at 52. State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad announced that the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority would rebuild the village as promised by Mr. Thackeray. A fund of Rs. 2 crore has been provided to Raigad district from the department through the State Disaster Response Fund. “The tragedy that befell on you is huge. So, you first look after yourself and stay safe and leave rest of the problems to us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-fury-death-toll-touches-112/article35518989.ece
25 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,||Rain batters eastern Malappuram||Dozens of families were evacuated as rain continued to batter the eastern parts of the district, triggering floods in the Chaliyar since Friday. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has warned the people to remain alert as the India Meteorological Department predicted heavy rain. Dozens of families in the tribal hamlets of Iruttukuthi, Vaniyampuzha, Tharippapotti and Kumbalapara across the Chaliyar off the Munderi Seed Garden Complex in Pothukal village of Nilambur taluk were marooned with the river in spate. Two women, one of them pregnant and the other sick, were rescued from the marooned Iruttukuthi hamlet in an inflatable dinghy with the help of Fire and Rescue Services personnel and civic volunteers on Friday. The district administration said they were equipped to open emergency camps any time at Vazhikkadavu, Edakkara, Pothukal, Kurumbalangode, and Akampadam villages as the flood posed a threat there. In Chokkad village, eight families were evacuated after a river changed its course following heavy rain at Vallipoola on Friday evening. In Palakkad The opening of the shutters of the Kanjirapuzha dam in Palakkad district on Friday caused the waters in the Bharatapuzha to rise. People living along the banks of the river in Palakkad and Malappuram districts were cautioned to maintain vigil. DDMA officials warned the people living in the foothills in the district to maintain alert as the continuing rain could trigger landslips. The DDMA has warned that those living in areas that witnessed landslips and floods in 2018, 2019 and 2020 should be on guard. The district administration asked those living in the coastal areas to shift to safety as there were possibilities of sea erosion. Fishing in the sea was also proscribed considering the potential dangers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-batters-eastern-malappuram/article35518868.ece
25 July 2021||Chennai,||Mirabai wins India’s first medal in Tokyo||It was an incredible Saturday for India at the Tokyo Olympics as Mirabai Chanu won a silver in the 49 kg weightlifting category. Hailing from Manipur, the 26-year-old lifted a total of 202 kg to emerge second behind China’s Hou Zhihui, who won the gold at 210 kg. Mirabai lifted 87 kg in snatch and in the clean and jerk segment, she hoisted 115 kg and helped India open its account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mirabai-wins-indias-first-medal-in-tokyo/article35518553.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State records 100% pass in ICSE exams||In a year marked by unprecedented academic disruptions, the ICSE (Class X) pass percentage touched 100 in the State, while it was 99.96 for ISC (Class XII). The pass percentage was up from 99.96 for ICSE and 99.48 for ISC last year. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced theICSE and ISC results on Saturday afternoon. The ICSE and ISC examinations were not conducted this year in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. The council had announced an evaluation criteria according to which students were evaluated. The national pass percentage was 99.98 for ICSE and 99.76 for the ISC students. Like last year, the CISCE did not publish the merit lists for the ICSE and ISC results this time. State profile In the State, all 7,787 students (3,728 boys and 4,059 girls) emerged successful in Class X, while only one of the 2,775 ISC students (1,323 boys and 1,452 girls) was unsuccessful in class XII. Both girls and boys had a pass percentage of 100% in ICSE, while in ISC girls outdid boys, securing a pass percentage of 100 to their 99.92. As many as 158 ICSE schools and 68 ISC schools presented students this year. Evaluation criteria To compile the ICSE marks, the CISCE took into consideration the average marks scored by candidates in papers/subjects in various tests/examinations conducted by the school at the Class IX and Class X levels and internal assessment marks (the project and practical work for the ICSE 2021 examination). For ISC, the parameters were average marks scored by candidates in papers/subjects in various tests/examinations conducted by the school at the Class XI and Class XII levels; the Class X average marks (English + best four subjects); and the marks of the project work and/or practical examination for the ISC 2021 examination. While the Southern region had the best result with 100% pass in ICSE, the Southern and Western regions shared the honours with a pass percentage of 99.91 in ISC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-100-pass-in-icse/article35518872.ece
25 July 2021||KURNOOL,||A.P. writes to KRMB on ‘illegal’ use of Krishna water by Telangana||The State government, in a letter to the Krishna River Management Board, on Saturday raised its indent of utilising 27 tmcft of Krishna water from Srisailam for drinking and irrigation purposes in Rayalaseema and Chennai, and has requested the board to adjust 82.40 tmcft utilised “unauthorisedly” by Telangana for power generation recently without any indent for drinking or irrigation needs. In the letter written to the KRMB Member-Secretary, Engineering-in-Chief (Irrigation) C. Narayana Reddy said the Telangana government had utilised 43.25 tmcft from Srisailam reservoir, 27.23 tmcft from Nagarjunasagar Project, and 11.92 tmcft from Pulichintala for power generation without any indent, intimation, or release order from the KRMB. He requested the board to account for this quantity against its agreed share of 299 tmcft. The official opined that considering the ad hoc arrangement to share water in 66:34 ratio by A.P. and Telangana, the utilisation of 82.40 tmcft by Telangana gave the right to A.P. to use 160 tmcft for its drinking and irrigation needs. Of the 27 tmcft indent placed by Andhra Pradesh, 3 tmcft was for Chennai’s drinking water, 7 tmcft for Telugu Ganga, 8 tmcft for the SRBC / GNNS, 2 tmcft for KC Canal assistance, and 7 tmcft for HNSS. The flow into Srisailam is expected to be over 4 lakh cusecs, hence release order has been sought for drawal of water from Pothireddypadu Head Regulator and lifting of water through HNSS for Rayalaseema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-writes-to-krmb-on-illegal-use-of-krishna-water-by-telangana/article35518548.ece
26 July 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur erupts in joy||All sections of people of Manipur joined hands with those across the country in congratulating Padma Shri Saikhom Mirabai Chanu. Bhakta Charan Das, general secretary of the All India Congress Committee, now camping here, said, “Miss Mirabai has done the country and the people proud by winning the first silver medal in the Olympics. I on behalf of Mrs. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi congratulate her. I also congratulate the people of this soil on this proud moment.” T. Radheshyam, former Minister and now BJP MLA and president of the Manipur Olympics Association, said, “It is a great day for Manipur and the rest of the country. Mirabai has made all of us proud by winning the country’s first medal at Tokyo.” Despite curfew and other COVID-19 restrictions, people celebrated the great event. “But she will do better in the next Olympics games” is the refrain. Manipur Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren, also congratulated Ms. Mirabai Chanu on her victory. Mr. Biren who was a national level footballer, had some weeks ago announced rewards amounting to more than Rs. 1 crore for any Manipuri player winnig a medal. An elderly woman in her native village, Nongpok Kakching, said, “I knew she would shine one day since from her childhood she has been strong and good natured girl.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-erupts-in-joy/article35518925.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Curbs eased for places of worship from today||The State government on Saturday further relaxed COVID-19 curbs, allowing more activities in places of worship and reopening of amusement parks and similar places. This will come into effect from Sunday, with certain guidelines in place. An order on Saturday said that places of worship are allowed to open and carry on related activities, strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. However, annual festivals, temple festivals, processions, and congregations will not be allowed, said the order. Hitherto, only visiting places of worship was allowed, but other seva s were not. On amusement parks, the order issued by N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department and member-secretary State Executive Committee, Disaster Management, said, “However, water sports/water related adventure activities are not allowed.” The State government has been allowing opening up of various public places in a phased manner. A few days ago, the government allowed the opening of all shops and establishments, and cinemas. The hours they are allowed to function have also been increased slowly, as the number of COVID-19 cases in the State have remained under 2,000. On Saturday, Karnataka reported 1,857 cases of COVID-19 and 29 deaths.  A few days ago, the government allowed the opening of all shops and establishments, and cinemas. The hours they are allowed to function have also been increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-eased-for-places-of-worship-from-today/article35518580.ece
25 July 2021||POLAVARAM,||Second warning issued as Godavari level rises||With water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam reaching 48.30 feet at 7 p.m. on Saturday, officials issued the second warning. Water level has been rising and may cross the third warning level, the Central Water Commission (CWC) authorities said. Officials discharged about 11.54 lakh cusecs downstream, and officials of the Revenue, Police, Irrigation, Tribal Welfare, Medical and Health and other departments have been put on high alert. Irrigation officials said the water level at Kaleswaram, Peruru, Dummugudem, Kunavaram, Kunta, Koida was rising as there was incessant rainfall in the areas upstream. At Polavaram, flood level reached 33 metres at Cofferdam and the irrigation authorities released 5.82 lakh cusecs by lifting all the 48 gates. Due to heavy rains in the catchment areas flood was increasing, the officials said.  Boating was completely suspended in the Godavari at Rajamahendravaram, Kovvur, Devipatnam, Polavaram and at other upstream areas in wake of the flood. “Water level is rising as the discharge from Godavari at Bhadrachalam, and other rivulets in the upstream is heavy. An alert has been sounded in the wake of the increasing flood level,” said Polavaram Irrigation Project Superintending Engineer K. Narasimha Murthy. Road link has been cut-off to many villages along the Godavari as flood water entered many habitations. The railways diverted some trains due to water logging. Irrigation authorities released 4,61,337 cusecs from Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram by 7 p.m. Revenue and Police officials shifted the people residing in low lying areas along the river banks to safer places. Many villages flooded Several habitations up and downstream of the Polavaram project were submerged in flood waters. The Gandi Pochamma temple, located on the river bed, was marooned. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said police pickets had been arranged at the causeways and along the Godavari banks. “Villagers staying along the river bund in Velerupadu, Kukunur, Velerupadu and Buttaigudem mandals were being shifted to safer places on boats,” Mr. Sharma said. “We distributed provisions, kerosene, solar lamps and other essentials to the flood victims. A team of officials is monitoring the situation continuously,” said K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-warning-issued-as-godavari-level-rises-at-bhadrachalam/article35518545.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Irregularities detected in searches: I-T Dept.||Two days after the Income-Tax (I-T) Department searched the premises linked to the Dainik Bhaskar Group and Bharat Samachar Group, the agency on Saturday issued statements without naming any companies, alleging that it had detected income escapement of Rs. 700 crore and unaccounted transactions exceeding Rs. 200 crore in two cases. The searches carried out on the Dainik Bhaskar Group and Bharat Samachar Group premises on July 22 had triggered widespread criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-t-searches-detected-huge-irregularities/article35518724.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Rs. 80K cr. to Rs. 1 lakh cr. for Dalit Bandhu: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed the government’s readiness to spend Rs. 80,000 crore to Rs. 1 lakh crore on Dalit Bandhu scheme for eligible SCs. Addressing a meeting at his camp office with supporters of Banda Srinivas who was appointed as chairman of State SC Development Corporation, Mr. Rao said the scheme will turn out to be the torch-bearer of steps to liberate SCs from social and economic disparities in the country. He said Dalit Bandhu will succeed in the same way as other initiatives of TRS in the past over which people had apprehensions. For instance, the Statehood movement, 24-hour power supply and Rythu Bandhu evoked doubts in the minds of public over their success, but the party proved them wrong. He reminded them that the financial assistance was not a loan or repayable to anyone. It was aimed to credit the money to the bank accounts of beneficiaries directly. The guarantees that were sought by banks earlier were eliminated. The beneficiaries must multiply the money with investments in a business model.  The scheme will turn out to be the torch-bearer of steps to liberate SCs from social and economic disparities. K. Chandrasekhar Rao,Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-80k-cr-to-rs-1-lakh-cr-for-dalit-bandhu-kcr/article35518839.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No imminent threat of Taliban influx in Kashmir’||There is no immediate threat of the Taliban moving towards Kashmir, but there is apprehension that the Afghan situation could embolden Pakistan-based terror groups operating in Kashmir, a defence official said. The manner of the U.S. military exit from Afghanistan and the Taliban gaining ground may encourage such groups, the official said. They may do something with the confidence, the official said. “The next four to five years, we do not see any Taliban coming in.” With the U.S. military almost exiting Afghanistan, the Taliban have made major advances in the past few weeks and gained new ground, raising apprehensions of their possible influx into Kashmir. As far as counter insurgency operations in Kashmir are concerned, India is very strong on the Line of Control (LoC), the official said, adding, “Be it troops, sensors or drones we have the LoC fully covered.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-imminent-threat-of-taliban-influx-in-kashmir/article35518581.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. tops in extra doses, posts nil vaccine wastage||Over the past couple of months, Tamil Nadu has not only managed to achieve zero wastage of COVID-19 vaccines, but has also extracted as many as 5,88,243 extra doses of vaccines, according to data provided by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. But the supply of free vaccines from the Centre remains low when compared to other major States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-tops-in-extra-doses-posts-nil-vaccine-wastage/article35518639.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||224 deaths, 6,269 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 6,269 new COVID-19 cases and 224 fatalities, taking the tally to 62,58,079 and the toll to 1,31,429, a health department official said. A total of 7,332 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recoveriesto 60,29,817. Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate now stands at 96.35%, and the fatality rate at 2.1%. Parbhani city in the Marathwada region did not record any new coronavirus infection for the third day in a row, he said. Mumbai saw 410 new cases and nine deaths, taking the tally to 7,33,754 and the toll to 15,827, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/224-deaths-6269-cases/article35518987.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Green light for Delhi metro, buses to run at full capacity||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday decided to allow metro trains and public buses to run at full capacity for the following fortnight. Cinemas, auditoriums and spas will also be allowed to open, subject to enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviour. According to the DDMA order, for two weeks starting Monday (July 26 to August 9), metro trains and public buses will be allo-wed to carry passengers up to 100% of their capacity. The number of attendees at funerals and marriage ceremonies has also been increased to 100.  Cinemas and auditoriums, according to the order, are allowed to open at 50% of their total capacity. No deaths in Delhi The city reported 66 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,35,844, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. No new death was reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,041. In all 76,308 tests were conducted over 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 0.09%. Of the total cases, 14,10,216 people have recovered and there are only 587 active cases at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-light-for-delhi-metro-buses-to-run-at-full-capacity/article35518721.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No imminent threat of Taliban influx in Kashmir’||There is no immediate threat of the Taliban moving towards Kashmir, but there is apprehension that the Afghan situation could embolden Pakistan-based terror groups operating in Kashmir, a defence official said. The manner of the U.S. military exit from Afghanistan and the Taliban gaining ground may encourage such groups, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-imminent-threat-of-taliban-influx-in-kashmir/article35519034.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No imminent threat of Taliban influx in Kashmir’||There is no immediate threat of the Taliban moving towards Kashmir, but there is apprehension that the Afghan situation could embolden Pakistan-based terror groups operating in Kashmir, a defence official said. The manner of the U.S. military exit from Afghanistan and the Taliban gaining ground may encourage such groups, the official said. India evacuated all Indian staff from its consulate there on July 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-imminent-threat-of-taliban-influx-in-kashmir/article35519088.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No imminent threat of Taliban influx in Kashmir’||There is no immediate threat of the Taliban moving towards Kashmir, but there is apprehension that the Afghan situation could embolden Pakistan-based terror groups operating in Kashmir, said a defence official. The manner of the U.S. military exit from Afghanistan and the Taliban gaining ground may encourage such groups, the official said. India evacuated all Indian staff from its consulate there on July 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-imminent-threat-of-taliban-influx-in-kashmir/article35518543.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering a legend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/remembering-a-legend/article35518924.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||1 lakh cusecs discharged from Prakasam Barrage||With the continuous rise in inflows in Krishna River at the Prakasam Barrage from the reservoirs upstream, the flood discharge crossed one lakh cusecs on Saturday. Throughout the day, around one lakh cusecs of water has been discharged to the sea from the Barrage. At 6 a.m., the flood discharge was at 1.25 lakh cusecs and it came down to 94.711 cusecs as of 6 p.m. Sixty crest gates of the barrage were lifted up to two feet and 10 gates were lifted up to one foot, according to officials. The barrage reached its full capacity of 3.07 tmcft with water up to 57.05 feet. Meanwhile, people thronged the barrage, ghats on the downstream and upstream areas to have a glimpse of the river in spate. Police were deployed at all the ghats to ensure the safety of the visitors. Officials said the inflows would increase in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-lakh-cusecs-discharged-from-prakasam-barrage/article35518547.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ex-SC Judge raises concerns over UAPA||Former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, on Saturday said the courts, society and the state should consider the mental trauma afflicted on the families of activists, journalists and civil society members accused of sedition under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and languishing in jails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-sc-judge-raises-concerns-over-uapa/article35518720.ece
25 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Victory of farmers top priority, says Sidhu||Newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said for him the “victory” of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is the top priority and he will go “barefoot” to meet farmers protesting against the farm laws whenever they call him. “I have been calling the farmers’ agitation sacred for the past one year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/victory-of-farmers-top-priority-says-sidhu/article35519007.ece
25 July 2021||BENGALURU,||Panchamashalis seek CM’s post for leader from sect||Leaders of the Panchamashali sect within the community have demanded that the new Chief Minister should be chosen from among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panchamashalis-seek-cms-post-for-leader-from-sect/article35518823.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 1,819 new COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 1,819 new cases of COVID-19, taking its overall tally to 25,46,689. The State also reported 27 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-1819-new-covid-19-cases/article35518636.ece
25 July 2021||THENI,||NIA quizzes man over objectionable posts||NIA officials on Saturday interrogated a 31-year-old man running a biryani shop in Chinnamanur in Theni district over alleged objectionable posts on social media. The team visited the house of Yousuf Aslam, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-quizzes-man-over-objectionable-posts/article35518637.ece
25 July 2021||NAEGRCOIL,||Priest arrested for alleged hate speech||The police on Saturday arrested a priest who was wanted in connection with an alleged hate speech against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priest-arrested-for-alleged-hate-speech/article35518638.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre violating Delhi govt.’s rights through L-G’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the Centre’s attitude towards Delhi was unconstitutional and undemocratic. “The constitutional rights of the elected Delhi government are continuously violated by the Central government through the Lieutenant-Governor and all the decisions are being obstructed,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-violating-delhi-govts-rights-through-l-g/article35518723.ece
25 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Criminal killed in encounter in Odisha||A notorious criminal was killed in Balasore district of Odisha on Saturday after security personnel opened fire to allegedly prevent him from escaping from the police van.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/criminal-killed-in-encounter-in-odisha/article35518921.ece
25 July 2021||Guwahati,||PM scheme used to influence voters: AJP||The Assam Jatiya Parishad on Saturday alleged that benefits under the Centre’s PM-KISAN scheme were provided to a section of ineligible farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-scheme-used-to-influence-voters-ajp/article35518922.ece
25 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Another elephant electrocuted in Odisha||Another elephant was killed on Friday in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district after coming into contact with a live electric wire. Since April, five elephants have died of electrocution in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-elephant-electrocuted-in-odisha/article35518927.ece
25 July 2021||Ahmedabad,||Nine killed in Gujarat cylinder blast||Nine people, including four children, have died of severe burn injuries sustained in an explosion triggered by an LPG cylinder leak in Ahmedabad, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-killed-in-gujarat-cylinder-blast/article35518990.ece
25 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Dhawale’s bail plea rightly rejected: NIA||The National Investigation Agency has told the Bombay High Court that Bhima-Koregaon accused Sudhir Dhawale’s bail plea was rightly rejected by Pune sessions judge K.D. Wadane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhawales-bail-plea-rightly-rejected-nia/article35518991.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Four dead as lift collapses in Worli||Four people were killed and one injured on Saturday after a construction lift carrying them came crashing down at an under-construction building in Worli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-dead-as-lift-collapses-in-worli/article35518992.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,||NIA takes over probe into trafficking of Sri Lankans||The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the alleged illegal immigration and human trafficking of 38 Sri Lankan nationals. The Mangaluru City police, in association with the Tamil Nadu police, last month arrested 38 Sri Lankan nationals when they attempted to sail to Canada from Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-takes-over-probe-into-trafficking-of-sri-lankans/article35518965.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The spy who came in for the phone||On October 1, 2018, a day before Jamal Khashoggi was murdered and dismembered inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Citizen Lab, a University of Toronto-based project that investigates cyber espionage against civil society, released a report titled, “The Kingdom came to Canada”. It alleged that a cellphone used by Omar Abdulazis, a Saudi dissident activist living in exile in Canada, had been infected by Pegasus, the notorious malware sold by Israeli company NSO Group. “We have high confidence that the cellphone of Omar Abdulaziz... was targeted. Abdulaziz has been outspoken on an ongoing diplomatic feud over human rights issues between Canada and Saudi Arabia,” the report said. But neither Citizen Lab nor Mr. Abdulaziz knew then that the alleged spying saga had a lethal subplot. Mr. Abdulaziz was a close friend of Khashoggi, the Saudi dissident journalist who was critical of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. He spent hours talking to Mr. Abdulaziz on the phone. By infecting Mr. Abdulaziz’s phone, Pegasus might have got information on Khashoggi’s thoughts and movements. In December 2018, two months after his friend was killed by Saudi agents, Mr. Abdulaziz filed a lawsuit in Israel against NSO. The company fiercely dismissed the allegations that its products had anything to do with Khashoggi’s killing, but refused to say if it sold Pegasus to the Saudi authorities. Asked about the reports that he had travelled to Saudi Arabia to sell Pegasus for $55 million, NSO chief executive Shalev Hulio told CBS’s 60 Minutes in March 2019, “I’m not gonna talk about [a] specific customer.” This has been the standard response of NSO whenever it’s hit by serious allegations — deny any involvement and refuse to divulge further details. Last week, when a media consortium, including The Washington Post , The Guardian and The Wire , reported that thousands of numbers were selected by NSO’s clients for potential surveillance, including that of journalists, activists, dissidents and world leaders, the company dismissed the reports. The consortium, which got a leaked database of 50,000 numbers, reported that at least 37 phones were infected by Pegasus, including that of Hatice Cengiz, Khashoggi’s fiancee. Hundreds of numbers from India is on the list. The malware can remotely spy on a device and steal its data without the victim ever knowing about it. NSO, in a statement, said the list “is not a list of Pegasus targets or potential targets. The numbers in the list are not related to NSO Group in any way. Any claim that a name in the list is necessarily related to a Pegasus target or potential target is erroneous and false.” On Wednesday, it issued another statement, saying it would no longer respond to media inquiries. Origins The company that is at the centre of a global controversy today has had humble origins on the outskirts of Tel Aviv a decade ago. It was founded by three Israelis — Niv Carmi, Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie — in 2010. The name NSO comes from the first letters of the founders’ names. Mr. Lavie and Mr. Hulio are reported to be former members of Israel's ‘Unit 8200’ signals intelligence arm. Mr. Carmi was a former operative of Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency. Headquartered in Herzliya, near Tel Aviv, NSO had some 50 employees at the beginning. A group of investors headed by Eddy Shalev, a partner in Israeli venture capital fund Genesis Partners, had invested some $1.8 million in the company for a 30% stake. NSO started making headlines after Mexico announced in 2012 that it had bought the group’s solutions to fight drug lords. Apparently, NSO’s tools helped Mexican authorities track the movement of ‘El Chapo’ Guzman that led to his arrest in 2014 — something Mr. Hulio confirmed in the 60 Minutes interview. In the same year, American private equity fund Francisco Partners took a majority stake in the company for about $130 million. NSO saw rapid growth in its business in the following years. With governments across the world turning to cyber intelligence to fight terrorism and serious crimes as well as track down dissidents and critics, the solutions NSO offered were in high demand. Besides Pegasus, the company offers a host of technologies to fight drone incursions, improve search-and-rescue operations and advanced data analytics solutions. “NSO Group develops best-in-class technology to help government agencies detect and prevent terrorism and crime,” the company says on its website. In a 32-page Transparency and Responsibility Report released earlier this year, NSO dismisses allegations that Pegasus is a mass surveillance tool. “Data is collected only from individual, pre-identified suspected criminals and terrorists,” it says. However, the same report adds: “NSO licenses Pegasus to sovereign states and state agencies, does not operate Pegasus, has no visibility into its usage, and does not collect information about customers.” Co-founders Mr. Lavie and Mr. Hulio bought back the company from Francisco Partners in 2019 with investments from Novalpina Capital, a London-based private equity firm. At the time of the transaction, NSO was valued at $1 billion. Between 2012 and 2021, NSO has seen a manifold rise in its client list. The tightly held company never reveals the names of its clients, but the 2021 report states it has 60 customers in 40 countries. Fifty-one percent of its clients are intelligence agencies, 38% law enforcement agencies and 11% military. Israel has identified Pegasus as a cyber weapon and its exports are controlled. Ties with Israel In 2019, after the company was bought back, Mr. Lavie, Mr. Hulio and Novalpina Capital promised to establish “a new model for public transparency” and do “whatever is necessary” to prevent their technologies being misused. This was a rare public acknowledgement from the top management that all is not well with the use of NSO’s products. Citizen Lab had released several reports alleging that NSO products were being used by governments to target their critics. Before Mr. Abdulazis’s case, the Lab had reported that Ahmed Mansoor, a human rights defender and critic of the UAE government’s policies who is currently in prison, was targeted. The researchers later discovered Mexican journalist Rafael Cabrera and the Lab's own researchers were also targeted. In 2019, months after the company’s leaders promised transparency, WhatsApp sued NSO over allegations that 1,400 of its users, including at least 100 members of civil society, were attacked by NSO’s spyware. According to a report in Financial Times , NSO had developed malware that can infect a phone simply by making a call. The potential victim doesn’t have to click a link or even answer the call. Once it rings, the malware is in and can start stealing data and exit without leaving any trace on the phone’s call log. The WhatsApp case is still under way. The latest reports by the Pegasus Project on illegal surveillance call into question, once again, NSO’s claims on “transparency” and “accountability”. This time the allegations are wider in scale and graver in nature. On the list of potential targets are 14 world leaders — three Presidents, including France’s Immanuel Macron, three sitting Prime Ministers, seven former Ministers and a King — and hundreds of civil society members. NSO is not just a private tech company that’s gone rogue. It has deep ties with the Israeli state, which it has never hidden from the public. The Israeli government itself is using its technology, NSO has said. Many of the company’s 500-plus staffers, including the founders, are from Israel’s military intelligence units. In 2019, NSO’s lawyers argued in a court that revealing clients’ names “will meaningfully harm the foreign relations of the state”. Last year, Defence Minister Naftali Bennett, who’s now the Prime Minister, proposed to deploy NSO’s tools to track down Israelis’ movements to check the spread of the coronavirus. It did not pass the Cabinet, but was a testament to the company’s clout in the establishment. In recent years, Israel has built stronger diplomatic ties with Gulf monarchies and rightwing governments elsewhere by offering clandestine security solutions. John le Carré once wrote, “A desk is a dangerous place from which to view the world.” Now, it’s the phone. In theory, NSO’s spyware can take over a potential target’s phone. If not checked, it’s the ultimate toy in the hands of a surveillance state. The allegations pose serious questions on both NSO’s practices and Israel’s policies. It’s to be seen whether they will come clean on them.  In Focus NSO was founded by three Israelis — Niv Carmi, Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie — in 2010. The name NSO comes from the first letters of the founders’ names Besides Pegasus, the company also offers a host of technologies to fight drone incursions, improve search-and- rescue operations and advanced data analytics solutions  It now has 60 customers in 40 countries. Fifty-one percent of its clients are intelligence agencies, 38% law enforcement agencies and 11% military   NSO says it licenses Pegasus to sovereign states and state agencies, does not operate the software, has no visibility into its usage, and does not collect data about customers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-spy-who-came-in-for-the-phone/article35518231.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra rain death toll touches 112||The death toll in the torrential rain that inundated Konkan and western Maharashtra rose to 112 on Saturday. Over 99 are still missing. Water discharge from dams led to floods in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. Over 1.3 lakh people have been shifted to safer places as rescue work continued throughout Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted gradual reduction in rain over the region in four or five days, though severe weather and intense rainfall is forecast in isolated places. Apart from the 17 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the State, eight extra teams were called in from Bhubaneshwar. In addition, rescue teams from the Army, the Navy, the Coast Guard and the Air Force have been working to evacuate people. CM visits Taliye Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday visited Taliye village in Mahad tehsil of Raigad district, promising rehabilitation of the affected villagers. A total of 36 bodies were found at the village, while 34 persons are missing, according to the NDRF. However other reports put the number of dead at 49 and those missing at 52. State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad announced that the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority would rebuild the village as promised by Mr. Thackeray. A fund of Rs. 2 crore has been provided to Raigad district from the department through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). “The tragedy that befell on you is huge. So, you first look after yourself and stay safe and leave the rest of the problems to the government. You will be taken care of, don’t worry,” said Mr Thackeray told the villagers who had surrounded him during his visit. Overflowing dams Satara district in western Mahrashtra has also been hit by the deluge. The famous hill station of Mahabaleshwar received more than 1,100 mm of rainfall in less than 48 hours, resulting in heavy discharge from the Koyna dam, one of the largest in the State. The heavy rainfall has caused multiple landslips. The NDRF said 10 persons were missing in Mirgaon while six bodies have been recovered in Ambeghar and eight persons are missing. “We are not sure how many more are trapped inside,” said State minister Balasaheb Patil. In Ratnagiri district, towns of Chiplun and Khed were flooded by discharge from the Koyna dam and subsequently, the Koltewadi dam, leading to the rising levels in the Vashisti river. Thousands of people were stranded on rooftops and upper floors of the houses as the water levels rose to over 15 to 20 feet in many places. Helicopters of the Air Force were also deployed for rescue and air dropping of food and water packets. Relief camps were set up at three locations. One column of the Army and Coast Guard teams were despatched for relief work. . (With inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-rain-death-toll-touches-112/article35518181.ece
25 July 2021||SRINAGAR,||3 militants killed in Bandipora||Three militants were killed and a soldier was injured on Saturday in an encounter between security forces and hiding militants in a forest area of north Kashmir’s Bandipora. The police said two militants were killed in a gunfight that broke out during a search-and-cordon operation. Officials said one more militant was killed after a fresh contact with hiding militants was established in the adjacent Aragam forest area, hours later. “The operation is still going on in the area,” officials said. One soldier was injured in the encounter. He has been evacuated to the Army’s 92 Base Hospital, Srinagar. This is the second major encounter in Kashmir in the past 24 hours. Two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants were killed on July 23 in north Kashmir’s Sopore. Security forces launched the operation in Shokbaba forest in the Sumblar area of Bandipora in north Kashmir following inputs about the presence of militants there, they said. The officials said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, the militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, they said. Srinagar-based PRO Defence Col. Emron Musavi said an Army personnel suffered injuries in the gunfight. The officials said the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras are being ascertained. Jawan killed in mine blast A 27-year-old Army jawan was killed in a mine blast along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said on Saturday. Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was on operational duty in Krishna Ghati sector on Friday. He accidentally stepped on the mine and it exploded injuring him critically, a defence spokesman said. The soldier was evacuated to the nearest medical facility but he succumbed to injuries there, the official said. Sepoy Vaidya hailed from Ghumarwin village in Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur district, the spokesman said. “He was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for the supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he said. Ghumarwin village plunged into mourning after the news of his death reached his family. A large number of people gathered at the jawan’s residence and raised anti-Pakistan slogans. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the demise of the soldier. Former Chief Minister PK Dhumal also offered condolences to his family and said the jawan’s contribution to the nation will always be remembered. The soldier is survived by mother Vanita Devi.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-militants-killed-in-bandipora/article35518201.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No plans for two child policy’||The Centre has denied having a two child policy, a question that has gained resonance following the Uttar Pradesh government’s draft policy under which it proposes to disincentivise those with more than two children and even bar them from government benefits. The State’s policy, set out in a draft Bill, is now open for public comment. On Friday, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pawar underlined that the Centre had no plans for a two-child policy, in response to a question from BJP MP Uday Pratap Singh in the Lok Sabha. The Centre, she said, has been implementing the National Family Planning Programme which provided voluntary and informed choices to all citizens regardless of their religion or sects through a target free approach with the objective of checking population growth in the country. India’s national population policy was framed in 2000 with the long term objective of attaining “population stabilization” by 2045 and several initiatives had been taken under the National Family Planning Programme towards this, the Minister said. These included a Mission Parivar Vikas to include access to contraceptives and family planning services in 146 high fertility districts in 7 high focus States, expanding contraceptive choices by making condoms, combined oral contraceptive pills, emergency contraceptive pills, intrauterine contraceptive device (IUCDs) and sterilisation more accessible. A compensation scheme for those who undergo voluntarily sterilisation for loss of wages to the beneficiary, service provider and team for conducting sterilisation is also in place. As a result, said Dr. Pawar, India’s total fertility rate had declined from 2.7 to 2.2 from 2005-06 (NFHS III) to 2015-16 (NFHS IV); 28 out of 36 States and Union Territories have already achieved the replacement level fertility of 2.1 or less and the Crude Birth Rate has declined from 23.8 to 20.0 from 2005 to 2018. The Programme of Action (PoA) of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 1994, to which India is a signatory, is unequivocally against coercion in family planning, said Dr. Pawar. International experience had shown that any coercion or diktat to have a certain number of children was counter-productive and led to demographic distortions like sex selective abortions, abandonment of the female child and even female infanticide due to intense son preference, all of which eventually resulted in a skewed sex ratio, the Minister said in her written reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plans-for-two-child-policy/article35518205.ece
25 July 2021||Kolkata,||HAM radios to aid in cyclone relief||In the last week of May, hours before Cyclone Yaas made landfall in northern coastal Odisha and battered coastal West Bengal, Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary of the West Bengal Radio Club (Amateurs Club), got a call from a senior bureaucrat about deployment of some HAM radio operatives in Purba Medinipur district, where the most damage was expected. Mr. Biswas said it was difficult for the operators who had already positioned themselves in different areas to move to Purba Medinipur. Communication turns out to be a major challenge during the cyclones and particularly in the Sunderbans with more than 50 inhabited islands located in remote areas — some of them at the mouth of the Bay of Bengal. They remain cut off often for days. Barrage of cyclones The State had in the past three years faced four tropical cyclones, Fani (May 2019) , Bulbul (November 2019), Amphan ( May 2020) and Yaas ( May 2021) and on all occasions the administration had to wait for connection to be restored to assess damage and send relief. A few months after Yaas, Mr. Nag Biswas got a call from the district administration of the South 24 Parganas to train local youth from the Sunderbans in operating Ham Radio sets. This was to augment the community-based disaster preparedness of the region. Training locals “To establish a dedicated wireless communication system at vulnerable areas under the South 24 Parganas district during different disasters, you are requested to train following civil defence volunteers for smooth and effective conduct of the above system,” read a letter dated July 13 by Office of the Controller of the Civil Defence, South 24 Parganas, addressed to Mr. Nag Biswas. Accordingly, training of 60 volunteers mostly residing in the Sunderbans has started earlier this month. Dipak Giri, 24, of Patharpratima and Gautam Dinda, 26, of Sagar Island are among those who are undergoing the training. Both recalled the challenges faced in disaster management during cyclone Yaas. “There was no connectivity in Patharpratima for almost seven days after cyclone Yaas and large parts of the region were inundated due to the ingress of saline water ” Dipak Giri said. Communication crucial Gautam Dinda from Sagar Islands, who is also undergoing training, said communication becomes critical in rescuing people in times of cyclone. “When we are deployed at a flood rescue centre, someone might suddenly fall ill or we may run out of drinking water. Sometimes the flood rescue centres are also flooded,” Mr. Dinda said. “For three to four days after the cyclone, there was no connectivity in Sagar and there was nothing we could communicate,” he added. The administrations of other coastal districts like the North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur are also in talks with HAM Radio operators to train youth. Licenced operators Pashupati Mandal, an expert of HAM Radio technology who is training amateurs operators, said: “After weeks of training, the volunteers have to take an exam by the Ministry of Communication following which one can get the licence to operate the amateur radio device.” “As this moment, we have about 350 licensed Ham Radio operators under the West Bengal Radio Club,” said Dr. Mandal, principal of the Indian Academy of Communication and Disaster Management. The HAM operators employ high frequency signals to connect with other operators. The technology comes handy when mobile connectivity is down. So far, the State government has been engaging HAM operators at the annual Gangasagar pilgrimage on Sagar Island and natural disasters. The empowerment of local youth to operate the technology will help the State’s disaster preparedness and management, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ham-radios-to-aid-in-cyclone-relief/article35518188.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI searches officials’ homes in J&K and Delhi||The CBI on Saturday searched the premises of the then District Magistrates and nearly 20 gun dealers in Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and Delhi in connection with the alleged illegal issuance of over 2.78 lakh arms licences in Jammu and Kashmir from 2012 to 2016. “Among the officials whose premises have been searched are Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, a 2009-batch IAS official who was District Magistrate (DM) of Udhampur. He is currently Secretary, Tribal Affairs Department, in J&K. Neeraj Kumar, a 2011-batch IAS official, was also the DM of Udhampur. He is currently the Resident Commissioner in Delhi,” a CBI official said. Mr. Choudhary, through his Twitter handle, confirmed that the CBI searched his residence. He said the agency found nothing incriminating. “I am fully answerable to CBI for my tenure,” he said, stating that in the Reasi, Kathua and Udhampur districts, only 56,000 (12.4%) arms licences were issued during 2012-16. “This is not disproportionate...of the 56,000 licences issued in three districts , only 1,720 were issued in my tenure — 3% of all licences issued in three districts in four years or during the period under investigation and 0.38% of all such licences issued in J&K,” read a statement issued by him. The premises of J&K Administrative Service officials Shabir Ahmed Bhatt, former DM of Rajouri; Farooq Ahmed Baba, former Additional District Magistrate (ADM) of Baramulla; Dr. Abdul Hafiz Shah, former ADM of Kupwara; Khurshid Ahmed Sanai, former ADM of Bandipora; Gurvinderjeet Singh, former ADM of Poonch; and Babu Ram, former ADM of Ramban, were also searched. In October 2018, the CBI had taken over two cases, earlier registered at the Vigilance Organisation police stations in J&K, to probe the scam in the bulk issuance of arms licences to ineligible persons. “During investigation and scrutiny of documents, the role of certain gun dealers was found. They, in connivance with the public servants, had allegedly got issued such illegal arms licences to the ineligible persons. It was also alleged that the beneficiaries were not residents of the districts from where the said arms licences were issued,” said the official. The alleged scam was unearthed during an investigation by the Rajasthan Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-searches-jk-officials-homes/article35518192.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. says huge irregularities detected in searches||Two days after the Income-Tax (I-T) Department searched the premises linked to the Dainik Bhaskar Group and Bharat Samachar Group, the agency on Saturday issued statements without naming any companies, alleging that it had detected income escapement of Rs. 700 crore and unaccounted-for transactions exceeding Rs. 200 crore in two cases. The searches carried out on the Dainik Bhaskar Group and Bharat Samachar Group premises on July 22 had triggered widespread criticism. With respect to the first case, the agency said the group was involved in businesses in various sectors, including media, power, textiles and real estate, with a turnover of over Rs. 6,000 crore per annum. “Twenty residential and 12 business premises spread over nine cities including Mumbai, Delhi, Bhopal, Indore, Noida and Ahmedabad have been covered,” it said. The group has over 100 companies. “During the search, it was found that they have been operating several companies in the names of their employees, which have been used for booking bogus expenses and routing of funds...several of the employees, whose names were used as shareholders and directors, have admitted that they were not aware of such companies and had given their Aadhaar card and digital signature to the employer in good faith,” the agency alleged. It is alleged that some were relatives who willingly and knowingly signed the papers, but had no knowledge or control over the entities in which they were supposedly directors and shareholders. “Such companies have been used for multiple purposes namely; booking bogus expenses and siphoning off the profits from listed companies, routing of funds so siphoned into their closely held companies to make investments, making of circular transactions, etc.,” the agency alleged, adding that income escapement detected so far was Rs. 700 crore spread over six years. Violations examined Alleged violations under the Companies Act and the Listing Agreement prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for listed companies, apart from application of the Benami Transaction Prohibition Act, would also be examined. “Cyclical trading and transfer of funds among group companies engaged in unrelated businesses to the tune of Rs. 2,200 crore has been found,” the I-T Department said. The agency alleged that the group’s real estate entity was sanctioned a term loan of Rs. 597 crore, of which Rs. 408 crore was diverted to a sister concern as loan at a low interest rate of 1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-says-huge-irregularities-detected-in-searches/article35518197.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The race to space||In 2005, six years after he was named the Time magazine’s Person of the Year for helping “build the foundation of our future” and already a multi-billionaire by this time, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos walked into the nondescript office of Van Horn Advocate , a local weekly newspaper in Van Horn town in west Texas, to talk about a project that he had shielded from media for many years till then. Over the next half-an-hour, Mr. Bezos spoke to the newspaper’s Larry Simpson, a meeting described by Brad Stone, author of The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon , as an “impromptu interview” with “its bewildered editor”. It was an interview where Mr. Bezos opened up on his space venture, Blue Origin. By then, he had purchased vast amounts of land — by Mr. Stone’s account, “an area about a third of the size of Rhode Island” — around here. Mr. Simpson was later quoted by NBC News as saying, “He told me their first spacecraft is going to carry three people up to the edge of space and back.” Just a few days ago, 16 years after the interview, Mr. Bezos, now the richest person on the planet, made it to space and back safely from this very town with three others in a space vehicle developed by Blue Origin. He was accompanied by his brother Mark Bezos, 82-year-old Wally Funk, who trained to be an astronaut in the 1960s but never got a chance to fly to space until now, and Oliver Daemen, an 18-year-old student. Mr. Daemen is the first paying customer for Mr. Bezos’ space venture. He only got a chance in the inaugural flight because the person who bid $28 million for a seat had to reschedule. Ms. Funk and Mr. Daemen are now the oldest and the youngest, respectively, to travel to space. Van Horn, media reports say, has changed over these years, with the venture bringing in money to the town. What has also changed over this period is the space industry, which not long ago was the exclusive domain of governmental agencies. Mr. Bezos isn’t alone in trying to figure out a business out of space travel. Fellow businessmen Richard Branson, who successfully completed space travel a week before Mr. Bezos on a spaceship built by his venture Virgin Galactic, and Elon Musk, who runs SpaceX, have made big investments in this area. Mr. Musk’s venture has already been involved in transporting astronauts to the International Space Station. The Amazon founder’s idea, expressed in a speech at Carnegie Mellon University in 2011, was to help “build a future where we humans can explore the solar system first hand and in person”. What Blue Origin needed to do, therefore, he said, was to drive down cost and make the technology safe. In fact, all the space entrepreneurs seem to have realised the importance of building and perfecting a reusable space vehicle. Reusable rocket Blue Origin made its breakthrough with a reusable vehicle in 2015. It was then that its New Shepard space vehicle, named after Alan Shepard, the first American in space, successfully made it to space and back. “Now safely tucked away at our launch site in West Texas is the rarest of beasts — a used rocket,” Mr. Bezos was quoted as saying in the venture’s blog. “Full reuse is a game changer, and we can’t wait to fuel up and fly again.” Just a few months later, in a blog headlined ‘Launch. Land. Repeat’, Mr. Bezos wrote how the New Shepard flew and then landed vertically from where it launched. Reuse demonstrated. And then in elaborating on why he is a “huge fan” of rocket-powered vertical landing, he said this is the technology which scales well to achieve his “vision of millions of people living and working in space”. New Shepard has since made many test trips, carrying with it the dummy Mannequin Skywalker as well as research payloads for NASA and the German Aerospace Centre, among others. Blue Origin has planned two more crewed flights this year and “many more” in 2022. But “the billionaire space race,” as it is often called, sometimes derisively, has only just begun. Mr. Bezos’ friend Danny Hillis has been quoted by Mr. Stone in his book about Amazon as saying, “Space for Jeff is not a year 2000 or a year 2010 opportunity.” Rather, “It’s been a dream of humanity’s for centuries and it will continue to be one for centuries. Jeff sees himself and Blue Origin as part of that bigger story.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-race-to-space/article35518229.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The 21st century socialist||More than a month after he won the second round of the presidential elections in Peru, Pedro Castillo has finally been declared the winner. A former schoolteacher and union organiser, Mr. Castillo’s victory was a narrow one — he defeated his challenger Keiko Fujimori by a small margin of 44,263 votes after gaining just about 50.13% of the votes in the run-off. The narrow margin of her loss was disputed by Ms. Fujimori, who alleged that “votes were stolen from her party”. The daughter of convicted former President Alberto Fujimori, she acknowledged her loss after it took weeks for the election authorities to reject her false claims. Mr. Castillo delivered the third electoral defeat in the presidential polls to the Fujimori scion in what was clearly a mandate against the Peruvian elite. Ms. Fujimori’s party, the Popular Force, undertook a conservative-populist campaign that relied on social media bombardment of “fake news”, seeking to brand Mr. Castillo as a “radical communist”. Mr. Castillo, a socialist and an agrarian leftist, was born in a poor peasant family in the socio-economically poor but mineral-rich northern region, Cajamarca, and grew out of poverty as a teacher. As a social activist, he combated the Maoist Shining Path’s influence in the region. Later, he organised teachers’ unions and made a mark in the 2017 teachers’ strike that bargained for higher salaries and increases in the education budget. The strike spread through Peru and finally then President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski took part in the negotiations that conceded benefits to the teachers. Mr. Castillo ran as a candidate of the Peru Libre (PL) party, even though he is not a member of it. The party is led by Vladimir Cerron, who was a former provincial Governor and had been convicted on charges of corruption that disallowed him from contesting elections. The PL has a Marxist-Leninist party programme and is committed to nationalisation of strategic sectors such as mining, but Mr. Castillo has repudiated any links with communism and has instead articulated positions that talk of economic redistribution while holding social conservative positions. His victory reminds some of another left-wing populist candidate, Ollanta Humala, who won the presidential polls in 2006 on a leftist platform. Mr. Humala later went on to govern from the political centre and tacked on to neoliberalism, before corruption scandals widely discredited his presidency. Mr. Castillo, on the other hand, has promised that he will not acquiesce to the political elite or that he would seek to calm vested interests stoking fears about capital flight and stock market collapses. Changing state’s role Instead, he has argued for the need for constitutional reform through a popular constituent assembly that will orient the governing system towards one in which the state will have a greater role in the economy and a better balance with the private sector, drawing comparisons with former Bolivian President Evo Morales. Peru has suffered significantly from COVID-19. It is among the countries with highest per capita mortality rates, and has seen a severe economic contraction — GDP fell by 30.2% in the second quarter of 2020. Widespread anger against the centrist political parties in a country with loose party affiliations resulted in Mr. Castillo and Ms. Fujimori becoming the key candidates in the presidential elections. Mr. Castillo garnered the support of the marginalised sections with strong endorsement in the “internal regions” of the country compared to Ms. Fujimori’s bases in Lima and in the more affluent coastal regions. The fragmented polity had resulted in a fractured verdict in the first round of elections with only Mr. Castillo, Ms. Fujimori and two others cracking more than 10% support in a crowded field. The fractured verdict was mirrored in elections to the legislature, with traditional parties drawing a blank while the PL and Ms. Fujimori’s Popular Force won 37 and 24 seats, respectively, in the 130-member House. Establishing a redistribution-based economic policy while retaining power through democratic means has been a challenge that was only partially successful in countries such as Ecuador and Bolivia. Mr. Castillo is now the new flag-bearer of what is popularly called “21st century socialism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-21st-century-socialist/article35518233.ece
25 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Open schooling: children of Odisha village cross State border chasing Internet||For Sony Sanjukta Dung Dung, a geographical border does not mean all that much. Though she stays in a remote Odisha village, on most days she leads a group of students to Jharkhand so that they all can study. Ms. Sanjukta, who belongs to a tribal community and has studied till Class 12, is from Rangamati, a village in Sundargarh district under the Kutra block. Like millions of students whose classes were interrupted by COVID-19, the children of Rangamati too faced a big setback because of the lack of access to Internet. Ms. Sanjukta also realised that the lack of connectivity did not only limit access to education, it also rendered children vulnerable to being forced to work from a very early age. She thus took the brave decision of following the mobile signal, even if it took her across the Odisha-Jharkhand border. Thus, for the past several months, Ms. Sanjukta, along with a small group of primary school children of her village, walks to Kadopani in Jharkhand’s Bolba block, about 5 km from her village Rangamati. As a forest has to be traversed, villagers often escort them. ‘Nothing new’ “Telephone connectivity in my village and its surroundings has been very inconsistent. Chasing a mobile signal is nothing new to us. At odd hours, people have to cross the State border to call ambulances. When educational institutes were shut down and online classes were offered as the only alternative mode of teaching, we were left with no option but to start classes wherever signal is available,” says Ms. Sanjukta. The Odisha government has been live-streaming lessons for Classes 1 to 10 on YouTube. “Wherever I pick strong Internet speed, I download study materials immediately and store it to refer while conducting offline classes at the village. We also carry mats with us. We sit down for online classes upon finding connectivity,” she says. Kutra block Education Officer Guru Charan Sahoo concedes that since the last academic session, education has been adversely impacted. State effort “Internet penetration in Kutra block is very poor. As a matter of fact, we are able to reach merely 20-25% students through online education. We have persuaded our teachers to conduct offline classes after taking the consent of parents. However, we have not been able to reach out to all students through our intervention,” Mr. Sahoo said. The situation is somewhat similar in other Sundargarh blocks such as Subdega, Nuagaon, Bisra and Kuanarmunda. Odisha’s School and Mass Education Secretary Satyabrata Sahu too admitted that only 40% of students in the State were able access online classes. In another desperate effort to continue studies, Kavita Nisika, a Kondh tribal girl from Hadia village in Rayagada, had to take a one-room house on rent in the district headquarters in order to access Internet connectivity. Her widowed mother, a daily wager, and older sister, toil hard to fund her stay at Rayagada. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, Ms. Nisika had enrolled in Bhubaneswar’s Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences. She had almost lost a year without a smartphone or connectivity. When she was contacted by her institute on the continuation of her studies, she had to work along with her mother and sister to buy a smartphone. In Rangamati village, Sibilian Gudia, who would have been in Class 10 this year, has started assisting his father in wage-work, leaving behind his schooling. There have been innumerable instances of hardship in rural Odisha, especially in tribal pockets, where students trek mountains and climb trees to find mobile networks. In the Machhkund area of Koraput, students keep visiting bordering areas to catch the signal from the Jio telecom brand’s towers in Andhra Pradesh. They have been seen attending online classes in the middle of roads. Tele-density figures According to the Odisha Economic Survey, tele-density and Internet penetration is lower than the national average in the State. “The overall tele-density of Odisha is 76.46%, while the national average is 87.37%. Similarly, Internet subscribers per 100 population of the State are 43.95 in comparison to the national average of 55.12. The Internet subscription per 100 population in rural areas stands at 34.51 whereas it is 85.98 in case of urban areas,” the survey says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/open-schooling-children-of-odisha-village-cross-state-border-chasing-internet/article35518213.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||CISCE announces Class 10, 12 results||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced the results for Classes 10 and 12 on Saturday. Girls and boys achieved the same pass percentage of 99.98% in Class 10, while girls outshone boys by a margin of 0.2% in Class 12. “In Class 12, the pass percentage of girls is 99.86%, while that of boys is 99.66%,” CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said. The CISCE, which conducts the ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) examinations, had cancelled them this year in view of the second wave of COVID-19. The results have been prepared on the basis of an alternative assessment policy decided by the CISCE. The CISCE said that as last year, there would be no merit list this time too in view of the exceptional circumstances in which the results had been prepared. Mr. Arathoon said the option of rechecking of answer scripts would not be available this year as candidates had been awarded “imputed marks”. Grievance resolution However, a dispute resolution mechanism would be in place for correction of calculation errors, if any. A total of 2,422 schools had presented candidates for the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) exam, while 1,166 schools had presented candidates for the Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam. A total of 2,19,499 students, including 54.14% boys and 45.86% girls, appeared for Class 10 exams, while 94,011 candidates, including 53.67% per cent boys and 46.33% girls sat for the Class 12 exams. For evaluating Class 12 candidates, the parameters included average marks of papers and subjects scored in Classes 11 and 12. The average of Class 10 marks, including English and best four subjects, and marks of project work and practical exams during Class 12 were taken into consideration. For Class 10, the result has been tabulated on the basis of average marks scored by candidates in various exams and tests in Classes 9 and 10 besides internal assessment marks, including the project and practical work. The southern region had the best pass percentage (100) followed by the western region with a pass percentage of 99.99 in Class 10. In Class 12, southern and western regions registered a pass percentage of 99.91 followed by northern region at 99.75%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cisce-announces-class-10-12-results/article35518223.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telcos tried to alter AGR dues, says SC||The Supreme Court said what major telecom service providers (TSPs) like Vodafone, Airtel and Tata really wanted, under the guise of correcting “arithmetical errors”, was a recalculation of their adjusted gross revenues (AGR) running into crores. The copy of the order pronounced by a three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao on Friday was published on July 24. The applications by the telecom majors to ‘correct’ math mistakes, which at “first blush” look ‘innocuous’, was a roundabout way to recompute their AGR debts — a path expressly forbidden by the Supreme Court in an order on July 20 last year. “The dispute relating to AGR dues had remained pending in courts for a very long period of time and bearing this in mind, this court was at pains to emphasise, at the cost of repetition, that the AGR dues payable by TSPs cannot be the subject matter of any future litigation. The order of July 20, 2020 makes it clear that there is no scope for any recalculation/re-computation of AGR dues,” the eight-page Supreme Court order of the Justice Rao Bench reminded the telecom majors. The court said this was not the first time the companies had tried to alter the dues. “Even at the time of passing of the July 20 order, an attempt was made to seek recalculation and reassessment, which was rejected by this court outright,” said the apex court, dismissing the applications. The July 20 order had “made it clear that no dispute could be raised in respect of AGR dues that had been arrived at, on the basis of calculations made by the Union of India”. “No telecom operator shall raise any dispute in respect of the demand raised by the Department of Telecommunications pertaining to AGR dues, based on the judgment of this court of October 24, 2019,” the Supreme Court reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telcos-tried-to-alter-agr-dues-says-sc/article35518179.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former Supreme Court judges raise concerns over UAPA||Former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, on Saturday said the courts, society and the state should consider the mental trauma afflicted on the families of activists, journalists and civil society members accused of sedition under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and languishing in jail for months. Justice Lokur asked what kind of society is being built where the families and friends of these incarcerated people have to face barbs about their loved ones being branded traitors for expressing their dissent. “Look at the emotional, psychological impact on his family, him... His children... They will go to school where classmates will say your father is a ‘terrorist’ for something he has not done... We are not looking at the mental aspect,” Justice Lokur said in a virtual conference on ill-effects of UAPA and the law of sedition mediated by RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj. He said giving compensation was not enough. Justice Lokur spoke of “soft torture” practised on prison inmates through overcrowding of jails and bad hygiene within their walls. Justice Deepak Gupta, a former Supreme Court judge, referred to the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, who suffered from Parkinson's disease, in custody. “Are we human?” Justice Gupta asked in his address. The retired judge spoke about the case of an activist in Manipur, who said cow urine was not a cure for COVID and was put in jail for sedition. He asked whether we were living in a “Police State”. Justice Gupta said the courts should intervene under Article 142 of the Constitution and lay down guidelines on the use of UAPA adding that it is a proven fact that UAPA can be misused. “The UAPA should not remain in this form,” he said. While terrorism is a worrying aspect, the law on terrorism should not be nebulous, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-sc-judges-raise-concerns-over-uapa/article35518186.ece
25 July 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Governor, LoP not eligible for lights atop cars||West Bengal has issued a fresh list of VIPs and officials who are eligible to have beacon lights atop their cars, the idea being to check misuse of the entitlement by those not eligible and impostors. But the list, surprisingly, does not include the Governor and the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. The last time such a list was issued, in 2014, the Governor was mentioned right on top and the Leader of Opposition was also specifically mentioned. “The omission of the Governor and the Leader of Opposition doesn’t seem to be an oversight,” an official in the Transport Department, which issued the order on Friday evening, told The Hindu . There is no love lost between the current Governor, Jagdeep Dhankar, and the Trinamool Congress government, while the Leader of the Opposition, Suvendu Adhikari, deserted the Trinamool Congress ahead of the elections and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. “Had someone else been the Opposition leader, the government might have been kinder,” the official said, adding that Mr. Adhikari could well be entitled to the beacon light because his rank is that of a Cabinet Minister. All Ministers — Cabinet Ministers as well as Ministers of State — are allowed to use a light atop their cars. Other notable omissions — compared with the 2014 list — include the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Speaker of the West Bengal Assembly, and the Advocate-General. Soon after the order was issued, lights were removed from the cars of officials no longer eligible; among bureaucrats, only those of the rank of Principal Secretary and above can use a light on top of their cars. Others eligible for the beacon light include Director Generals and Additional Director Generals of Police, Inspector Generals and Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, Director General of Fire Services, Divisional Commissioners, and Municipal Commissioners. The fresh list, according to officials, was necessitated after the busting of a fake vaccine racket in Kolkata, which was masterminded by a man called Debanjan Deb, who masqueraded as an IAS officer and travelled in an SUV fitted with a blue beacon light. Ever since the fraud came to light, police in Kolkata have been noting down the registration numbers of cars fitted with beacon lights to tally them with the list of cars used by those eligible for such lights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-governor-lop-not-eligible-for-lights-atop-cars/article35518195.ece
25 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Another elephant electrocuted in Odisha||Another elephant was killed on Friday in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district after coming into contact with live electric wire. Since April alone, five elephants have died of electrocution. The incident was reported from the Hindol Range of the Dhenkanal Forest Division. “Some people had set up a trap with live electric wire fence for wild boar. The elephant from a seven-member herd accidentally came into contact with it, leading to the death,” said Dhenkanal Divisional Forest Officer Prakash Chand Gogineni. “From our initial investigation, we got to know about involvement of six persons. Four persons have been arrested. Two will soon be apprehended,” Mr. Gogineni said. This was the second electrocution in the Dhenkanal division.  Preventable deaths “Despite a large number of elephant deaths in the State due to electrocution, which are completely avoidable, no visible step is being taken to prevent them,” said Biswajit Mohanty, who heads the Wildlife Society of Orissa (WSO). According to the WSO, 389 elephants have died in Odisha since 2016-17. Of the 389, as many as 60 elephants died accidentally by contact with live wires. While earlier, sagging overhead transmission lines were responsible for electrocution deaths, more recently, traps to kill wild animals have claimed elephants. “Minimum measures could have saved precious elephants in the State. Regular patrolling by field level forest staff can keep miscreants at bay. At the same time, the power distribution companies should have installed earth-leakage circuit breakers (ELCB), which would have ensured power disconnection upon elephant coming in contact with live wire,” Mr. Mohanty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-elephant-electrocuted-in-odisha/article35518215.ece
25 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Dhawale’s bail plea rightly rejected: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has told the Bombay High Court that Bhima Koregaon accused Sudhir Dhawale’s bail plea was rightly rejected by Pune sessions judge K.D. Wadane. This was stated in an affidavit it filed in response to a petition filed by Mr. Dhawale challenging the order passed by Mr. Wadane on September 5, 2019 rejecting the default bail plea. “Mr. Wadane had no jurisdiction to take cognisance as original jurisdiction as the case was not committed by the magistrate,” the appeal contended. The affidavit filed by the NIA says the issue of Section 22 (power of State government to constitute special courts) of the NIA Act would not arise in this case because the investigation was transferred to the NIA on January 24, 2020, and since there was no court constituted under section 11 (power of Central government to constitute special courts) of the Act, the question of producing the accused at the special court in Mumbai would never arise. “Mr. Dhawale was, therefore, rightly produced before Wadane and he rightly remanded him in police custody, then judicial custody and also rejected his bail plea. If the interpretation of the accused is considered, then in every case where there exists an NIA court, the accused would have to be produced there, irrespective of the case being transferred to the agency,” it says. “The involvement of the left-wing extremists and the spread and the scope of the offence is not only limited to the State of Maharashtra, but includes the regions of the country that are affected by the Naxalites movements. All the accused have committed gross illegal acts, which are detrimental to the interest of the nation,” the affidavit filed by Vikram Khalate, Superintendent of Police of NIA, adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhawales-bail-plea-rightly-rejected-nia/article35518199.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||How a squirrel sparked off a scientific quest||A black squirrel is indeed a rarity, at least in India, but what would have ended up in captivity as a curious exhibit or a laboratory specimen, instead became the subject of a 13-year-long scientific quest by a multidisciplinary team of 15 researchers from various Indian institutes. Employing a vast arsenal of the most modern scientific techniques, including morphological and bioinformatic studies and molecular and genetic tools, the scientists embarked on a mission to unravel the cause for the colour change in the rodent. Capture in 2008 Ever since it was captured from the outskirts of the capital city in 2008, Alison, the black squirrel, named after a U.K.-based scientist who helped identify the animal, had been the subject of intense scientific scrutiny. Following up on the preliminary investigations that confirmed the black animal to be a variant of the Indian three-striped palm squirrel ( Funambulus palmarum ), the scientists went on to decipher the genetic causes of the colour change. Finally, after 13 years of research, the team came up with the finding that the phenomenon was caused by gene mutation. The study found that the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) gene in the animal acted as a switch to activate the change in pigmentation. The study has been published in the latest issue of Current Science which also features the picture of Alison on the cover. Is it a squirrel? “At first, we thought it was a tree shrew but the bushy tail resembled that of a squirrel. Our initial task was to identify the species, for which taxonomic and molecular studies were carried out. Once it was confirmed as a female melanistic variant of the Indian palm squirrel, we realised that it was the first black one of its kind to be reported from the Indian subcontinent,” says Oommen V. Oommen, former chairman, Kerala State Biodiversity Board and co-author of the paper. Unlike the U.K., U.S., and Canada where the black squirrel has attained sizeable populations, there have been no reports of the mutant version being sighted anywhere in India. The next job was to find out whether it was a new species, for which the scientists compared the genes of the wild squirrel with the black melanic variant and found they were 98% similar. Having confirmed it as a palm squirrel, they moved on to the quest to study the mutation. “Our attempt was to understand the basic science behind the colour change, what it is that throws the switch,” Prof. Oommen said. The reason Computational docking studies suggested that the mutation in the MC1R gene was responsible for the melanism. In between, the researchers thought of releasing Alison into its natural habitat but gave up the idea as the squirrel had little chance of survival, given that it did not have the camouflage to protect it from predators. “In the end, a scientific quest of this nature is all about observing Nature, asking questions and trying to find answers,” says Prof. Oommen. The research team included R. Dileepkumar, K. Anaswara, V. Navya, V. Deepthi, G. Renganayaki, P.R. Shidhi, P.R. Sudhakaran and Achuthsankar S. Nair from the Department of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Kerala, S. Beena, OmicsGen Life Sciences, Kochi; A. Jacob, Zoological Garden, Thiruvananthapuram; L. Divya, Department of Animal Sciences, Central University of Kerala; A.S. Vijayasree, Department of Zoology, Fatima Mata National College, Kollam; M.A. Akbarsha, Department of Biotechnology, National College, Tiruchirappalli; and K.P. Laladhas, St. Stephen’s College, Pathanapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-a-squirrel-sparked-off-a-scientific-quest/article35518531.ece
25 July 2021||Chennai,||What the nose tells of COVID prognosis||A new study has suggested that the responses to the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the nose and throat might help determine who will develop severe disease and who will get through with mild disease or not develop the illness. SARS-CoV-2, like other respiratory coronaviruses, enters through the mouth or nose and initially replicates within the epithelial cells of the human nasopharynx region, generating an upper respiratory infection over several days, the authors explain. A subset of patients develop symptoms of lower respiratory infection, and a complete understanding of why some people lapse into a serious disease while others don’t is still elusive. The study that was published in the journal Cell tries to provide answers to this question. Which cells does SARS-CoV-2 primarily target and how does the infection influence the respiratory epithelium, or the tissue that lines the respiratory tract, it asked, and went on to suggest that “failed nasal epithelial anti-viral immunity may underlie and precede severe COVID-19”. Teams from the Boston Children’s Hospital and the University of Mississippi Medical Centre collaborated to study the SARS-CoV infection in the nasopharyngeal area from those with COVID-19, ranging from subjects who were mildly symptomatic to those who were critically ill. Interferon response José Ordovás-Montañés of the Boston Children’s Hospital, and co-senior investigator of the study, has been quoted: “Why some people get more sick than others has been one of the most puzzling aspects of this virus from the beginning…. many studies looking for risk predictors have looked for signatures in the blood, but blood may not really be the right place to look.” Further, he explained: “Everyone with severe COVID-19 had a blunted interferon response early on in their epithelial cells, and were never able to ramp up a defense.” Despite equivalent viral loads, in people with mild or moderate COVID-19, the epithelial cells express anti-viral/interferon-responsive genes, whereas the cells in patients with severe COVID-19 have muted anti-viral responses, the authors wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-the-nose-tells-of-covid-prognosis/article35518225.ece
25 July 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot likely to expand his Cabinet next week||The Congress-ruled Rajasthan is likely to see Cabinet expansion and political appointments next week, party sources said on Saturday. The sources said AICC general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal and All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge for Rajasthan are arriving here on Saturday night to hold a discussion with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over Cabinet reshuffle, appointment of district heads of the party organisation and other political appointments. “Both the leaders are arriving in Jaipur tonight by road,” they said. Mr. Venugopal is also a Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan. The meeting of both the leaders with Mr. Gehlot is likely to be held at the Chief Minister’s residence late at night. Focus on Rajasthan After Punjab, the party high command has shifted focus on Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Mr. Gehlot last year. A couple of days ago, Mr. Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Mr. Pilot was sacked as the Deputy CM and PCC chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Mr. Gehlot after one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him. Promises to Pilot camp Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said the party should fulfil the promises made to Mr. Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum. At present, there are 21 members in the Council of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, and nine slots are vacant. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-likely-to-expand-his-cabinet-next-week/article35518727.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records zero COVID-19 vaccine wastage in May-July||Maharashtra reported zero wastage of COVID-19 vaccine doses between May 1 and July 13, 2021, the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. Eight States have recorded wastage of vaccine doses, with Bihar topping the list at 1,26,743 doses, followed by Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura, during the same period, it was said. The Ministry also informed the Lok Sabha that the number of extra vaccine doses extracted by Maharashtra during this period was 3,59,493. Tamil Nadu and Gujarat top the list of extra doses, with 5,88,243 and 4,62,819 respectively. In all, 2.49 lakh doses had been wasted, while 41.12 lakh extra doses were extracted beyond the labelled quantity, the reply said. “The pace of vaccination across the country is amongst the fastest in the world. While there have been instances of vaccine wastage in States/UTs but at the same time extra doses have also been extracted from a given vial as per information on Co-Win portal. Doses wasted and maximum possible doses extracted beyond the labelled quantity are taken into account to arrive at vaccine wastage figures for a State,” it said. Free vaccines Maharashtra also stands second in the list of free COVID-19 vaccine supply by the Central government. The reply said that the number of COVID-19 vaccine doses supplied to Maharashtra is 3,14,78,860, while that to Uttar Pradesh is 3,44,61,550. According to the Centre’s data, even as Maharashtra stands second after Uttar Pradesh in the list of people vaccinated, it tops the list with 92,75,340 people having taken both doses. The number for this in U.P. is 66,57,551. The total number of people with at least one dose is highest in U.P. at 3,43,94,183, while that for Maharashtra is 3,06,36,740.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-zero-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-in-may-july/article35518929.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||TRS MP Maloth Kavitha, gets jail term||A flying squad of the Election Commission caught Shaukath Ali and seized Rs. 10,000 from his possession in Burgampadu of Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Crucial evidence A criminal case was registered against him and Ms. Maloth Kavitha, who later won the elections and became MP, under Sections 171-B and 188 of Indian Penal Code. The court acquitted them of the charge under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant). However, they were convicted of the charge under Section 171-B (bribery). The money seized from the accused by the flying squad which caught them red-handed emerged as crucial evidence in the case, the PP said. They were given 30 days of time to go for an appeal before the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-mp-maloth-kavitha-gets-jail-term/article35518841.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No imminent threat of Taliban influx in Kashmir’||The manner of the U.S. military exit from Afghanistan and the Taliban gaining ground may encourage such groups, the official said. They may do something with the confidence, the official said. “The next four to five years, we do not see any Taliban coming in.” With the U.S. military almost exiting Afghanistan, the Taliban have made major advances in the past few weeks and gained new ground, raising apprehensions of their possible influx into Kashmir. As far as counter insurgency operations in Kashmir are concerned, India is very strong on the Line of Control (LoC), the official said, adding, “Be it troops, sensors or drones we have the LoC fully covered.” With intense fighting taking place around Kandahar, India evacuated all Indian staff from its consulate there on July 11. With the advance made by the Taliban in Mazar, there is an increased threat to Indian consulates, intelligence inputs have warned, a second official said. In a related development, Afghan Army chief Lt. Gen. Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai is scheduled to visit India from July 27 to 29 during which he will meet Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. Also on the same day, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will be in India on a two-day visit during which Afghanistan is expected to figure prominently in his talks with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Afghanistan has long requested India for offensive military hardware and had on several occasions given a wish list of equipment which included tanks and artillery guns, among others. In the past few years, India has gifted four Mi-24 attack helicopters and three Cheetal utility helicopters to Afghanistan, apart from regularly training Afghan officers at its training academies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-imminent-threat-of-taliban-influx-in-kashmir/article35518183.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Private sector lagging in vaccination drive: Goyal||While vaccine hesitancy remained a concern, the Minister said “India should be proud of being the world’s largest vaccinator” with about 42-43 crore jabs already completed. Pace of vaccination “Our run rate is now 12 crore or so every month and soon to become 15 crore in the next one or two months and possibly, 20 crore by the end of the calendar year,” he said. Brushing aside Opposition jibes about the pace of vaccination in the country, he said politicians seek to “demean” the progress and talk about the percentage of vaccination in the population. “Obviously, we have 1.3 billion people, the U.K. has 60 million. If you compare the percentages, it is quite irrational if you ask me,” he said. ‘Remove doubts’ “When vaccination started, recall the hesitancy. Even today, in Delhi, a very enlightened city, 20% of the frontline workers who started getting vaccinated six months ago, are still not jabbed, and a lot of places have hesitancy,” Mr. Goyal said, urging industry bodies such as the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to run campaigns to remove doubts about the COVID-19 vaccine among the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-sector-lagging-in-vaccination-drive-goyal/article35518190.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Mid-century target for net zero inadequate'||At the conclusion of the G20 climate meet, India on Saturday, said that pledges by some countries to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions or ‘carbon neutrality’ by mid-century were inadequate, when considering the rights of developing countries to economic growth. “We have noted the pledges made by some countries to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions or carbon Neutrality by or around mid century. However, this may not be adequate in view of fast depleting available carbon space. Therefore and keeping in view, the legitimate need of developing countries to growth, we urge G20 countries to commit to bringing down per capita emissions to Global average by 2030,” said the Indian statement . The G20 climate summit, that concluded on Friday, comes roughly about 100 days before the Conference of Parties (COP 26) is set to begin in Glasgow, Scotland. Forest cover The Net Zero emissions refer to a situation where a country is able to remove at least as much carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as it is emitting. This can be done by increasing forest cover or through technologies such as carbon capture. India's position as the third largest greenhouse gas emitter but also with among the lowest per capita emissions means that it has always resisted a hard deadline — some countries have set their target years as 2050 or 2060 — to commit to a net-zero future. It is expected that the forthcoming COP 26 talks in Glasgow will see a commitment by the United States. Plan outline Countries periodically submit the National Determined Contributions (NDC) that outline their plans towards capping emission. As per the NDCs submitted to UNFCCC under Paris Agreement, the pledge of the United States falls short of their fair share by 12 tons of CO2/capita, of UK by 14.1 tones CO2/capita, of China by 0.2 tons CO2/capita, and of India by 0.4 tons CO2/capita, according to Council on Energy Environment and Water, a New Delhi based think-tank. The fair share represents the reductions countries must achieve to ensure that the greenhouse gas levels are below that to prevent a 1.5 average temperature rise over the globe by the turn of the century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mid-century-target-for-net-zero-inadequate/article35518221.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Buddha’s teachings have served us well, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said Lord Buddha’s teachings have become all the more relevant during the COVID-19 pandemic and that India had shown how it could face adversities by following his path. As a part of the Dhamma Chakra and Ashadha Purnima programme organised by the International Buddhist Confederation, Mr. Modi said in a video message: “Lord Buddha is all the more relevant in today’s times of corona pandemic. India has shown how we can face even the most difficult challenges by following the path of the Buddha. Today all the countries are moving in solidarity and becoming each other’s strength by following the teachings of the Buddha.” According to an English translation of his speech released by the PMO, Mr. Modi cited Buddha’s teachings and said “enmity does not quell enmity”. “Rather, enmity is calmed with love and by a big heart. In times of tragedy, the world has experienced this power of love and harmony,” he said. The programme also included a video message from President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buddhas-teachings-have-served-us-well-says-pm/article35518227.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal Governor, LoP not eligible for beacon light||Other notable omissions include the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, the Speaker of the Assembly, and the Advocate-General. Soon after the order was issued, lights were removed from the cars of officials no longer eligible; among bureaucrats, only those of the rank of Principal Secretary and above can use a light on top of their cars. The fresh list, according to officials, was necessitated after the busting of a fake vaccine racket in Kolkata, masterminded by a man called Debanjan Deb, who masqueraded as an IAS officer and travelled in an SUV fitted with a blue beacon light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-governor-lop-not-eligible-for-beacon-light/article35518725.ece
25 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Criminal killed in encounter in Odisha||A notorious criminal was killed in Balasore district of Odisha on Saturday after security personnel opened fire to allegedly prevent him from escaping from the police van. Seikh Haider, a gangster who was serving life imprisonment, was being shifted from Choudwar Circle Jail in Cuttack to another jail in Baripada. According to the police, Haider sought permission to answer nature’s call around 3.20 p.m. While getting off from the police van, he snatched the rifle of a policeman and tried to flee. “From a security point of view, Haider was being shifted from Choudwar jail to Baripada jail. An escort teamcomprising an inspector, a sub-inspector and a section of force was taking him to Baripada,” said Saumendra Priyadarshi, Commissioner of Police, Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Mr. Priyadarshi added, “He requested the escort team to get off from the bus to attend to nature’s call at Simulia. However, he tried to escape by snatching a gun from one of the escort personnel. To prevent him from fleeing, he was fired upon in a controlled manner. He sustained bullet injury in his stomach.” He was rushed to a hospital where he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/criminal-killed-in-encounter-in-odisha/article35518182.ece
25 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Shah vows to connect NE capitals||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the Centre would connect the capitals of all the northeastern States by rail and air by 2024. Development in the region needs connectivity to gather pace, he said at a programme in Meghalaya capital Shillong on Saturday. “It will be difficult to fast-track development here without connectivity. This is the reason why the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has since the formation of the BJP-led government in 2014 laid thrust on connectivity in the northeast,” he said. “Our effort will be to connect the capitals of all States in the Northeast with railway and airway. Road connectivity has to be also strengthened alongside,” he added. The Home Minister attended a meeting at the North Eastern Space Applications Centre in Shillong. “Mapping of forest gap areas, expansion of the land area for horticulture development, identification and rejuvenation of wetlands, diversion of floodwater and assessment of bamboo resources for livelihood needs are a few among many key ideas that were discussed during the meeting,” he said in a tweet. Mr. Shah also met the Chief Ministers of the region to discuss various issues, including the inter-State boundary disputes between Assam and its northeastern neighbours. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K. Sangma agreed to move beyond the status quo and start resolving the disputes, starting with the less complicated stretches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-vows-to-connect-ne-capitals-by-air-rail/article35518184.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Bhupen Borah is new Assam PCC chief||The Congress on Saturday announced a new team for the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) by appointing Bhupen Borah as the new PCC chief. Mr. Borah, known to be close to be former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, is among those leaders who had strongly opposed the party's alliance with the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in the recently concluded Assembly elections in the State. The party has also appointed three working presidents that includes All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Rana Goswami and two current legislators, Kamakhya Dey Purkayastha and Jakir Hussain Sikdar. Mr. Goswami, a former MLA, was working as All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary for Uttar Pradesh, where Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is in-charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhupen-borah-is-new-assam-pcc-chief/article35518193.ece
25 July 2021||Jammu,||India lodges strong protest with Pakistan||India on Saturday lodged a strong protest over drone activities by Pakistan authorities in Jammu areas, during a sector commander-level meeting between the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Pakistan Rangers, officials said. The meeting was held at the request of Pakistan Rangers on the International Border (IB) in the Suchetgarh area and it was decided to re-energise instant communication between field commanders, whenever required, to resolve the operational matters, a BSF spokesperson said. Commanders of both the border guarding forces discussed various issues with the main emphasis by the BSF delegation on Pakistani drone activities, terrorist activities and digging of tunnels from across the border and other issues related to border management, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-lodges-strong-protest-with-pakistan/article35518198.ece
25 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Villagers clash with police in eastern Assam||At least six persons were injured when scores of people from Baghjan village in Tinsukia district of eastern Assam clashed with the security forces on Saturday demanding compensation for damage caused by a natural gas well blowout more than a year ago. The Well No. 5 in the Bahgjan oilfield operated by Oil India Ltd. (OIL) caught fire less than a fortnight after the blowout on May 27, 2020. Foreign experts could kill the well only after 173 days. By that time, three OIL employees and birds and aquatic animals in the adjoining Maguri-Motapung wetland had died. The protesters claimed large swathes of paddy fields were rendered unproductive and ponds too contaminated for aquatic life. “We have paid a compensation amount of almost Rs. 103 crore according to the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal,” an OIL official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/villagers-clash-with-police-in-eastern-assam/article35518185.ece
25 July 2021||Panaji,||Ensure relief for flood-hit, Nadda tells Goa BJP leaders||Bharatiya Janata Party’s national president J.P. Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to Goa, addressed Members of Parliament, MLAs and functionaries from the party here on Saturday and asked them to ensure that people affected by the floods caused by heavy rains over the past few days are taken care of. Mr. Nadda, who arrived in the afternoon, was welcomed by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, State unit chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade and others. “In his address, Mr. Nadda asked leaders to ensure that the party organisation manages to reach those affected by the floods. He also appreciated the State government’s COVID-19 vaccination drive,” a functionary said. On Sunday, Mr. Nadda will visit the Mangueshi Temple in North Goa at 8.30 a.m., and then attend a tree plantation event with Sadguru Brahmeshanandacharya Swami at Tapobhumi in Kundai at 9.15 a.m. Later, he will visit a vaccination centre at Don Bosco High School here, and in the afternoon will address a press conference, the party functionary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-relief-for-flood-hit-nadda-tells-goa-bjp-leaders/article35518993.ece
25 July 2021||London,||U.K. urged to review travel ban from India||The U.K. Foreign Office officials have been briefed on the current COVID-19 pandemic situation in India, where many big cities are practically COVID-free, and encouraged to consider a review of the travel ban on visitors from India, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Saturday. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, who arrived in the U.K. for a two-day visit on Friday to take stock of the Roadmap 2030 towards closer U.K.-India ties, agreed between Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson, also shared plans for a reciprocal vaccine certification system to be unveiled by the Indian government soon to facilitate international travel amid the pandemic. “Mumbai, Delhi, big cities are practically free of COVID. But we can’t rest on that situation because we are constantly vigilant, telling our citizens to take precautions so that we don’t have a third wave,” Mr. Shringla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-urged-to-review-travel-ban-from-india/article35518529.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases continue to dip as 1,819 more people test positive||With fresh COVID-19 cases dropping steadily over the past weeks, Tamil Nadu recorded 1,819 infections on Saturday, taking its tally to 25,46,689. Twenty-seven people died of the infection, taking the toll to 33,889. Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore accounted for 175. There were 132 cases in Erode and 127 in Chennai. Salem recorded 107 cases. The remaining 34 districts recorded fewer than 100 cases each, with Perambalur and Tenkasi recording less than 10 infections each — seven and nine respectively. There were no deaths due to COVID-19 in 22 districts. Coimbatore and the Nilgiris saw three deaths each, while Chennai recorded a single fatality. Twenty-six of the deceased had co-morbidities. Active caseload at 24,025 As many as 2,583 people, including 243 in Coimbatore and 217 in Erode, were discharged after treatment. Active cases stood at 24,025. Coimbatore accounts for the most number of active cases at 2,222, followed by Erode with 1,684 and Chennai with 1,604. As many as 1,548 patients are currently under treatment in Salem, 1,447 in Tiruppur, 1,433 in Thanjavur and 1,223 in Chengalpattu. In the last 24 hours, 1,41,758 samples were tested in the State, taking the total figure to 3,63,90,516. Tamil Nadu received 4,81,310 doses of Covishield on Saturday. Another 2,53,636 people were vaccinated on Saturday, taking the total coverage in government centres to 1,94,04,054. As many as 1,48,337 people aged 18 to 44 years, 78,310 people in the 45-59 age group and 25,605 senior citizens were among those who were inoculated. Vaccination was held in 2,102 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-continue-to-dip-as-1819-more-people-test-positive/article35518673.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kodungaiyur dump biomining after October||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start biomining of the dump in Kodungaiyur in October, retrieving at least 100 acres of polluted land for planting trees. Another 100 acres of land was expected to be used for solid waste management, with focus on leachate treatment and waste processing. At least 65 lakh cubic metre of waste has accumulated in the dump in the past few decades. Plastics from the waste will be sent to cement factories near Chennai. Recyclable material would be used by various industries. Inert material would be used for land-levelling work in low-lying areas. The marshland had been polluted by the unscientific disposal of waste affecting the residential neighbourhoods of north Chennai. DPR in 3 months The Corporation, with support from Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd., will prepare a detailed project report in three months. The study will focus on the impact of the dump on residents of north Chennai. The study would assess the groundwater pollution. The extent of air pollution and its impact on public health in the vicinity would be assessed. The Corporation is planning to develop greenery in the dump, with space for recreation, after taking steps to mitigate pollution in the area. A socio-economic study of persons who depend on the dump will be taken up, with special focus on rag pickers. Residents of north Chennai demanded the closure of Kodungaiyur dump during 2016 and 2021 Assembly elections. Officials say the project will mitigate the impact of pollution in the area with a population of more than 20 lakh. Corporation officials say the number of residents affected by pollution in Kodungaiyur will be known only after a study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodungaiyur-dump-biomining-after-october/article35518641.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mahila Congress accuses Governor of ‘political bias’||The Tamil Nadu Mahila Congress on Saturday alleged that Governor Banwarilal Purohit exhibited a discriminatory attitude when it came to non-BJP parties after he refused to be photographed with a Congress delegation that sought to present a petition against the fuel price increase at the Raj Bhavan recently. In a statement, Mahila Congress president R. Sudha said Mr. Purohit refused a photograph when a Congress delegation, consisting of Tiruchi MP S. Thirunavukkarasar, Karur MP S. Jothimani, Congress Legislature Party leader K. Selvaperunthagai and herself met him after organising a protest in Chennai on July 8. “When we met him and presented the petition, the Governor said he was not posing for photographs of late. However, on July 23, he posed for a photograph with BJP State president K. Annamalai, betraying his step-motherly attitude. There should be no place for political or any other bias. Offering a red carpet welcome to “Sanatan and Sangh Parivar” organisations alone did not augur well for a democratic country, she said. Ms. Sudha said their phones were taken away under the pretext of being sanitised and handed over to the drivers directly. Political neutrality She said this called into question the Governor’s political neutrality. “Mr. Purohit must offer an explanation. Rejecting the fact that the elected representatives of people have a responsibility towards solving people’s problems and acknowledging only the political party leader that he likes is not good,” she said.  When we met him and presented the petition, the Governor said he was not posing for photographs of late. However, on July 23, he posed for a photograph with BJP State president K. Annamalai, betraying his step-motherly attitude||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahila-congress-accuses-governor-of-political-bias/article35518683.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite good vaccination performance, free supply remains relatively low||Despite Tamil Nadu posting zero vaccine wastage and extracting the highest number of extra doses in the country, the free vaccine supply it has received from the Centre is low when compared to a few other major States — a factor that health officials feel should change in order to improve vaccination coverage. Data provided as an annexure to a statement on COVID-19 vaccination by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in the Lok Sabha on July 23 showed there was no wastage of vaccine doses in Tamil Nadu between May 1 and July 13 this year. During the same period, the State extracted 5,88,243 extra doses — the highest in the country. The State earlier accounted for about 6% vaccine wastage. Officials attributed the wastage to initial hesitancy among healthcare and frontline workers in getting vaccinated and the supply of 20-dose vials. When a 20-dose vial was opened, only eight to 10 persons came for vaccination due to vaccine hesitancy, resulting in wastage. So how did the State manage to avoid wastage? Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said, “This was done by ensuring that the extra dose available in each vial was fully utilised, and that the last vial was opened only when sufficient numbers equal to doses were available.” T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said the awareness on vaccination among the general public was high, and they were demanding vaccines. Extraction of extra doses was done scientifically and technically, with each beneficiary receiving an accurate dose of 0.5 ml, officials said. The factors that enabled extraction of extra doses were overfill, dead space in syringes and efficiency of health workers, he said. In the concept of overfill by manufacturers, an additional dose of 16% to 24% is provided in a 10-dose vial (5 ml). Similarly, utilising syringes with low dead space — auto disable syringes — also helps. As a result of these factors, 11 to 12 persons could be vaccinated using a vial, he explained. “Efficiency of health workers is critical,” he added. The data also revealed that the State, as of July 20, received 1,50,57,290 free vaccine doses from the Centre. This was less when compared to other major States. Uttar Pradesh received 3,44,61,550 doses, followed by Maharashtra with 3,14,78,860 and Gujarat with 2,58,68,770 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-good-vaccination-performance-free-supply-remains-relatively-low/article35518675.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport slips from 3rd to 6th spot in passenger traffic||A few years ago, Chennai airport was the third busiest in the country and then it was pushed to the fourth and now, it is in the sixth spot in the overall passenger traffic, behind Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata. In the international sector, Kochi has surged ahead handling more number of international passengers than Chennai. After the second lockdown, there had been some increase in the overall passenger traffic at Chennai airport (both domestic and international) but not to the extent of going ahead of the other metro airports. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that several reasons, including restrictions in the aircraft movement last year to slots given in the Vande Bharat scheme for international flights have led to this. “One of the reasons could be that, last year, the State government allowed a certain number of flights alone in the domestic sector in view of safety reasons and that we think could have had a ripple effect on the traffic over several months. Those restrictions were essential because bringing down the COVID-19 cases was of primary importance. Now, we don’t have any such restrictions and traffic is slowly increasing. But, it could take some more time for further recovery,” an official said. Besides, international passenger traffic had not risen for several reasons, including the number of cases and restrictions. “The number of Vande Bharat flights we get depends on how many are allotted to Chennai by the Centre. We are trying our best to provide all facilities to passengers but there is only so much we can do with what is available,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-slips-from-3rd-to-6th-spot-in-passenger-traffic/article35518661.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class X students in State record 100% pass percentage||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Saturday declared the results of students from Classes X and XII. Class X (ICSE) students from Tamil Nadu recorded a 100% pass percentage, while Class 12 (ISC) candidates recorded a pass percentage of 99.87%. Board exams for the students were cancelled this year owing to the pandemic. A total of 4,493 candidates from 95 schools got their Class X results, while 2,304 students from 57 schools got their Class XII results. Calculation errors The CISCE had said that the results would be announced on the basis of an alternate assessment policy decided by them, calculating the “imputed marks”. Candidates who have an objection regarding the computation have been asked to submit a written application to their schools, stating their objections and reasons in detail. Schools will further have to review the applications, and can forward them to the board with their comments and remarks, endorsing them with supporting documents, if they are satisfied with the contentions. The last date for forwarding the requests to the board is August 1. The CISCE will review the documents and convey their decision to the concerned schools, in writing. “In case the result needs to be altered, the CISCE will notify the heads of the schools. This mechanism is only for correcting calculation errors,” Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, said in a press release ahead of the declaration of results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-x-students-in-state-record-100-pass-percentage/article35518663.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Desilt all waterbodies, says CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday reviewed the functioning of the Departments of Water Resources and Mining and Geology. According to an official release, Mr. Stalin asked officials of the Department of Water Resources to undertake desilting of all waterbodies in the State and increase their storage. He also asked them to take steps to create new waterbodies and water storage structures, especially checkdams, to save rainwater in regions having no dams. Mr. Stalin also reviewed water schemes, repair, renovation and restoration schemes and projects being implemented with World Bank funding. At the meeting with officials of the Department of Mining and Geology, the Chief Minister reviewed the steps being taken to come up with a new policy to streamline the production of artificial sand and conversion of unused quarries into water storage facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilt-all-waterbodies-says-cm/article35518671.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water board plans door-to-door inspection of RWH structures||The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) plans to take up door-to-door inspection of rainwater harvesting structure (RWH) across the city as part of its efforts to enhance groundwater recharge potential. The team will check water quality in the buildings during inspection. This will help assess the quality of water used at the household — be it from open well, borewell or board’s water connection. Regular campaign Every year, the board organises awareness campaign and conducts random checks of rainwater harvesting structures in domestic and commercial buildings. But this year, it plans to check all buildings across the city. There are nearly 13 lakh buildings in Chennai. Sources in the water board said volunteers and non-governmental organisations would be roped in for the exercise. The condition of the rainwater harvesting structures would be checked to ensure maximum recharge of groundwater. For instance, some commercial buildings with vast space may need more RWH structures. But they may have put in place only one rainwater harvesting system. The exercise aims at recharging the water table and reducing flooding during the rainy season. Besides enumeration of RWH structures, the teams, equipped with test kits, would check water samples for three basic parameters, including the level of total dissolved solids. Samples of drinking water supplied by the board would be tested for residual chlorine level. This would help detect contamination and assess the quality of water supplied. Option for residents Residents may check groundwater samples for additional parameters and results would be shared in a few days, sources said. Plans are afoot to set up a minimum of two mobile help desks near the streets during the inspection to receive complaints from residents. Consumers of the particular division would be informed through various means, including residents’ welfare associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-board-plans-door-to-door-inspection-of-rwh-structures/article35518652.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Measures will be taken to dispel notion of ‘tax terrorism’: official||The Income Tax department will take measures to dispel notions about allegations of ‘tax terrorism’ (harassing of tax payers), said D. Rohini, Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “There are allegations about tax terrorism by some fringe sections of the society. We will dispel the notion by reaching out to the citizens and also by identifying the fringe propaganda and giving a suitable response with facts and figures available at our disposal,” she said, speaking at a webinar organised by the IT department as part of the commemoration of the 161st anniversary of Income Tax Day on Saturday. Ms. Rohini pointed out that with the rapid embracing of technology, incorporation of transparency and accountability, India is going to outdo many of the Western systems of tax administration. She also said focus would be more on widening the tax base, international taxation and transfer pricing. Speaking at the event, Subashree Anantkrishnan, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, pointed out that the department was the first to embrace technology and make it easier for the taxpayers. Rajib Kumar Hota, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (retired) said focus should be on the area of ensuring tax certainty. Due to the pandemic, it was expected that a lot of companies would shift their base from China to India. However, out of the 39 global companies only three shifted to India and the remaining had shifted to ASEAN countries due to favourable tax systems and tax certainty, he pointed out. Mr. Hota said that tax laws in a global digital economy should be arrived at by consensus among countries and should not be unilateral decisions. Abhishek Murali, Chairman, Direct Taxes Committee, Southern India Regional Council of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, said that the Income Tax department was now using data mining effectively to identify tax evasion. He also said the new income tax portal now enabled taxpayers to get refunds in less than 12 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-will-be-taken-to-dispel-notion-of-tax-terrorism-official/article35518680.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Staff and kin should be fully vaccinated: DPH||In a fresh set of guidelines for workplaces and industries for COVID-19 prevention, the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has said all staff and family members should be considered a high priority group and vaccinated with two doses of vaccine. All workplaces and industries with more than 300 members or more than 10,000 sq.ft. area should appoint a qualified health inspector at their own cost for monitoring and coordinating and implementing health activities on the premises. Noting that the second wave of the pandemic affected the State from April to June, the DPH said there was a drastic fall in the incidence after the lockdown and restrictions. The State was easing the lockdown, and this might result in a surge in cases. The government directed that strict measures be enforced at all places of public gatherings, especially at workplaces, to prevent a case surge. After they enter the workplace, the staff should be asked for symptoms such as fever, sore throat, cough, breathing difficulty, body pain, loss of smell and loss of taste. Those with any symptom, or those who have any household member who has tested positive in the past one week, should be quarantined and taken to a nearby health facility. All workers should wear masks, and mask compliance should be monitored by supervisors and managers, and through CCTV. Anyone found without a mask should be sent out, according to the guidelines. The workplace should be arranged in such a way that there is a distance of two metres between the staff members. Automated or foot-operated hand sanitisers should be placed at all accessible places and all wash-rooms should be provided with soap and water for hand-washing. As for canteens, workers may be divided into groups, and meal and tea time should be split across the groups based on the capacity of the dining hall. Drivers transporting the staff should be screened daily for temperature or symptoms. A COVID-19 health team may be constituted with the administration and HR staff, supervisors and a health inspector. The Deputy Directors of Health Services will enforce the guidelines in coordination with the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-and-kin-should-be-fully-vaccinated-dph/article35518666.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sculptures made from scrap adorn landmarks||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started installing sculptures made from automobile scrap at 14 locations in the city. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has asked civic officials to install sculptures at locations such as the Marina beach, Kathipara flyover, Besant Nagar beach, Airport, Anna Nagar Roundtana, War Memorial, leisure bicycle track, Indira Nagar and the parks of north Chennai. A sculpture of a farmer will be installed at the park in front of the Secretariat at Fort St. George. The Koyambedu circle will get a sculpture of a Jallikattu bull. Sculptures of a classical dancer and a mridangam player will be installed near the Airport. Besant Nagar beach will get a sculpture of a tortoise. Marina beach will get sculptures of a crab and a shark. Sculptures of a leopard and a deer will be installed at the leisure bicycle track in Indira Nagar. About four tonnes of waste from automobiles had been collected from the city to develop the sculptures, the officials said. Sculptors from Andhra Pradesh developed the sculptures last year. Former Corporation deputy commissioner (south) Alby John Varghese coordinated with the sculptors, the officials said. The civic body had started a drive to beautify the park along Marina beach, with more flowering plants. The artificial waterfall in the Marina has been refurbished last week, following an inspection of Mr. Bedi. Officials in each of the three regions and 15 zones had started preparing estimates for beautification of spaces near grade separators, bridges and junctions to improve the aesthetics. After removing the posters in the city, the civic body had planned adorn such spaces with artwork.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sculptures-made-from-scrap-adorn-landmarks/article35518651.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts raise alarm over increasing cases of hypertension, a silent killer||The Family Planning Association of India (FPA India), has raised alarm over hypertension (high blood pressure), a silent killer that could potentially add to the burden of disease in the country, which is already facing the COVID-19 pandemic. At a webinar held to commemorate the 72nd foundation day of FPA India on Friday, on ‘Expanding the horizons of sexual and reproductive health and rights’, experts discussed the increasing incidence of hypertension. The event also marked the launch of ‘Project PrACHI- Prioritizing Advocacy for Control of Hypertension in India’, a nation-wide campaign supported by the Global Health Advocacy Incubator, to accelerate hypertension control and treatment. Rathnamala Desai, president, FPA India, said that regular preventive health check-ups should be encouraged among the younger working age population (35-65 years) and women in the reproductive age, to pick up underlying hypertension that can potentially lead to adverse cardiovascular or reproductive health events. “Almost one in five women aged 15–49 years in India has undiagnosed hypertension with implications for personal and reproductive health,” said Sonu Goel, professor, Department of Community Medicine, PGIMER, Chandigarh.In India, almost 30% of adults have hypertension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-raise-alarm-over-increasing-cases-of-hypertension-a-silent-killer/article35518782.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS urges DMK govt. not to lift ban on lottery||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday cautioned the DMK government not to lift the ban on lottery. Referring to reports that the government had decided to bring back the lottery, he said it would face “huge opposition” from the people in such an eventuality. There are “good measures” to increase the State’s revenue, he said. Recalling how the sale of lottery tickets proliferated when M. Karunanidhi was the Chief Minister, he said this had devastated the lives of the poor, who got lured into the trade on the basis of assurances that they could become rich. It was former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa who abolished it, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-urges-dmk-govt-not-to-lift-ban-on-lottery/article35518667.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has got 70,000 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines||With Tamil Nadu receiving 70,000 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine so far, the first round of vaccination is under way, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Saturday. He inspected the vaccination at the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Egmore. According to a release, he said that every year, 12 lakh children aged below five died of such diseases as pneumonia and meningitis in the country. Under the Universal Immunisation Programme, the pneumococcal conjugate vaccination programme was launched in various States in the last two years. There were a total of 9,23,000 children aged below five in Tamil Nadu, he said. A decision on administering the vaccine to children aged above five would be taken on the basis of the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The vaccine would be administered every day at the Institute of Child Health, he said. The Minister said that during the DMK’s previous government, a separate hospital for treating children with muscular dystrophy was started at Thousand Lights, Chennai. There were a total of 2,000 children with muscular dystrophy in the State, including 200 in Chennai. Mr. Subramanian said an inspection of the hospital would be conducted in a few days to look into its expansion and upgrade. Minister’s gesture Mr. Subramanian offered his room at the MLA Hostel to the parents of a five-year-old girl who is undergoing treatment at the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children after accidentally consuming a chemical laundry bleach. The couple from Tirunelveli district were residing on the hospital campus. The child should undergo treatment for a month. So, the Minister offered his room to them and arranged for food during their stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-has-got-70000-doses-of-pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccines/article35518676.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyber crime gangs on the prowl again||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch has launched an investigation into a series of complaints on creation of fake profiles of Facebook users and collecting money from people on the friends list of original profiles. The police suspect that a Rajasthan-based gang is involved in the crime. Last year, taking advantage of the lockdown, the cyber fraudsters created fake Facebook accounts of then Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and more than two dozen IPS officers in the city. They did not spare police officers of Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh either. The cyber crime police of those States together launched an investigation after taking up a bunch of complaints. A gang of cyber criminals operating in Bharatpur district in Rajasthan was nabbed last November. The police suspect that similar gangs could be operating again with many Facebook users finding their fake profiles being created. The police have appealed to the people not to fall prey to the fraudsters. Modus operandi A senior police officer said, “We have received over 100 complaints now. Earlier, they were targeting the profiles of police officers. Now they target common people. They copy the profile pictures of a person from his/her Facebook account and use them to create fake profiles which appear deceptively similar. They then befriend people from the user’s friends list, asking for money on grounds of medical emergencies, including COVID-19,” said the officer. “They target the victims at odd hours through messenger app. They send only text messages and do not take calls,” said another officer explaining the modus operandi of the cyber fraudsters.  They befriend people from the user’s friend list, asking for money on grounds of medical emergencies, including COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-crime-gangs-on-the-prowl-again/article35518658.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Community involvement crucial in tackling hepatitis’||Involving civil society must be a key strategy in working towards the elimination of viral hepatitis, Cary James, chief executive officer, World Hepatitis Alliance, has said. Addressing a virtual conference organised by Chennai Liver Foundation (CLF) on Saturday, ahead of the World Hepatitis Day on July 28, he said civil society, particularly those living with viral hepatitis, must be equitable partners in planning, implementation, monitoring and governance of hepatitis programmes. He said the effectiveness of hepatitis programmes will increase with the involvement of civil society as they closely worked with the communities. He highlighted the need to focus on fighting misinformation and stigma around viral hepatitis, particularly Hepatitis B and C. B.B. Rewari from the South East Asia Regional Office (SEARO) of World Health Organisation, stressed on the need for decentralising testing and treatment coverage in India in tackling Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C. He said that although vaccination, testing and treatment were available in the country through a structured programme, they were largely centralised in tertiary care centres. Highlighting the inadequacy in testing and treatment coverage in rural districts and tier-2 and tier-3 cities, he stressed on the need for training more healthcare professionals from these areas. J.A. Jayalal, national president of Indian Medical Association, said that Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C did not receive the advocacy available for other diseases such as AIDS and tuberculosis. He said that IMA would work towards creating a programme to strengthen the understanding of viral hepatitis among physicians. R.P. Shanmugam, founder of CLF, stressed on the need for increased awareness about Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C, particularly in proactive screening of vulnerable populations. Vivekanandan, liver transplant surgeon and managing trustee at CLF, highlighted the need for policy level changes to enable screening and vaccination of more people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/community-involvement-crucial-in-tackling-hepatitis/article35518678.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police caution people about suspicious link||The Cyber Crime Wing has issued a warning to the public about a suspicious link circulated by online fraudsters to swindle money from bank customers. The suspicious link is circulated to the public on their mobile phones as an SMS as if it has been sent from their bank. It informs the user that the bank account was blocked and asks to update KYC/PAN card/ Aadhaar card details through a linkhttp: //6328633cafe2.ngrok.io /bankor something similar. The Cyber Crime wing said people clicked the link without verifying the authenticity and allowed offenders to have easy access to all details on the mobile phones. Within 10 minutes of furnishing information, an online transaction would be done. Netbanking was operated like an ATM transaction by fraudsters even before the victim completed entering details into the link provided, said a senior police officer. Several complaints were received from the affected people in the last two days, said the police.  The officer said earlier the fraudsters used to call. Now, they sent suspicious link under the pretext of an update. Public are cautioned to be more vigilant about recent trends and advised not to click any suspicious link on their mobile phones. If there is any doubt on a suspicious message, they can visit the bank in person and get clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-caution-people-about-suspicious-link/article35518657.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 men nabbed for extortion in Chennai||The Delhi police arrested three persons in Chennai for allegedly extorting money from people who watched obscene videos. Police sources said that following a series of complaints in Delhi, a special team arrived in the city in search of the accused. The names of the arrested were given as Ramkumar, 32, of Mangadu, Joseph, 37, of Kolathur, and Dinochand, 29, of Tiruchi. Operating from Chennai, they contacted people over the phone at random, claiming to be personnel of the Delhi police. They claimed that they knew via IP address that the person had watched porn for long hours. They then threatened criminal action against their targets for watching porn if they did not pay a fine of Rs. 3,000 or Rs. 5,000. The police said the gang might have collected Rs. 30 lakh from several victims. The issue came to light after several complaints were lodged with Delhi police. The gang had used the logo of the Delhi police, and created an account through which they extorted money from the victims. More arrests were expected, sources in the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delhi-police-arrest-three-men-in-chennai/article35518656.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ICF will not be privatised, Minister tells Vaiko||MDMK general secretary Vaiko said that Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has assured him that the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) at Perambur will not be privatised. Mr. Vaiko, along with Erode MP A. Ganesamoorthy met Mr. Vaishnaw in Delhi on Saturday and told him there were reports that ICF was going to be privatised. This had caused fear among the employees. He said ICF was one of the most profitable public sector enterprises in the country. “If ICF is privatised, it would lead to retrenchment; thousands of employees will lose their jobs. The welfare of the employees will be completely disregarded. Hence, ICF should not be privatised,” Mr. Vaiko told the Minister, according to a statement issued by the party. It said Mr. Vaishnaw told Mr. Vaiko that only 9 countries in the world had a facility like ICF. He told him that ICF won’t be given to any private entity for any reason, and that he could share this news with its employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icf-will-not-be-privatised-union-minister-tells-vaiko/article35518679.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM congratulate Mirabai Chanu||Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin congratulated Indian weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for having won the silver medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday. “Mirabai Chanu has brought pride to India through her remarkable achievement. I am sure her achievement will inspire and motivate many sportspersons from India to perform their best at the Olympics and get many more medals and laurels for our great nation...,” Mr. Purohit said in a message. Mr. Stalin tweeted: “A sparkling start for India on the very first day of Olympics. My heartiest congratulations to @Mirabai_Chanu, who has brought the first Olympic silver medal in weightlifting for India with her impressive performance.” Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami tweeted, “My hearty congratulations to Saikhom Mirabai Chanu for bagging silver medal at the Olympics...” Union Minister of State L. Murugan, VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan, TNCC floor leader K. Selvaperunthagai, PMK founder S. Ramadoss and MP Anbumani Ramadoss were the others who congratulated her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-congratulate-mirabai-chanu/article35518664.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for finance firm manager||The police have launched a search to nab a finance firm manager, who allegedly pledged 108 sovereigns of gold jewellery given to him by a customer in Royapuram for safekeeping in a locker. The police said Alwin, 67, a retired private school teacher, was acquainted with Ponnusamy, who was the manager of a private gold loan firm in the locality. Two years ago, Mr. Alwin rented a safe deposit locker and handed over 108 sovereigns of gold jewellery to the firm. While Ponnusamy kept a key to the locker, he did not provide Mr. Alwin with one as is the practice. Recently, Mr. Alwin went to the firm to take back his jewellery. But, the staff told him that Ponnusamy was promoted and transferred last year. Mr. Alwin showed them receipt for having rented the locker. When the staff opened the locker, they found it empty. Mr. Alwin lodged a complaint at the firm. During inquiry, the company learnt that Ponnusamy had forged documents and pledged the jewellery under 10 accounts. He had obtained Rs. 29 lakh loan from each account. The staff were unaware of this since he dealt with Mr. Alwin’s account, the police said. A case has been registered in Kasimedu police station. The police have launched a search for Ponnusamy and his associate Latha, who helped him in creating fake documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-finance-firm-manager/article35518642.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM seeks panel for auto drivers||The Makkal Needhi Maiam Trade Union president, S.A. Ponnusamy, urged the State government to form an advisory council consisting of officials and autorickshaw drivers to address the livelihood issues the drivers faced during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, he said the State government’s notable scheme to provide free travel for women in government buses had hit autorickshaw drivers. He said it was a matter of concern that the Union and State governments did not suspend road tax or insurance premium collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-seeks-panel-for-auto-drivers/article35518643.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free eye consultation||Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital has launched a free online consultation platform, making its specialists available for advice till August 15, 2021. Hospital chairman Amar Agarwal said the initiative was to help the public seek consultation for their eye-related problems without delay during the pandemic. Patients can visit the hospital’s website to book an online consultation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-eye-consultation/article35518677.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City Corpn. resumes reporting on zonal data||The Greater Chennai Corporation resumed reporting on zonal-level data on COVID-19 on Saturday after concerns were raised over stopping the publication of the data. The civic body was reporting zone-wise data on the number of cases, recoveries and deaths since the first wave of the pandemic on social media platforms. However, it was stopped last week, triggering concerns from a section of academicians and the public who were regularly following the data. The Hindu , through a report carried on Saturday, highlighted the concerns raised by the academics and took the issue to the knowledge of senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-corpn-resumes-reporting-on-zonal-data/article35518682.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SICCI submits its inputs for growth to CM||The president of Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI), Ar Rm Arun, on Saturday met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to submit a report containing the chamber’s recommendations for inclusive growth. Among the recommendations were suggestions on reinvigorating industrial growth, increasing credit growth, funding the unfunded, employment generation, providing relief to the farm sector, and education sector and improving inclusivity in the health care sector. V.N. Shiva Shankar, vice-president, and Vinod Solomon, secretary, SICCI were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sicci-submits-its-inputs-for-growth-to-cm/article35518655.ece
25 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rejuvenation camp for elephants to be held, if necessary: Minister||The annual rejuvenation camp for temple elephants will be held this year, if necessary, said Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) P.K. Sekar Babu in Mettupalayam on Saturday. He visited the Vanabadrakali Amman Temple at Thekkampatti, near Mettupalayam, as part of his inspection of select temples in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on Saturday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that all temple elephants were being subjected to medical check-ups every 15 days, engaged in walking exercises within the temple premises in the mornings and evenings and are provided with diet as prescribed by veterinarians. The HR&CE Department is also constructing bath tubs for temple elephants, Mr. Babu said, giving the example of Akilandeswari-Jambukeswarar temple at Thiruvanaikaval where a bath tub was constructed recently. Many temples without elephants have approached the State government, he said, adding that the HR&CE Department is ready to accept elephants from private persons who are willing to donate those to the temples. Other temples that he inspected in Coimbatore district also included Aranganatha Swamy Temple in Karamadai and Subramaniyaswami Temple in Maruthamalai. In Tiruppur, he inspected Thirumuruganathaswamy Temple in Thirumuruganpoondi and Visveswara Swamy Temple in the city in the morning. The Minister told mediapersons here that the scheme to appoint archakas (temple priests) from all communities in temples was being carried out in phases across all temples in the State and will be completed in 100 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rejuvenation-camp-for-elephants-to-be-held-if-necessary-minister/article35518704.ece
25 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. libraries reopen after 75 days||As many as 242 government libraries in the district, including the District Central Library, reopened with restrictions on Saturday after remaining closed for 75 days due to the COVID-19 lockdown. District Central Librarian P. Rajendran said that the libraries were closed on May 10 following the announcement of the lockdown. As part of the safety measures, all visitors will be subjected to thermal scanning at the entrance and their contact details will be noted down. They will be provided with hand sanitisers and must wear masks on the library premises. Children below the age of 15 and senior citizens above the age of 65 will not be allowed to visit the libraries, he said. At the District Central Library on Cowley Brown Road, R.S. Puram, the number of visitors allowed in each of the sections will be restricted to ensure personal distancing norms, he said. Only 40 persons will be allowed in the ‘Own Book’ section at a time, 30 persons in the ‘Competitive Examinations’ section and 30 persons in the ‘Periodicals’ section. Sections for children and differently abled were not reopened on Saturday, he said. “We are expecting more visitors, particularly those preparing for competitive examinations, to visit [the District Central Library] in the coming days,” Mr. Rajendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-libraries-reopen-after-75-days/article35518690.ece
25 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal residents allege land encroachment by outsider||Residents of Kandivazhi tribal settlement near Anaikatti have submitted a complaint to the Coimbatore District Collector, accusing a private person of encroaching upon their land. The petition alleged that a stream which is a source of water for the residents, the land belonging to the settlement, their place of worship and a route to the hills were encroached upon by the person. According to the petition, the Irula tribal settlement has 25 families and the residents rear cattle, goats and collect minor forest produce like honey for income. The petition said that the main path from the settlement to the forest was blocked by the owner of an adjacent private land. Accusing the private person of having encroached upon their land, the petitioners wanted the District Collector to initiate proceedings to measure and demarcate the reserve land of the tribal settlement. The petitioners alleged that the flow of the stream, was obstructed after the owner of the private land cleared the bushes and levelled it. “The stream is a source of water for us and many wild animals. It will have water in the peak of summer, too. The origin of the stream is known as Nakkekadavu as animals lick the rock and mud which is believed to have mineral deposits,” said a resident. The District Collector has assured us that he would look into the petition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-residents-allege-land-encroachment-by-outsider/article35518693.ece
25 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Birders spot pale jungle mynah near Coimbatore||A routine birding trip to a small waterbody at Narasipuram, near Coimbatore, on Thursday turned out to be a memorable one for Shakthi Thulir and Usha Ravindran as a surprise was in store for them in the form of a common bird with an uncommon plumage. As they were observing a flock of jungle mynah ( Acridotheres fuscus ), which has a distinct dark grey overall with contrasting yellow-orange beak and legs, one individual stood out with a different plumage. “One mynah had pale plumage. The bird was active like any other individual in the group,” said Mr. Thulir who along with Ms. Ravindran clicked a few photographs of the odd one out. The duo, members of Coimbatore-based Western Ghats Wildlife Conservation Trust (WGWCT), shared the photos with the NGO's president N. Parthiban and other birders who opined that the mynah could have got the pale plumage due to leucism, a condition that prevents pigments particularly melanin from being properly deposited on a bird's feathers. Pankaj Koparde, Assistant Professor with the School of Ecology and Environmental Management, Faculty of Sustainability Studies, MIT World Peace University, Pune, opined that the mynah spotted by the birders could be a leucistic individual. “It is is a common genetic aberration”, he said. He observed that the colours of bare parts of the bird (like beak and legs) are intact and there is overall paling of melanistic pigments unlike in the case of an albino individual. According to him, in an albino individual, the colour of the eyes will be lost. The eyes will have pink or red colour due to the exposed blood vessels as pigmentation is lost. “Albino individuals do not survive due to impaired vision,” added Mr. Koparde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birders-spot-pale-jungle-mynah-near-coimbatore/article35518698.ece
25 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Associations registered under Societies Act get time to conduct annual meeting||Societies and associations registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act can conduct the annual meeting this year on the virtual mode and have time till the end of December this year to place receipts and expenditure for 2020-2021 before the general body. In a Government Order dated June 30, 2021, the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department has said that since the country is reeling under the second wave of the pandemic, some of the societies that cannot hold meetings on the virtual mode need time to conduct the annual meeting. Hence, the time to place the accounts details before the general body has been extended till December 2021. In another communication dated July 5, 2021, the Registration Department has said that as for 2019-2020, the annual meetings for 2020-2021 can also be conducted virtually with conditions. Industry associations such as the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association and the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, plan to conduct virtual and off line meetings, with limited participation. “We will see how the pandemic spread is when we decide to conduct the annual meeting, seek permission from the Collector and hold an offline meeting too with limited number of people,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. According to K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, usually the societies have six months time to submit details after the annual meeting to the government. The order should specify clearly that the societies have time till June 2022. Further, the government should give provision in its software to accept the documents filed during the extended period and it should not collect penalty for that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/associations-registered-under-societies-act-get-time-to-conduct-annual-meeting-this-year/article35518681.ece
25 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth booked for marrying minor girl||The Podanur police have registered a case against a 19-year-old youth for marrying a minor girl. The police said that N. Nethaji, a resident of Sasthri Street at Vellalore, was booked based on a complaint lodged by Vellalore village administrative officer V.K. Nagarajan on Friday. The police said that Mr. Nagarajan received information from a helpline that the youth married a minor girl. The VAO conducted an inquiry. The family admitted that the youth married a minor girl last month. Nethaji was booked under provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Jewellery stolen A total of 12 sovereigns of jewellery were stolen from a house near Civil Aerodrome on Friday. The police said that the theft took place at the residence of S. Ashok (23) at Sasthri Nagar. According to the police, Mr. Kumar, who hails from Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, works at a restaurant on Avinashi Road near the airport junction. He went to the restaurant for work at 6 a.m. on Friday and found the front door of the house broken open when he returned at 12.30 p.m. The man found three gold chains weighing five sovereign, four sovereign and three sovereign stolen. The Peelamedu police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-booked-for-marrying-minor-girl/article35518694.ece
25 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Reopening of Tasmac bars sought||Members of the Coimbatore District Tasmac Bar Owners Association on Tuesday petitioned District Collector G.S. Sameeran seeking the reopening of the bars attached to Tasmac outlets, which currently remained closed amid the lockdown. The petition said that the district has over 290 Tas,ac outlets with attached bars and that over 5,000 employees work in these bars. Claiming that the livelihood of the employees were being affected, the petition claimed that most of the employees hail from other districts and were solely dependent on this for their earnings. Petty shops adjoining the bars must also be allowed to reopen at the earliest, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopening-of-tasmac-bars-sought/article35518705.ece
25 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wage talks for powerloom weavers||Powerloom units in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts that do job work for larger weavers have demanded increase in wages and the Labour Department has called them for talks here on July 26. The job working units had an agreement with the master weavers in 2014 and claim that the wages they get now is less than the 2014 agreement. They recently met the Tamil Nadu Textile Minister and sought revision of wages. They also submitted their demands to the Collectors of Coimbatore and Tiruppur. The Assistant Labour Commissioner has called for talks in Coimbatore on July 26 and in Tiruppur on July 29. The job working units have demanded 60% hike in wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wage-talks-for-powerloom-weavers/article35518701.ece
25 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar||The Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Tamil Nadu State Chapter will organise a webinar on Sunday on paediatric care ahead of the possible third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Paediatricians along with doctors will participate in the webinar, which will be held at 4 p.m., a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar/article35518691.ece
25 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore reports zero deaths||Cuddalore district reported nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Saturday. As many as 68 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the overall tally to 59,957. The district saw 58,291 recoveries and 777 were active cases. Villupuram district reported one death and 39 fresh cases, taking the total number in the district to 43,593. The official death toll stood at 339. Kallakurichi district reported 39 cases, taking the overall tally to 28,755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-reports-zero-deaths/article35519028.ece
25 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man killed in elephant attack||An elderly man was killed in an elephant attack during the early hours of Saturday near Marandahalli here. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Munusami Kounder (85), a farmer from Pullalli. Munuswami, who had gone to visit his relative on Friday night, was walking near Marandahalli when a wild tusker attacked him. He died of his injuries. On Saturday, Thenkanikottai forest personnel alerted the police after they found Munusami’s body in the forest area. The police and forest personnel recovered the body. Solatium given Assistant Conservator of Forests Karthiyayini handed over a compensation of Rs. 50,000 to the family. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-elephant-attack/article35518707.ece
25 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow increases to 25,000 cusecs at Hogenakkal||The inflow increased to 25,000 cusecs at Hogenakkal on Saturday. According to officials, following recent rains, discharge of water from KRS and Kabini dams was increased and it reached Hogenekkal during the early hours of Saturday. While the inflow was 10,000 cusecs at 11 a.m, it increased to 15,000 cusecs by 2 p.m and touched 25,000 cusecs by 6 p.m. The Forest and Revenue officials are constantly monitoring Cauvery river banks following the increase in inflow. At 8 a.m on Saturday, the water level at Mettur dam was 72.55ft against total of 120 ft. The stored capacity was 34,931 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 6,841 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-increases-to-25000-cusecs-at-hogenakkal/article35518814.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Non-payment of salary forces teachers to turn daily wagers||With salary not paid to teachers at 15 Special Training Centres (STCs) under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) in the district since March 2020, many of them have turned daily wagers. The rescued child workers in the district are enrolled in these STCs run by various non-Governmental organisations (NGOs) in the district. These centres function under the Child Labour Division of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. While the Ministry pays a monthly salary of Rs. 7,000 to a teacher, the State government pays them Rs. 500. Record keepers and helpers are paid Rs. 3,500 a month. The children get a monthly stipend of Rs. 400 to encourage them continue their studies. A total of 294 rescued child workers were enrolled in the STCs in the district, which has over 35 teachers and 15 non-teaching staff. Since the closing of the centres in March 2020, in view of COVID-19 lockdown, the teaching and the non-teaching staff have not been paid their salaries. This has forced many teachers to take up daily wage jobs to meet their basic needs. “I had to fulfil the needs of my family and hence, I took up daily wage jobs,” says J. Periyasamy (36), a teacher at an STC in Gundri. “We are not sure when the centres will reopen,” says another teacher. S.C. Natraj, Director, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural, an NGO, that runs centres at Kongadai, Agnipavi, Vilankombai and at Gundri Hills told The Hindu that both the teaching and non-teaching staff in all the 15 districts have not been paid since March 2020. “Since children are also not given their stipend, it would be difficult to retain both the staff and children once the centres start functioning,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-payment-of-salary-forces-teachers-to-turn-daily-wagers/article35518806.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Motorists, shopkeepers want Cauvery Road re-laid||With the dust emanating from the Cauvery Road at Karungalpalayam causing immense hardship to motorists and shopkeepers, the road users have urged the highways department to re-lay it at the earliest. The stretch was dug for underground sewerage scheme during the total lockdown and the work was completed a few weeks ago. But the stretch has not been re-laid so far. “It is a major road that connects Pallipalayam and Erode. The dust from the road lowers visibility and poses threat to motorists,” said V. Gunasekaran of Karungalpalayam. The main road connects Erode and Namakkal districts and is one of the busiest stretches in the city. Motorists and pedestrians have to cover their face while travelling on the road. Shopkeepers on the stretch are a worried lot as the dust affects their business. They wanted the road re-laid at the earliest. However, officials said that re-laying cannot be done immediately as the earth has to settle so that pits do not form later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorists-shopkeepers-want-cauvery-road-re-laid/article35518820.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector hands over community certificates at doorstep in Talavadi||It was dream come true for many families in the Talavadi Hills whose long-pending demand for community certificates and free house site pattas was fulfilled when District Collector H. Krishnanunni handed over the documents at their doorstep here on Saturday. On July 3 and 4, the Collector carried out inspections in the tribal hamlets in Talavadi during which people of Iggalur, Thingalur, Germalam, Diginarai, Talavadi, Hasanur, Bainapuram, Mallankuzhi panchayats submitted petitions demanding ‘Hindu Malayalee’ community certificates and free house site pattas. Mr. Krishnanunni asked officials of the respective departments to take necessary action against the petitions and submit a report. He also asked the Rural Development Department to expedite various development works carried out in the tribal areas. On Saturday, the Collector along with the officials visited Arapalayam, Hasanur, Ittarai and Ellakattai in Talavadi Taluk and handed over house site pattas to 36 beneficiaries, community certificates to 264 persons, and welfare assistance to 27 persons. Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional officer Palanidevi, Joint Director of Agriculture Chinnasamy and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-hands-over-community-certificates-at-doorstep-in-talavadi/article35518813.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Groceries distributed among tribal families||A total of 370 tribal families in six settlements located in the Talamalai Forest Range were given groceries and other essential items worth Rs. 800 each here. Sponsored by the World Wildlife Fund and the Talavadi Adhivasigal Munnetra Sangam (TAMS), K. Suresh, Range Officer, Talamalai Forest Range, distributed the essentials among the residents of Kalithimbam, Mavanatham, Bejalatti, Thadasalatti, Ittarai and Ramaranai. All these settlements are located inside the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve and the people cultivate millets and other crops on their land to fulfil their food needs. A forest official said that due to COVID-19 lockdown, the people’s livelihood was hit and the essentials would serve their needs at least for a month. The package contains cereals, pulses, oil, other essentials, masks and sanitisers. “People were asked to follow COVID-19 norms when they travel to other places for work or to market,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/groceries-distributed-among-tribal-families/article35518816.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 100 ft at Bhavanisagar Dam||Water level in Bhavanisagar Dam is expected to touch 100 feet on Sunday morning, after which the entire inflow will be discharged into River Bhavani. At 6 p.m. on Saturday, the water level stood at 99.38 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet, while the storage was 28.245 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. The inflow was 9,233 cusecs and the discharge was 100 cusecs in River Bhavani and 800 cusecs in Arakkankottai – Thadappalli canals. Officials at the Water Resources Department said that inflow continues to be around 9,000 cusecs throughout the day and the level would touch 100 feet by 6 a.m. Sunday. “As per the flood regulation norms, water should be stored only till 100 feet in July.  Hence, the entire inflow will be discharged into the river after that”, they added. Meanwhile, Collector H. Krishnanunni has asked people living along the banks of the river and in low-lying areas to move to safer places and asked them to take care of their cattle and belongings. He asked the children, youngsters, public, tourists and others not to step into the river for bathing, fishing or washing their cattle. Officials from various departments including Revenue, Public Works Department and the Police were issuing alerts to the people using tom-tom and public address system. People were asked to remain cautious and take necessary steps to protect themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-100-ft-at-bhavanisagar-dam/article35518807.ece
25 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Nine held for selling gutka||The police on Saturday arrested nine persons who were involved in storing and selling banned gutka items and seized 13 kg gutka from them in the city. Officials from the Tamil Nadu Food Safety and Drug Administration Department along with the Police Department inspected shops and petty shops in the city. The team seized 13 kg gutka worth Rs. 40,000 from various shops. Eight cases were registered and nine persons were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-held-for-selling-gutka/article35518804.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CPI seeks PHC at Arasur||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the district administration to establish a primary health centre (PHC) at Arasur in Sathyamangalam block here. A resolution passed at the party’s meeting held at Makkinamkombai said that the residents of Makkinamkombai, Arasur and Indiyampalayam panchayts had to travel 10 km to reach the nearest PHC at Ukkaram. They need to change two buses to reach the health facility. Hence, a PHC should be set up at Arasur, the resolution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-seeks-phc-at-arasur/article35518817.ece
25 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to electric line extension works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.  Kavindapadi line, July 26: Perumapalayam, Pattakalipalayam, Sandarapuram, Kalichettipalayam, Pandiyampalayam, Kolathupalayam, Vellangkovil, Pethampalayam, Sengodampalayam, Kolanthanvalasu, Moolakarai, Velampalayam, Vaikalpudur, Sathyapuram, Nichampalayam, Neelacoundanpalayam, Avarankattur, Ayyampalayam, Marappampalayam, Odathurai, Andipalayam and Palapalayam.  Karungalpalayam line, July 26: Kongu Nagar, Cauvery Road, East Chinna Mariamman Kovil Street, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Marapalam Road, 6 and 7 Cauvery Nagar, 1,2 and 3 streets, Arumugam Street, Veerappa Street, Ponnusamy Street, Marapalam Street and 5 and 6 streets.  Manickampalayam line, July 27: Mamarathupalayam, Cheran Nagar, Arjuna Nagar, Vasantha Nagar, Ganapathi Nagar, Doctors Colony, Thanneer Pandal Palayam, Pudupalayam, Sengunthar Nagar, Ayapalli, Chinnasemur, Periyasemoor, Jeeva Nagar, Ellapalayam, Kongu Nagar, SSV Nagar, Ponni Nagar, EPP Nagar, B.P. Garden, MGR Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Bramarishipeedam, Sivasakthi Nagar, Thattangadu, Veelan Nagar, Sullan Karadu, Teachers Colony, Amman Nagar and Sakthi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35518818.ece
25 July 2021||HUBBALLI,TAMIL NADU||Rains subside in north Karnataka; rivers still swollen||The people of North Karnataka heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday as the rains subsided. However the situation continues to be grim and is likely to improve if no further rains are reported. While water release from various reservoirs has registered a marginal decrease, still a large quantity of water is being released causing inundation in towns and villages downstream. The outflow from Hidkal dam stood at 1,37,262 cusecs on Saturday afternoon, while 1,37,262 cusecs was released from Ghataprabha, 56,587 cusecs from Hiranyakeshi, 14,800 cusecs from Markandeya, and 15,875 cusecs from Ballari Nala. From the Rajapur barrage 2,45,825 cusecs of water is being released into Karnataka. Meanwhile the inflow to Renukasagar reservoir at Naviluteerth in Savadatti has reduced from 40,000 cusecs to 24,000 cusecs and 18,000 cusecs of water is being released from the dam. Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath has said that 19,035 people have been evacuated to safer places in the district and 8,795 have been shifted to 89 rehabilitation centres. Two persons, including a 12-year-old girl, have been killed in the district and road connectivity has been severed on 37 roads in the district. The swollen Ghataprabha inundated Adabatti village in Gokak taluk, forcing the authorities to carry out late-night operation to evacuate the residents. In Gokak city too, floodwaters entered households and as the government hospital was inundated, 19 patients were shifted to other hospitals.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is scheduled to visit the affected places in Belagavi district on Sunday.  Meanwhile, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and Union Minister Pralhad Joshi visited Alnavar taluk where incessant rains have caused a breach in the Indirammana Kere at Hulikere village.   Meanwhile the body of 47-year old Khadar Basha Khureshi who was washed away in the flood at Belur village on Friday, was found in the stream on Saturday. Fire and Emergency Services personnel recovered out the body on Saturday and Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has said that compensation would be provided to the family members as per guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rains-subside-in-north-karnataka-rivers-still-swollen/article35518255.ece
25 July 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Vijayabhaskar slams DMK’s ‘vendetta politics’ after DVAC raid||Terming the searches carried out by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) on his premises an act of “vendetta politics”, former Transport Minister and Karur district secretary of the AIADMK M.R. Vijayabhaskar on Saturday said he would face the case legally. Speaking to reporters days after the DVAC conducted searches on various premises linked to him and his associates in Karur and Chennai, Mr. Vijayabhaskar said a concerted campaign was being unleashed [by the ruling party] to tarnish his image by claiming that he had amassed wealth after becoming a Minister. “I do not own a house in Karur or Chennai. However, I have been running dyeing and textile units and a few other businesses for about 35 years, ever since my days as a Panchayat union secretary of the AIADMK,” he said. ‘False case’ Mr. Vijayabhaskar said a false case had been foisted, and that his lawyers were present when DVAC personnel conducted searches on his premises. While they did not find any incriminating documents, they seized cash. “It pertains to the businesses and trade being run by me. We have accounted for the cash. We will produce the documents when we get the summons from the DVAC,” the former Minister said. He said some functionaries of the AIADMK had been threatened with consequences if they refuse to join the DMK. “It is condemnable that the AIADMK men are being coerced to join the ruling party,” he said. Most officers, including those in the lower rung of the transport corporations, were shunted out soon after the DMK came to power, he said. The DMK’s “vendetta politics” and “misuse of power” was on expected lines, he said, adding that the undemocratic acts of the DMK government would not last long. Reacting to the charges levelled by Mr. Vijayabhaskar, Law Minister S. Regupathi denied that the raid was an act of vendetta politics. “The DVAC has been collecting evidence of wrongdoings. Action will be taken against Mr. Vijayabhaskar if there is tangible evidence,” Mr. Regupathy told reporters in Pudukkottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayabhaskar-slams-dmks-vendetta-politics-after-dvac-raid/article35518685.ece
25 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court sets aside university’s order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside an order passed by the Madurai Kamaraj University in 2016 pertaining to renewal of affiliation fee for self-finance courses conducted by member colleges. The Madurai Kamaraj University Private College Management Association had filed the writ petition in 2016 challenging the order on the ground that while revising the affiliation fee, the university had not followed the procedure under the Madurai Kamaraj University Act, 1965. The association said that the Senate being the supreme governing body in terms of the Act was empowered to revise the affiliation fee applicable to colleges affiliated to the university. However, the Syndicate had proposed the revision of the affiliation fee. Justice V. Parthiban observed there was a clear embargo placed upon the Syndicate among others that it shall not propose the draft or amendment of the statute affecting the conditions of affiliation or approval of affiliation. The proposal of the Syndicate on the revision of affiliation fee was approved by the Senate. Therefore, the revision of the affiliation fee was not in terms of the scheme of the Act. Also, the present revision of the affiliation fee had not received the assent of the Chancellor. The court observed that there was no quarrel with the legal proposition that university has the power to revise the rates of the affiliation fee and it was not anyone’s case either that university has no power to revise the rate of affiliation fee periodically. Several revisions had taken place in the past and had been implemented by the university. However, the controversy here was whether the university had followed the procedure that was contemplated in the Act while revising the affiliation fee. The court allowed the petition filed by the association and set aside the order of the Madurai Kamaraj University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mkus-order-set-aside/article35518796.ece
25 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider plea of forest dwellers in Theni district’||Taking note of the plea of 33 forest dwellers from Theni district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the authorities including Theni Collector to consider their representations seeking to use the land which now comes under the forest area. Justice J. Nisha Banu directed the authorities to consider their representations in 12 weeks. The court was hearing the petition filed by 33 forest dwellers from Andipatti in Theni district. They said that they and their families have been residing in the area for over 80 years. The petitioners said that they were cultivating cotton, coconut, cashew and lime. They were paying tax and all of them had ration cards and voter identity cards. They had access to government school, ration shop and panchayat office in the area, they said. In 1988, the land came under forest area. Following this, the petitioners said that they have made representations to authorities seeking recognition of their fundamental and statutory right to use the land. They said that they have also made representations seeking recognition of their right under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. The Theni Collector convened a meeting with the authorities and the petitioners. Certain resolutions were passed in the meeting regarding recognition of the lands used by the petitioners. The petitioners said that the rights have to be recognised at the earliest and resolutions have to be implemented as the forest officials were constantly questioning them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-of-forest-dwellers-in-theni-district/article35518789.ece
25 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Concessions given to startups welcomed||The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has welcomed the State government’s initiative to help startups in the State. The package of concessions announced for startups would ease the entry barriers faced by them, the Chamber said. In a press release issued on Saturday, the Chamber president N. Jegatheesan said that the startups face many entry barriers because the Departments and public sector undertakings impose certain restrictions. The restrictions include the earnest money deposit, prior turnover condition, prior experience condition etc. The State government has announced concessions that includes exemption from payment of the earnest money deposit, prior turnover condition, prior experience and waiver of tender cost to registered startups. StartupTN launched the first edition of TANSEED 2021 during January-February, 2021 and supported 10 promising startups with a seed grant of Rs. 10 lakh each. The second edition for July-September 2021 will support 20 start-ups with seed grants of Rs. 10 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concessions-given-to-startups-welcomed/article35518788.ece
25 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be power shutdown in certain parts of the city on July 26 and July 27 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. due to maintenance work. On July 26, there will be power shutdown in Alagarkoil road, Pudur ITI Bus stop, Tallakulam temple, Dean quarters, Kamala street, Sarojini street, PWD Office, Lakshmi Sundaram Hall and other nearby places. On July 27, there will be power shutdown in Shenoy Nagar, Panagal Road, Kakkan Street, Alwarpuram, Puliyanthoppu, Goripalayam, Melamadai, Pandikoil, Gomathipuram, Ramaiah Street and other nearby areas, according to TANGEDCO press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35518961.ece
25 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||VMJ student bags 495/500||Samyukta of VMJ School here has secured the first rank in the ISC examination by scoring 495/500. According to the school secretary R Udayam, Prajeeth scored 494/500 and Sudiksha got 493/500. Out of 55 students, 32 scored above 450, 18 students got above 400 and five students secured between 350 and 400 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vmj-student-bags-495500/article35518963.ece
25 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam was 133.80 feet (permissible level 142 ft) with an inflow of 7139 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. The water level in Vaigai dam was 68.50 ft (max level 71 ft) with an inflow of 971 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) was as follows: Periyar dam: 38.20, Thekkadi: 30.60, Bodi: 0.4, Gudalur: 3.7 and Uthamapalayam recorded 3 mm rainfall during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35518798.ece
25 July 2021||NAEGRCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Priest on the run held for ‘hate speech’; remanded||Panaivilai parish priest Fr. George Ponnaiah, who was wanted by the police in connection with the alleged hate speech against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, was arrested in Virudhunagar district in the early hours of Saturday. After detaining the priest in a place in the Kalligudi police station limits in Virudhunagar district, he was produced before a court in Kuzhithurai and remanded in judicial custody in the evening. The Arumanai police registered case against Fr. Ponnaiah under 7 sections of Indian Penal Code after his “hate speech” in a meeting organised at Arumanai last Sunday went viral on social media. It triggered instant sharp reactions from the BJP and pro-Hindu outfits. Demanding the arrest of the priest, the BJP and the pro-Hindu outfits had announced that they would organise demonstrations at Arumanai. When six special teams of police started searching for him, Fr. Ponnaiah went underground. Even as he was travelling towards an undisclosed destination in the small hours of Saturday, Fr. Ponnaiah was intercepted by a police special team in Madurai and taken to Nagercoil. Fr. Ponniah was produced before a court in Kuzhithurai in the afternoon, and was remanded in judicial custody for 15 days.  Demanding the arrest of the priest, the BJP and Hindu outfits had announced demonstrations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priest-on-the-run-held-for-hate-speech-remanded/article35518669.ece
25 July 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two fishermen were killed in a road accident near Puthukkadai on Saturday. Police said fishermen Robin, 53, of Chinnathurai and Soosai Thatheyus, 43, of Iravipuththenthurai were going to Muttom Fishing Harbour on a bike on Saturday morning. When they were crossing Parthibapuram, the bike collided with a stone-laden lorry in a turning. While Soosai Thatheyus was killed on the spot, Robin succumbed to his injuries even when he was being taken to the Kuzhithurai Government Hospital. Lorry driver Vijikumar of Mankaadu surrendered before the Puthukkadai police, who have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-road-accident/article35519083.ece
25 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Flights to Puducherry airport to resume soon||The Civil Aviation Ministry will initiate measures for the resumption of flight services to Puducherry that were suspended after the outbreak of COVID-19 early last year. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who had a telephonic conversation with Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday, said the Union Minister had given an assurance to pursue the request along with other proposals raised during the interaction. A Raj Nivas press note said the Lt. Governor had also flagged the need for the airport’s runway extension, with a 1.5-km airstrip capable of handling 90-seater ART/Bombardier Q400 type aircrafts, without any load penalty. She also sought the inclusion of Karaikal temple town under the Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik ( UDAN) scheme, the Centre’s intitiative to boost air connectivity to regional cities and promote spiritual tourism. Dr. Soundararajan also pointed out that new facilities for international flight landings would benefit Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. The Lt. Governor, who extended congratulations to the new Civil Aviation Minister, said it was imperative to establish air connectivity to Puducherry to achieve the objective of making the Union Territory a ‘BEST’ (Business, Education Spiritual and Tourist) hub as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  The inclusion of Karaikal temple town under the Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik ( UDAN) scheme was also sought||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flights-to-puducherry-airport-to-resume-soon/article35518784.ece
25 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll in Puducherry rises to 1,787 with one death in Karaikal||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death, 126 new cases and 121 recoveries on Saturday, reporting more cases than recoveries after several weeks. Karaikal registered the fatality, taking the cumulative toll in Puducherry to 1,787. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,420), Karaikal (225), Yanam (104) and Mahe (38). Puducherry reported 98 of the new cases, which were detected from 6,054 tests, followed by Karaikal (18), Yanam (2) and Mahe (8). The test positivity rate was 2.08%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.75%. The active cases stood at 922, with 163 patients in hospitals and 759 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,20,227 cases against 1,17,518 recoveries. Of an estimated 14 lakh tests conducted so far, over 12 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of persons vaccinated in Puducherry to date aggregated to 6,66,479, including 7,013 beneficiaries, who took the COVID-19 shot in the last 24 hours. The vaccinated population comprises 37,740 healthcare workers, 22,954 frontline personnel and 4,70,818 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-toll-in-puducherry-rises-to-1787-with-one-death-in-karaikal/article35519030.ece
25 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory will get organ, tissue transplant committee||The decks have been cleared for the constitution of a State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) in Puducherry. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has accorded approval for the proposal to create the SOTTO with the Health Secretary as chairman. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, approval was also accorded for constitution of a State level Transplant Expert Committee, comprising of specialists from the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Research Institute and faculties of Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) to assist in the technical aspects of SOTTO’s activities. The other important files cleared by the Lt. Governor included approval to the proposal of a Women and Child Development Department and notification of amendment of the Old Age Pension Rules, enhancing monthly financial assistance by Rs. 500 to the three age group categories as follows: 55-59 years Rs. 2,000, 60-79 years Rs. 2,500 and 80 years and above Rs. 3,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-will-get-organ-tissue-transplant-committee/article35518781.ece
25 July 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Barge hits pillar of Pamban bridge||A huge barge that was being tugged by a boat hit against the pillar of Pamban sea bridge while passing through the Scherzer’s span of the bridge, on Saturday afternoon. According to railway sources, the barge had come from Kerala in connection with construction of the new rail bridge along the existing Pamban bridge. After the Scherzer’s span was opened by railway authorities, the barge crossed the bridge. However, due to strong current in the sea it drifted and its rear portion dashed against one of the pillars of the bridge. One of the two boats that was closely following the barge also hit the cantilever. A video clipping showed that the arch-shaped iron structure in the rear portion of the boat got entangled with the cantilever as the boat came closer to the pillar of the bridge. The iron arch of the boat was damaged. However, a railway official said that railway engineers were assessing the pillar and the span for any possible damage. No complaint has been lodged so far. Rail traffic on Pamban sea bridge has remained suspended for nearly a month now following an alert over the stability of the structure of the bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barge-hits-pillar-of-pamban-bridge/article35518803.ece
25 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up to prevent gutka smuggling: IG||More police personnel and vehicles have been provided to stations along the State border to check smuggling of gutka, Inspector General of Police-West Zone R. Sudhakar said here on Saturday. Mr. Sudhakar told reporters that intensive drives since July 22 led to the seizure of 8.3 tonnes of gutka worth Rs. 80.91 lakhs in four districts in Salem range – Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. A sum of Rs. 7.16 lakhs in cash was also seized. He said 506 cases had been registered and 517 persons arrested in connection with the seizures. Mr. Sudhakar said, “Main roads have been identified and we are collecting intelligence regarding the presence of godowns on the other side of the borders. Strategic locations have also been identified and checks have been intensified.” The official said 20.88 kg of ganja worth Rs. 14.9 lakhs had been seized in Salem range and 28 cases had been registered and 39 persons arrested. A special drive led to the seizure of 84 country-made across West Zone, including 81 in Salem Range. While 29 guns were surrendered by villagers after an awareness drive by police personnel, 52 guns were seized by police and cases registered against those possessed these. Mr. Sudhakar advised the public to surrender unlicensed guns to avoid legal action. An illegal country-made gun manufacturer was also arrested from Thalli. Regarding women help desks, Mr. Sudhakar said 117 complaints had been received in person, 41 through calls to the helpline number 181 and 56 through 1098 helpline. Police have also conducted 878 awareness camps on the help desk, he said. In a State-wide competition on producing awareness videos on cyber crimes, Namakkal bagged the first spot and Salem third. The other districts in Salem Range received special prizes and Range DIG C. Mageshwari received an award. Mr. Sudhakar cautioned the public against becoming victims of cyber crimes by sharing details that they should not. The IG said security audit was being conducted to prevent ATM robberies and measures had been taken to prevent road traffic accidents. The IG handed over appreciation certificates to 56 police personnel and two Deputy Superintendents of Police in the range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-stepped-up-to-prevent-gutka-smuggling-ig/article35518810.ece
25 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre stage protest||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Saturday condemning the alleged defamatory speech made by a Roman Catholic priest in Kanyakumari. The party cadre raised slogans condemning the priest for his alleged remarks on ‘Bharat Mata’ and Hindu religion. They demanded that a case must be registered against the priest under UAPA Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-stage-protest/article35518808.ece
25 July 2021||Salem /Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery donated to temples to be converted into bars: Minister||Gold jewellery donated to temples will be converted into gold bars and deposited in banks as part of revenue generation, said Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekar Babu. Mr. Sekar Babu along with Minister for Tourism M.Mathiventhan, District Collector S.Karmegham and other senior officials inspected the temples here on Friday. On measures taken for revenue generation in the department, Mr.Babu told reporters that gold jewellery donated to temples during the past nine years have not been melted. “Jewellery donations that remain after use by respective temples will be melted at a recognised agency in Mumbai and the gold bars would be deposited in banks for an interest rate of 2.5%. According to our estimates, we could get an interest of Rs. 20 crore a year,” he said. Funds generated would be used for temples and steps were on to set up a committee comprising experts, gold valuers and officers in Joint Commissioner rank to oversee these works. On the BJP‘s demand that Hindu temples should be freed from government control, Mr.Babu said the temples were not private properties. The demand is illogical and practically not possible, he added. He said temples would be developed like never before and necessary works would be carried out at the earliest. Health checks for the 30 temple elephants were being conducted once in 15 days, he added. Mr.Babu said that lands that belong to temples were being fenced and works were on to remove encroachments and collect pending rent dues. Visiting the Arthanareeswarar Temple in Tiruchengode, Mr.Babu told presspersons that as promised in the DMK election manifesto, steps were being taken to set up rope car facilities at five temples including the Arthanareeswarar Temple. On recent raids at the residence of former Minister M.R.Vijayabaskar, Mr.Babu said stern legal action would be taken against wrongdoers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-donated-to-temples-to-be-converted-into-bars-minister/article35518709.ece
25 July 2021||SALEM/ Erode,TAMIL NADU||Salem sees 107 new COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Saturday reported 107 new cases of COVID-19. According to the health department, 93 cases were indigenous and 22 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Fourteen persons had returned from Krishnagiri, Erode and Kallakuruchi. Namakkal district reported 48 cases, Krishnagiri 27 cases and Dharmapuri 36 cases on Saturday. A 67-year-old woman died in Namakkal. Erode reported 132 new cases, taking the total cases in the district to 92,708. While 217 persons were discharged, 1,684 persons are under treatment. Two persons died raising the toll to 628.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-sees-107-new-covid-19-cases/article35518821.ece
25 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Underground spillway to moat identified||Existence of an underground spillway presumably connecting the waterbodies with the moat has been noticed by the civic body while undertaking works under the Smart City Project to revive the moat surrounding the old Thanjavur town. Prior to the colonial rule, the monarch’s residential complex encircled by the settlement of the servitors was surrounded by a moat on three sides – West, North and East – that served as a natural defensive mechanism from the opponents/invaders. This moat is believed to have been linked with tanks and wells that existed within the old town area in order to drain excess water from these waterbodies to the moat through underground spillways. Existence of one such underground gutter was noticed on the moat structure at Kizhalangam area by the historian, Mani Maran and palaeographist G.Jayalakshmi recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/underground-spillway-to-moat-identified/article35518791.ece
25 July 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||NIA quizzes man in Chinnamanur over objectionable material on FB||Sleuths from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) interrogated a 31-year-old man running a biryani and a mobile phone shop in Chinnamanur in Theni district for over five hours on Saturday. According to a reliable source, the NIA team visited the house of the man identified as Yousuf Aslam. He lived with his wife and was running a biryani shop at North Radha Veedhi in Chinnamanur. The source said that Yousuf hailed from Madurai and his orginal name was Udayakumar. He fell in love with a Muslim girl and had converted to Islam after marriage. FB account The source further said the NIA officials had been closely monitoring the Facebook account of Yousuf for sometime. It is said to have some literature pertaining to the “sacrifices” of Muslims around the globe and the need to fight the anti-Muslim forces. The contents were not only objectionable, but parts hailed banned outfits. They had mooted the idea of establishing a separate nation, ‘Khalifa’. A few pen drives, a laptop, some SIM cards and three mobile phones were also taken by the team. The bank account details were also accessed. Another source in Chennai said Yousuf was picked up for examination as he was one among the five admins of a WhatsApp group. The NIA team had questioned another admin identified as Adbullah in Madurai on Friday. Two other group admins were in Karnataka and Kerala. The contents shared by them in the group were, however, not revealed by the source. As the news spread about the police presence and the NIA’s interrogation, a large number of Muslims in the locality had gathered in front of the residence. Amidst tight security, the suspect was taken to the Chinnamanur police station. Based on inputs, the NIA team visited Yousuf’s house at 5 a.m., the source said. He was later let off in the presence of some jamaat members with an assurance that he would cooperate in the probe. The NIA is a Central counter terrorism law enforcement agency.  His Facebook account is said to have some literature pertaining to the ‘sacrifices’ of Muslims and the need to fight the anti-Muslim forces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-quizzes-man-in-chinnamanur-over-objectionable-material-on-fb/article35518668.ece
25 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Second flood warning issued||The PWD officials have given the second flood warning in Vaigai dam following the rise in water level on Saturday. The dam, which has a storage capacity of 71 ft, had 68.50 ft at 5 p.m. There was a steady inflow in the reservoir after rainfall in the Periyar catchment area and 769 cusecs of water was being discharged which would be used for both drinking purposes and for irrigating Periyar Main Canal ayacut areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-flood-warning-issued/article35518795.ece
25 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for impregnating minor||The police have arrested a youth for impregnating a minor girl. Police said K. Kaliraj, 22, an intermediate caste youth from V. Thalavaipuram near Vilaathikulam, sexually abused a 16-year-old girl from a SC community in the guise of marrying her. She delivered a baby in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital earlier this week. When the girl became pregnant, she had asked him to marry her. But he refused to do so as both are from different castes. After the delivery, the girl lodged a complaint with the Vilaathikulam All Women Police who arrested Kaliraj.Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-impregnating-minor/article35518790.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal students have no access to online classes||Students of the Government Tribal Residential Higher Secondary School at Top Sengattupatti, a tribal village atop Pachamalai Hills, have no access to online classes due to lack of network coverage in the area. The remote villages on the hills do not have a connection to cable TV either, through which Kalvi TV is telecast for students in the State. The school is the only Higher Secondary School in the hills, where 366 students are enrolled. However, only 60% have access to smart phones. Even they do not have stable network access and are unable to access the school WhatsApp groups. The teachers send study material on the group, which the children access only when their parents travel to areas where there is a network connection. The school's teachers are helpless and have no choice but to recommend Kalvi TV, the State government's video-learning platform. "There are students in Periya Nagar, a village on the hills, but belonging to Salem district where there is no connectivity at all. We send messages for them through children from the neighbouring villages," D. Suresh, Assistant Headmaster, Government Tribal Residential Higher Secondary School. "We have been spending all our time helping our parents with housework and playing. We try to do school work but it is difficult to learn with the lack of connectivity," a student of class eight told The Hindu . The school too did not have any connectivity until recently. "After multiple requests, we got a tower installed in the school itself. It is for the Hi-tech lab facility in the school, but we have been instructed not to allow students on campus in line with COVID-19 norms," Mr. Suresh said. Following instructions from higher authorities, the teachers have made arrangements to gather students and teach them. "We identified four centres where there is a large concentration of the students. Two teachers will travel to each of these centres and teach one subject in the morning and one post-lunch. This is the least we can do to help the children out," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-students-have-no-access-to-online-classes/article35518774.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pujaris’ cause inconvenience to devotees at Ponnar-Shankar Temple||Indiscriminate encroachment and apparent fleecing have irked devotees of Ponnar-Shankar Temple, which is also known as Periakkandiamman Temple, at Veerappur on the outskirts of Mannapparai. The temple, associated with the history of Ponnar and Shankar, warrior brothers who lived between 990 and 1020 CE, was believed to have been established several centuries ago. It has a strong following of devotees from Coimbatore, Karur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem, Dindigul, Tiruchi and other districts of the State. It receives thousands of devotees in the months of March, April, July and other auspicious days and holidays. On auspicious days, the devotees sacrifice sheep and goats as offerings. While Goddess Periakkandiamman, the presiding deity of the temple, offers blessing to the devotees inside a concrete building, several other deities in standing postures do not have concrete structures. There are charges against ‘pujaris’ in the the temple, which is yet to be brought under the direct administration of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, that they fleece money from devotees as much as possible. There were many instances of pujaris entering into arguments with the devotees, who were reluctant to pay money to them. There is no proper office or employees to issue archana ticket or maintain the temple premises neat and clean. But the pujaris, a devotee alleged, collect between Rs. 300 and Rs. 500 for archana and up to Rs. 1,500 for sacrificing goats. Financially sound devotees are fleeced more under the pretexts of ‘annadhanam’, performing pujas and buying cement or sand to carry out repairs and maintenance of the temple. Devotees need to pay more for touching the idols of Ezhu Kannimar, Ponnar and Shankar. Similarly, the public space in front of the Mahamuni and Kottakaruppu sannathis has been encroached to run shops. It becomes a major hurdle to find space for the devotees to sacrifice goats. Several devotees, who were not ready to spoil their mood when they came to offer dharshan at the temple, post their experiences on the social media. Several of them brought their bad experiences to Collector S. Sivarasu and the HR&CE authorities. Upon receiving complaints, Mr. Sivarasu visited the temple a few months ago and issued an order to install closed circuit televisions to monitor the activities. “We visit the temple to seek the blessing of our beloved god and goddesses. But the way in which pujaris collect money is really annoying. We often end up spoiling our mood. If the officials visit the temple under the guise of devotees, they can have a feel of the menace. It is high time the HR&CE took control of the temple,” said another devotee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pujaris-cause-inconvenience-to-devotees-at-ponnar-shankar-temple/article35518772.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 313 fresh COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 313 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The number of deaths reported too reflected a sharp dip with only one person succumbing to the infection in Thanjavur district. The remaining eight districts reported no deaths for the viral infection on Saturday, according to the data published by the Department of Health. All districts in the central region reported less than 100 fresh COVID-19 cases. Thanjavur reported 96 fresh cases, while Tiruchi reported 64. All other districts in the region reported 38 or lesser cases. In Pudukottai district, 38 fresh cases were reported, and in Nagapattinam, 28. Mayiladuthurai district meanwhile, recorded 24 fresh cases, while Tiruvarur reported 23 and Ariyalur, 19. Meanwhile, in Karur district, 14 tested COVID-19 positive, while Perambalur district continued to report the lowest number of fresh cases in the region with seven fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-313-fresh-covid-19-cases/article35518775.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers hail affiliating status for Annamalai University||Several hundreds of guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges that includes several constituent colleges of State universities that had undergone conversion into government colleges are understood to be partially relieved by the government’s decision to make Annamalai University an affiliating type varsity. Diversion of excess teaching staff of Annamalai University in the government arts and science colleges did not go down well with the guest lecturers who, as applicants for regular postings, were aggrieved over decline in the number of vacancies caused due to such deployment. The conversion of Annamalai University into an affiliating varsity has implied the scope for deployment of excess staff in colleges within its territorial jurisdiction encompassing Kallakurichi, Cuddalore and Villpuram districts that were hitherto under the purview of Thiruvalluvar University, and those in Mayiladuthurai district under Bharathidasan University. “Guest lecturers with eligibility for regular postings as Assistant Professor in government arts and science colleges have been subjected to unfair treatment. It is unfair to deny the UGC-specified monthly salary of Rs. 50,000 per month for guest lecturers while meeting the salary costs of teachers appointed in Annamalai University through special allotments in Budget,” V. Thangaraj, State president of Tamil Nadu All Government College UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers’ Association, said. Citing information sourced from Annamalai University under Right to Information Act during 2017, Mr. Thangaraj said that the large-scale appointments made there was in contravention of rules. A letter sent to an RTI petitioner by the Appellate Authority/ Registrar states: “Due to mismanagement and administration by the erstwhile management, surplus staff have been appointed. The roster system was also not followed.” This was a year after the Principal of Periyar Government Arts and Science College raising with the Director of Collegiate Education the issue of the posting of two of the deployed teachers of Political Science background from Annamalai University lacking the requisite qualification. On its part, the Tamil Nadu All Government College UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers’ Association is keenly pursuing with the new regime in the State the proposal for regularising those among them with the requisite experience and qualification that had been cleared by the High Court. Conversion of Annamalai University into an affiliating varsity is a welcome decision since it would be to the advantage of guest lecturers in government colleges. The past recruitment of unqualified teachers by Annamalai University also needs to be handled in right earnest by the government,” State general secretary of Aided College Teachers’ Association S. Sahaya Sathish said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-hail-affiliating-status-for-annamalai-university/article35519082.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Covid vaccination camps to be held today||Covishield doses will be administered at the following vaccination camps in the city on Sunday: Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam and Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College in Srirangam zone; Seshasayee Institute of Technology (SIT) College and Government Syed Murtuza Higher Secondary School in Ariyamangalam zone; Jamal Mohammed College and Government Higher Secondary School, Kamaraj Nagar, Airport in Ponmalai zone, Corporation Elementary School, Thennur (Opposite to EB Office) and Bishop Heber College, Puthur in K. Abishekapuram zone. From 9.30 a.m The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m. and tokens will be issued by medical officers from 8.30 a.m., according to a press release from Tiruchi Corporation. A total of 500 doses of Covishield each will also be available in the 14 blocks in rural Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-vaccination-camps-to-be-held-today/article35518776.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK man among five booked for sand mining||The Puthanathan police on Saturday registered a case against five persons, including a DMK man, on the charge of sand smuggling in a pond at Meyyampatti. Acting on inputs, a police team visited Vellalakulam at Meyyampatti and found a group involved in sand smuggling. On noticing the police personnel, the group members fled the scene. However, the police managed to arrest M. Paulraj of Nallur near Natham and seized the earthmover and the lorry. Interrogation revealed that Nagaraj, husband of Kalaiselvi, DMK councillor of Manapparai Panchayat Union, was involved in the crime. The offenders were absconding, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-man-among-five-booked-for-sand-mining/article35518771.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be power shutdown from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas covered by Srirangam Sub-Station on July 27: Samayapuram, Mannachanallur, Vengangudi, VOC Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Irungalur, Kalpalayam, Melseethevimangalam, Purathakudi, Konalai, Kariamanickam, Ethumalai, Mannachanallur, Tiruvallarai, Kanniyakudi, Valayur, Palayur, Sriperambadur, Koothur, Nochiyam, Pazhur, Pachur, Mazhakiyamanavalam, Edayapatti, Ayyampalayam, Thallunalpatti, Akkaraipatti and Ayakudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35518779.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Training area for NCC activities sought||The Group Commander, NCC Group Headquarters, Tiruchi Colonel C. Elavarasan on Friday met the Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply K.N. Nehru and requested him to allot land for NCC here. During the meeting, Colonel Elavarasan stressed that 7,000 NCC cadets belonging to Tiruchi district would benefit if a dedicated training area was made available. A press release issued by the NCC authorities here said that NCC Tiruchi was facing acute shortage of training area, non availability of firing range and office accommodation. The NCC was recently allotted a Flying simulator and a Small Arm Firing simulator. The NCC was finding it difficult to adjust in the existing accommodation. The release further said Minister Nehru agreed to the proposal for a dedicated training area for NCC and told the NCC Group Commander that he had passed necessary instruction to the district administration to allot land near G Corner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dedicated-training-area-for-ncc-activities-sought/article35518792.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 72.55 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 6,841 cusecs and the discharge 12,003 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article35518778.ece
25 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Smart City projects to be completed by March 2023||The ongoing Smart City Projects, being executed on an outlay of Rs. 950 crore in Tirunelveli Corporation, will be completed by March 2023, Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply K. N. Nehru said here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting some of the Smart City projects and inaugurating a few bus-shelters, he said 15 of the 100-odd development works taken up under the Smart City’ projects had been completed at a cost of Rs. 161.03 crore even as 15 more works would be ready for inauguration within the next 15 days. Another 56 works, being executed on an outlay of Rs. 698.10 crore, had reached the advanced stage. On the progress made in the ongoing Phase 2 (Rs. 296.11 crore) and Phase 3 (Rs. 447.75 crore) of underground drainage scheme works, he said the works being executed at a cost of Rs. 743.86 crore were being expedited as the progress of the project had not achieved the desirable pace. “The underground drainage scheme requires laying of pipes for about 480 km. We’ve brought all the officials concerned here today to expedite the work. We’ve given the contractors the deadline for completion of the project. If the deadlines are not met, we’ll take appropriate steps for the completion of the underground drainage works on an early note,” Mr. Nehru said. He said that the ongoing work on Ariyanayagipuram Drinking Water Scheme would be completed by September-end this year. Work on the Rs. 230 crore Ariyanayagipuram scheme, which was being implemented to augment drinking water supply to the corporation and increase the quantum of drinking water being supplied to every resident of the corporation to 135 litres a day, would be completed by September 30 this year, he said. Mr. Nehru also informed that the urban civic bodies of the State would receive additional funds under the Union Government’s Jal Jeevan Mission for executing drinking water projects for the benefit of urban residents from this financial year onwards. When asked about the DMK’s poll promise of creating ‘Satellite Towns’ near 15 urban civic bodies across Tamil Nadu, the Minister said an announcement in this connection would be made by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in the ensuing Budget session of the Tamil Nadu Assembly. On the conduct of polls in the urban civic bodies, Mr. Nehru said complaints pertaining to reservation of wards based on community and the gender, which were done during the earlier AIADMK regime, were pouring in and hence the government had to work on these complaints to ascertain the veracity of these charges. “Anyway, the Chief Minister is keen on conducting all these elections by December-end even as all other hitherto uncovered civic bodies in the newly formed districts will be conducted before September 15,” Mr. Nehru said. In the afternoon, the Minister held discussion with senior town panchayat, municipality and corporation and TWAD Board officials from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts to review the progress of ongoing projects. When he inspected the ongoing ‘Smart City’ works in Thoothukudi in the morning, Mr. Nehru informed that the re-built old bus-stand of the port town would be ready for operation by next April. He also inspected the sewage water treatment plant and said the ongoing underground drainage work would be completed within next four months. He assured that the flooding of Thoothukudi during monsoon would be a thing of the past this year as this work would be completed before the start of the rainy season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-projects-to-be-completed-by-march-2023/article35518794.ece
25 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Fr. Stan Swami’s death condemned||Condemning the death of Rev. Fr. Stan Swami in judicial custody, members of various political parties, citizens’ forum, Christian organisations and human rights activists staged a demonstration in Palayamkottai on Saturday evening. More than a hundred protestors, who gathered at Vannarpet, raised slogans against the “killing” of Fr. Stan Swami in judicial custody and demanded international inquiry into the “murder”. The speakers at the protest said the 84-year-old Fr. Stan Swami, who was denied bail by the court even though he had been arrested for fighting for the cause of the tribals, was not even given a plastic bottle with sipper, as he was suffering from Parkinson’s. “In a merciless manner, the old man fighting for the voiceless was framed in a foisted case and put behind the bars without justice even as few fortunate people can get justice at lightning pace in the country. Even the National Human Rights Commission refused to intervene to ensure justice for him. Hence, we seek an international inquiry into the ‘killing’ of Fr. Stan Swami and the chairman of NHRC,” said the speakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fr-stan-swamis-death-condemned/article35519084.ece
25 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 110.20 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 3,047.73 cusecs and 1,264.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 72.90 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 871 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35519086.ece
25 July 2021||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||Gang intercepts car, steals Rs. 20 lakh from businessman||In a dramatic manner, a gang intercepted a car on Vaniyambadi flyover and allegedly stole Rs. 20 lakh kept in a bag in the vehicle, late on Friday night. According to the police, Gnanasekaran, 45, is a financier. He also runs a hardware shop in Natrampalli. He and two of his friends Balaji and Sivakumar were driving back from Gudiyatham when a car with Karnataka registration number, stopped ahead of them and blocked their way on the Vaniyambadi bridge. The police said there was a minor scuffle between both the groups and in the melee, the gang stole the bags with lakhs of rupees in them. Mr. Gnanasekaran’s driver took away the car key of the gang and threw it away. The gang abandoned the car and fled the spot with the money. Mr. Gnanasekaran claimed that one of the gang members was wearing a cap and khaki shirt and had knives. Though the vehicle had Karnataka registration, the members of the group were speaking Tamil, he said. A special team had been formed to solve the case, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-intercepts-car-steals-rs-20-lakh-from-businessman/article35518787.ece
25 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Inspector, Sub-Inspector placed under suspension in Tiruppur||City Police Commissioner V. Vanitha placed an Inspector and Sub-Inspector under suspension on Friday on charges of misconduct that included not registering a case following seizure of ganja and not informing senior authorities regarding the bail of an accused. The suspension order was issued to Inspector (Crime in-charge) B. Jaishankar and Sub-Inspector M.C. Pandithurai, who were attached to the Tiruppur Central police station. Top sources in the city police said on Saturday that Jaishankar was earlier the Law and Order Inspector when he and the SI seized around three kg of ganja from four persons on June 25 at a check-post in the city. However, no case was registered in this regard, following which Ms. Vanitha transferred Jaishankar to cyber crime unit and made him Inspector (Crime in-charge), sources said. Prior to this incident, an accused involved in alleged sale of banned tobacco products in the central police station limits had applied for bail in Madras High Court in June. However, as the Inspector (Law and Order), Jaishankar did not allegedly object to the bail application at the court and neither him nor Pandithurai informed the senior police officers that the accused was out on bail. The accused has since been absconding. An internal inquiry by the city police revealed that the Inspector and the SI acted deliberately in both the instances, according to the sources. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-sub-inspector-placed-under-suspension-in-tiruppur/article35518702.ece
25 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||In a special drive, Tiruppur City Police in collaboration with Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) seized 127 kg of banned tobacco products following raids in 32 locations on Friday and Saturday. Shops sealed Police sources said that 6.5 kg ganja was also seized during the raids and 20 shops were sealed following the seizures. The police booked 32 persons under the provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and arrested the accused, the sources said. The special drive will continue on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized/article35518706.ece
25 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Two die from suspected smoke inhalation||Two persons died reportedly from inhaling fumes from a diesel power generator which was running inside a temple hall at Ooratty near Udhagamandalam on Friday. Police identified the deceased as J. Subash, 36, and A. Moorthy, 49, from Sholur in Udhagamandalam. They had stayed inside the temple hall, along with three others on Thursday night, where a diesel generator was being used to power the temple premises. In the morning, they were found to be unconscious and rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital where Subash and Moorthy were declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-from-suspected-smoke-inhalation/article35518699.ece
25 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore’s oldest library reopens||During the British rule, the Indian sepoys did their daily parade between the granite-built Fort and the Officers’ Lane, a quarters for Englishmen, on the Infantry Road in Vellore. They repaired their boots, stitched their uniforms and bought turbans in a row of small shops along the narrow stretch. Since independence, the 500-metre-long Infantry Road is no longer for men in uniform alone. It has other guests — book lovers. The District Central Library, which was reopened on Saturday after a closure of more than a year and a half due to pandemic, has been the centre of attraction for visitors for more than five decades. “We are happy to see our regular readers at our library. We sanitise the library regularly and ensure people wear masks. Hope these measures will the confidence of the readers,” said E. Ganesan, the chief librarian. Named after the social reformer Periyar, the library was started in a small building in 1951. Five years later in 1956, the then Chief Minister K. Kamaraj laid the foundation stone for the present building, which was inaugurated in November, 1959. Currently, the library has 1.82 lakh books with 28,895 members. The library has books in Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, Hindi and English on different subjects. Nearly 200 periodicals and 22 newspapers are also part of the library’s collection. Prior to the pandemic, every day, on an average, 1,200 readers visited the library. The library has also stored bulletins and gazettes since 1983. It has a separate section for civil service aspirants and persons with disabilities. Except on Fridays (holiday), library function between 8 a.m and 8 p.m. On Saturday, the District Central Library received 1.5 lakh books on various subjects. The new arrivals will be distributed to other libraries in Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellores-oldest-library-reopens/article35518786.ece
25 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore museum organises webinar on town’s history||The District Museum in Vellore organised a two-hour webinar session recently for students in various disciplines like history, archaeology and anthropology from neighbouring districts like Salem, Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai and Ranipet on the history of Vellore and the museum’s artefact collection. According to museum officials, the webinar was focused on temple architecture in Tamil Nadu, especially in excavated site museums like Arcot, Dharmapuri, Erode, Poompuhar and Thanjavur of the State Archaeology Department. The 13 district museums, which belong to the Department of Museums, which had been organising daily webinars since July 12. “A webinar has two sessions, the first one dealing about the history of the district museum that coordinates the session and the second, a discussion on selected topics for the webinar,” said K. Saravanan, Curator, Vellore District Museum. Formed in September 1985, the Vellore Museum is located inside the Fort with rich collections in sections like art, archaeology, anthropology, geology, botany and zoology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-museum-organises-webinar-on-towns-history/article35519033.ece
25 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 34 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,861, with 34 new cases reported on July 24. While a total 46,379 have been discharged, active cases in the district stands at 388. The district’s death toll is 1,094. In Ranipet, 28 cases were reported, and the total stood at 41,806. In Tirupattur district, 31 new cases were reported on Saturday, and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,094. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 56, taking the total number of cases to 51,669. Out of this, 50,252 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 782.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-34-new-covid-19-cases/article35519031.ece
25 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Violation comes down in fireworks units||Inspection of fireworks units by special squads in the last two weeks has helped in reduction of safety norms violations, according to Virudhunagar Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy. The Collector had formed five teams, with officials from different departments, to inspect the fireworks units. In the first week, (from July 5), the teams inspected 66 fireworks units in different taluks of the district and found out 23 units had made minor violations in safety rules. “We warned them and issued show cause notice and ordered temporary closure. Since, these violations were not major in nature, we did not suspend their licenses. After the units take corrective steps, the officials will allow the units to open,” Mr. Meghanath said. The squads comprising, representatives from the Departments of Police, Revenue, Fire and Rescue and Industrial Safety and Health, were given different taluks, like Sivakasi, Vembakottai, Sattur, Virudhunagar, Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur and Aruppukottai, where fireworks units are located. The squads that function from Monday to Saturday are reconstituted every week. “We have found that there is a telling effect on the compliance to safety norms. Our objective is only to ensure safety of workers,” the Collector said. The number of units that were found violating the safety rules was only nine out of 100 units inspected during the second week. “Our officials are also visiting the villages that are known for illegal manufacturing crackers and are taking stringent action,” the Collector said. In the second week, two cracker shops were locked and sealed for violating safety norms, in Sivakasi. The owners were booked by the local police under the provisions of Explosives Act 1884. Similarly, an illegal cracker unit was found under Sivakasi East police station limits and a case was booked against the operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violation-comes-down-in-fireworks-units/article35518801.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,TAMIL NADU||Maoist movement reaches inflexion point||After almost five decades and surviving many ups and downs, the Naxalite, or Maoist movement, now led by the banned CPI (Maoist), is going through a critical phase. Documents recovered from encounter sites and statements from surrendered or arrested Maoists reveal that the Central Committee, the highest body, has repeatedly used the terms “critical phase” and “setbacks.” As per the documents, the leadership has pointed out that the movement is “highly critical” in the plain areas (urban pockets) and in the key strongholds such the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC), the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee and the Telangana State Special Zonal Committee (TSSZC). The documents also reveal that the Maoists still have some presence at the tri-border State junctions such as Maharashtra-Telangana-Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand-Bengal-Odisha, and Odisha-Chhattisgarh-Madhya Pradesh. In one such document drafted by the DKSZC in 2011, it was stated that the movement in the region had reached a stagnation point, which was accepted by the Central Committee in 2013-14 and noted in the minutes of its meeting. Another aspect that has been troubling the outfit since the mid 1990s is the drying up of recruitments from the urban areas, especially educated youth. Post-globalisation and the opening up of opportunities, the Maoist ideology has no takers, particularly among the students in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The banning of the Radical Students’ Union (RSU) in 2004 in the unified Andhra Pradesh had dealt a blow on fresh recruitments. It was the RSU that had attracted educated youth such as Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavraj, the general secretary of the party now, and the likes of Cherukuri Rajkumar alias Azad, Mallojula Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, and Yalavarthi Naveen Babu. Lack of issues has also impacted the movement. The Maoists are still holding on to the ‘land reforms’ and the ‘class enemy’ concept. Landlords holding on to the farmers’ land is a rapidly dwindling issue, and this has almost phases out the ‘class enemy’ concept. The bauxite mining issue in the AOB region, which had the potential to infuse life into the movement, turned out to be a non-issue with the Government of Andhra Pradesh revoking the relevant G.O. With no fresh recruitments and issues, the Maoists are totally dependent on the tribal base, be it in the AOB region, or in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Bihar, and Jharkhand. In the beginning, things were fine, but later the assertive tribal people, who had earned their positions in the middle-rung leadership, started questioning the “hegemony” of the leaders from the plain areas. The surrendered tribal leaders such as Kundan Pahan in Jharkhand, Naveen in Visakhapatnam, and Chikudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer, who recently left the party in the AOB, had openly spoken about the rift between the tribal and non-tribal leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maoist-movement-reaches-inflexion-point/article35518253.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A netting trouble||On July 20, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi against moving the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021, in Parliament, contending that many of its provisions went against the interests of the local fishermen and certain clauses infringed upon the rights of the States. Contending that the proposed Bill had many disturbing clauses, including criminalisation and imprisonment of fishermen, use of force against fishermen and levy of charges and huge penalties, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, which has a substantial coastline, pushed for a wider debate. On July 22, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi Lok Sabha members Thol. Thirumavalavan and D. Ravikumar, elected from the coastal districts of Cuddalore and Villupuram, met Union Minister for Fisheries Parshottam Rupala in New Delhi and submitted a memorandum opposing various provisions of the Bill. “The Bill treats fishing as a criminal activity and fishermen as criminals. It provides for licences, imposes hefty fines and attempts to create a corpus fund with the fine amount. It also encroaches upon the rights of the State government,” contended Mr. Ravikumar, who convened a meeting of fishermen in Villupuram. Fishermen’s threat That news of the Bill spread like wildfire, and fishing villages and harbours in the State have been on the boil ever since. A black flag agitation was held. Fishermen have threatened to blockade ports if Parliament passed the Bill in its present form. “It does not take into consideration the traditional rights of fishermen who have been fishing where they find fish. It talks about fines even for fishermen with non-motorised traditional craft, and the prescribed fine amounts are quite heavy. There has been no consultation with stakeholders or the public whatsoever. The licences are to be obtained under the Merchant Shipping Act, and not the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act, and the authority to impose fines would be given to the Central forces like the Coast Guard. Already if our boats pass by their craft, we are treated like criminals, asked to kneel down and raise our hands above our heads and threatened to be shot,” said K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. This Bill, says Pradip Chatterjee, convener of the National Platform for Small Scale Fish Workers, has been introduced in a hurry without any scope for stakeholder or public comments as it was done in the case of the Draft National Marine Fisheries (Regulation & Management) Bill, 2019. This Bill is far from the realities of Indian marine fisheries as all kinds of boats, including the mechanised fishing boats like trawlers and purse seiners, are designated as small-scale boats. It is a blatant betrayal of the small-scale fishing communities and an open attempt to subjugate the livelihood of small-scale fishers to the interests of mechanised boat owners. The body has written to members of Parliament, requesting them to ensure that the passage of the Bill is deferred until these concerns are properly addressed, and stakeholder consultations are undertaken. ‘Adopt national policy’ The draft National Fisheries Policy has been published and is being finalised. The government should adopt the policy before finalising the Bill, opined V. Jayanand, a retired official of the Fisheries Department of Puducherry. “As in the case of all Acts, this one, too, would be dependent on the rules to be prescribed for its implementation. The rules, too, should be framed and publicised simultaneously,” he said. A retired official of the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Department explained that Indian citizens do not require any licence or letter of authority from the Central government to fish in the Exclusive Economic Zone as provided under Section 7(5) of the Territorial Waters, Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and Other Maritime Zones Act, 1976. Accordingly, the regulation of fishing along the coast of Tamil Nadu has so far been legally undertaken by the State Fisheries Department under the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act. “The Bill, in its present form, does not explicitly indicate its intent to protect the rights of all sections of Indian fishermen, including artisanal and traditional fishermen and fish workers, to provide them a secured livelihood, while protecting and safeguarding the marine environment and the natural resources,” he pointed out. Minister to meet MPs When questioned about the reservations about the Bill, Mr. Rupala told The Hindu on the phone from Delhi: “We are hearing everyone’s views. I have received the suggestions of the Chief Minister. Some of your [Tamil Nadu] fishermen brothers, too, met me. I am going to hold a meeting with all MPs from the coastal constituencies.” After deliberations, efforts would be made to explore how to incorporate their views in the Bill, he said. Asked whether the Union government would still table the Bill, he said: “It will be our effort [to table the Bill now]. We will see what comes out of this deliberations and decide.” ‘Allow purse seine nets’ Fishermen in the State were divided during their protests in the past few days in some parts of the State — for and against the use of purse seine nets. In Cuddalore district, fishermen protested last week, demanding that they be allowed to use purse seine nets. Despite the ban, a section of fishermen continues to use it. “The government could instead permit the fishermen to use these nets for certain months in a year when the catch of the ‘mathi’ [sardines] variety is usually large. The market for this variety is huge in Kerala and Karnataka,” said Rajendran Nattar, a representative of the fishermen at Akkaraipettai. Nevertheless, for preserving the marine resources in the long run, the government must make sure that mechanised boats are fitted with engines of permissible horsepower, he said. However, senior officials of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare maintained that the purse seine nets could never be allowed in view of the ban. They also pointed out that only a section of the fishermen was demanding the use of purse seine, while the majority were against it. The majority of fishermen demanded that the use of the banned net be stopped because their catch was disturbed by the purse seine net users, officials said. “While this group is against the banned net, those illegally using purse seine allege that those not using it are using thick nets, which is another violation — the gap between the strands of the net is not 40 mm,” said an officer. Lack of facilities The absence of processing facilities in the State is another issue. “It is unfortunate that the fishers are still dependent on middlemen from Kerala and Thoothukudi, who decide the procurement cost to their advantage,” pointed out V. Ramachandiran, president of the Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries Association. The fishermen of the Kasimedu fishing harbour, too, have been raising this issue. “We are forced to sell fish at very low prices to the two merchants who agree to purchase fish from here. They say they cannot give us higher prices since the cost of transport to Kerala is quite high,” said Varadhan, a fishermen community leader. Though the fishing harbour projects at Poompuhar, Arcottuthurai, Nambiyar Nagar and Vellapallam are welcome, the gap in the marketing of the marine produce has to be addressed, said representatives of fishermen welfare associations. S.J. Gayes of Manappad, president of the Thoothukudi District Country Boat and Catamaran Fishermen Welfare Association, said some of the mechanised boats with imported high-power engines had not been registered with the Department of Fisheries, and they posed a serious threat to the country craft. Sea erosion is a grievance of fishermen from Kanniyakumari district. The menace can be neutralised only by properly constructed groynes in all coastal hamlets on the stretch between Rajakkalmangalam and Neerodi, said Fr. Churchill, general secretary of South Asian Fishermen Fraternity. Sand quarrying and mining of beach minerals by a public sector undertaking at Manavalakurichi in the district was among the prime reasons for the sea erosion, some fishermen said. They wanted the State government to stop the mining of beach minerals. As more than 1,000 mechanised boats are mostly involved in multi-day deep-sea fishing in this region, a control room should be opened at Irayumanthurai to transmit and receive satellite phone signals for alerting the fishermen out in the sea 600 nautical miles from the coast, Fr. Churchill said. Treacherous harbour Fishermen argued that the faulty design of the Thengapattanam fishing harbour and the Parakkaani check-dam resulted in the accumulation of sand at the nearby estuary, which led to accidents. A total of 27 fishermen lost their lives at the Thengapattanam harbour’s entry/exit points since 2014, including six deaths in the past year. “The harbour was designed without consultations with the local fishermen. The sea would be rough from Kanniyakumari to the west coast and it would be even more menacing during the monsoon,” said Sunil Sabariyar of Vallavilai, a coastal hamlet close to the Kanniyakumari-Kerala border. Fishing near the Katchatheevu islet (ceded to Sri Lanka) is still a matter of discussion among fishermen. For livelihood, fishermen had to venture into the sea near Katchatheevu; the catch was good there, said P. Sesu Raja, a fisherman leader at Mandapam. Though the deep-sea fishing scheme was inaugurated by the Prime Minister in September 2017 at Mandapam with the aim of resolving issues relating to cross-border fishing, U. Arulanandam of Pamban, who is Tamil Nadu’s representative of the Alliance for the Release of Innocent Fishermen, pointed out that so far the Department of Fisheries had built only 30 deep-sea fishing vessels for Pudukkottai, Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram districts. Enhancement of diesel subsidy, an increase in the financial assistance to the fishermen during the annual ban period to Rs. 10,000 and establishment of a fish landing centre at Rameswaram and a state-of-the-art storage facility are among the other demands of the fishermen. Senior officials of the Department of Fisheries said the government was working on welfare schemes, and some of them were likely to be announced in the Budget session of the Assembly. ( With inputs from L. Srikrishna in Rameswaram, R. Krishnamoorthy in Nagapattinam, P. Sudhakar in Kanniyakumari, S. Prasad in Cuddalore and Deepa H. Ramakrishnan in Chennai. )  The Bill treats fishing as a criminal activity and fishermen as criminals. It also encroaches upon the rights of the State government D. Ravikumar VCK Member of Parliament   The Bill does not take into consideration the traditional rights of fishermen who have been fishing where they find fish K. Bharathi Member, South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-netting-trouble/article35518647.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||175 new cases, three deaths in Coimbatore district||A total of 175 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department said that the district had 2,222 active cases of the disease on Saturday and 243 persons recovered. The district's death toll increased to 2,154 after three more persons died of COVID-19. The district had a test positivity rate of 2% on Friday when 8,714 swab samples were subjected to tests and 177 persons tested positive. Tiruppur district reported 98 new cases, taking the overall tally to 87,210 cases. No new deaths were reported by the Health Department for the fourth consecutive day as the district’s toll remained at 815. A total of 1,447 patients were active cases and 143 patients were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 61 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 30,192. The number of deaths increased from 174 to 177 on Saturday while 745 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/175-new-cases-three-deaths-in-coimbatore-district/article35518696.ece
25 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Proposal to close RC offices sparks debate on decentralisation||The State government’s proposal to abolish offices of regional commissioners, as per a recommendation of the Administrative Reforms Commission-2, is facing opposition by some organisations and former bureaucrats on the grounds that it is against the spirit of decentralisation. R. Ashok, Revenue Minister, has said that there is a proposal to abolish the four regional commissioner offices in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi and Kalaburagi to reduce unnecessary expenses and redeploy staff to various vacant posts. The Kalyan Karnataka Janapara Sangharsha Samiti (KKJSS) in Kalaburagi and Central Committee of Kannada Organisations (CCKO) in Belagavi have sent requests to the State government to reconsider the decision. Lakshman Dasti, KKJSS president, warned of an agitation if the government abolished the offices. “The government should empower the RC offices with more staff, functions, financial powers and duties instead,” he said. ‘White elephants’ “Mr. Ashok has likened the RC office to a white elephant. I want to ask him how many white elephants of the State government are in Bengaluru and will they be abolished too?, asked Ashok Chandaragi, convenor of CCKO. He alleged that the government wants to do away with the office just because some senior IAS officers are not willing to be posted outside Bengaluru. “If all the power is concentrated in Bengaluru, poor farmers from border villages will have to rush to Bengaluru for every small work,” he said. He demanded the government increase the number of RC offices to eight. Serving and retired officers have some reservations about the plans too. “The RC office is a platform for general supervision over departments at the regional level. We hold elections to urban and local bodies, receive public grievances and hear appeals against lower-level officers. Recently, when there were differences between DCs of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, the RC intervened. The RC is the chairman of several committees that are monitored by the Supreme Court of India. Finding an alternative will be difficult,” said a senior IAS officer. Retired IAS officer S.M. Jamdar, who as principal secretary, Revenue Department, created the Regional Commisionerates in 2006, describing the move as ludicrous. He warned that if the offices were closed now, they would have to be reopened after five years, as a single RC for the whole State would not be able to handle the pressure. “This is what happened between 2002-08. Following the Harnahalli Commission recommendations, the government abolished posts of divisional commissioners and other division-level personnel. But in two years, it realised its mistake. He pointed out that divisional commissioners exist in most of the larger states like U.P. and Bihar. “Removing an existing system without creating a viable alternative is wrong,” he said. E-governance He held that the logic that e-governance had annulled the need for regional offices was unreasonable. IT applications will only improve efficiency and not substitute a functional office at the regional level. Politicians tend to weaken RCs by centralising power, he argued. However, Vijay Bhaskar, ARC chairman and former Chief Secretary, argued that increased use of technology and e-governance tools and appointment of in-charge secretaries and in-charge Ministers had reduced the need for supervisory officers. “Things have changed and we need a more agile system with lesser levels of governance,” he said. “During my recent tour, I found that in a north-eastern district, there were only seven shirastedars in the DC office, who were overworked, but the RC office had 20 such officers who had very little work. The DC office will be strengthened and people will benefit if the divisional staff were redeployed there,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposal-to-close-rc-offices-sparks-debate/article35518626.ece
25 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bank holds outreach programme||Bank of India organised a Micro and Small and Medium Industries customer outreach programme here recently. Deputy Zonal Manager of the bank Manohar Mane explained the various products and services provided by the bank. Head, BOI SMECC, Hubballi Dharwad Zone, Rajeev Kumar made a presentation on two key products — Star Asset Backed Loan Scheme (SABLS) and PSBLOANSIN59MINUTE for MSME customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-holds-outreach-programme/article35518829.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. nod not must to sell land granted to SCs/STs if its use is diverted: HC||In a judgement with far reaching consequences, the High Court of Karnataka has declared that no prior permission of the State government was required under Section 4(2) of the Karnataka SCs and STs (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978, for transfer of ‘granted lands’ if such lands were diverted under Section 95 of the Karnataka Land Revenue (KLR) Act, 1964. It also declared that lands granted to persons belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes lose the character of ‘granted land under the provisions of 1978 Act when diversion for non-agriculture purposes is permitted under the provisions of the KLR, 1964. A Full Bench comprising Justices Alok Aradhe, Sachin Shankar Magadum and M. Nagaprasanna delivered the verdict while answering the reference made by a single judge bench on the issue related to status of such lands. Interpreting the provisions of the 1978 Act and the KLR Act, 1964, the Bench said that “...in case of diverted lands, the requirement of obtaining prior permission under Section 4(2) of the 1978 Act does not arise as the permission has to be obtained only in respect of ‘granted land’ and the land on conversion no longer remains ‘granted land’.” However, the Bench said, “when such persons [belonging to SC and ST granted with lands] seek conversion of the aforesaid land under Section 95(2) of the KLR Act, 1964, it presupposes that the land granted is an agricultural land and the person belonging to SC and ST intends to use it for non-agricultural purpose.” “...the intention of the legislature is to grant protection to an allottee in respect of ‘granted land’. Once such permission for conversion is land is granted under Section 95(2) of the KLR Act, 1964, by the Deputy Commissioner, the aforesaid land loses its nature as ‘granted land’ and therefore, the protection available under Section 4(2) of the 1978 Act no longer available,” the Bench clarified. The issue had cropped up as the legal heirs of one Kondappa of Bengaluru north taluk, who hailed from the SC community and was granted 5 acres 3 guntas of land in 1927-28, sought cancellation of sale of the ‘granted land’ in 1996 claiming that land was sold sans prior permission of the government in violation of the provisions of the 1978 Act. However, the purchaser had claimed that grantees had sold the land after obtaining conversion under Section 95 of the KLR Act, 1964, and hence prior permission was not required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-nod-not-must-to-sell-land-granted-to-scssts-if-its-use-is-diverted-hc/article35518623.ece
25 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Will Yediyurappa get high command’s ‘message’ today?||All eyes are on the Bharatiya Janata Party high command on the eve of the second anniversary of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at the helm, as he has indicated that he is expecting “a message” from central leaders on Sunday. It is widely speculated that he will possibly be asked to step down. Close on the heels of his recent Delhi visit during which he met party central leaders, Mr. Yediyurappa had surprised everyone by saying that he is waiting for the high command’s message to be communicated on Sunday. “I will abide by the party central leaders’ decision and get on with my work of strengthening the party from July 26,” he had said, indicating that he would quit on July 26 if the high command so wishes. Continued speculation However, there is continued speculation of him trying to work out modalities of exit and also impress upon the central leadership to provide suitable accommodation to his son and BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra. This was further strengthened owing to Mr. Vijayendra’s sudden visit to Delhi on Friday night. Though Mr. Yediyurappa, who has a considerable hold on his community of Lingayats, has clearly indicated that the transition of power would be a smooth by declaring that he would abide by the decision of the party high command, Sunday is set to see a show of strength by a section of seers from the community. The convention being held at Bengaluru Palace Grounds is expected to be attended by about 1,000 seers, some from even non-Lingayat communities too. However, unlike his previous stint when the entire community and its leaders stood solidly with Mr. Yediyurappa when he had to quit abruptly in 2012, following a report on illegal mining, his close aides have already declared that they would abide by the decision of the party high command. Still an enigma The issue of leadership change has remained enigmatic even for his senior Cabinet colleagues and party functionaries as the central leadership is yet to communicate its decision to anyone. Mr. Yediyurappa is reportedly playing his cards close to his chest. This was evident with senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa on Saturday stating that he did not know anything about the possibility of a leadership change. Both Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Karnataka Mines Minister Murugesh Nirani, who are among the probables to succeed Mr. Yediyurappa, maintained that they were not aware of the possibility of a leadership change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-yediyurappa-get-high-commands-message-today/article35518608.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All students barring one clear ICSE and ISC boards in State||All candidates except one in the State cleared the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) boards, the results of which were announced by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Saturday. All 21,386 Class X candidates from 357 schools were deemed as pass. In Class XII, all except one of the 2,040 candidates from across 45 schools were declared as pass. The council, in a press release, stated that it would not be publishing merit lists. The CISCE had cancelled the board exams because of the second wave of COVID-19 and scored students based on their past performances, internal assessment, and practical marks. Students, teachers and principals were happy with the results given the tumultuous academic year. “During these unprecedented times, students have achieved phenomenal results. They adapted well to the unpredictable academic year. In their assignments, they managed to use immersive learning techniques, graphical representations of concepts, DIY tasks and also submitted paperless assessments,” said Niru Agarwal, trustee, Greenwood High International School. ‘Fair assessment’ Gayatri Devi, principal of Little Flower Public School, said the results calculated using the board’s criterion could be considered as a fair assessment. “However, I have noticed that there are far fewer centums in physics and mathematics this year.” Meenakshi Myer, principal of Inventure Academy, said the average performance had improved significantly since the 2018-19 academic year when the board had conducted exams for all subjects. In 2019-20, the council conducted exams only for a few subjects.“We have restructured our teaching, personalised learning, and provided support to students,” she said. Sreepriya Unnikrishnan, head of Ekya School, J.P. Nagar, said the council had assured all schools of a fair and unbiased result. “Our teachers have undoubtedly put in a lot of effort despite all the challenges of online schooling. The results are a true reflection of the student’s ability and are in no way skewed or distorted,” she said. Across the country, 45 out of 2,19,499 students in Class X and 230 out of 94,011 students in Class XII were unsuccessful. In both grades, the southern region, which Karnataka is a part of, had the best pass percentage. Objections The council said candidates who have objections to the way their marks have been calculated could submit a written application to their schools stating the reasons in detail. After the school reviews the application, they can forward it to the board if they find the reasons valid. Requests have to be submitted to the board by August 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-students-barring-one-clear-icse-and-isc-boards-in-state/article35518587.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Long wait for honorary wildlife wardens continues||They are meant to be the vital link between the government and public, crucial to conservation and other environmental issues. But as on today, only five districts have honorary wildlife wardens. And they have not had one since over a year. According to sources, only around five districts have honorary wildlife wardens at present — Bengaluru, Mysuru, Chikkamagaluru, Chamarajanagar and Chitradurga. “They were appointed in 2019 by the JD(S)-Congress coalition government. The list had more names, but these were cancelled by the new government,” they said. Though an honorary post, there is demand for one in areas with wildlife sanctuaries and eco-sensitive zones such as Mysuru, Bengaluru, Chikkamagaluru and Chamarajanagar due to the presence of BRT, Cauvery and Nagarahole sanctuaries, they said. “Apart from the absence of wildlife wardens in many districts, there is also opposition to bringing someone from outside the district who may not have conservation as their main interest instead of locals. It is the same logic that applies to appointments to the State wildlife board, which have become politically motivated,” said one of the honorary wardens, who requested anonymity. Lack of interest According to the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the State government is supposed to appoint Chief Wildlife Warden, Wildlife Wardens and Honorary Wildlife Wardens. “The tenure is for two years but extendable. Under the Act, they can be involved in seizures, searches, identification of new conservation areas, etc. They are the link between the Forest Department and the public. As it is an honorary post, not many are showing interest. Some have done good work in that post,” said a conservationist. Department officials concurred. “In some districts, people do take active part, and in some others, not so much. But invariably, someone will be there for the post. Otherwise, we have to identify someone who is interested in flora and fauna and can contribute to conservation,” said an official. Their role is to communicate with the community at large, gathering information and passing it on to the department, and act as a link between the public and the department. “The department is uniformed. So there will be a communication gap with the public. Honorary wildlife wardens are supposed to do the job of being the link,” they said. Response to delay Asked about the delay in appointments, Vijaykumar Gogi, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) said the proposal containing names for all the districts had been sent to the government long ago.  Apart from the absence of wildlife wardens in many districts, there is also opposition to bringing someone from outside the district who may not have conservation as their main interest instead of locals. It is the same logic that applies to appointments to the State wildlife board, which have become politically motivated. A honorary warden||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/long-wait-for-honorary-wildlife-wardens-continues/article35518619.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With no acceptable alternative, Lingayats throw weight behind BSY||Over the last couple of days, as speculation is rife over the imminent exit of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, a host of Lingayat seers have urged him to stay put and the All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha has rallied behind him. The absence of a leader with a mass appeal among the Lingayats, who could potentially replace Mr. Yediyurappa, is believed to be the reason for the community rallying behind him despite allegations of corruption, nepotism, mishandling of COVID-19, and the factor of his advancing age. Next generation Without an acceptable alternative on the horizon, the community feels that there could be a “vacuum” in a context where the second generation community leaders have not yet shown potential to emerge as a pan-Karnataka representative. “The community sees him as an undisputed leader as of now and it needs him. For political optics, he is using it for his benefit as well,” a Lingayat leader said. “We need a mass leader and a career politician who can give his all and knows down to the constituency-level dynamics. You can draw parallel from H.D. Deve Gowda among Vokkaligas or Siddaramaiah among the backward classes.” Though this term of Mr. Yediyurappa has seen many detractors from within, especially Panchamashali sect, none has emerged as an alternative to him, they admit. Mahasabha office-bearers believe that Mr. Yediyurappa organically grew to the stature of the community leader without much support of the Mahasabha or the mutts in the initial days. It was after political decline of Veerendra Patil, S.R. Bommai, and J.H. Patel, other tall names in the community, that the search for a leader by the Lingayats led to him. The Lingayats, a numerically strongly community with a considerable section with big land holdings, are seen strongly behind the BJP now. Its slow move away from the Congress began after the land reforms initiated by late D. Devaraj Urs in the 1970s. However, sensing the emergence of a Lingayat Chief Minister, the community, along with other dominant castes of Vokkaliga and Brahmin, sided with the Congress in 1989 when 48 of the 178 Congress legislators were Lingayats. The unceremonious exit of the late Patil, however, led them back to the Janata Parivar, and with the emergence of Mr. Yediyurappa, to the BJP post 2004. But when he broke away and formed Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) in 2011, the next election in 2013 saw only 10 Lingayats of the total 40 legislators being elected from the BJP. Down from 39 in 2008. For the BJP, the trouble in removing Mr. Yediyurappa again at this juncture seems to be fear of antagonising a community that has returned almost 40% of its total legislators. The Mahasabha claims that it is not only the seats that the BJP wins from the Lingayat heartland in the central and north Karnataka regions, but it estimates that in about 135 seats, including over 30 reserved constituencies, Lingayats are electorally significant. Changed scenario However, political observers believe that though Lingayats have been voting for the BJP with Mr. Yediyurappa factor being an important component of it, it is also fallacious to assume that all their votes go to the saffron party. The Congress holding on to about 15 seats remains a testimony to it. Some of the Lingayat legislators within the BJP also feel that the influence of Mr. Yediyurappa could be waning, and the political situation in 2013 was different from the current, with the age not on his side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-no-acceptable-alternative-lingayats-throw-weight-behind-bsy/article35518603.ece
25 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Panchamashalis demand CM’s post for leader from sect||While seers, particularly those from Lingayat community, are staging a show of strength in Bengaluru on Sunday in support of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, leaders of the Panchamashali sect within the community have demanded that the new Chief Minister should be chosen from among them. This has given raise to doubts on whether the Panchamashali sect would toe the line of other Lingayat seers who have been favouring continuation of Mr. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. Convention today Those organising the convention of seers have said that about 1,000 seers from across the communities are expected to participate in it. The seers, who recently expressed their support to Mr. Yediyurappa, said the main purpose of the convention was to take stock of various issues and also to express gratitude for Mr. Yediyurappa for his work towards development of the State. However, the timing of the convention coincides with the possibility of a leadership change. Meanwhile, Panchamashali Mutt seer Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami demanded that a leader from the community should get a chance to occupy the post of the Chief Minister if Mr. Yediyurappa steps down. Speaking to mediapersons after the community’s executive committee meeting in Bengaluru, the seer justified his demand by claiming that 80% of the community people had backed the BJP. Reservation demand The seer, who had earlier spearheaded the campaign for including the community under the 2A list of reservation, expressed concern over Mr. Yediyurappa not implementing his promise of sanctioning their demand within six months. He threatened to resume the hunger strike from October if the Chief Minister failed to convene a special meeting of the State Cabinet to recommend to the Centre to provide reservation to the community. He also said an awareness drive in this regard would be taken up in all the taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamashalis-demand-cms-post-for-leader-from-sect/article35518610.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surjewala alleges corruption in egg distribution scheme||AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala accused Minister for Women and Child Development Shashikala Jolle of corruption in free egg distribution scheme meant for children of anganwadis in the Kalyana Karnataka region. In a reply to a question on alleged fraud in the distribution of eggs for anganwadi children, Mr. Surjewala said, “Any government that siphons off funds meant for nutrition of children commits the worst crime in the world.” The Congress leader was speaking to the press in Tumakuru after a meeting with leaders of five districts. In a sting operation carried out by a section of the media, it was alleged that Ms. Jolle was seeking money during the tendering for procurement of eggs for distribution to lactating mothers and children of anganwadis of the Kalyana Karnataka region. However, Ms. Jolle said all allegations of corruption in the egg distribution to anganwadi children were far from the truth and aimed at tarnishing her image. “The department has not called any tenders for procurement of eggs and I have not placed any demand for money,” the Minister said. Meeting with leaders Mr. Surjewala  and senior State Congress leaders also held a meeting with legislators, former legislators, and party office-bearers in Tumakuru, in an attempt to strengthen the party organisation for the coming elections to zilla and taluk panchayats. Mr. Surjewala, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, CLP leader Siddaramaiah and other senior leaders sought suggestions from legislators, former legislators and office-bearers of five districts — Tumakuru, Kolar, Chickballapur, Chitradurga, and Davangere — on strengthening the party from booth to the State level by launching new programmes and appointing office-bearers to various committees/wings. Elections to zilla and taluk panchayats are expected to be held before the end of this calendar year and the purpose of the meeting was to strengthen the party ahead of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surjewala-alleges-corruption-in-egg-distribution-scheme/article35518614.ece
25 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Schools part of THiS boast 100% pass in ICSE and ISC||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) declared the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) results on Saturday. Students were awarded imputed marks through alternative pattern of assessment. Schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme boasted 100% pass results, with many students securing distinctions. At St. Joseph’s Boys’ High School, Museum Road, all 261 students of Class X passed with first class. Adyoth Channakeshav (98.83%) was the Class X topper. In Class XII, all 157 students passed with first class. Abinaya E. and Khushi Malhotra, by securing 98.6%, were the toppers in the Science stream. Rakshit Agarwal (98.8%) stood first in the Commerce stream. St. John’s High School, Frazer Town, too achieved 100% pass in Class XII with 123 of 127 students securing distinction. Ayush Samuel Ajith (95.5%) in Science, Nathania Manoraj (95.75%) in Commerce, and Rodah Menorah B. (97%) in Humanities were the toppers. Little Flower Public School,Banashankari, achieved 100% pass results with 59 of 139 students in Class X securing distinction. Supriya Srinivas (97.6%) was the topper. At Presidency School, Nandini Layout, all 132 students of Class X secured distinction. Veenal Coutinho (96.66%) emerged the topper. Cathedral High School, Richmond Road, too achieved 100% pass results in Class X. Kumari Divija (97.2%) was the topper. At Sacred Heart Girls’ High School, Museum Road, all 131 students of Class X secured distinction. Sania Martin (98.11%) stood first. St. Germain High School, Cleveland Town, boasted 100% pass results with 18 of the 92 students of Class X scoring 90% and above. Karthik K. Adiga (95.17%) was the topper. At SJR Kengeri Public School, KS Town, all 108 students passed and 50 scored 90% and above. Sanjay S. Bhat (97.4%) was the topper. VLS International School, Basaveshwaranagar, achieved 100% pass with 44 of 45 students securing distinction. Nanditha P. and Rishi Kaneria both secured 97.6% marks to emerge toppers. Ryan International School, Yelahanka, achieved 100% pass with 74 of 139 students securing distinction. Prajwal Vijay (97%) topped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-part-of-this-boast-100-pass-in-icse-and-isc/article35518591.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With ‘negative wastage’, State pulls out 1.76 lakh extra doses||After reporting a high vaccine wastage of nearly 7% in the initial four months after COVID-19 vaccination was rolled out in January, Karnataka has managed to not only curtail wastage, but also extract and administer more doses from each vial since May. Vaccine usage is calculated as the proportion of vaccine administered out of the total vaccine allotted. According to official data, the State has recorded a negative wastage (-2.23%), thereby administering vaccine to 1,75,165 more people than intended in the assigned stock to vaccination centres from May 1 till July 23. The net wastage of Covishield from May 1 till July 23 was -2.72%, which means 1,67,917 additional doses were extracted from the stock assigned to the vaccination centres. This is far more than the 7,248 additional doses (-1.74%) extracted from Covaxin stocks. Among lowest Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu that Karnataka had one of the lowest wastage rates of COVID-19 vaccine in the country. “Our State has a negative wastage rate, which means that we have been able to administer more doses than we have received by using the buffer dose in the vials. This was possible by meticulous micro-planning at each vaccination centre. The credit goes to our health officials and nursing staff,” he said. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the State was overall able to save 1,75,165 doses (both Covishield and Covaxin put together) thanks to efficient vaccine administration at the field level and expertise of the vaccinators. “Initially, our wastage was high. But now, since the demand for vaccine is also high, we have ensured careful transportation of the stocks and meticulous planning of vaccine sessions. Now, our health workers (vaccinators) open a vial only after the required number of beneficiaries are available— 20 people for Covaxin and 10 for Covishield,” he said. “The most common problem seen is incorrect planning. Sometimes the vial is opened but there are only a few beneficiaries, so the remaining doses in the vial go to waste. Another factor is that once opened, the vial should be used within four hours, so if the number of people who turn up for vaccination is low, there will be vaccine wastage. This is apart from logistical issues,” he explained.    Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said that with each vial having one extra dose, vaccinators have now been drawing around 11 doses from some Covishield vials and 21 from Covaxin vials. “For optimal use, if there are only four persons waiting at a time, when a Covishield vial is to be opened they request people to wait for a few minutes till another six or seven people turn up. This has helped us prevent wastage and also ensure an extra dose from many vials,” she said. The State has so far administered 2,87,75,216 doses of COVID-19 vaccine and has a stock of around six lakh doses as on Saturday. This includes four lakh doses that arrived on the day, the Health Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-negative-wastage-state-pulls-out-176-lakh-extra-doses/article35518596.ece
25 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||40-year-old unique tamarind tree in Tumakuru to fetch Rs. 9 lakh over next one year||A 40-year-old tamarind tree in Tumakuru district in Karnataka has brought sweet tidings for its grower, though its speciality is very high sour content. The tree, with distinct properties, is set to fetch a revenue of over Rs. 9 lakh in the course of the next one year, as the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) has identified it for further propagation under revenue sharing model of the Tamarind Improvement Project. The institute has named the tamarind variety after the 66-year-old farmer Lakshmana, who grew the tree in his farm in Nandihalli of Tumakuru district. The initiative by the institute comes close on the heels of a massive response to two such earlier efforts with jackfruit, including a special variety of ‘Siddu jackfruit’. According to IIHR’s Principal Scientist and head of its Tumakuru-based Central Horticultural Experimental Station (CHES) G. Karunakaran, who identified this tamarind variety, this tree not only yields more, but also gives quality pods with higher sour content. “The mean annual yield during the scientific assessment from 2016 to 2020 was 251.4 kg as against 165 kg in other trees,” he said. “The pods of Lakshmana tamarind tree are long, broad and curved. The average length of a pod is 25.4 cm. Also, the pulp is light brown in colour with less fibre. Pulp recovery is high at 43% as against 28% in local tamarind trees. Total acidity is found to be 20% and sugar content is 29.78%,” he said. The institute entered into an MoU with Mr. Lakshmana for production of saplings through the grafting method. As per this agreement, the institute will produce about 10,000 saplings from this tree and sell them for approximately Rs. 150 each. As much as 60% of the revenue from sales will go to the farmer. Lakshmana’s son Vinay says that this particular tree always stood out from the total of 30 tamarind trees owned by the family. “Such is the quality of the pods and pulp that it has always fetched us a premium price in the market. In 2020, we got Rs. 425 per kg for the processed pulp from this tree,” he said. “We have hardly made any extra effort to nurture this tree as tamarind trees are drought-resistant and maintenance is inexpensive,” he added. Mr. Vinay is an MBA graduate who quit his job in Bengaluru to look after the farm along with a book store. He is very proud of his family’s achievement. “My MBA-based job in Bengaluru would not have got this kind of recognition,” he said. Special focus on tamarind Farm scientists have zeroed in on tamarind for promoting as a crop that can support entrepreneurship and provide seasonal employment opportunities in rural areas besides ensuring sustainable income to growers in parched areas. Dr. Karunakaran says a tamarind tree can sustain extreme dry weather as it is climate-resilient. “It requires a minimum amount of water, mostly during the initial period. The tree starts giving a yield in five to eight years,” he said. Pointing out that the tree’s pods need to be processed manually to get the pulp, scientists said generally the processing work is done by women in their homes. In Tumakuru district, which has a high concentration of tamarind trees, farmers pay about Rs. 20 per kg for processing. Workers earn anywhere from Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 a day through processing. This work last from February to April. But this is the time when most other agricultural activities would have come to a standstill reducing job opportunities. What has caught the attention of scientists is the multi-purpose use of all the parts of the tree. “The shell of the pods is also being sold and even its seeds are in demand. Some entrepreneurs are exporting the processed seeds to other countries,” he said. A private processing company has set up a unit in Tumakuru district to produce tamarind concentrate, which has a shelf-life of two years. A representative of the company said the concentrate was developed by using CFTRI technology and would have zero wastage unlike raw tamarind that cannot be used completely. He said tamarind concentrate could be used in producing puliyogare and Indian masala-related products, besides some sour chocolates. He said there is a demand for tamarind seeds from Gulf countries where it is used to make juice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-year-old-unique-tamarind-tree-in-tumakuru-to-fetch-rs-9-lakh-over-next-one-year/article35518617.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIMB alumni raise Rs. 2 crore and name classroom after late professor||The Indian Institute of Management Bangalore’s alumni raised Rs. 2 crore and availed of naming rights of a classroom after P.N. Thirunarayana, the late professor of marketing. He was associated with IIMB for over 33 years, said IIMB in a release. “He retired in 2005 and made an impact on batches since 1977. Professor PNT’s father was Kannada playwright and poet P.T. Narasimhachar, popularly called PuTiNa.”The online classroom naming event was held on Saturday. “Professor PNT was a legend in the marketing area and generations of students benefitedimmensely from his teaching,” said professor Rishikesha T. Krishnan, Director of IIMB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iimb-alumni-raise-rs-2-crore-and-name-classroom-after-late-professor/article35518604.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rain review today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has kept himself busy on Sunday as he is visiting the flood-hit border district of Belagavi to assess the damage and to review the relief works. Interestingly, as Mr. Yediyurappa assumed office in 2019, the State was ravaged by record rainfall and floods, particularly affecting northern districts. He had toured the districts then as a single-man Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-review-today/article35518611.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rains bring down demand for power across State||The copious rains in Karnataka have brought down the demand for electricity by almost half. According to the State Load Dispatch Centre of Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. estimates, the State’s demand hovered around 6,600 MW, and for Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM) areas, around 3,500 MW. Senior BESCOM officials said this was around 40% lower than the usual demand. “The peak demand in city areas has not seen a huge dip yet per say. But in rural areas, it has been marked given the reduction in irrigation pump (IP) sets because of the rain. In city areas, it could be a 5-10% reduction corresponding to the decrease in usage of air conditioners and fans,” an official said. Apart from that, with work from home continuing for many major companies, the demand from this sector has been lower since the pandemic started. The surplus power is being sold on the Indian Energy Exchange, officials said. BESCOM officials also said there has been a marked decrease in rain-related power disruption complaints compared to the flood of complaints during the first rains. Rains are expected to continue in the city and State for the next few days. The maximum temperature in Bengaluru on Saturday was 28°C, while the minimum temperature was 20°C — both with nil departure from normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-bring-down-demand-for-power-across-state/article35518598.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman stops armed chain snatcher||A 28-year-old woman caught an armed chain-snatcher by surprise when she fought back. The incident took place in front of her house in Koira village on the outskirts of the city on Friday. “The woman, Navitha Devraj, was standing outside her house after seeking off her husband for work. A few minutes later, the accused, armed with a knife, approached her and grabbed her gold chain weighing 64 grams,” said a police officer. Though he attacked her all of a sudden, Navitha held on to her chain, and grabbed the knife with her free hand to stop him from attacking her. “The unidentified accused was able to break a portion of the chain weighing 24 grams, and escaped, leaving the knife behind,” the police officer added. Neighbouring who heard Navitha’s shouts for help came to her aid, but by then the attacker had escaped. On Saturday, she and her husband visited the police station and filed a formal complaint while handing over the knife to the police. Police probing The Vishwanathapura police have taken up a case and are investigating, but have yet to identify the accused as he had used a handkerchief to cover his face||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-stops-chain-snatcher/article35518599.ece
25 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Webinar on foreign languages||The Centre for Global Languages, Bengaluru City University, is organising a webinar, ‘Why learning foreign languages is useful and fun’ on Sunday between 3.30 p.m. and 5 p.m. The centre, in a release, said the webinar aimed to create awareness about the usefulness of learning a foreign language in today’s global economy. Panellists participating in the webinar include Ashok Kumar Chawla, adviser (Japan), Ministry of External Affairs and Preet Vidyanand, language service provider. This webinar can be viewed by clicking on the following link:https://youtu.be/ OwmnvSWe-dM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-on-foreign-languages/article35518605.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM announces bonanza for Shivamogga||In a bonanza to his home district Shivamogga, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday virtually inaugurated the University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences and laid foundation for various development works. Speaking on the occasion, he expressed satisfaction for the work he had done during the last two years for all-round development of the district. He said he had done his best to pay back the debt he owed to Shikaripur, his constituency. This comes even as he is set to complete two years in office, with rumours running thick and strong that he would be asked to step down. Varsity’s name He announced that the University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences would be named after Keladi Shivappa Nayaka, ruler of the Kaladi Nayaka kingdom (1645–1660). The university would cover seven districts of Malnad and coastal parts of the State. A new campus has been developed at a cost of Rs. 155 crore. A total of 787 acres has been granted to the university, the Chief Minister said. Besides works related to irrigation, the Chief Minister said works related to the construction of an airport were progressing well and the airport would become functional from April 2022. A sum of Rs. 185 crore had been released for providing facilities for tourists at the world famous Jog Falls in the district, he said. The Chief Minister inaugurated development works worth Rs. 1,074 crore and laid the foundation stone for development works worth Rs. 560 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-announces-bonanza-for-shivamogga/article35518606.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens complain of rising crime||City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Saturday instructed the city police to intensify patrolling, keep tabs on anti-social elements, and take strict action against offenders. The directions came following grievances from citizens at the Janasamparka Divas on Saturday. Many pointed out that there were rising cases of women being harassed as well as youngsters performing bike stunts in parts of Nandini Layout. Mr. Pant also instructed the jurisdictional police to keep a close watch on habitual offenders and rowdies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-complain-of-rising-crime/article35518588.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power disruption||There will be no power supply from July 26 to 31 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the areas serviced from S-9 sub division, Padamanabhanagar Station, Jayanagar Division, to take up the planned works of Bangalore Electricity Supply Company, according to a press release. There will also be power disruption on July 29 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Richmond Road, Richmond Town, Nanjappa Circle, Richmond Park, Langford Road, Bright Street, and Food World Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-disruption/article35518593.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,857 cases||Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,857 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,93,556. Of these, 551 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 29 deaths, the toll rose to 36,352. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,050 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 28,33,276. The State now has 23,905 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day was 1.21%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.56%. As many as 1,53,415 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,25,172 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,77,05,035.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-1857-cases/article35518594.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Roadwork takes a hit||The spate of heavy and intermittent rains over the past 11 days is playing havoc on deadlines for ongoing roadworks. “The progress of many works has been impacted,” said B.S. Prahllad, chief engineer of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bengaluru Smart CityLtd. (BSCL). In fact, on Saturday, photos of damaged footpaths on Commercial Street, inspected by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday, were widely circulated. However, officials and traders clarified that the images were on sections where work was still ongoing. “Work has yet to be completed. We will need another 15 days at least to complete work on the entire Commercial Street,” said Mr. Prahllad. While Mr. Yediyurappa, during his inspection, had announced that most projects would be completed by the end of the year, citizens remain sceptical. Waterlogging Meanwhile, heavy rains on Saturday in some parts of the city resulted in waterlogging at Coffee Board junction near Vidhana Soudha, Vittal Mallya Road, and Srinivagilu Junction in Ejipura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roadwork-takes-a-hit/article35518601.ece
25 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Allow one-way traffic on Shiradi Ghat: Ashok||Revenue Minister R. Ashok has instructed officers to allow one-way movement of light motor vehicles of Shiradi Ghat stretch of National Highway 75, which was closed for vehicles on Friday after a portion caved in due to heavy rains. The Minister, who visited Donigal in Sakleshpur taluk on Saturday, said the light motor vehicles could be allowed one-way. “This is major road that connects two important cities of the State. The officers have been instructed to allow light vehicles till the restoration of the road was completed. The NHAI officials have sought one-month’s time to complete the restoration work”, he said. The four-way path would be laid in the stretch with concrete retaining walls. The government would provide compensation for the farmers, whose lands were affected due to the landslides. “The government has instructed the officers to release compensation for people whose houses were damaged in the rains within 24 hours. In Hassan district 78 houses are partially damaged, six houses have collapsed. Around 50 road bridges are damaged and 374 electric poles have been uprooted.” Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah said the district administration had already begun distributing compensation for those who lost houses due to rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allow-one-way-traffic-on-shiradi-ghat-says-ashok/article35518981.ece
25 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cricket stadium inundated||The heavy rainfall has left Karnataka State Cricket Academy’s stadium in Shivamogga completely inundated. The stadium, where many Ranji matches were held, looks like a waterbody with a fence around. The Academy developed the stadium in the place where once stood Navule tank. Photos of the flooded stadium have gone viral on social media platforms and many have made comments criticising the choice of place for the stadium. Senior journalist and member of the Karnataka Wildlife Board Joseph Hoover commented, “This is happening for the second time. In 2019 also the stadium was inundated. What else will happen, when the lake is converted into a stadium?” He said  that the academy must have spent over Rs. 10 crore for the stadium. Now, it had no option but to relocate the stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cricket-stadium-inundated/article35519003.ece
25 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Lockdown has ended, but woes of daily wagers here to stay||Early in the morning, lines of men and women holding steaming cups of tea can be seen at N.R. Circle in Hassan. Hoping to be hired for work, around 500 people congregate at the spot, craning their necks to see if any contractor is around. Over the last few days, the overnight downpour followed by the early morning drizzle has left them disappointed. They have learnt that rainy days seldom bring work. Most of them are from Hassan and nearby villages. For decades, N.R. Circle has been the location for contractors and construction site managers to look for workers. Depending on the work, each worker gets anywhere between Rs. 450 and Rs. 600 a day. However, for the last 3-4 months during the lockdown, they hardly got work. Though the lockdown has ended, normalcy has not been restored. Earlier, they used to get work six days a week with a break on Tuesdays. But now, they get a maximum of four days of work in a week. “For months, we had no work due to the lockdown and we have not recovered. I don’t know how long we need to wait for return to the pre-COVID-19 days,” said Shivanna, a construction worker, and resident of Hassan town, who earns Rs. 600 if he gets work. “I take up hard work of handling construction material in multi-storey buildings. Many like me are addicted to liquor, and that alone costs me up to Rs. 100 a day,” he said. “My wife looks after the family’s needs only if I can give her at least Rs. 300 a day. There have been many days without work,” said Mr. Shivanna, who had been waiting for two hours. Repaying loans Annaiah of Aduvalli said many workers had difficulty paying weekly instalments for loans borrowed from a micro-financing firm during the lockdown. “How do we repay the loan without earning? Even now, we are not getting work regularly,” he said. Traveling costs Many women from villages in Alur and Sakaleshpur had gathered at Gandhi Bazar Circle. They are hired to load trucks carrying cabbage. “We leave home early in the morning and get on a bus to reach here. After working all day, we earn Rs. 500. It is dark by the time we return home,” said Manjula from Kittane in Alur taluk. There were days when they return home without any work. “We spend up to Rs. 50 on travel. We lose money on the days we don’t get work,” said Kavitha from Banavase village. With many farmers leaving the yield to rot in the field following a dip in demand, they are seldom hired. While construction workers get financial benefits from their welfare board, agriculture labourers do not, pointed out Ms. Kavitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-has-ended-but-woes-of-daily-wagers-continue/article35518625.ece
25 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two die in accidents in Hassan dist.||Nethra, 35, a resident of Shivamogga town, died after the car she was travelling in hit a bridge on Arsikere-Channarayapatna road on Thursday morning. Her relatives, who who were travelling with her, suffered injuries. They are undergoing treatment in Shivamogga. They were going to Chakenahalli in Holenarsipur taluk to attend a funeral. In another incident, a bike rider died after he was hit by a car near Malali Cross in Hassan taluk in the afternoon. Sunil, 26, of Kenchattahalli in Hassan taluk, was returning from Malali temple with his sister and niece when he met with the accident. His sister and niece suffered injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-in-accidents-in-hassan-dist/article35519005.ece
25 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||49 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district reported 49 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one more death on Saturday. With that, the total number of deaths due to the infection increased to 1,038. Among the fresh cases, 13 are from Shivamogga taluk, 11 from Bhadravati, seven in Thirthahalli, four from Shikaripur, seven in Sagar, five in Hosanagar and two from other districts. As of Saturday, 472 are under treatment for the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/49-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-shivamogga/article35518999.ece
25 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE pacifies Shivamogga residents||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, on Saturday, had a tough time pacifying women residents of localities in Shivamoga badly hit by floods during the current heavy rains. The women wanted a permanent solution from the State government as they had been facing the problem every year during the monsoon. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in charge of the district, visited Shanthamma Layout, Kumbara Beedi, and Imam Bada localities along with officers. During his visit to Shanthamma Layout, the residents said they had been facing the problem for the last two-three years. “We have built houses here spending huge money. But, people are hesitant to take our houses for rent because of flooding. Every year we have to spend money on repair”, they said. One woman said that the residents had been facing this problem only in recent years after a layout was developed in the same locality. She was reluctant to listen to the Minister’s assurances that the administration would resolve the issue. Mr. Eshwarappa, speaking to presspersons, said that the administration had taken enough measures to avoid flooding. Earlier, flooding was reported in 15 places in the city. Now it had come down to four places. The officers concerned would visit the places and work out plans for how to avoid such incidents in future. The administration has made arrangements to provide food for the flood-hit people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-pacifies-shivamogga-residents/article35519006.ece
25 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||I am not lobbying for CM’s post: Nirani||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, whose name was doing the rounds in political circles as a replacement of B.S. Yediyurappa, denied that he was lobbying for the Chief Minister’s post. “I am not lobbying for the Chief Minister’s post. My recent visits to Delhi should not be misunderstood as lobbying. BJP is a disciplined party and there is no scope for lobbying. I keep visiting temples once a month or two and it has been my practice since my childhood. My recent visit to Varanasi was also a part of it. It need not be attributed to anything specific as some people did. The trip has nothing to do with politics,” Mr. Nirani said in his brief interaction with the journalists here on Saturday. He was here to take stock of the flood situation and the district administration’s preparations to handle it. On the question of the new Chief Minister in the event of Mr. Yediyurappa’s resignation, Mr. Nirani said that the party high command would decide on it. “All 120 BJP legislators are competent for the post. The party high command will pick the right person for the post if Mr. Yediyurappa resigns. But, there is no direction from the party’s national leadership on the issue. Mr. Yediyurappa is still our leader who will continue to lead us. We all are with him. Party leadership is very strong and it knows which position should be given to whom and when. I got many positions without aspiring for them. I was made a minister when I was elected to Assembly for the first time,” Mr. Nirani said. Umesh Jadhav, MP, Basavaraj Mattimadu, MLA, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-am-not-lobbying-for-cms-post-nirani/article35518827.ece
25 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||E-service centre inaugurated||Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka, inaugurated the State’s first e-service centre on the premises of the Kalaburagi district court complex here on Saturday. As per the information provided by the court authorities, the people can get the status of their cases, the dates for hearing, and other information through the e-service centre. Justice Oka also inaugurated a dispensary which was set up with the help of the Health and Family Welfare Department. The facility with a doctor and a staff nurse will offer first aid and medicines in emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-service-centre-inaugurated/article35518828.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Train traffic on KR network restored||Train traffic on the Mangaluru-Mumbai line via Konkan Railway network was restored early on Saturday. The Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction service which was earlier cancelled between Saturday and July 27 will now operate from Sunday onwards. A communique from Konkan Railway Corporation here said the track-fit certificate for the affected stretch between Kamthe and Chiplun stations in Ratnagiri region of Maharashtra was given at 3.45 a.m. Normal traffic was restored thereafter, it said. Normal services were affected on the Mumbai line since Friday morning as the Vashishti was flowing above the danger mark on the railway bridge between Kamthe and Chiplun following heavy rains. Later, the entire Chiplun town was submerged in the flood waters on Saturday. After the floods receded, KRCL authorities restored stretches of the affected track to facilitate restoration of services. Several trains between Mangaluru-Mumbai and Kerala-Mumbai and further north were either cancelled or diverted on alternative routes since Friday following the disruption of traffic. Train No. 01133 Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction daily special express that was cancelled till July 27 is now restored with effect from Sunday while its pairing train, 01134 Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT express special that was cancelled till July 28 is now restored with effect from Monday. However, several trains that had to start journeys on Saturday are cancelled. They include, Train No. 02618 H. Nizamuddin - Ernakulam Jn. Mangala Daily Special; Train No. 06337 Okha - Ernakulam Bi-Weekly Special; Train No. 06345 Lokmanya Tilak (T) - Thiruvananthapuram Central Netravati Daily Special; Train No. 09578 Jamnagar - Tirunelveli Bi-Weekly Special; Train No. 04559 Kochuveli - Chandigarh Bi-Weekly Special and Train No. 06337 Okha - Ernakulam Bi-Weekly Special. Also, Train No. 02197 Coimbatore - Jabalpur Weekly Special of July 26; Train No. 06098 Yog Nagari Rishikesh - Kochuveli Weekly Special of July 26; Train No. 06084 H. Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Central Weekly special of July 26; Train No. 02432 H. Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Rajdhani tri-weekly special of July 27 and Train No. 04560 Chandigarh - Kochuveli Bi-Weekly Special of July 28 are also cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-traffic-on-kr-network-restored/article35518968.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||City police bid adieu to Sudha||The Mangaluru City police on Saturday bid farewell to its 10-year-old detective dog Sudha. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and other officials gave it a guard of honour before burying the dog on the City Armed Police grounds. Sudha, a Doberman Pinscher, was with the city police since its birth on March 15, 2011. Handler Sandeep K., from the District Armed Reserve, had trained and reared it for a long time. But for the last six months, handler Kushalappa was taking care of Sudha and two other dogs, which are part of the city police’s dog squad. Sudha has helped the police trace the accused in many criminal cases, including a recent murder case in Ullal. Six months ago, it underwent operation for the removal of a cancerous growth in its body. Since the last seven days the health of Sudha began to deteriorate and it died at 10.15 a.m. on Saturday. Sudha received an emotional farewell from her handlers and other policemen. “I was very much attached to Sudha. It was like a father and child relationship. Sudha rigorously followed my instructions,” said Mr. Sandeep. It’s this attachment that made Mr. Sandeep name his motorcycle after the dog. Mr. Kumar and other policemen placed flowers on its body. After giving a guard of honor, it was buried at a corner of the CAR parade grounds. A tulasi sapling was planted over the burial spot. This is the first detective dog that the city police have lost. There are two other dogs in the squad and two more are set to join after completion of their training, said Mr. Kumar. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar, DCP (City Armed Reserve) Channaveerappa Hadapad, and Assistant Commissioner of Police (CAR) Murigeppa Appasahed Upase were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-police-bid-adieu-to-sudha/article35518985.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Jagadeesha asks departments to train children’s counsellors on priority basis||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Saturday asked the Departments of Women and Child Welfare and Health and Family Welfare to train children’s counsellors on priority basis to help health professionals in treating children in case of a third COVID-19 wave. Speaking at a meeting of different committees of District Child Protection Unit, the Deputy Commissioner said that those counsellors should mingle well with children and prepare them to receive the COVID-19 treatment with confidence. He said that all child care centres in the district should appoint counsellors. The services of social work and psychology students interested to work as children’s counsellors should be utilised. Their services should be utilised in COVID-19 call centres and in telecounselling. Such students should also be trained on the ways of helping the health professionals while treating children. The Deputy Commissioner said that enough awareness should be created on the availability of children’s helpline 1098. Training sessions should be held for school principals, headmasters, Accredited Social Health Activists, Panchayat Development Officers, and senior Health assistants in helping treating the children injected with the virus. The Deputy Director of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Udupi Sheshappa said that 28 child care centres in the district had 132 children. Speaking at another meeting of the Department of Women and Child Welfare, the Deputy Commissioner instructed the police to take cases pertaining to missing of children and women seriously and take steps to trace the missing persons. He said that some police personnel could be deputed exclusively to detect such missing cases. If investigative officers did not take the missing cases seriously the missing women and children will be at the risk of inviting many problems. The Deputy Commissioner asked the department officials to check whether all private and government offices have set up in-house committees to address the complaints of harassment by women employees. He asked Education Department officials to inform the District Protection Officer in case if any school going children of migrant workers found not attending the classes for more than 10 days consecutively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jagadeesha-asks-departments-to-train-childrens-counsellors-on-priority-basis/article35518976.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three more patients die of black fungus in Udupi; toll is now five||Three more patients who had contracted black fungus (mucormycosis), which is not communicable, have died in a private hospital in Udupi district. With this, the death toll due to black fungus in the district has touched five. Sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that a 45-year-old man from Chitradurga and a 43- year-old woman from Haveri died at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal on Friday. Another patient, a 48-year-old man from Shivamogga, died in the same hospital on Saturday. They said that the district had eight active cases of mucormycosis. Among them, six are being treated at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal and two are at Adarsha Hospital in Udupi.  A Health Department official said that people who were administered steroids during the course of treatment for COVID-19 got black fungus and those whose immunity was compromised also got it. Udupi district recorded three positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. There are 749 active COVID-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada has so far reported 24 deaths owing to mucormycosis. Of them, six are from Dakshina Kannada and 18 from other districts. The district had 23 active black fungus cases. Of them seven are from Dakshina Kannada and 16 from other districts. As many as 40 patients who had contracted it have been discharged after treatment. Dakshina Kannada reported four deaths due to COVID-19 and 269 new cases. With 239 patients being discharged the active cases stood at 2,105.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-patients-die-of-black-fungus-in-udupi-toll-is-now-five/article35518977.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Students trained in Beary dances get certificates||The first batch of 34 students who learnt Duff, Kolkali, Oppane Pat, and Kaicott Patt forms of Beary dances under the auspices of the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy at St Aloysius College here were given certificates at the college on Saturday. Of them, 14 had been trained in Duff dance and 20 others underwent training in the other three forms of dance. Speaking on the occasion, chairman of the academy Rahi Uchil said that it was an attempt to revive the fading Beary dances and to groom the performers. The participants were offered 30 hours of training in each form of the four dances. Except for Duff, the others, Kolkali, Oppane Pat and Kaicott Patt, have disappeared in Karnataka. Citing an example, he said that if there is a need for Oppane Pat dance, a troupe will have to be hired from Kerala. By offering training the academy has prepared the performers who can also earn by presenting performances. The trained students can also train others. Hence new performers have been prepared, he said. The students performed the dances on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-trained-in-beary-dances-get-certificates/article35518973.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DC asks ULBs to build ward-level rooms for civic workers||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has asked urban local bodies to construct small rooms for civic workers at select wards to enable them to have their food during their working hours. Speaking at a meeting in his office on Friday, the Deputy Commissioner said that the rooms should also help them to change their clothes. The rooms can be constructed on vacant government land. If government land is not available the local bodies should submit proposals to the Revenue Department seeking land. Dr. Rajendra said that defunct KSRTC buses or discarded compartments of ships can be modified and converted as rooms for the purpose. The Commissioners and Chief Officers of ULBs can think over it. The Deputy Commissioner said that civic workers should be administered the COVID-19 vaccine on priority basis. Their family members should also be subjected to health check up at regular intervals to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Project Director of the District Urban Development Cell Gayathri Nayak told the meeting that the government has permitted to recruit civic workers to urban local bodies. A notification to this effect will be issued soon. A committee has been formed for their recruitment. The Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation Akshy Sridhar was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-asks-ulbs-to-build-ward-level-rooms-for-civic-workers/article35518974.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Uma Bharti pays obeisance to Vishwesha Tirtha||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and Union Minister Uma Bharti on Saturday paid obeisance to her guru, the late Vishwesha Tirtha Swami, at the Udupi Pejawar Mutt’s branch Madhwashrama in Haridwar in Uttarakhand on the occasion of Guru Poornima. A communique from the mutt here said Ms. Bharti paid tributes to the seer’s portrait and the idol of Madhwacharya. Later, she performed paada pooja to the present Pejawar Mutt Seer Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami. She also felicitated Ramakishanji Maharaj of the Chitrakootashrama and other seers present on the occasion. The former Minister had got Sri Vishnu Sahasranama Yaga performed at the ashram through Vidwan Shashank Bhat two days ago. Ms. Bharti was initiated into sanyasa by Vishwesha Tirtha on November 17, 1992 at Amarakantak in Madhya Pradesh, the birthplace of the Narmada. Obtaining the mantra deeksha from the seer, she became Sadhavi Uma Bharti. Thereafter, she used to visit the seer every year during the Guru Poornima day and pay her obeisance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uma-bharti-pays-obeisance-to-vishwesha-tirtha/article35518970.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA takes over probe into trafficking of Sri Lankans||The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the alleged illegal immigration and human trafficking of 38 Sri Lankan nationals. The Mangaluru City police, in association with the Tamil Nadu police, last month arrested 38 Sri Lankan nationals when they attempted to sail to Canada from Mangaluru. The police said that they were among the group of nationals who had landed at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu by boats on March 17. As vigilance was intensified in wake of Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, some in the group came by road to Bengaluru and further came down to Mangaluru. They had paid 10 lakh Sri Lankan rupees to agents for moving to Canada. Home Ministry Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Saturday that following directions by the Union Home Ministry the city police handed over the case to the NIA. The NIA will be investigating the case in Mangaluru and also the one registered in Tamil Nadu. “An NIA official of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police has taken over the case. We will be providing the necessary support to the NIA,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nia-takes-over-probe-into-trafficking-of-sri-lankans/article35518979.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian dies after being hit by car in Kundapur||A pedestrian died after being hit by a car at Trasi in Kundapur taluk on Friday. The police have given the name of the victim as Sadananda Kini, a resident of Trasi. The incident occurred when Kini was walking on the pedestrian path off National Highway 66 from Trasi towards Navunda. A car, allegedly being driven by one Sachin, heading towards Navunda hit the victim. He was declared brought dead at district government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru, police said. Gangolli police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedestrian-dies-after-being-hit-by-car-in-kundapur/article35518982.ece
25 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Advocates’ diary released||The Udupi Bar Association on Saturday got its ‘Advocates’ Diary-2021’ released at the hands of High Court judges at an interaction programme between the Bar and the Bench. Suraj Govindaraj, administrative judge of Udupi district, and Shivashankar B. Amarannavar, released it in the presence of Principal District and Sessions Judge J.N. Subramanya. The Bar Association felicitated Justice Amarannavar on this occasion. Both the judges interacted with members of the Bar Association during the programme. Association President Divakar M. Shetty, Secretary Renold Praveen Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocates-diary-released/article35518983.ece
25 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to K.S. Rao Road, Hampankatta, Sharavu Temple Road, P.M. Rao Road, GHS Road, Venkataramana Temple Road, and nearby areas in the city on July 26 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Power supply to New Field Street, Car Street, Mahammayi Temple Road, Prabhu Lane, Gayathri Temple Road will be stopped on July 27 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    Power supply to some areas in Udupi and Manipal will be stopped on July 27 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Kidiyoor, Kadekar, Sampige Nagara, Padukare, Kutpady, Ananthakrishna Nagara, Alevoor, Padu Alevoor, Manchi, Karvalu, Manipura, Moodubelle, Marne, Korangrapady, Marpalli, Kukkikatte, Udyavara, and Katpady.    Department of Minorities Welfare has extended the last date to apply for post-matric and merit-cum-means scholarships till August 31.The applications will have to be submitted on-line. Details can be had from the offices of the department.    The Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation Akshy Sridhar has asked people in the city to install gratings in their sewer chambers before connecting the sewer lines to the sewer network of the corporation. It is to prevent the solid materials getting jammed in the manholes and sewer network. The gratings should be fixed within a fortnight. Later the engineers of the corporation will inspect the buildings to verify whether gratings have been fixed or not. The direction applies to houses, apartments, commercial complexes and industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article35518978.ece
25 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||UoM proposes shift system in colleges to cope with rush||The University of Mysore proposes to introduce shift system in colleges from the new academic year to cope with additional intake of students as the government has promoted all of them following cancellation of II PUC examination due to the pandemic. Vice-Chancellor Hemantha Kumar said that he will soon convene a meeting of all principals of colleges under the jurisdiction of the university and seek their approval or suggestions. There are 228 first grade colleges under the jurisdiction of the University of Mysore with an intake capacity of around 20,000 every year. But the number of students seeking admission for first year UG courses is expected to increase to nearly 30,000. Hence colleges will be given permission to enhance their intake by creating additional sections, said Prof. Hemantha Kumar. The issue will also come up in the meeting of all the Vice-Chancellors of the State scheduled to be held in due course and would be discussed there, he added. It is not possible to create new infrastructure at short notice and hence the only feasible way is to introduce shifts in the working of colleges, said Prof. Hemantha Kumar. “However, this will make it imperative for colleges to recruit additional teachers for which the government has to issue clearance.’ But this arrangement will only be for the batch seeking admission for the first year degree during the academic year 2021-22. The arrangement will be in vogue till the completion of 3 years which is the normal duration of the UG course. “We expect normalcy during next year and hence even the admission will be restricted to only those who clear the II PUC examination’’, said Prof. Hemantha Kumar. The new academic year will commence from October 1 as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, by when most of the entrance tests for admission to professional courses will be over. Meanwhile, the varsity is bracing for reopening of the colleges from Monday after a long gap. Though the educational institutions reopened after the first wave, the second wave disrupted the off-line classes. Prof. Hemantha Kumar said a majority of the students and staff of the varsity are already vaccinated and hence the off-line classes are expected to be near-normal.  Prof. Hemantha Kumar said a majority of the students and staff are already vaccinated and hence the off-line classes are expected to be near-normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-proposes-shift-system-in-colleges-to-cope-with-rush/article35518621.ece
25 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Online registration for free vaccination under COWIN-KAR||The process of online registration for free vaccination through COWIN-KAR software developed by the State government will begin on a pilot basis in Mysuru city from July 26. Under the project, persons need to register their names by either downloading the app from Google Playstore or by logging onto the website cowin.karnataka.gov.in. Based on the availability of vaccination doses, they will receive an SMS on their registered mobile numbers containing the date and time of their vaccination along with the government health facility’s name, said Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham in a press statement here. Option The persons will have the option to choose the date and the vaccine. The facility also offers the registered persons an opportunity to change the date of vaccination once. Unvaccinated people can register themselves on COWIN-KAR for the first dose and the persons, who had already received the first dose, can register themselves for the second dose. The facility is available only to residents of Mysuru city. First dose Meanwhile, Mr. Gautham, speaking at a meeting convened by Karnataka’s Upa Lokayukta B.S. Patil with the district administration officials, said 50 per cent of Mysuru district’s population had received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. A total of 17 lakh doses have been given in Mysuru district so far, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-registration-for-free-vaccination-under-cowin-kar/article35519001.ece
25 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MP asks MUDA to foot cost of drawing additional Kabini water||After the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) showed interest in supplying Kabini water to many of its layouts and those approved by it, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Friday told the MUDA to consider footing the cost of Rs. 134 crore for drawing an additional 120 MLD from the Kabini drinking water scheme for supply to most parts of Mysuru. The scheme was already supplying 60 MLD to parts of Mysuru and up to 180 MLD can be drawn under the project implemented at Bidaragod. Mr. Simha said the recent meeting at MUDA office, which was attended by Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj and Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, expressed its view that the MUDA’s responsibility was not just to create layouts and collect tax from the residents but also to provide basic facilities such as drinking water to its layouts and also those approved by it. In this connection, the MP suggested drawing more water from Kabini by upgrading the infrastructure at Bidaragod jackwell for broadening the supply. “I had told the meeting that an action plan in this regard was the need of the hour,” he said, in a statement here. Agreeing with the idea, the Ministers asked MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev and the MUDA engineers to conduct spot inspection of Bidaragod and take appropriate steps for drawing 180 MLD. Inspection Accordingly, the MUDA Chairman and others, including officials from the Mysuru City Corporation, the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the KPTCL, and the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation visited the Bidaragod jack well and discussed plans for drawing more water to the project. “It’s not possible to rely fully on supply from the KRS dam for meeting the drinking water needs of Mysuru. The alternative sources need to be harnessed. Pipelines for drawing up to 180 MLD have been laid at Bidaragod and already 60 MLD was being drawn,” the MP said. A sum of Rs. 134 crore would be required to pump additional 120 MLD and the MUDA has to foot the expenditure from its resources. If MUDA was facing paucity of funds, it can seek funds under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission. Mr. Simha suggested that MUDA put up the proposal in its next meeting and get approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-asks-muda-to-foot-cost-of-drawing-additional-kabini-water/article35518996.ece
25 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Release KRS water to irrigation canals: Minister||In the wake of heavy rains lashing the catchment areas of Cauvery in Kodagu and KRS reservoir receiving a good inflow during the last few days, Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C .Narayana Gowda has asked the Irrigation Department officials to begin releasing water to irrigation canals and facilitate farmers of the district to take up agricultural activity. While the irrigation authorities are already releasing water to Hemavathi canal, Mr. Gowda said the process of discharging water to Visvesvaraya Canal will also begin from Monday. The water level in KRS reservoir had crossed 106 ft. on Saturday against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 124.8 ft. The inflow had reached 35,000 cusecs on Saturday and the water level had increased by 2 ft. in the last 24 hours, said a statement from Mandya district administration. The discharge from KRS was presently 6,000 cusecs and the released water was flowing into Hemavathi canal. Even though Mandya district was known as the “sugar bowl” of Karnataka, the farmers grew more paddy than sugarcane. If sugarcane was grown on 40,000 hectares, paddy was cultivated on 60,000 hectares, the statement said. Mr. Gowda said the farmers of the region were looking forward to release of water into the irrigation canals to grow their crops. The Agricultural Department will make available paddy seeds at a subsidised rate from Wednesday, he said while adding that ragi was also grown in the district on 4,000 hectares of irrigated land. Pointing out that agricultural was the predominant occupation of people of Mandya, Mr. Gowda said the farmers of the region were completely dependent on water for growing their crops. For the last three successive years, KRS reservoir was reaching its full reservoir level, he said while appealing to the farmers against wasting water that is released through the irrigation canals. Kabini Meanwhile, irrigation authorities are discharging 30,000 cusecs of water from Kabini reservoir in Mysuru district in view of the good inflow into the reservoir following widespread rain in Wayanad region of Kerala. The water level in Kabini reached 2,280.28 ft. on Saturday against the full reservoir level of 2,284 ft. The inflow into the reservoir was 27,511 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/release-krs-water-to-irrigation-canals-minister/article35519000.ece
25 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru police to rope in more traffic wardens||The Mysuru City Police is enrolling more citizens as traffic wardens to assist the police in traffic management. The number of members in the Mysuru City Police Traffic Wardens’ Organisation has dropped and therefore the police on Friday urged those interested to visit the K.R. Traffic Police Station’s “Traffic Awareness Centre” on July 26 at 10.30 a.m. with requisite documents to get enrolled as traffic wardens. The documents include Aadhaar card, passport-size photograph and certificates authenticating candidates’ educational qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-police-to-rope-in-more-traffic-wardens/article35518997.ece
25 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Villages face flood threat||Villages downstream of the Basavasagar reservoir at Narayanpur in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district are facing a severe threat of flood owing to heavy outflow into the Krishna. According to Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL) sources, they have released 3.41 lakh cusecs into the Krishna, while the inflow was 3.3 lakh cusecs at 6 p.m. on Saturday. The present water level was 489.67 m as against the full reservoir level of 492.25 m. Owing to the swollen Krishna, the road connection between Raichur and Yadgir and Kalaburagi was disrupted after a bridge near Huvinadagi-Kollur got submerged. Villages in the Krishna basin [such as Anjula, Hirerayakumpi, Kippur, Karkihalli, Lingadalli, Mudagod, Parthapur and Madargol] are facing a possible threat of floods, according to officials. The bridge in Sheelahalli in Lingasugur taluk was submerged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villages-face-flood-threat/article35518826.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rescue operation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rescue-operation/article35518832.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Scion at school||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scion-at-school/article35518586.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Unique decoration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unique-decoration/article35518590.ece
25 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CPI(M) panel begins inquiry||A two-member panel appointed by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State committee to look into the complaints regarding the Assembly election campaign of the Left Democratic Front in Ambalappuzha has started its inquiry. The CPI(M) formed a panel comprising State secretariat members Elamaram Kareem and K.J. Thomas after the party received several complaints about electioneering in the constituency. On Saturday, CPI(M) State committee member and former minister G. Sudhakaran, Ambalappuzha MLA H. Salam, Ambalappuzha area committee secretary Omanakuttan, and leaders K. Prasad, D. Lakshmanan, appeared before the commission at the party district committee office and gave their statements. Although the party’s district leaders had levelled charges against Mr. Sudhakaran in connection with the campaigning the CPI(M) denied that the probe was aimed at any individual. Mr. Sudhakaran, who won from Ambalappuzha in 2006, 2011, and 2016, was denied a ticket in 2021. He has been accused of remaining inactive during the campaign of CPI(M) candidate Mr. Salam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-panel-begins-inquiry/article35518949.ece
25 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman nurse found dead in Cherthala||A 25-year-old female nurse was found dead at her sister’s house at Kadakkarappally near Cherthala on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Harikrishna of Kadakkarappally. The Pattanakkad police said that the victim's brother-in-law, Ratheesh, alias Unni (40), was taken into custody from a relative’s home at Chenganda in Cherthala. He went absconding after the death. The police said they suspected it was a case of murder. “We suspect that the victim was murdered. But the exact cause of the death could only be ascertained after the post-mortem examination,” said a police official. Eyewitnesses said that Harikrishna's body was found in the early hours with blood stains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-nurse-found-dead-in-cherthala/article35518940.ece
25 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ambergris worth Rs. 5 cr. seized||Forest Department officials have seized ambergris (grey amber) worth Rs. 5 crore in the market and arrested five persons from a resort at Munnar in connection with the seizure. The arrested include four Tamil Nadu natives and another person from Munnar. The arrest was made by a team led by Munnar range officer Hareendranath after receiving a tip-off that ambergris, a waxy solid substance secreted by sperm whales, brought from Tamil Nadu was being sold at the resort on Friday night. The arrested have been identified as Dindigul residents Murugan and Ravikumar, Theni resident Velmurugan, Periyakulam resident Sethu and Munnar Sevenmala resident Sethukumar. According to Hareendranath, an preliminary inquiry revealed that the ambergris was brought to Munnar as per the suggestion of one Murugan from the same place. More involved The department is probing how the accused got hold of the ambergris and how the item was smuggled to Munnar. More persons are suspected to be involved in the deal, added Mr. Hareendranath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambergris-seized-five-arrested/article35518904.ece
25 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Heavy rain lashes Idukki district||Heavy rain continued to lash Idukki district, with the water level rising in Idukki and Mullaperiyar dams on Saturday. The water level in the Idukki dam reached 2,367.44 ft on the day, while that of the Mullaperiyar dam on its upstream touched 134.50 ft. The maximum water level in Mullaperiyar is 142 ft. An official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, said that when the water level reaches 2,372.58 ft in the Idukki dam, a blue alert would be issued for the opening of shutters. The Central Water Commission has fixed the rule curve level in the Idukki dam at 2,380.58 ft till July 31. Landslips and roadblocks were widely reported in the district. The Munnar-Marayoor road was blocked when a portion of it caved in near the Periyavara bridge. Devikulam MLA S. Raja, who visited the spot, said that efforts were on to resume traffic on the route. Landslip hits traffic A major landslip was reported near the Munnar Government College, following which traffic was disrupted on the Munnar-Devikulam route. Munnar recorded high rainfall from July 1 to 23. The cumulative rainfall received so far this year is 98.8 cm, while it was 46.43 cm during the corresponding period last year. Large-scale vegetable cultivation in Vattavada and Kanthallur for harvesting during the Onam season was destroyed due to water-logging. Apart from garlic, vegetables including potato, beans and carrots were destroyed. The shutters of the Kallarkutty and the Malankara dams were opened following heavy rain. Search on for missing Meanwhile, the search for two persons missing in the Kulamavu dam while fishing continued for the third day on Saturday. Two scuba-diving teams under the fire and rescue services from Thodupuzha and Moolamattam units continued the search for the Mullakkanam residents Koyippurath Biju K.K. (38) and his brother Binu (36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-batters-idukki-wrecks-farms/article35518941.ece
25 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Riyas calls for preventive steps against pandemic||P.A. Mohamed Riyas, Minister for Tourism and Public Works, has directed the Health department officials to intensify preventive measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 cases in the wake of the increasing number of such cases in the district. Addressing an online meeting of senior officials of various departments to assess the pandemic situation in the district here on Saturday, Mr. Riyas said that ward level jagratha committees should be strengthened for preparing contact lists of COVID patients to contain further spread of the pandemic. COVID tests The number of COVID tests and enforcement activities should also be strengthened for the purpose, the Minister said. The third wave of the pandemic should be foreseen and the health care sector strengthened for the purpose, Mr. Riyas said. The ventilator and ICU facilities in hospitals should be prepared for meet any emergency and ensure the availability of oxygen in such situations, the Minister said. Mr. Riyas directed District Collector Adeela Abdulla to prepare a panel of paediatricians in the district and convene their meeting soon. Ms. Abdulla said more vaccination camps would be opened in flood-prone areas and Deputy Collectors concerned were directed to intensify the operations of the rapid response teams in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/riyas-calls-for-preventive-steps-against-pandemic/article35518885.ece
25 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Sister Lucy begins fast at convent||Sister Lucy Kalappura, who was expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC) recently, started a hunger strike at the Karakkamala convent, near Vellamunda, on Saturday evening demanding restoration of power supply to her room. Sister Lucy told media that some residents of the convent had destroyed the switchboard in her room two days ago. Though she had filed a written complaint at the Vellamunda police station on Friday, the police were yet to take up the case. She had approached the police personally on Saturday to solve the issue. But the police failed to find an amicable solution, Sister Lucy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sister-lucy-begins-fast-at-convent/article35518918.ece
25 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||SPCA files case against move to kill infected goats||The move to kill goats in a government goat farm at Konmeri in Kannur district to prevent the spread of Johne’s disease is facing stiff resistance from the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) and veterinarians. The SPCA has filed a case in the Kannur munsiff court against the Disease Investigating Officer and Department of Animal Husbandry, challenging the decision to kill the goats without even administering them vaccine and medication. Johne’s disease is an infectious wasting condition of cattle and other ruminants caused by Mycobacterium avium. The symptoms include weight loss and diarrhoea. The petitioner, P.C. Pradeep, secretary, SPCA, said the farm had more than 80 goats and the officials in charge of the farm had ordered the killing of at least 35 of them. He claimed that there were plans to kill another eight at Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram and more than 10 goats in Attappady. Vaccine available He said the officials were insisting on killing the goats though vaccine was available to treat the infected animals. The vaccination is preventive and therapeutic, the petitioner said. Last year, he said that 20 goats were killed by poisoning, which was unscientific and a cruel way to prevent disease spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spca-files-case-against-move-to-kill-infected-goats/article35518916.ece
25 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||‘Land survey in Kasaragod to be completed soon’||Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said that the survey of unsurveyed land in Kasaragod district will be completed soon and all lands registered. The Minister was responding to a question raised by MLAs at a meeting convened as part of the Vision & Mission project being implemented by the Revenue Department. Kasaragod district has the highest number of unsurveyed lands. The aim is to ensure documentation for such land. “The policy adopted by this government is to document all land”, he said.  Mr. Rajan also assured the MLAs that all necessary assistance would be given to make village offices in the district smarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-survey-in-kasaragod-to-be-completed-soon/article35518878.ece
25 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||TPR high in Njarakkal, Nayarambalam||Njarakkal and Nayarambalam grama panchayats in Ernakulam district continue to remain in the ‘D’ category (test positivity rate higher than 15%) based on the average TPR for the third consecutive week. Nine grama panchayats had figured in the category when the average weekly TPR was analysed last week. The results of the third week that came on July 21 showed that only Njarakkal and Nayarambalam figured in the ‘D’ category for the third consecutive week. The authorities of both the local bodies attributed the trend to reluctance on the part of the public to get tested. “We have come across people who fear that they would be forced to remain at home in quarantine for 10 to 17 days, if tested positive for the disease. They are reluctant to turn up at camps, claiming that they have no symptoms,” said T.T. Francis, president, Njarakkal panchayat. “Most people in Njarakkal are daily wagers. Their livelihood has already been affected by months of lockdown and consequent uncertainties. Many live in houses with just one bathroom which is shared by all family members, including COVID-19 patients,” he added. While Njarakkal and Nayarambalam remain in the ‘D’ category, Eloor Municipality have reduced TPR through concerted efforts. It is in the ‘B’ category (TPR between 5% and 10%), according to the latest assessment. Municipal Chairman A.D. Sujil said daily tests had been ramped up to contain the spread of the disease. “We conducted up to 200 tests on a daily basis. An intensive drive was held in industrial areas, and migrant workers were asked to get tested,” he added. Meanwhile, health officials said special awareness camps would be held in local bodies with high TPR for the last three weeks. Testing will be stepped up, besides ensuring vaccination of target population, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-high-in-njarakkal-nayarambalam/article35518914.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Regional store to be central point for vaccine supply||The regional vaccine store inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Kochi on Saturday will serve as the central point for distribution of vaccines to the five districts of Idukki, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, and Palakkad. The centre, spread across 5,500 sq.ft., was set up at a cost of Rs. 3.6 crore. It is located close to the primary health centre in Edappally. “The regional vaccine store has adequate capacity to store vaccines for the five districts. The facilities include two walk-in coolers and a workshop for maintenance of deep freezers and ice-lined refrigerators,” said Dr. Mathew Numpeli, District Programme Manager, National Health Mission.  Walk-in coolers The district vaccine store has been functioning at the Government General Hospital. It will be handed back to the hospital once the new regional store turns fully functional. The installation of the walk-in coolers at the regional store will be done by a central team from Hyderabad soon. In his inaugural address, Mr. Vijayan said that the Aardram Mission of the Health department was instrumental in initiating various development works in the sector. The elevation of various primary health centres in the State was also made possible through the mission projects, he said. The Chief Minister also inaugurated the upgradation of six primary health centres in the district to family health centres and care-wellness centres. The family welfare sub-centres in Thaikkavu, Pinarmunda, and Uliyannoor have been converted as wellness and care centres. The health centres at Kadavanthra and Mangattumukku have been elevated as family health centres.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurates the facility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/store-to-centralise-vaccine-supply/article35518911.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||In a first, PWD to come up with an architecture policy||The Public Works Department (PWD) is gearing up to ready an architecture policy to construct buildings and other infra that are climate-resilient, sustainable, and with better aesthetics, in keeping with the changing times. This comes in the wake of the overwhelming demand to have people-centric design which relates to regional architecture to make optimal use of space in government buildings and other public infra and to rely on materials that leave a low carbon footprint, it is learnt. “These aspects and making optimal use of air [through means like cross-ventilation] and natural light go a long way in furthering the cause of sustainability and utility, while borrowing elements from regional architecture will improve their aesthetics. This has the potential to change the entire construction ecosystem in the State. A clear policy will help change the general impression about government buildings and other infra, which could include anything from a bus-waiting shed to an office complex,” sources said. Already, many recently-built government buildings have gypsum and calcium silicate-based inner walls / partitions in the place of brick walls for interiors. They serve the purpose for two decades or so, following which interiors can be redesigned based on requirements of that time. Still, many government buildings, like the Revenue Tower in Kochi, have been receiving flak for inadequate parking space and alleged non-optimal use of space. A welcome move Explaining how a State PWD readying an architecture policy could probably be the first in the country, architect G. Shankar said, “So far, none cared for the Council of Architecture [COA], which was formed by an Act of Parliament in 1972. A sustainable policy will help focus on climate-related and other challenges that the country and the world are facing. Climate resilience is the need of the hour, since undesirable and untenable design and usage of construction materials are the primary reasons for unprecedented climate changes.” He added, “But decision makers must consult experts, since buildings are part of the environment we live in, and they must be in sync with the surroundings. Else, a calamity awaits us in the form of climate change-induced disasters.” It is good that the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board has begun insisting on GRIHA rating, which evaluates the environmental performance of a structure holistically over its entire life cycle, thus providing a definitive standard for what constitutes a ‘green building’, said Yacub Mohan George, a former PWD Deputy Chief Engineer. Care must be given for preventive maintenance of all buildings, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-a-first-pwd-to-come-up-with-an-architecture-policy/article35518897.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||West Kochi STP project remains a non-starter||The Rs. 166-crore state-of-the-art sewage treatment plant (STP) project that Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has envisaged near the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital to scientifically treat sewage from divisions 1 to 5 of the Kochi Corporation is in doldrums owing to stiff opposition from local residents. It is despite the unusually high prevalence of water- and air-borne diseases in the area spread over 2.70 sq.km. Over 42,000 people live in the densely populated area. Grey water and sullage from septic tanks and pits are discharged into roadside stormwater drains, resulting in slow-moving canals and sea, posing a public health hazard and degradation of environment. It is because West Kochi never had a piped sewerage and centralised treatment system. It was in such a perilous situation that a 6.5-million-litre-per-day (mld) treatment plan was mooted in a 45-cent vacant area, CSML sources said. “The proposal was to lay a 72-km-long pipeline to collect sewage from households and treat it at the STP which would bank on the widely proven sequential-batch reactor [SBR] technology. It would also have a well-maintained aerobic treatment system which makes good use of air that is pumped into the plant to prevent bad odour,” they added. The STP was to rely on a Dutch technology-based vacuum sewerage network, which is rather new in India where most cities have gravity sewer network. “The vacuum sewage system is ideal for West Kochi, which has a flat terrain and high water table and is densely populated. The sewage that gets collected from houses is vacuumed immediately, and it reaches the plant in less than a day. This is in contrast with the process taking days to reach conventional plants, by which time it gets difficult to treat, as the old sewage becomes septic,” the sources said. In addition, pipelines up to 25 cm diameter can be used as against one-metre-wide or bigger pipelines used in conventional systems. This is apart from the fact that maintaining SBR plants is much less expensive than conventional ones. Expressing concern at the opposition to the STP, Mayor M. Anilkumar said people opposed the venture despite attempts by people’s representatives, including himself, to convince them that it was in accordance with a new technology. Kalvathy division councillor T.K. Ashraf said people feared that the plant in a limited space would have an adverse fallout on the taluk hospital and schools nearby. “Similarly, a Rs. 200-crore STP, which was mooted under the JnNURM-KSUDP scheme in five acres of the GCDA land at Mundamveli, had to be abandoned after the land was filled and pipelines were laid in some areas in the wake of a few people moving the court citing threat to mangroves,” the councillor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/west-kochi-stp-project-remains-a-non-starter/article35518907.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for creating fake profile of ADGP||Two youths from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh were arrested by the Cyber Crime police station here on Saturday on the charge of creating a fake profile of Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Vijay Sakhare on Facebook and seeking money from those who were added to the friends’ list. Nisar, 22, and Mushtaq Khan, 32, were tracked down on the basis of the FB page details and Google Pay number. It turned out that Khan was the principal of a school and an associate of a nationalised bank. The two allegedly created bank accounts in the names of illiterate people and linked multiple phone numbers with the accounts. Khan also misused a biometric fingerprint scanner provided by the bank, the police said. 60 cell phones The modus operandi was to hack social media pages and bank accounts of people using phone connections taken on fake address proof. They had 60 cell phones and as many SIM cards, the police said. The probe team headed by District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju and assisted by Cyber Crime Station House Officer Arun K.S. tracked down the location of their SIM cards, phones, and IP addresses of devices. Encounters Chauki Bengal village in Mathura district has many such gangs who escape to the neighbouring Haryana during police raids. Road access to the area is tough, and there have been instances of encounters between the police and such gangs, police sources said.  The modus operandi was to hack social media pages and bank accounts of people using phone connections taken on fake address proof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-creating-fake-profile-of-adgp/article35518915.ece
25 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||State to see dip in cardamom production||Cardamom production in the State is likely to dip significantly this year with the crop cycle witnessing serious disruption due to the shortage of labour and heavy rain. COVID-19 curbs have resulted in shortage of hands to maintain cardamom holdings. While workers from north India are available, their lack of experience has been a problem. At the same time, those from Theni district in Tamil Nadu have been affected by restrictions, said Muthusami Murugan, head of the Cardamom Research Station at Pampadumpara of the Keala Agricultural University. He said around 10,000 workers moved in and out of cardamom plantations in the State on a daily basis. But restrictions on movement of people has affected garden maintenance activities that have to be completed in a regular cycle in keeping with the farming operations. Kerala has around 50,000 hectares under cardamom cultivation and the annual average production is around 20,000 tonnes. It is estimated that there are around 35,000 families, cultivating small holdings, accounting for more than 60% of the production while large and medium holdings account for the rest. Joseph Karukapally, a supplier of fertilisers in cardamom cultivation areas, said a disruption in cardamom auctions had resulted in some confusion over price levels. However, the auction system has now been restored. Dr. Murugan said there was a chance of production dipping this season with the disruption in cardamom plantation operations and maintenance. While shortage of labour supply was one reason, climatic conditions too affected operations. Cardamom is a shade-loving plant while the temperature is seen to be rising. Besides, heavy downpours affect the pollination of plants. Honeybees that help pollination appear to be unable to survive the heavy downpours now being experienced in the cardamom-growing areas, he added. T.D. Sabu, a farmer in Aanavilasam, near Kumili in Idukki district, said the steep rise in the price of labour had affected the operations of cardamom holdings. He said the average wages had gone up to Rs. 600 per day while the price of the best quality cardamom ranged between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 1,200. He said production could be down to 25% to 30% this year because of various factors, including climate impact, COVID-19 controls on labour movement and rise in the cost of labour. Fertiliser prices too had gone up. The price of complex fertilisers like NPK had climbed considerably, forcing farmers to curtail operations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-see-dip-in-cardamom-production/article35518903.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, Kitex gets an invite from Sri Lanka||Sri Lankan Deputy High Commissioner D. Venkateshwaran met the managing director of Kitex Garments, Sabu Jacob, in Kochi on Saturday to extend an invitation to the group to invest in the island country. A communication from the Kitex company said the Sri Lankan official spent about three hours at Kizhakkambalam, near Kochi, to hold discussions with Mr. Jacob. The communication said that the official offered all support for the Kerala-based company. Sri Lanka is one of the leading countries in Asia for garment exports. The Kitex group was recently in the news after what its managing director claimed was a series of inspections on its factory premises by Kerala government agencies. The company said it was withdrawing from plans to establish an apparel park as well as industrial parks in Kerala at a cost of Rs. 3,500 crore. Mr. Jacob was then invited by the Telangana government to invest in that State. Mr. Jacob had said that the Kitex group would invest Rs. 1,000 crore at the Kakatiya apparels park in Warangal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitex-gets-invite-from-sri-lanka/article35518905.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMTA proposes slew of green mobility corridors||The Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) has readied an action plan for the coming year, as part of which the urban mobility area will be extended beyond the Kochi Corporation limits, to a larger expanse comprising nine municipalities and 30 grama panchayats. The coming year will also see a scheme for entry of buses from Goshree islands into the city, rationalisation of bus routes under the Mobilise Your City programme of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MoHUA), development of green mobility corridors on Kodungalloor-Eramalloor (52 km), Poothotta-Angamaly via Seaport-Airport Road (48 km), Thoppumpady-M.G. Road-Thammanam-Kakkanad (25 km), Aluva-Angamaly (15 km) and Goshree-Munambam stretches, with extension to Paravur (30 km), KMTA sources said. Lane discipline The other shortlisted projects include adaptive signalling system at four junctions in Aluva and their integration with the control room (IC-4) of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), Keep Left campaign for two-wheelers and autos (on four-lane roads) to enhance safety and adherence to lane discipline, and development of ‘smart parking app’ as part of the Kochi Open Mobility Network (KOMN). A pilot initiative titled God’s Own Travel Card (an integrated travel and debit card), transit map, interactive static bus route map, and timetable too are on the cards. Steps will also be taken to install direction and signage boards wherever needed, the sources said. Low-carbon mobility Adequate number of professionals will be posted in the staff-starved KMTA, while planning tools will be readied for building technical capacity and self-reliance. It will enable the agency to fulfil the objectives of the Kerala Metropolitan Transport Authority Act, which includes preparation of a low-carbon comprehensive mobility plan (LCMP) using in-house capabilities, thus also building ‘institutional memory’. The KMTA will also establish an efficient communication channel between citizens and service providers for transparency. The action plan speaks of the formation of committees for operators, urban freight transit, city transport, traffic integration, integrated land use, and town planning. Simultaneously, ‘digitising of mobility’ will be upscaled beyond KOMN. For this, the agency will prepare India’s first ‘digitised LCMP’, a simple, scalable and updatable data-stack with no heavy literature or technical juggleries. It will be available for public consumption, besides facilitating data-driven decision making for transport operators and service providers, while identifying business opportunities in the transport sector. Dubai Expo The Dubai Expo has, in the meantime, expressed interest in KMTA representatives making a presentation on sustainable transport based on KOMN, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmta-proposes-slew-of-green-mobility-corridors/article35518899.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Women’s panel summons SHO||The State Women’s Commission has directed the SHO of Ernakulam North Police station to be present at its head office on July 29, for allegedly not taking follow-up action on a complaint filed three months ago by a newly-wed woman about assault and dowry harassment. The incident came to light after Jipson Peter of Pachalam allegedly attacked the woman and her father, who sustained a leg fracture in the assault, on Friday. Commission Member Shiji Shivaji visited them and took their statement on Saturday, on the basis of media reports. The apathy of the police was a cause of grave concern, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-summons-sho/article35518908.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA panel to probe death of transwoman||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) Kerala chapter has decided to appoint a four-member committee, headed by Dr. Roy Abraham Kallivayalil, to conduct a probe to identify the reasons that led to the incident where transwoman Anannyah Kumari Alex was found dead at her apartment in Edappally on Wednesday. The committee will comprise two psychiatrists and a senior plastic surgeon. This has been done to allay concerns among members of the transgender community over the incident, said Dr. P.T. Zacharias, IMA Kerala president. The alleged unhealed wounds in the transwoman’s body and medical causes that would have led to depression too would be probed by the committee, IMA sources said. Meanwhile, the police too have recommended the constitution of a medical board to probe the case, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-panel-to-probe-death-of-transwoman/article35518909.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 2,009 new cases||Ernakulam registered 2,009 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. As many as 1,956 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 44 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 10.09%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 30 included Thrikkakara (73), Thripunithura (71), Payipra (66), Maradu (48), Sreemoolanagaram (44), Edathala (42), Kothamangalam (39), Elankunnapuzha (37), Okkal (37), Koovappadi (36), Nellikkuzhi (36), Ayavana (35), Keezhmad (35), Pallippuram (35), and Karukutty (34). Some regions that reported fewer than five cases are Kuzhuppilli, Koothattukulam, Chalikkavattom, Thammanam, Pachalam, Panayappilli, Manjapra, Ayyampuzha, Chakkaraparambu, Pallarimangalam, Piravom, Edakkattuvayal, Elamkulam, Ayyappankavu, and Poothrika. Around 19,900 tests were conducted on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-2009-new-cases/article35518912.ece
25 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Anannyah died by hanging: autopsy report||The post-mortem report of transwoman Anannyah Kumari Alex, found dead on Wednesday at her apartment in Edappally, says she died by hanging, according to the Kalamassery police, who had registered a case of unnatural death. On unconfirmed reports that there were wounds on her body which could have been marks of an allegedly unsuccessful surgery done a year ago at a private hospital in the city, the police said such details need not find mention in the post- mortem report. The police team is set to gather details from the doctors who conducted the postmortem at Government Medical College here, they said. The body was handed over to members of the transgender community, following which it was kept for a while at the house of a community member, perceived as her adopted mother, at Aluva, before being taken to her native place at Peruman in Kollam. The post-mortem of Anannyah’s friend Jiju, a hairstylist from Thiruvananthapuram, who was found hanging at his rented house in Thykoodam on Friday, too was done at the same hospital on Saturday. He was reportedly living with Anannyah. (Suicide-prevention helpline number 0484-2540530.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anannyah-died-by-hanging-autopsy-report/article35518960.ece
25 July 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Kollam logs 1,458 new cases||Kollam district reported 1,458 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,413 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,454 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI, one person from another State and two health workers. Presently, the district has 29,699 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 18,69,286. While 2,030 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 3,04,778 primary and 18,706 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha Alappuzha district reported 986 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 7.87%. Of the fresh cases, 984 patients contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of two others remains unknown.  As many as 1,914 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative on the day. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 8,206. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam district, with 760 persons testing positive for the disease on the day. Of the new cases, 755 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR also stood on the higher side, at 9.11%. With 105 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kaduthuruthy, which recorded 34 cases. As many as 684 persons recovered from the disease on the day, bringing down the total active cases in the district to 6,650. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 485 persons tested positive for the disease on the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission, while the contact source of five cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 7.9% in the district. The disease, meanwhile, claimed four more lives in the district. With 405 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta presently has 4,959 active cases.  (with inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-logs-1458-new-cases/article35518945.ece
25 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kuriyottumala set to be farm tourism spot||Ruffles of green rising in soft waves, arcs of red mud and round rocky hillocks - the 106-acre hi-tech dairy farm at Kuriyottumala is all set to become a major farm tourism destination in South India. Started as a buffalo breeding farm in the 1960s, the government facility went for a modern makeover in 2017 with a range of native cattle breeds and automated amenities. As part of the tourism project, the farm will soon welcome miniature horses, camels and various flightless birds while a string of cottages will be built for the visitors to stay. The latest addition to the farm is a flock of six ostriches while cages are being built for emu and rhea. Verdant landscape “More than half of the farm has been lying underutilised and the verdant landscape has huge tourism potential. The idea is to provide a hands-on farm experience and offer recreational and educational tours,” says Dr.C.S.Jayakumar, farm Superintendent. Since the farm mainly targets students, a children’s park and a handful of life-size sculptures will come up in the first phase. “The sculptures including cow-and-calf, elephant, bison and ostrich will be installed in various spots. We have identified the site for cottages that will give a picturesque view of the farm along with outdoor recreation,” says K.Prasad, District panchayat secretary. Tiled walkways While cow sheds will have tiled walkways for the visitors, the farm will also offer provisions for boating and riding. In sync with the theme, an assortment of fodder grass varieties will be cultivated in the farm for agri students. “In the next level we are planning to add ornamental birds like macaws,” he adds. Animal museum Another highlight of the farm will be a solid domestic animal museum, perhaps a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country that will be added during the last phase. “The museum will feature models of different domestic animal breeds and their description. Around 200 display units will come up in the museum and we also have plans to exhibit animal skeletons and taxidermy replicas. The service of trained guides will also be made available,” says Dr.Jayakumar. The farm will be completed in a phased manner and the district panchayat has made special allocations for the tourism project. “By December the first phase of the project will be over and the farm will be ready to welcome visitors from 2022 beginning,” says Mr.Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eyeing-riches-from-farm-tourism/article35518895.ece
25 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports first Zika case||Kollam district has reported its first case of Zika virus in a 30-year-old woman from Nedumbana. The patient has been working in Thiruvananthapuram. After confirming the mosquito-borne viral infection, the Health Department has intensified preventive measures in the area. "Fogging and spraying will be conducted and the area will be closely monitored for a month," said District Medical Officer Dr. R. Sreelatha. The house of the patient and nearby 100 houses were visited by health workers on Saturday and medicated mosquito nets were distributed. "Source eradication measures will be strengthened across the district and special attention will be given to places that reported high mosquito density that include Kollam Corporation, Mynagappally, Anchal, Ayoor, Edamulakkal and Thazhava," she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-first-zika-case/article35518942.ece
25 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Digital facility for classes for all: Minister||Digital equipment required for online education will be made available to all students, said Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal here on Saturday. Inaugurating the construction of the new building at Government P.V. Higher Secondary School, Perumkulam, the Minister said that the government had been making all possible investments in the general education sector despite financial constraints. Mylam panchayat president Bindu. G. Nath presided over the function and former MLA P. Aisha Potty delivered the keynote address on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-facility-for-classes-for-all-minister/article35518943.ece
25 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Peruvanmadu canal restored to past glory||From being a stinking garbage dump a few years ago, the Peruvanmadu canal in Feroke municipality is now a clean and free flowing waterbody, complete with sidewalls. Over the last two years, the canal underwent a complete makeover through the combined efforts of the Haritha Keralam Mission and the Feroke municipality besides the Suchitwa Mission, the Irrigation Department, various environmental organisations, schoolchildren and the local people. The Peruvanmadu canal, which borders Divisions 38 and 1 of Feroke municipality, is around 600 metres long, 3.5 metres wide, and 4.5 metres deep. The century-old canal was constructed to support the coir industry, but it became defunct when the industry crumbled and the local people changed vocation. Later, it became a garbage dump and the flow of water stopped when the entrance and exit got blocked with silt from the Chaliyar river. The dirty water accumulated in parts of the canal made it the perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes and other insects, affecting the general health of the residents on the banks. “We could not walk on the banks of that canal without covering our noses,” said P. Prakashan, district coordinator of the Haritha Keralam Mission, recalling his first visit to the area. When the Haritha Keralam Mission took up the renovation of the canal as part of the launch of its project ‘Ellavarum Jalashayangalilekku” (Everyone to waterbodies) in November 2018, there was opposition, especially from a section of the local people who wanted it filled as it was of no use to them. But the officials, with the help of local ward councillors Afsal and Suhrabi, convinced them about the restoration. The work started in December that year. “It had become a necessity of the locality. The local people were ready with manpower while even expatriates contributed to the fund,” said Mr. Prakashan. Once the silt and shrubbery were cleared using advanced machines, the flow of water in the canal was restored by the end of the month. In 2019-20, the Feroke municipality put up fiber nets on both ends of the canal to prevent garbage and silt entering it. Stock pits were set up in every house on the banks to prevent dirt flowing into the canal from the houses. In 2020, the sidewalls were built with the help of the Irrigation Department using a grant from the 15th Finance Commission. The Feroke municipality is now assessing the possibilities of using the canal for pisciculture and tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peruvanmadu-canal-restored-to-past-glory/article35518875.ece
25 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Alert against infection in kids, 2,252 fresh cases in Kozhikode||Health workers in Kozhikode have been alerted against possible SARS-CoV-2 infection in children even as the district recorded 2,252 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the active case pool above 20,000 again. At an online meeting attended by Forests Minister A.K. Saseendran and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, it was pointed out that there was a possibility of the virus infecting children aged up to 18. Many of them were found to be getting infected from home from those already affected. Mr. Saseendran suggested shifting infected elder persons to other facilities to protect children. Mr. Riyas said a panel of paediatricians should be formed to coordinate the treatment of COVID-19 cases among children. He also called for strict enforcement of pandemic protocols in areas with a low test positivity rate (TPR) and combined efforts to thwart a third wave of the infection. Domiciliary care centres District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy said that infected persons who did not have quarantine facility at home were being shifted to domiciliary care centres. Local bodies that do not have such centres had been asked to set them up as early as possible. It has been decided to conduct COVID-19 tests on all those who seek treatment at private health clinics in the district. Contact tracing will be intensified in all local bodies. All those who seek outpatient treatment in hospitals too will be examined. People who violate home quarantine will be shifted to care centres. Disinfection will be carried out in public places such as markets. Mr. Reddy said the construction of oxygen plants at the Government Medical College Hospital and the Government General Hospital would be fast-tracked to avoid possible oxygen shortage. Vaccination  S. Harikishore, special COVID officer for the district, said Kozhikode had 150 vaccination centres, and steps should be taken to make vaccines available there. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that 2,233 of the fresh cases reported on Saturday were due to local transmission of the infection. The source of 16 others was not known. A daily TPR of 14.33% was recorded when 16,079 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 387 locally acquired infections, Koyilandy 62, Kunnamangalam 59, Kakkodi 57, Perumanna 56, Puthuppady 55, Koduvally 53, and Unnikulam 52. As many as 1,348 people recovered from the infection, and the active caseload of the district is now 20,676.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-against-infection-in-kids-2252-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article35518888.ece
25 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Brothers launch start-up to help handloom sector||While the pandemic situation has snatched away the opportunities of businesses, local entrepreneurs with better awareness of the possibilities of e-commerce have put themselves up there. But most others are still left in the lurch. “Kodimund.com” is a startup company founded by three brothers from Vadakara in Kozhikode, in an effort to take the handloom sector in the State to more clients through e-commerce. Kodimund.com arose out of several rounds of discussion among Vishnu, Vijith, and Vineeth, sons of Vadakkettil Vijayan of Azhiyur. Vishnu started his company Codebudha Technologies in Bengaluru four years ago while Vineeth is in Germany, and Vijith is in Dubai. They started planning for Kodimund during the early days of the lockdown in 2020 and realised it just a week ago. “I noticed that most Malayalis, who live outside Kerala, have a special place for traditional dress in their minds. They often buy it through e-commerce sites and lament about their poor quality. When they asked me a few times where I got my dhotis from, I knew there was a business opportunity there”, said Mr. Vishu, who is handling the whole business at present. Kodimund started with products from Kerala Handloom Weavers’ Industrial Cooperative Society at Chombala in Kozhikode district. The website features all kinds of handloom products. The company plans to expand soon by including products from more weavers’ societies across north Kerala. “We are mainly targeting expatriates and are relying mostly on digital marketing to reach out to them. With Onam approaching, the venture may be well accepted”, Mr. Vishnu said. The weavers were finding it hard to sell their products off, especially during the pandemic, and Kodimund came out as an unexpected platform for them to reach out to buyers outside the State. Kodimund is also notable for the presentation of each product. Every product ones purchases will be accompanied by a tag featuring the weaver who made it, the hours spent on it and the hard work behind it. “A lot of people believe that handloom is too costly, at the same time appreciate its quality. It is high time we realise that quality comes at a higher price”, Mr. Vishnu said. Kodimund has several options for the clients, including customised gifting and corporate offers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brothers-launch-start-up-to-help-handloom-sector/article35518880.ece
25 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police bid to restrict movement of unvaccinated people draws flak||Attempts by the police to stop unvaccinated people from entering public places have kindled widespread protest in different parts of Kozhikode district. There were reportedly moves on the part of the police to send unvaccinated people back home, with the claim that it was the new regulation declared by the State government to control the pandemic. Various welfare organisations and trade unions that protested against the action said such steps could be taken only after ensuring proper vaccination opportunities for all. Slots were not available on the official CoWIN portal for booking, which should be addressed at first before introducing such measures, they added. “I have been trying to get vaccinated since the launch of the CoWIN portal. Many of my co-workers are also experiencing the same hurdle,” said K. Shelly, an autorickshaw driver from Elathur. He said the move to restrict unvaccinated drivers from operating services had added to their worries amid the pandemic-induced financial crisis. Private hospitals According to the leaders of various farmers’ organisations, the regulation would only benefit private hospitals that were cashing in on the sale of vaccines. Those who were awaiting free slots would be forced to rush to private hospitals for paid vaccines fearing the threat of social isolation, they added. In Koduvally municipality, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) workers have been campaigning against a voice message reportedly circulated by the local police against the entry of unvaccinated people into public places. They said the police could not resort to such unilateral actions when people were running pillar to post for the vaccine. “Similarly, insisting that people undergo COVID-19 tests every two weeks is also not a practical option. The government will have to ensure vaccines for all and then think of such extreme controlling measures in containment zones,” said P.V. Bava, a local voluntary organisation member from Koduvally. He said the new rules, if implemented, would mainly affect the lower income groups. Responding to the complaints, Health Department officials said it was only one of the proposals made to reduce the massive spread of the pandemic in areas where the test positivity rate was very high. There was no move to forcibly implement the proposal, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-bid-to-restrict-movement-of-unvaccinated-people-draws-flak/article35518892.ece
25 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity launches four integrated PG courses||The University of Calicut is offering four integrated five-year-postgraduate courses on its campus from this academic year. Those eyeing research studies could benefit from them. According to sources, the university will hold entrance exams to MSc in Chemistry, Physics, and Bio-Science and MA in Development Studies in August. Classes are expected to begin in September. Those who have cleared Plus Two exams can apply. First time Integrated courses are being launched for the first time on the campus. The PG course in Bio-Science has 20 seats and is modelled on a similar course run by Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research. Biology is the main subject and physics, chemistry, and maths are allied subjects. Functional English is also part of the syllabus. The course needs to be continued for the whole five years and students can’t drop out after three years. Course coordinator V.M. Kannan said that the students would get to do research in eminent institutions in the country in the final year of the course. Number of seats  The PG courses in chemistry and physics would be under the School of Physical Sciences and they would have 15 seats each. They would be new generation courses and have a syllabus different from the traditional BSc and MSc courses. Students from any stream in Plus Two can apply for the PG course in Development Studies, which would have 30 seats. The subjects to be covered are economics, sociology, political science, and history, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-launches-4-integrated-pg-courses/article35518881.ece
25 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Action sought against Forest officer||The leaders of the Kerala Karshaka Union have sought the removal of a senior Forest Department officer from the Thamarassery Range office, who was recently convicted in a case related to the custody torture of a settler farmer. The union leaders said it was unfair to allow the officer to enjoy uninterrupted service without any department-level action. “The officer was convicted for beating up a poor farmer in his office. It was found to be a grave incident, and the farmer is in a critical condition,” said Johnson Kulathinkal, general secretary of the union. He alleged that the officer’s move to continue in the same position was a challenge to the whole legal system. A few days ago, the union and a few other organisations had honoured a lawyer who took up the case for the farmer who was reportedly arraigned in a fake poaching case. The main complaint of the victim was that he was taken to the Forest office for the “cruel torture” after he surrendered in court. At the time of the incident, the farmer was 65 years old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought-against-forest-officer/article35518891.ece
25 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Illegal phone exchange: CB gets custody of suspect||The District Crime Branch team investigating the parallel telephone exchange case has secured the custody of prime suspect P. Ibrahim, who was earlier convicted in an illegal telephone exchange case in Bengaluru. The Malappuram native was brought to the city from the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru as part of the follow-up investigation on Saturday. Crime Branch sources said Ibrahim was the key accused in the Bengaluru case that exposed illegal communication between Pakistan-based intelligence operatives and Indians. The main purpose behind the Bengaluru parallel telephone exchange was to elicit confidential information related to military installations in India, they said. Ibrahim will be interrogated by various squads for information. According to Crime Branch officials, Ibrahim’s custody was sought following preliminary findings that he had close relations with those who operated the illegal network in Kozhikode. Though only one person had been arrested so far in the case, he had reportedly revealed details of persons who had major stakes in the covert business, they said. The Crime Branch team from Kozhikode had sought the support of the Bengaluru police after tracing the suspected involvement of some of the convicted persons in similar cases in Karnataka. The case was taken over by the Crime Branch as the preliminary investigation reports indicated the possibility of extremists misusing the network. Along with the Bengaluru police, the hi-tech crime inquiry cell supported by the Kerala Police Cyberdome will assist the follow-up investigation into the case. It was on July 1 that the City Police conducted flash searches in multiple locations and exposed the operation of eight parallel telephone exchanges in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-phone-exchange-cb-gets-custody-of-suspect/article35518886.ece
25 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Case against academy for violating protocol||Cases have been registered against over 50 persons at Pullurampara in Kozhikode district for violating the pandemic protocol by organising a torchlight march to mark the beginning of the Olympics in Tokyo. The event organised by the Malabar Sports Academy based in Pullurampara was held on Friday morning. The sectoral magistrate was informed that many children too were present at the venue. The Station House Officer attached to the Thiruvambady police station was alerted about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-academy-for-violating-protocol/article35518889.ece
25 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CM throws open rebuilt Vazhakkad FHC||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday threw open the Family Health Centre (FHC) of Vazhakkad that was rebuilt after the floods of 2018 had ruined it. The FHC was reconstructed by the UAE-based VPS Healthcare group headed by Shamsheer Vayalil at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Arguably the largest in the country with modern facilities, including an open gymnasium and children’s play area, the FHC was tipped as a model not only for the State but for the entire country. Modern technology  From ruins, the FHC underwent a complete makeover using modern design and technology developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras. The FHC in 13,700 sq.ft. has an advanced laboratory and a modern imaging department. It has 15 oxygen concentrators and a stabilisation unit to attend to patients suffering from low oxygen saturation. The FHC has an emergency room, a mini operation theatre, doctors’ consulting rooms, a nurses’ station, a medical store, a vaccine store, a sample collection centre, vision and dental clinics, a special zone for mother and child, pregnant women and the elderly. The second floor has a conference hall, apart from administrative offices. T.V. Ibrahim, MLA, presided over the function. Minister for Health Veena George, Minister for Local Self Government and Excise M.V. Govindan, Minister for Sports V. Abdurahiman, Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan, Parliament Members E.T. Mohammed Basheer, M.P. Abdussamad Samadani and Elamaram Kareem, Lulu Group chairman M.A. Yusuff Ali, and Vazhakkad panchayat president Abdurahman Malayil addressed the function conducted partly online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-throws-open-rebuilt-fhc/article35518883.ece
25 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala spiritual circuit project set to resume||The uncertainties over fund allocation notwithstanding, the long-stalled Sabarimala spiritual circuit project is set to resume after a gap of three years. According to officials, the project has gathered momentum with the High-Power Committee for Sabarimala, which supervises its implementation, set to award the remaining works within two weeks. The works to be taken up in this phase include installation of granite treads along the traditional trekking route and demolition of dilapidated buildings at the Sannidhanam to ensure free flow of devotees, among others. The Rs. 99.98 crore Central project, initiated under the Swadesh Darshan scheme of the Union Tourism Ministry, took off in 2016-19 with the State getting Rs. 19.99 crore as the first tranche. Though the authorities completed a host of works, including an information centre at Erumeli, the project came to a halt during the floods of 2018. “Of the first tranche, a substantial amount has already been spent on different projects while the remaining amount will be utilised at this stage. As to the allocation of the remaining amount, a letter has been sent to the Centre seeking to extend the time line for completing the project and a response is awaited,” said former judge of Kerala High Court S. Siri Jagan, who is the committee chairman. Floods, pandemic He attributed the delay in resumption of works to the pandemic that followed the mega floods. “A couple of meetings were held during this period but the work did not really take-off owing to the practical difficulties involved in reviewing the works and issuing directives to the contractor,” he added.  Meanwhile, official sources pointed out the need to rework the detailed project report prepared by a private consultant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-spiritual-circuit-project-set-to-resume/article35518917.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City students score high in ICSE/ISC streams||Students in city schools continued to secure top grades in the Class X (ICSE) and Class XII (ISC) results declared by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. St. Thomas Residential School, Mukkolakkal, achieved 100% success in both the ICSE and ISC results. In Class XII (ISC), all 104 students in the Science stream secured distinction. Aaron Jacob, Aleena Mary George, Hrishikesh M.V., Hridya R. Nair, M. Keerthi Vasan, Megha Sooryan, and Debasmitha Dash topped with 99.5% marks. Aparna Murukesan with 99.25% marks and Sharon R. with 99% marks followed. In the Commerce stream, all 39 students secured distinction. Krishna M.S. secured the first position with 97.25% marks, Michelle Teddy Fernandez was second with 95.75%, and Ilfa Sajjad Sait third with 95% marks. In Class X (ICSE), all 212 students secured distinction. Deepanshi Agarwal and Vivek S. secured the first position with 98%. Parvathi Krishna, Ishaan Sunil, Kalyani Thampi, and Muhsina Fathima A. followed with 97.8% marks. Toppers Aravind N.R., Liya Sara Abraham, Zeba M. Ziyad, Bhavya R.P., Kalyani Unnikrishnan, and Shreya Krishnan secured 97.6% marks. Trivandrum International School registered 100% first class in the ICSE results. As many as 62.5% of the students secured distinction. Amil Suni Mathew topped the school with 93.8% marks. Loyola School, Sreekaryam, achieved 100% distinction in both ICSE and ISC results. In Class XII, all 47 students had distinction. Nandu S. Pillai, Niranjan Anil, and Adlu Rehman secured 99.25% marks to top the school. Distinction In Class X, all 88 students had distinction. Vishwa Kalyan Reddy took the first position with a score of 97.2%. Students of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, secured 100% pass in Class X and Class XII. In Class X, 184 out of 185 students students secured distinction. Sharon Mirium Rinu was the top scorer with 97.2 % marks. In Class XII, 98 of the 99 students got distinction. Sneha Biju Smitha was in first position with 98.25% marks. At L’ecole Chempaka, Edavacode, all 64 students attained distinction. In Science, Jyotsna Rajalakshmi Nair and Prajna Rajalakshmi Nair topped with 99.25% marks. Sooraj A.P. was in second position with 99% marks, followed by Rahul Samuel Anilal amd Sanjana Manoj nair with 98.5% marks. In Commerce, Ahzan Hussain and P.B. Ananya Krishna bagged the top spot with 96% marks, followed by Saniya Sunil Jacob with 95.75% marks and Aleen Mohamed Nazim with 95.5% marks. In Humanities, Laavanya R. Nair secured the top spot with 98.25%. Humanities Vyshnav Rajnath with 97.25% was in second position, and Amrapali S. Kunnel and Nanditha Anil shared the third spot with 96.5%. In the ICSE examinations, all 123 students attained distinction. Roshan Binoj and Janaki Rajeev shared the top spot with 97.8% marks. Malavika N. and Naina Edwin shared the second position with 97.6%, followed by Akshita Harikrishnan Menon, Radha G. Nair, Sreya V. Pillai, Niya San Mariya and Shreya Sarvan with 97.4%. At Christ Nagar Higher Secondary School, 112 of the 113 students secured distinction and one first class in Class XII. Donel Chacko Baby, Govind G.S., and Abhinav Viju Pillai shared the top position with 99.5% marks. The second spot in the screening was secured by Gayatri Sreeraj and Sri Hari S. with 99.25%, and Saniya Teresa Sandeep followed with 98.75%. Class X In Class X, David Ninan Varghese, Keshav Ranjith, Nikhil Raj N.S. topped with 97.8%. Unnikrishnan V.S., Shankar Ramaseshan N.R., and Gowri R. Nair followed with 97.6% marks. The third spot went to Amritha Shaji Edamaruku, Bhadra Nair U.B., Karthik S. Menon, Leah Mary Jacob, Dhanishta Prasad, Abhinav P. Raj, and Abish Mangal S.B. with 97.4% marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-students-score-high-in-icseisc-streams/article35519064.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State poised to extend restrictions||The State government appeared to signal on Saturday that the virulence of the COVID-19 Delta variant might constrain it to further extend the partial lockdown in place in Kerala. As a precursor of possible tightening of restrictions, the administration has slashed the attendance in government offices even in relatively low and medium spread localities to 50% (A and B category). Deploying govt. staff It has placed the rest of the workforce under the command of District Collectors to deploy for COVID-19 prevention activities. In high spread localities (Category C), government offices would not allow more than 25% of employees to report for work. The order applied to PSUs, quasi-government undertakings, commissions and State-run companies. The supervisors should put the non-working employees on standby for COVID-19 duty. The district administration would clamp down on non-essential activity in critical spread areas (above 15% average test positivity rate). It will demarcate hotspots as micro-containment zones and impose total lockdown with access only to essential services. The police would ensure that people remain sequestered at home in such zones. They would allow ingress and egress to hotspots only through a single route.  In Malappuram The government has imposed total lockdown in several local bodies in Malappuram, which reported a high average TPR of 17%. An official said weekend lockdown would continue till the TPR plummeted and reached the safety threshold of less than 3%. So would other restrictions, including the mask mandate, physical distancing, the ban on indoor dining, access to cultural venues, stadiums, shopping malls, sporting turfs. He said the TPR was above 10% in 11 districts. The government hoped to achieve a semblance of herd immunity in 90 days by ramping up vaccination and testing. The TPR was above 15% in at least 271 LSGI jurisdictions. The restrictions on retail would continue. Non-essential shops and automobile workshops would open only on alternate days on weekdays. The government has allowed bars and liquor outlets to open from 9 a.m. till 8 p.m. to mitigate crowding.  Weekend lockdown to continue till the TPR reaches the safety threshold of less than 3%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-poised-to-extend-restrictions/article35518955.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala administers record 4.5 lakh doses in a day||Kerala administered a record number of 4.5 lakh plus doses of COVID-19 vaccine—4,53,339 doses to be exact—on a single day on Saturday. However, the State has just two lakh vaccine doses more in stock, including the small consignment of 38,860 doses of Covaxin it received on Saturday. This means that there will not be sufficient stock to meet Sunday’s vaccination requirement. Unless the Centre despatched more stocks for the State immediately, vaccination drive in the State could be compromised, a statement issued by Health Minister Veena George said on Saturday. Ms. George said that the allegations that the State was hoarding 10 lakh vaccine doses was thus falling flat. Kerala was distributing vaccines most efficiently and much better than the national average. First dose The State administered 100% first dose vaccines to healthcare workers and front line workers. This week alone, 16 lakh doses were administered to people. On Saturday, 1,522 vaccination centres functioned, including 1,380 sites in the public sector and 142 sites in the private sector. Kannur district administered the maximum doses of 59,374, followed by Thrissur district (53,841) and Kottayam (51,276). Kerala has so far administered 1,28,23,869 first doses and 55,66,104 second doses. Population-wise, 38.39% has received the first dose and 16.66% the second dose in the state. Above 18 years, 53.43% had received the first dose and 23.19%, the second dose, which was far ahead of the national average, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-administers-record-45-lakh-doses-in-a-day/article35519060.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID-free, hale and hearty after 44 days on ECMO||A seriously ill COVID patient from the district has been treated and brought back to life by employing Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO)—a procedure that oxygenates a patient’s blood outside the body—for 44 days at the KIMS HEALTH hospital here, a press release issued by the hospital has said. The 38-year-old engineer, who was on home quarantine after turning COVID-19 positive, was advised through tele consultation to come to the hospital after his oxygen saturation dropped suddenly. The initial treatment was supervised by the hospital COVID team. The patient was given oxygen support and moved to the multidisciplinary ICU. He was then put on ventilator, as his condition worsened after he developed pneumonia and his lung function dropped. The ECMO procedure was started under the supervision of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery Senior Consultant and Department Head Shaji Palangandan. ECMO was employed for providing prolonged cardiac and respiratory support to persons whose heart and lungs were unable to provide an adequate amount of oxygen exchange or perfusion to sustain life, said Dr. Palangadan. However, through the continuous use of the machine, its oxygenator would lose efficacy after 21 days and would have to be replaced. “The challenge was to replace the oxygenator in a matter of 24 seconds, which was done successfully. There is also the chance of blood clotting as a result of the continuous flow of blood into the ECMO machine from the patient,” Dr. Palangandan said. Because of the continuous blood flow through the ECMO machine, the patient developed infections, which were successfully treated. Thereafter, the patient’s health improved and he was weaned away from the ECMO machine and the ventilator. He left the hospital hale and hearty after 44 days on the ECMO machine. The money for the treatment had been raised through insurance and other funding sources.  ECMO is employed for cardiac and respiratory support to persons whose heart and lungs were unable to provide adequate oxygen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-free-hale-and-hearty-after-44-days-on-ecmo/article35519061.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fears of another spike as 1,107 new cases emerge||Sparking fears of yet another spike, the COVID-19 caseload continued to rise unabated as 1,107 cases were recorded on Saturday. While 856 people recovered from the illness, the active cases count stood at 10,873. A test positivity rate of 8.5% was also registered. A total of 30,390 people were placed in quarantine in the district as part of the pandemic management efforts. The death toll rose to 3,172 with 17 more deaths being attributed to COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram district. 20-lakh milestone The district’s COVID-19 vaccination drive crossed another milestone with 20,86,755 doses of the vaccine being distributed. While 14,54,219 people have received the first dose, as many as 6,32,536 people have been provided both jabs, according to official statistics. District Collector Navjot Khosa said special drives were being undertaken to ensure bedridden patients, those residing in remote tribal settlements and old-age homes, migrant labourers, transgender people, and pregnant women, were inoculated. The district administration has undertaken a Santhwana Suraksha scheme to ensure vaccination coverage among bedridden patients. Vaccine was being provided to such sections in their houses. Among the 28,892 people who have registered for palliative care, 15,137 people have received the vaccine. A total of 11,097 tribal people have received the first COVID-19 vaccine dose under the Sahya Suraksha scheme. While all inmates of the 68 old-age homes in the district have received the first dose, the second one was being administered currently. As many as 843 out of the total 1,340 children in 38 BUDS schools have also received the vaccine. While 56 out of the 160 transgender people in the district have been received the first dose thus far, the district health officials have been able to inoculate 619 migrant workers too. Under the Mathrukavacham programme to vaccinate pregnant women, 1,245 women have been administered the first dose. Quarantine violation The City police charged provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and Kerala Public Health Act against four COVID-19-infected people who violated quarantine norms and left their homes. Two cases were registered in the Fort police stations, while there were one each in Karamana and Poonthura police station limits. The police initiated legal measures against 593 people until 4 p.m. on Saturday. Among them, 107 people were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 93,000 was collected from 177 people who failed to wear masks outdoor and nine others who violated physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fears-of-another-spike-as-1107-new-cases-emerge/article35519066.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Staff crunch hits beneficiary selection in SC projects||With embezzlement of funds meant for various beneficiaries under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation office getting exposed recently, the civic body had decided to take control of the beneficiary selection process with scrutiny through grama sabhas, similar to the other welfare projects. Till now, the entire process was done by the SC promoters and the SC development officers. But, the SC development wing at the Corporation is beset with staff shortage, despite the amount of work and the number of projects they are expected to handle. Even though the sanctioned posts are already lesser than the required numbers, there are not enough staff to fill these too. Two promoters Out of the five sanctioned SC promoter posts, there are only two promoters here now. There is only one SC development officer in place of the sanctioned number of two. The number of clerks is also very low at two. The fund embezzlement here was allegedly done by a clerk and an SC promoter, against whom a probe is ongoing. “The capital city has an SC population of around 96,000 and an ST population of around 1,400, which is around 10% of the total population. This is much higher than the entire SC/ST population in some districts. From the SC Development department, we get funds of more than Rs. 14 crore annually, while the Corporation’s annual plan has around Rs. 37 crore in SC/ST-related projects. The SC promoters were the ones who used to identify beneficiaries in all the projects with individual beneficiaries, which were then approved by the SC development officer. But, with the few number of people to work on the ground, it is almost impossible to make these projects to reach deserving beneficiaries,” says a Corporation official. The SC promoters are meant to identify the ones who are deprived in different ways, help them fill the required documents so that they get the benefits. But, with just five such sanctioned posts for 100 wards, and just two out of that filled at present, this process do not happen at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/staff-shortage-hampers-selection-in-sc-projects/article35518947.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district may get heavy rainfall||The district administration has advised the public to remain alert as the district has been out on yellow alert on Sunday, given the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. The public should cooperate with government officials if the need would arise for evacuation and rehabilitation, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Ms. Khosa also urged coastal communities to remain alert against coastal erosion. Fishers Fishers have been asked to keep their equipment and work items safe. COVID-19 protocols should be strictly observed in relief camps, the District Collector said. The IMD has also warned fishers against venturing into the sea, as strong winds are likely along the Kerala coast till Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-may-get-heavy-rainfall/article35519073.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case graph on a steady climb||The State’s COVID-19 case graph climbed on Saturday to register 18,531 cases when 1,55,568 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. As the denominator (the number of people being tested) increased, the test positivity rate (TPR) came down from 13.63% on Friday to 11.91% on Saturday. The State’s active case pool is also rising steeply and has 1,38,124 patients. The number of recoveries was 15,507. The official cumulative COVID-19 fatality now stands at 15,969, with the State adding recent 98 deaths to the official list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,207. The figure has remained around 2,200-2,400 for the past several weeks. ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients was 1,912, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support dipped from 744 to 726. In districts Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,816, Thrissur 2,498, Kozhikode 2,252, Ernakulam 2,009, Palakkad 1,624, Kollam 1,458, Thiruvananthapuram 1,107, Kannur 990, Alappuzha 986, Kottayam 760, Kasaragod 669, Wayanad 526, Pathanamthitta 485, and Idukki 351.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-on-a-steady-climb/article35518953.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kodakara case: police notify ED, I-T dept.||The State police have reportedly passed on details of the Kodakara hawala heist case that has cast a cloud on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership in Kerala to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Income Tax (I-T) Department. The police are also likely to send a special report to the Election Commission of India (ECI) about the movement of unaccounted money in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly elections in Kerala. Last week, it told a court in Thrissur that the accused had moved the unaccounted money from Karnataka into Kerala purportedly for election purposes at the instances of at least two leaders of the BJP. The politically controversial crime has its provenance in a complaint filed by a person that anonymous persons had ambushed his car and stolen Rs. 25 lakh at Kodakara in Thrissur three days before the Assembly election on April 6. A police probe concluded that the amount lost was Rs. 3.5 crore. So far, the police have arrested 22 persons and recovered around Rs. 1.5 crore of the amount lost in the highway robbery. They have recorded the statements of 96 witnesses. The witnesses include BJP State president K. Surendran, BJP State organising secretary M. Ganesh, and State office secretary Girishan Nair. On June 1, the police gave a preliminary report to the ED detailing the crime. The BJP has termed the probe a political witch-hunt.  Special report likely to be sent to Election Commission of India Unaccounted money transferred to State for poll expenses, say police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodakara-case-police-notify-ed-i-t-dept/article35518954.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. staff to give no-dowry declaration||In a step towards stricter implementation of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, the government has issued a circular directing all male government employees to furnish a declaration to their heads of departments within one month of their marriage that they have not taken any dowry. In the circular, the State Women and Child Development Director, who is also the Chief Dowry Prohibition Officer as per the Kerala Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Rules, 2021, has asked the heads of departments to obtain and maintain declarations from government employees that they have not asked for, taken, or exhorted the receipt of dowry. The declaration should be signed by the wife, father, and father-in-law of male government employees, says the circular. Dowry Prohibition Day The heads of department should furnish a report on such declarations once in six months, before April 10 and October 10 every year, to the District Dowry Prohibition Officer (District Women and Child Development Officer) of the district concerned.  The government has also decided to observe November 26 as Dowry Prohibition Day in the State. All students in high schools, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools, and colleges (technical, non-technical and so on) and other educational institutions in the State should take a pledge not to give or take dowry in a general assembly at the institution on Dowry Prohibition Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-staff-to-give-no-dowry-declaration/article35518956.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technopark achieves A+/Stable in ratings||Amid the gloom of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Electronics Technology Parks Kerala (Technopark) has something to cheer for. It has achieved CRISIL’s A+/Stable rating, as per the latest review on July 20. The new rating is after the earlier rating of ‘CRISIL A/Stable’ since the last two consecutive years. The standalone business and financial risk profiles of Technopark were considered by the rating agency CRISIL. This is the highest rating the Technopark has achieved in the past 10 years of being considered by CRISIL for the rating. From D (Default) rating in 2014, it moved upward to BB, then to BBB and to A/Stable during 2019 and 2020. The latest rating is a recognition for Technopark’s strengths that include steady cash flow with full occupancy in Phases I and III, diversified clientele, and long-term lease agreements. “In 2014, we had availed ourselves term loans for land acquisition for Technocity and when Phase 3 construction was going on. For a time, we had cash flow difficulties. The situation slowly improved, with improvement in occupancy and steady slow of rental income, which allowed us to restructure loans. Though a moratorium was announced in loan repayment after the COVID-19 outbreak, we did not avail ourselves of it and repaid loans through an escrow mechanism. In addition, we made pre-payment of Rs. 70 crore loans. The CRISIL looks at cash flow, regularity of loan repayment, occupancy and future growth, in all of which we scored high,” said L. Jayanthi, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Technopark. Setbacks taken care of Though there was some surrender of property by occupants within the Technopark due to the after-effects of the pandemic in the past year, these were filled immediately as there is a long queue of companies awaiting space. “Despite the adverse conditions that COVID-19 inflicted across the globe, Technopark has invariably maintained the strength of its financial stability and track record to win this achievement. Amidst this ubiquitous pandemic, Technopark added around 40 companies to its tenant list, revealing the vigour and vastness of the infrastructure that it offers. Technopark’s continuous improvement in financial position coupled with infrastructure development, operational efficiency, and strong plans have helped in achieving this goal,” said John M. Thomas, CEO, Technopark. Technopark had completely leased out IT office spaces in Phases I & III. The entire land parcel in Phase I and II have been leased out on long-term lease to IT companies/ IT co-developers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technopark-achieves-astable-in-crisil-ratings/article35519068.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM launches health projects worth Rs. 25 cr.||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has credited the robust public health system in the State for its successful handling of health crises created by outbreaks including Nipah and COVID-19. Formally launching projects worth Rs. 25 crore in the health sector as part of the government’s 100-day programme on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan said decision made by the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to upgrade public health centres (PHC) as family health centres (FHC) under the Aardram Mission paid rich dividends. Besides a marked improvement in treatment facilities, the public have benefited through evening outpatient (OP) services and laboratory facilities in these centres. While the government had decided to elevate 886 PHCs, 474 among them had been converted into FHCs. Six more in Kadampur and Panavally in Alappuzha, Thenkurissi in Palakkad, Vazhakkad in Malappuram, Kannadikkal in Kozhikode, and Muppainad in Wayanad have now been upgraded. For tribal communities Highlighting the government’s commitment towards tribal communities, Mr. Vijayan said two tribal antenatal homes had been constructed at Rs. 6.14 lakh each in Sulthan Bathery and Vythiri. The Chief Minister inaugurated 28 health and wellness centres constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/projects-worth-rs-25-crore-launched-in-health-sector/article35518906.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two more cases of Zika virus in State||Two more cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has been confirmed in the State on Saturday. While one case was confirmed in a resident at Kumarapuram in the capital city, the second case was confirmed in a native of Kottarakkara in Kollam district, who works in the capital. Both cases were confirmed in the virology lab at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. The Chief Minister said here on Friday that of the total cases of Zika confirmed so far, five cases were detected in pregnant women According to the Health Department, 46 lab-confirmed cases of ZIKV infection has been reported in the State. This is excluding the case reported at Kottayam on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-zika-cases/article35518910.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Entrepreneurship training set to conclude||The first phase of the entrepreneurship training provided by the Kerala Institute of Entrepreneurship Development (KIED) in agricultural value-added products is nearing completion. Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve will inaugurate the final session in this leg of the training programme at Kasaragod on July 27. The Agro Incubation for Sustainable Entrepreneurship Programme (ARISE) initiative, announced as part of the government’s 100-day programmes, aims at providing training to 500 people. So far, training has been provided to 1,210 people in 13 districts. For registration, visit www.kied.info or contact the District Industries Centre, Kasaragod, on 9605542061, 7403180193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrepreneurship-training-set-to-conclude/article35519072.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Abuse of minor: man held||The police have arrested a 66-year-old former employee of the Government Press on the charges of sexually abusing a minor. Inspector General of Police and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay identified the accused as Sivankutty, a resident of Thamalam here. On Thursday night, Sivankutty abused the grand daughter of his third wife. He went into hiding after the incident. The Thiruvallam police arrested him from his hideout at Malayinkeezhu. He has earlier been involved in a case registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Poonthura police station. A team led by Thiruvallam station house officer Suresh V. Nair arrested Sivankutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abuse-of-minor-man-held/article35519062.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assault on youth: 2 arrested||The police have arrested two of the three people who were allegedly involved in the assault on a youth and breaking his arm with a piece of wood. Inspector General of Police and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay identified the accused as Jayakumar, 48, of Koliyoor and Anil, 39, of Muttakkad. It was on February 24 night that the accused attacked Muttakkad resident Arun at Vandithadam, Thiruvallam, when he voiced his opposition to their drinking in front of his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-youth-2-arrested/article35519063.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assault on SI: two detained||The Peroorkada police took two people into custody late on Saturday on the charge of assaulting police personnel. The police ofificers dentified them as Libin and Jibin of Kudappanakkunnu. The duo, along with a few others, were in public without masks when a police patrol questioned them. Alcohol The police officers said that they were under the influence of alcohol and shoved and attacked the police personnel. Sub-inspector Nandakrishnan was injured and taken to the Peroorkada government hospital where he was kept under observation for some time. The police officers then took Libin and Jibin into custody, but the others with them managed to flee from the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-si-two-detained/article35519071.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||S. Somanath is director, IIST||S. Somanath, Director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) has been given additional charge as Director, Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Valiyamala. He has taken over from Vinay Kumar Dadhwal who stepped down on Saturday. Dr. Dadhwal has put in 38 years of service in the Department of Space/ISRO including five years as Director, IIST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/s-somanath-is-director-iist/article35518957.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sandalwood seized in Attingal||Forest officials have arrested one person with alleged possession of 45kg of sandalwood in Attingal. The accused was identified as Anil Kumar of Thottavaram. He was caught on the basis of information received by Thiruvananthapuram Flying Squad divisional forest officer (DFO) A Shanavas. Water tank The squad had recovered the stash from a water tank adjacent to the accused’s house during a raid on Friday. The seized sandalwood is estimated to fetch around Rs. 4 lakh in the market. Having booked the accused under the Kerala Forest Act, Forest officials are yet to identify the source of the smuggled stash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sandalwood-seized-in-attingal/article35519067.ece
25 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID spreads in Thrissur MCH||After many medical students tested positive, COVID-19 is spreading among patients and caregivers in Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). In all 44 patients and 37 bystanders in the hospital were tested positive on Saturday. Internal inquiry An internal inquiry alleged that pandemic protocol has been grossly ignored in the hospital. The probe said people were crowding in hospital and in wards and the authorities had failed to control the crowds. The corridors were not adequately sanitised and masks were not properly used, the report said. A few days back, 53 medical students and more than 10 workers in the Indian Coffee House on the campus of the hospital, were tested positive. One worker of the Indian Coffee House succumbed to the pandemic. Medical students, who had taken two doses of vaccine, too were among those who tested positive. The internal inquiry was done in this backdrop. The pandemic situation is still grim in the district. There were 2,498 positive cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate is 15.69%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-spreads-in-thrissur-mch/article35519077.ece
25 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Whiff of a scam in another coop. bank||The Irinjalakuda Magistrate Court has ordered an investigation into a petition filed by a woman on a loan irregularity at the Karalam Service Co-operative Bank. In the petition filed by Ratnavathi of Thanissery, it was alleged that the bank had renewed the loan amount on a property pledged by her for a higher amount to another person without her knowledge. The court ordered that a case be registered after filing an FIR. Ms. Ratnavathi said that she had taken a loan from the Karalam Service Co-operative Bank by pledging her five-cent property. Revenue recovery But the bank sanctioned a higher amount to another person on her property. She came to know about the fraud when she received a notice of revenue recovery. She has filed a case against the revenue recovery procedures on the loan taken without her knowledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/whiff-of-a-scam-in-another-coop-bank/article35518950.ece
25 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Baseless charge: Moideen||Former Minister A.C. Moideen said BJP State president K. Surendran was raising baseless allegations against him in connection with the loan scam. “None of my relatives are involved in the scam. I don’t know Biju Karim (former bank manager and main accused in the loan scam). Let Mr. Surendran name the relative. He should not raise baseless allegations,” Mr. Moideen said. An investigation is going on in the case. The party will not protect anybody involved in the case, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/baseless-charge-moideen/article35518951.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Restrictions in force||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-in-force/article35519079.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New facility||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-facility/article35519027.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stir in the time of vaccination||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-in-the-time-of-vaccination/article35519070.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a good catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-good-catch/article35518877.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Goodwill gesture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/goodwill-gesture/article35518939.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Packing a punch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/packing-a-punch/article35518901.ece
25 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain eases in Karnataka, but toll rises to nine||Incessant rain and floods have claimed nine lives in Karnataka since July 22, with highest fatality count of four reported from Uttara Kannada. Two deaths have been reported from Belagavi and one each from Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad, and Kodagu districts. Landslips have been reported, mostly in the hilly terrains of Kodagu, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru. Intermittent rain continued in Kodagu, parts of Mysuru, Mandya, and Chamarajanagar districts, though it was less than the rainfall in the previous 24 hours. On Saturday, despite rain subsiding in northern Karnataka and southern Mahararashtra, Krishna river continued to be in a spate, affecting normal life in the districts of North Karnataka. At least three persons were washed away in floodwaters between Friday and Saturday alone. Swollen rivers have caused the inundation of small bridges, cutting road connectivity. Several residents of villages have been evacuated to safer places. Train services resume The railway track in the ghat section of Hubballi division near Dudhsagar on the Karnataka-Goa border, where landslip was reported at two places, has been restored and train services have resumed. In Belagavi district alone, 19,035 people have been evacuated to safer places and 8,795 have been shifted to 89 rehabilitation centres, according to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath. Two persons have been killed in Belagavi district and 37 road links were cut off in the district. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who assessed the flood situation in Mirji at Mudhol taluk in Bagalkot district, told presspersons that the initial estimate of loss due to rains and floods in Belagavi division alone is Rs. 550 crore. CM’s aerial survey today He said he had requested Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to immediately release Rs. 50 crore. The Chief Minister is scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the district on Sunday. In Uttara Kannada district, personnel from the Indian Naval Emergency Response Team from Karwar, safely evacuated 160 persons from two flood-affected villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-eases-in-karnataka-but-toll-rises-to-nine/article35518534.ece
25 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress stages protest||The Congress cadres on Saturday demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government had won the 2019 general elections by tampering the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) secretary Y. Gopi, who staged a dharna with other party leaders at Rajiv Gandhi statue in front of the Municipal Corporation Office at Tirupati, said the BJP had “murdered the democracy” by tampering the EVMs. He blamed the Prime Minister for the Pegasus issue. The Congress leader alleged that the YSR Congress Party had also manipulated the election machinery to win the Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election recently. The APCC secretary said that the party would demand an impartial inquiry into the tampering of EVMs and Pegasus issue by a larger bench of the Supreme Court in order to save the democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-leaders-demand-modis-resignation/article35518557.ece
25 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spandana to resume from tomorrow||Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Saturday inspected the arrangements for resuming the Spandana programme at the Collectorate building here from Monday. The weekly programme was suspended due to the pandemic during the first phase of the lockdown. In view of cases going down now, officials decided to resume the programme from Monday by strictly adhering to the protocols. Additional staff would be posted to see to it that the COVID guidelines are followed at the queue lines and the seating arrangement, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-to-resume-from-tomorrow/article35518559.ece
25 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP-2020 in tune with aspirational goals of India, says Kasturirangan||Chairman , National Education Policy-2020, K. Kasturirangan has said that over the next decade, India will have the highest population of young people in the world, with more than 50% below the age of 35 years aspiring for high-quality education. The critical question “How to learn? Moreover, how to become lifelong learners? —This is a critical question that needs to be addressed appropriately. Furthermore, the education of the future generations needs to be reconfigured to meet the targets of the sustainable development goals set for the year 2030. Especially goals for quality education seek higher inclusion, equitable quality education and promotion of lifelong learning opportunities for sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all,” said Dr. Kasturirangan delivering a lecture at a webinar titled “Creating a vibrant knowledge society – An Indian strategy for 21st Century” organised by SRM University-A.P. in association with The Hindu on Saturday as a part of its University Distinguished Lecture Series. Dr. Kasturirangan said that India needed an education system aligned with the aspirational goals of the 21st Century while remaining rooted to Indian values, systems and ethos. ‘Flexible approach’ The NEP-2020 was crafted to provide an integrative yet flexible approach to education, keeping the interconnections of various phases of education. The NEP-2020 was an end-to-end educational roadmap for the country with a broad view of encompassing holistic development, kindling the true potentials of the individuals. 5+3+3+4 design The policy was designed in accordance with developmental, cognitive and educational psychology, indicating that 5+3+3+4 design was better suited to a child's learning trajectory, he said. Minister for HRD Adimulapadu Suresh said that the Government of Andhra Pradesh was implementing the NEP-2020 in toto. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Redd had not only accepted the concept and recommendations of National Education Policy-2020 but also introduced several novel programmes and schemes to bring education to everyone, and NEP-2020’s recommendations had aided to take their schemes forward. Incentives “The Government of Andhra Pradesh believes that mothers are the key to an educated family. Therefore, the government has introduced an incentive programme for mothers. Every mother who sends her child to a school will get Rs. 15,000 from the government. The government has further introduced full fee reimbursement for the students below poverty level,” said Mr. Suresh. Further, the Government of Andhra Pradesh has allocated 17% of its Budget, nearly Rs. 30,000 crore, for education. Pro Vice Chancellor D. Narayana Rao, presented a book, Space and Beyond: Professional Voyage of K. Kasturirangan, to the Minister, and mementos to the speakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-2020-in-tune-with-aspirational-goals-of-india-says-kasturirangan/article35518564.ece
25 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally taken out to wish Indian contingent||Sportspersons in Guntur gathered in strength to convey their best wishes to the Indian contingent that is at Tokyo-2020 Olympics. Flagging off a rally at the District Collector’s office, Collector Vivek Yadav said that sportspersons, their coaches and families in the country had toiled hard to prepare for the games during the pandemic. Joint Collector AS Dinesh Kumar , MLA Guntur East Md. Mustafa and Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-taken-out-to-wish-indian-contingent/article35519011.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pre-historic tools found in Telangana limestone cave||The discovery of pre-historic tools in a limestone cave in Asifabad forest will further advance the understanding of human habitation in Telangana region, say historians. “The cave was possibly inhabited. We discovered prehistoric tools including a hand-axe and a cleaver that can be dated to early paleo-lithic period years. The other cave of similar history in Telangana is in Bhupalpally district,” informed M. Srinivas, a historian who led the search team. Located deep inside the Kawal Tiger Reserve, only a mud path that can be navigated by a four-wheel drive from the mandal headquarter of Tiryani leads to the cave. The stalagmite inside the cave, known locally as Arjun Loddi, were being worshipped by Gond and Gordi tribes on celebratory occasions like harvest and other festivals. “The cave sediment with volcanic ash as evidence shows that it dates back to 2,50,000 years. With the help of erosion cycle, we can surmise that the caves must have been formed during the middle pleistocene. They belong to the same period as the Kurnool caves,” said Venugopal Rao, a geologist who earlier worked with the Geological Survey of India. While the Kurnool caves have been dated using fossil content including remnants of rhinoceros, no fossils have yet been discovered in the Arjun Loddi caves, according to researchers. “The cave is deep and only portions of it have been explored. At some places we had to crawl. We are hopeful of making more discoveries and add to information about Telangana,” said Mr. Srinivas.  The cave is deep and only portions of it have been explored. We are hopeful of making more discoveries and add to information about Telangana. M. Srinivas, historian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pre-historic-tools-found-in-telangana-limestone-cave/article35518246.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam reservoir set to brim as incessant rain raises inflow||The prospects of Srisailam reservoir, one of the two common water storage facilities of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, reaching the surplus position have improved considerably with the catchment areas in the Upper Krishna Basin continue to record heavy to very heavy rainfall. “Storage of the reservoir improved by nearly 20 tmc ft during the 36-hour period till 6 p.m. on Saturday, in spite of sizeable amount of water being let downstream with power generation in the Left Bank power house. The discharge of flood at Almatti, Narayanpur and Jurala dams in the upstream is on the constant rise during the period and there is a forecast of flood into Jurala going up to 5 lakh cusecs or beyond,” a senior engineer monitoring flood at Srisailam told The Hindu.  At 6 p.m. on Saturday, Srisailam storage has reached 93.6 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft with almost one tmc ft volume of flood reaching it every hour from 11 a.m. Although the discharge of flood at Almatti remained at 3.5 lakh cusecs from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., the inflow increased from 2.2 lakh cusecs to 2.57 lakh cusecs during the period with the forecast of further rise in the flood. An advisory of the Central Water Commission (CWC) stated that 28.7 cm was recorded at Mahabaleshwar, 28.5 cm at Warana, 20.4 cm at Koyna, 13.6 cm at Sadalga and 9.1 cm at Agumbe, the major catchment areas of Krishna and some of its tributaries, during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Along with the discharge of flood at Almatti, Narayanpur is forecast to get additional flood with the help of outflows from Kallol Barrage, Ghataprabha and Malaprabha dams. Inflow into Narayanpur is likely to be over 4 lakh cusecs by Sunday and the discharge of flood to be 4.5 lakh cusecs, flood monitoring officials at Jurala said. Flood to Jurala increased from 2.25 lakh cusecs to 3.33 lakh cusecs during the 12-hour period till 6 p.m. on Saturday. Flood cushion in Tungabhadra dam has also come down to 25 tmc ft by Saturday evening. SRSP gates closed Meanwhile, some respite in rains in the catchment areas of Godavari has receded the flood to 52,000 cusecs at 8 p.m. and the spillway gates were closed around 7 p.m. to build up storage in the reservoir. Only 8,000 cusecs was being let into the river course at the dam with power generation. Inflow into Yellampally Barrage has also come down 2.32 lakh cusecs and discharge to 1.76 lakh cusecs as at 8 p.m. on Saturday. At Medigadda Barrage, in the downstream of Yellampally, of Kaleshwaram project the discharge of flood was 9.06 lakh cusecs at 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rains-help-swell-storage-at-srisailam/article35518248.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR goes all out to get Huzurabad||All schemes and appointments are leading to Huzurabad, and the State government has no inhibitions to hide its intentions of pushing the Assembly segment onto the centre stage. The much touted Dalit Bandhu scheme, where Scheduled Caste individuals will get Rs. 10 lakh cash support, will be the pilot project in Huzurabad, and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself claimed that there was nothing wrong in gaining political mileage from the scheme that will hit off from Huzurabad constituency going for bypolls very soon. About Rs. 2,000 crore will be spent in the constituency for the programme. Even the second phase of one of the government’s flagship programmes – sheep distribution for the Yadava community will be kicked off by Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav in Jammikunta, part of Huzurabad constituency on July 28. The appointment of Scheduled Castes Development Corporation Chairman Banda Srinivas from Huzurabad and the rumours that Congress leader Kaushik Reddy, who joined the TRS recently will be appointed as the Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS) chief are an indication of how Huzurabad is hogging the spotlight. Chairmen for two more corporations are likely to go to the constituency soon and one of them is Sammi Reddy, who recently shifted loyalties from ousted Minister Eatala Rajender’s camp after initially sailing with him. The sudden interest in the constituency is a well-known secret that the ruling party is desperate to defeat Mr. Rajender more than winning it. If party seniors are to be believed, it should be a crushing defeat for the once strong votary of KCR’s leadership and now his bete noire . “Nothing less than that would satisfy the Chief Minister,” agrees a senior leader overseeing the implementation of KCR’s strategy. That the Chief Minister is not willing to give an inch space to Mr. Rajender is also clear with he personally called up local leader Ramaswamy, husband of an MPTC of Tanugula, inviting him for the Dalit Bandhu meeting he intends to hold on July 26 in Hyderabad with selected group of SC people from the constituency. “At least one Minister will be in Huzurabad constituency every day so that government programmes get the top priority in mainstream media. The effort is also to relegate the aggressive campaign of Mr. Rajender and negate his influence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-goes-all-out-to-get-huzurabad/article35518840.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP gets jail in cash-for-votes case of 2019||A special court here on Saturday handed down a sentence of six-month simple imprisonment to ruling TRS party MP of Mahabubabad, Maloth Kavitha, after holding her guilty of distributing money among voters during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Special Court for trial of MPs/MLAs judge Varaprasad also convicted one of the supporters of the MP, Shoukath Ali, on the same charge. The judged imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on them. On payment of the fine, they were released on bail. Ms. Maloth Kavitha is the second TRS leader to be convicted and awarded punishment by the special court trying cases against MPs and MLAs. Earlier on this July 7, the special court held TRS MLA Danam Nagender guilty of assaulting a person. He was punished with a jail term of three months. The special court public prosecutor G. Narayana said that allegations were made that contestants were distributing money to influence voters in 2019 elections. A flying squad of the Election Commission caught Shaukath Ali and seized Rs. 10,000 from his possession in Burgampadu of Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Crucial evidence A criminal case was registered against him and Ms. Maloth Kavitha, who later won the elections and became MP, under Sections 171-B and 188 of Indian Penal Code. The court acquitted them of the charge under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant). However, they were convicted of the charge under Section 171-B (bribery). The money seized from the accused by the flying squad which caught them red-handed emerged as crucial evidence in the case, the PP said. They were given 30 days of time to go for an appeal before the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-gets-jail-in-cash-for-votes-case-of-2019/article35518535.ece
25 July 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bacterial infection, not bird flu, in Kozhikode||The death of over 300 chicken at a poultry farm in Koorachund in Kozhikode district recently was due to a bacterial infection and not bird flu, said officials at the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services here. The district administration had sounded an alert in 11 grama panchayats on Friday after one of the samples sent to two labs in the State for testing turned positive for bird flu. The samples were later sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, for confirmation, said an official. Tests done in Bhopal “The samples had given indications about the possibility of pasteurellosis, a bacterial infection. But, earlier, we were not sure if the infection was a secondary impact of bird flu, a viral infection. The tests done in Bhopal have confirmed that the cases were indeed bacterial infections,” K.K. Baby, a senior official with the department, told The Hindu . Dr. Baby said that the department had started anti-bacterial treatment on the remaining birds in the area, adding that there had not been any more poultry deaths. The district administration had earlier sounded alert in Koorachund, Chakkittapara, Koothali, Kayanna, Naduvannur, Kottur, Kattippara, Panangad, Changaroth, Perambra and Nochad grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bacterial-infection-not-bird-flu-in-kozhikode/article35518249.ece
25 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood warning issued as inflows into Tungabhadra dam rise||The inflows into Tungabhadra reservoir at Hospet in Karnataka increased tremendously on Saturday and stood at 1,20,411 cusecs at noon. The water level in the reservoir stood at 1,625.14 ft. against the full reservoir level of 1,633 ft. Against the full holding capacity of 100.855 tmcft, the level stood at 73.375 tmcft. This prompted the engineers to issue a flood warning to all the districts along the river course up to Srisailam dam as the gates might be lifted anytime after midnight. As per the latest forecast of the Central Water Commission, the estimated discharge at Shivamogga is 2,11,890 cusecs. Depending on the inflows into the Tungabhadra reservoir, the gates would be lifted any time on Sunday. The dam engineers have asked the officials of Kurnool, Mahabubnagar, Ballari, Koppal, and Raichur districts to be vigilant against likely inundations. Water had been released from the Tungabhadra Dam on August 11 in 2019 with heavy inflows into the reservoir at Munirabad. The authorities had then discharged over 2.5 lakh cusecs into the river. The reservoir had brimmed to its capacity on July 17, 2018, and water was released the same day into the river after a gap of five years. Meanwhile, the water from Tungabhadra dam reached the 105-km point through the Right Bank High-Level Main Canal (HLC) and the areas served in Karnataka were getting water from July 22. Andhra Pradesh would get water through both the Low-Level Canal and the HLC from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-warning-issued-as-inflows-into-tungabhadra-dam-rise/article35519019.ece
25 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sangameswaram temple submerges in water||The Sangameswaram Shiva temple was fully submerged in the backwaters of the Srisailam reservoir on Saturday when the water level in the dam rose above 855 feet, with close to 3 lakh cusecs of inflows recorded from the Jurala reservoir. The submergence of the temple is an annual feature. While the temple usually begins to submerge from July 20 every year, this year it began quite early. The last puja of the ‘gopuram’, which was visible till morning, was performed by the chief priest Telakapalli Raghurama Sarma by going there on a boat. “The temple resurfaces after seven to eight months later when the water level recedes,” said Mr. Raghurama Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-submerged/article35518824.ece
25 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool logs single-digit cases after 4 months||Kurnool district recorded new cases in single-digit on Saturday after a gap of four months. The district’s 8 cases is the lowest in Andhra Pradesh, said District Medical and Health Officer Ramagiddaiah. “We tested 2,100 samples and only 8 of them turned out positive,” Dr. Gaiddaiah said, adding that the vaccination process has been going on at a fast pace. The district had administered a majority of the frontline workers and close to 30% of other beneficiaries, he said. Kurnool, in all, had recorded 1,23,028 COVID cases since March last year. Currently, othere are 252 active cases in the district with the cumulative figure for fatalities standing at 839. Meanwhile, Anantapur District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan on Saturday reviewed the preparedness of the district health infrastructure for a possible third wave and asked the officials to be prepared to implement containment strategies stringently. The district recorded 67 new cases taking the cumulative tally to 1,55,937 with active case tally standing at 457 and cumulative toll at 1,077. Deputy Inspector General of Police Kanti Rana Tata and Joint Collector A. Siri sought cooperation of public in controlling the spread by adhering to the COVID-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-logs-single-digit-cases-after-4-months/article35518556.ece
25 July 2021||MYLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigil kept on 500 vulnerable places in district, says SP||Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal has said that vigil has been kept on vulnerable places where there is a possibility of miscreants resorting to attacks on women, and patrolling has been intensified at such places in the district. Speaking at a programme on creating awareness for women police constables and sachivalayam staff on downloading Disha App here on Saturday, the SP said safety of women and children would be the top priority. Stressing the need for coordination among various government departments, including the Women Development and Child Welfare, Revenue, Police, Medical and Health and other departments, Mr. Kaushal appealed to the women police and the village volunteers to explain the importance of downloading the Disha App. “About 500 vulnerable places have been identified in Machilipatnam, Gudivada, Avanigadda, Nuzvid and Nandigama police sub-divisions in the district. Security has been stepped up, bushes and garbage are being cleared and electrification is being done at the vulnerable places,” the SP said and directed the police personnel to intensify patrolling at the abandoned areas. Praising the women police, who were absorbed into Police Department recently, the SP said the reputation of the police personnel had increased with the joining of Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (MSKs) into the department, and asked them to work with dedication. Mr. Kaushal, along with Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu, distributed merit certificates to the women police who exhibited extraordinary performance in detecting some critical and sensational cases in the last few days. The women police thanked the government for taking them into Home Department, and assured to help the police in discharging their duties. Special Branch DSP Dharmendra, Mylavaram MRO Rohini Devi, MDO Subba Rao, CIs P. Srinu, Venkata Narayana and other officers were present. Later, the SP flagged off the two-wheelers allotted for Disha Police on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigil-kept-on-500-vulnerable-places-in-district-says-sp/article35519091.ece
25 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social forestry planters of Prakasam in dire straits||There has been no end to the woes of social forestry planters in Prakasam district as the paper mills fail to purchase subabul, eucalyptus and casuarina logs as per the prices agreed at the behest of the State government. The woes of the farmers who have raised social forestry plantations with years of toil compounded following import of wood pulp from abroad. Thanks to the encouragement of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Prakasam district stood first in the cultivation of eucalyptus in over 1.10 lakh acres and second in subabul in an extent of 60,000 acres after Krishna district, where it was cultivated in over 62,000 acres, especially in the western parts. The prices of logs ruled more than Rs. 4,000 per tonne during 2014, and since then they have been falling freely after the paper mills created a network of brokers and bypassed the Agriculture Market Committees, which had been regulating the sale hitherto. Import of wood pulp Farmers attributed the unabated import of wood pulp from over 50 countries for their plight. The import in India grew by 39.63% during 2014 to 2018, accelerating the market crash. Those who had switched over to eucalyptus cultivation, unable to cope with uncertainties associated with growing short duration commercial crops, are now ruing their fate as the paper mills offered only Rs. 1,500 per tonne. Subabul attracted buyers at a relatively better price of about Rs. 2,500 per tonne, explained All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC) Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao after taking stock of the situation with members of the Social Forestry Farmers’ Association. Following the intervention of the State government, paper mills had agreed to purchase subabul at Rs. 4,200 per tonne and eucalyptus at Rs. 4,400 per tonne in 2014. Jagan’s promise Farmers were hoping that the situation would improve for the better after the change in government in the State as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised purchase of the logs at a remunerative price of Rs. 5,000 per tonne in the run-up to the 2019 general elections. “Our hopes have been dashed now,” said association district secretary K. Veera Reddy. “We will petition ruling party MLAs seeking the State government’s intervention in the first phase, and take our stir to Vijayawada in the next phase by joining hands with our counterparts in and around Nandigama and Jaggaipeta in Krishna district,” he said. ‘Impose duty on imports’ The Centre should impose countervailing duty of up to 150% to discourage import of wood pulp from abroad with a view to protecting the interests of domestic farmers who have been contributing their mite in afforestation of barren lands, and thus reducing pressure on virgin forests, they demanded. Meanwhile, the Congress party’s farmers wing State vice-president V. Rajagopala Reddy urged the State government to purchase the logs through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras in keeping with the Chief Minister’s poll promise. He submitted a memorandum to the government at the Chandrapadu RBK, near Chimakurthy, in support of the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-forestry-planters-of-prakasam-in-dire-straits/article35519022.ece
25 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees throng temples on Guru Purnima||Guru Purnima, the birth anniversary of legendary sage Vyasa who had compiled the Vedas, was celebrated with religious fervour and enthusiasm across Prakasam district on Saturday. Wearing face masks, devotees visited temples of Lord Dakshinamurthy as per the tradition remembering Veda Vyasa, who had also authored the Mahabharata epic, Upanishads and Puranas. A large number of people made a beeline to the Shirdi Sai Baba temples at Pelluru, Alluru, Santhapeta and Lawyerpeta and offered special prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-throng-temples-on-guru-purnima/article35518561.ece
25 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||479 new cases in South Coastal A.P.||Three more patients succumbed to coronavirus and new infections outnumbered recoveries in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. As many as 479 persons contracted the disease while 404 patients recovered in Nellore and Prakasam. The toll rose to 1,927 as two persons in Prakasam and one in SPSR Nellore district died due of COVID during the period. With this, 981 persons in Prakasam and 946 in SPSR Nellore district succumbed to the disease so far. The overall coronavirus case count inched closer to 2.61 lakh as 246 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 233 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease. The region accounted for over 2.53 lakh recoveries including more than 1.29 lakh in SPSR Nellore district. The recovery rate stood at 97.16%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/479-new-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article35518560.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala may extend COVID-19 curbs to rein in spread||The Kerala government signalled on Saturday that the virulence of the COVID-19 Delta variant might compel it to extend the partial lockdown in the State. The administration has slashed the attendance in government offices even in relatively low and medium spread localities to 50% (A and B category), and placed the rest of the workforce under the command of the District Collectors for deployment in containment work. In high spread areas (Category C), government offices would not allow more than 25% employees to attend. The order applied to PSUs, quasi-government undertakings, commissions and State-run companies. The supervisors should place non-working staff on standby for COVID-19 duty. The district administration would clamp down on non-essential activity in critical spread areas (above 15% average test positivity rate [TPR]). It will demarcate hotspots and infection clusters as micro-containment zones and impose total lockdown with access only to essential services. The police and ward committees would ensure that people remained at home in micro-containment zones. The government imposed total lockdown in several local self-government institutions (LSGI) in Malappuram, which reported a high average TPR of 17%. The government asked ward committees to shift infected persons who lacked private space, to isolation in nearby hospitals or designated centres. An official said weekend lockdown would continue till the TPR plummeted and reached the safety threshold of less than 3%. So would other restrictions, including the mask mandate, physical distancing, the ban on indoor dining, access to cultural venues, stadiums, shopping malls, sporting turfs. An official said the TPR was above 10% in 11 districts. The government hoped to achieve a semblance of herd immunity in 90 days by ramping up vaccination and testing. The TPR was above 15% in at least 271 LSGI areas. Bars and liquor shops could operate between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. to reduce crowding. After many medical students tested positive, COVID-19 was spreading among patients and visitors in Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital. In all, 44 patients and 37 others in the hospital tested positive on Saturday. Kerala’s cases rose on Saturday to 18,531 when 1,55,568 samples were tested. As tests increased, the TPR dropped from 13.63% on Friday to 11.91% on Saturday. Active cases stood at 1,38,124. COVID deaths rose and the cumulative fatality stood at 15,969, with the State adding 98 recent deaths. Malappuram district reported the maximum new cases at 2,816 and Thrissur 2,498. COVID-19 claimed 18 lives in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday and there were 2,174 new infections. The daily TPR was 2.91%. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,75,303), Chittoor (2,28,834), West Godavari (1,68,759), Guntur (1,66,938), Anantapur (1,55,937), Visakhapatnam (1,51,686), Nellore (1,32,768), Prakasam (1,28,116), Kurnool (1,23,028), Srikakulum (1,20,262), Kadapa (1,09,626), Krishna (1,07,070) and Vizianagaram (81,291). Karnataka reported 1,857 new cases and 29 deaths. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 2,050 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 28,33,276. The State now has 23,905 active patients. The TPR was 1.21%. A total of 1,53,415 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,25,172 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,77,05,035 With fresh COVID-19 cases dropping steadily over the past weeks, Tamil Nadu recorded 1,819 infections on Saturday, taking its tally to 25,46,689. Twenty-seven people died of the infection, taking the toll to 33,889. Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore accounted for 175. There were 132 cases in Erode and 127 in Chennai. Salem recorded 107 cases. The remaining 34 districts recorded fewer than 100 cases each, with Perambalur and Tenkasi recording less than 10 infections each.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-may-extend-covid-19-curbs-to-rein-in-spread/article35518258.ece
25 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure likely, all Kerala districts put on yellow alert||Heavy rainfall is likely to continue in the State on Sunday also, as per the latest weather updates. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put all 14 districts on yellow alert on Sunday for isolated heavy rainfall. Rainfall is likely to taper off by Tuesday although some districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall till then. A fresh low pressure area is expected to form over Bay of Bengal around July 28. Nonetheless, below normal rainfall has been forecast for Kerala and Mahe during the week from July 30 to August 5, according to an IMD extended range forecast. Meanwhile, one more team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was moved to Idukki in view of the heavy rainfall in the district. The NDRF team, which was stationed in Alappuzha, will be deployed at Devikulam, an official of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said. The NDRF team in Kollam district will be shifted to Alappuzha instead. NDRF teams are also positioned in Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Malappuram. IMD has advised a halt to fishing activities till Monday as strong winds have been forecast along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/imd-puts-all-districts-in-kerala-on-yellow-alert/article35518252.ece
25 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Order CBI probe into co-op scam’||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the alleged Rs. 350-crore loan scam centred on the CPI(M)-controlled Karuvannur Cooperative Society Bank in Thrissur. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the ongoing police inquiry lacked credibility and was a cover-up. The government had allowed the fraud to continue despite cautionary reports from various agencies since 2018. The CPI(M) leadership does not appear to care that the scam victims are manual labourers, autorickshaw drivers, headload workers, and daily wage earners on CPI(M) membership rolls. Many had received notices to repay loans they had never availed themselves of from the cooperative bank, he said. Forged title deeds The police inquiry had revealed that the accused had used forged title deeds as security for loans taken in the name of deceased or non-existent persons. They also used title deeds put up by loan-seekers as collateral to siphon off money. The police have arraigned bank manager Biju Karim, secretary T.R. Sunil Kumar, chief accountant C.K. Jills as accused in the case. BJP State president K. Surendran said the perpetrators were related to A.C. Moideen, Minister for Cooperation in the previous LDF government, and had his protection. Mr. Surendran alleged that the CPI(M) had used a portion of the stolen funds to underwrite the election expenses of “CPI(M) State secretary’s wife, who is now a Minister in the LDF government.” BJP Thrissur district president K.K. Aneesh Kumar alleged the CPI(M) used the scam money for its election campaign. “The party will move the High Court seeking a CBI investigation. We will send a complaint to Union Cooperation Minister Amit Shah,” he said. ‘Resort at Thekkady’ The BJP alleged that a major share of the money siphoned off from the Karuvannur bank was invested in a resort at Thekkady through Biju Karim. The Crime Branch and the Enforcement Directorate have already started investigation into the allegation.  (With inputs from Thrissur bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/order-cbi-probe-into-co-op-scam/article35518250.ece
25 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold lacing work on Govindaraja Swamy temple to be completed by 2022||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the gold lacing work on the Vimana of Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple will be completed by May 2022. Speaking at a review meeting at Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple here on Saturday afternoon with Tirumala pontiffs, Vaikhanasa Agama Advisors, officials and Archakas, the TTD EO directed the officials to commence works from September 14 on the occasion of the Balalaya ritual. He directed the engineering officials to ensure that darshan and daily rituals at Sri Govindaraja Swamy Temple are not disrupted during the Balalaya event. Earlier Tirumala pontiffs, Agama Advisors, Chief Archaka and officials gave suggestions on the gold lacing of the Vimana, which is being taken up at a cost of Rs. 32 crore and made using 100 kg of gold. The Executive Officer also inspected the sub-temples and directed the officials to take up beautification works at the the Addala Mahal in the temple as part of development works.Tirumala pontiffs Sri Sri Sri Pedda Jeeyar Swamy, Joint Executive Officer Sada Bhargavi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gold-lacing-work-on-govindaraja-swamy-temple-to-be-completed-by-2022/article35518558.ece
25 July 2021||VELERUPADU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boats arranged to evacuate many in West Godavari||Officials shifted several people to safer places from the project affected villages up and downstream the Polavaram project, on Saturday. West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra said that 19 villages were cut off in Polavaram mandal and road communication to two habitations in Velerupadu and Kukunur mandals was snapped due to rising flood waters. “Tarpaulins, cooking gas cylinders, drinking water, milk packets and other essential materials were distributed to the flood victims. Four boats have been arranged to supply ration and other essentials,” Mr. Misra said. Relief camps had been arranged at Velerupadu and Kukunur mandals. About 20 small boats (countrymade boats) were arranged to shift the villagers to safe places. Control rooms have been set up at 10 places in the district, and the Narsapuram Sub-Collector, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer, RDOs of Jangareddygudem, Kovvur and Eluru and Tahsildars of Polavaram, Kukunur, Velerupadu, Buttaigudem have been told to be on high alert, the Collector said. People may call the control room numbers in emergency. State Control Room (8333905022), West Godavari District Control Room (1800 233 1077), Narsapuram Sub Collector (08814-276699), RDO Jangareddygudem (08821-223660), RDO Kovvur (08813-231488), RDO Eluru (08812-232044), RDO Kukunur (08821-212221), Polavaram MRO (08811-510209), Kukunur MRO (Tahsildar-8099891813) and MRO Velerupadu (7993667056), Mr. Misra said. At Polavaram, flood level reached 33 metres at Cofferdam and the irrigation authorities released 5.82 lakh cusecs. The inflows into Tungabhadra reservoir at Hospet in Karnataka increased on Saturday and stood at 1,20,411 cusecs at noon. This prompted the engineers to issue a flood warning to all districts along the river course up to Srisailam dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-ap-many-evacuated-by-boats/article35518866.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shops warned of heavy penalties for COVID-19 safety violations||Krishna Collector J. Nivas has said that the responsibility of ensuring that people followed COVID-19 safety norms in shops and establishments rests on the respective managements and action would be taken against those who fail to comply with the norms aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus. Mr. Nivas along with Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu conducted an awareness meeting for representatives of shops and establishments, including commercial complexes, hotels and residential welfare associations. Mr. Nivas said that owners and staff working in the establishments visited by more people were at a higher risk of contracting the virus and for their safety, the management should ensure that all the COVID safety measures were in place. He said establishments found violating the norms would be warned in the first instance and made to pay a fine between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 25,000 for further violations. It was important to follow the norms to avoid the third wave. He said all the persons in an establishment should mandatorily wear a mask and customers without one shouldn’t be entertained. Mr. Sreenivasulu said it was high time people showed self-discipline and took all precautions to protect themselves and their families from COVID-19. He said many people had let their guard down as the number of cases was coming down. A senior police officer had died in the hospital even after spending Rs. 30 lakh and another officer stayed for 40 days in a hospital for COVID-19 treatment, the Commissioner said, indicating the seriousness of the situation. He said out of 3,500 police personnel in the city about 1,000 were affected by COVID-19. “Vaccine is the only weapon we have to fight against COVID-19 and everyone should get vaccinated,” he advised. He said special squads would be formed to enforce COVID safety rules at all public places in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shops-warned-of-heavy-penalties-for-covid-19-safety-violations/article35519093.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 more die of COVID-19||COVID-19 claimed 18 lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the period, 2,174 infections were reported even as 74,820 samples were tested. The daily positivity rate was 2.91% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.40 crore samples tested was 8.12%. The last 10 lakh samples were tested in 12 days with a positivity rate of 2.80%. Also, the tests per million ratio crossed 4.5 lakh. The cumulative tally increased to 19,52,513 and the toll reached  13,241 with a death rate of 0.68%. The daily tally was highest in the past three days. The number of active cases came down to 22,358 as 2,737 patients have recovered in the past day. Recoveries The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 19,16,914 and 98.18% respectively. Krishna reported five deaths in the past day while Chittoor reported four and East Godavari, Prakasam and West Godavari reported two each. Nellore, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each and five districts reported no death. With 418 infections, East Godavari reported the highest daily tally among the districts, while Kurnool has again reported new infections in single digit. Chittoor reported 329, Krishna 248, Nellore 246, Prakasam 233, West Godavari 209, Guntur 132, Visakhapatnam 103, Kadapa 89, Anantapur 67, Srikakulam 63, Vizianagaram 29 and Kurnool reported 8 infections. About 90% of the active cases were in eight districts while five districts of Visakhapatnam, Kadapa, Srikakulam, Anantapur, Vizianagaram and Kurnool together have less than 10% active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,75,303), Chittoor (2,28,834), West Godavari (1,68,759), Guntur (1,66,938), Anantapur (1,55,937), Visakhapatnam (1,51,686), Nellore (1,32,768), Prakasam (1,28,116), Kurnool (1,23,028), Srikakulum (1,20,262), Kadapa (1,09,626), Krishna (1,07,070) and Vizianagaram (81,291).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-more-die-of-covid-19/article35519015.ece
25 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||EMC elections: arrangements in place for counting of votes||State Election Commissioner (SEC) Nilam Sawhney on Saturday visited the C.R. Reddy Engineering College in Eluru, where the counting of votes for the Eluru Municipal Corporation elections was scheduled on Sunday. Collector Kartikeya Misra, Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao, Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma and other officials explained the arrangements made for counting. Later, the SEC held a review meeting with the officers. The Collector explained that counting would begin at 8 a.m. and 47 tables were arranged for 47 divisions. The counting staff were instructed to arrive at the centre in advance, and no mobile phones would be allowed into the counting centre, Mr. Kartiya Misra said. The SP said that tight security was in place at the counting centre and Section 30 of the Police Act would be in force. Separate entry points were arranged for polling staff and agents. Enough police personnel were deployed and no rallies and victory processions would be allowed, Mr. Mohan Rao said. Joint Collector K. Venkata Ramana Reddy, election observer Satyanarayana, Eluru RDO P. Rachana, DSP O. Dileep Kiran, Municipal Commissioner D. Chandrashekar and other officials were among those who visited the counting centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/emc-elections-arrangements-in-place-for-counting-of-votes/article35519013.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court dismisses finance official’s plea to recall NBW||A Division Bench of the AP High Court on Saturday dismissed a petition filed by K.V.V. Satyanarayana, Special Secretary (Finance), for recalling the NBW issued against him in a case related to dues to be paid to G. Siva Narayana, sarpanch of Bhaskararaopet of Kalidindi mandal of Krishna district, and ordered that he be taken into custody. However, the court suspended the order on an appeal made by Mr. Satyanarayana’s advocate till the next hearing on July 27. Mr. Siva Narayana had filed a contempt petition alleging that Mr. Satyanarayana did not implement a judgment delivered by Justice T. Rajani in October 2019. Subsequently, Mr. Satyanarayana had complied with the judgment, but neither deposed before the court on the stipulated day (July 15, 2021) nor sent an advocate to represent him in the matter. This resulted in the issue of a NBW. Mr. Satyanarayana had appealed for its recall. On Saturday, the court also reduced the Rs. 50,000 penalty which it had imposed on him previously, to Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-hc-dismisses-officials-plea-to-recall-nbw/article35518584.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||On a mission to hone English skills of tribal students||English being the most commonly used language in the corporate world, and knowledge of the language being the most important employability skill, the government has embarked on a mission to hone spoken English skills of tribal students by leveraging technology. The management of the AP Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions (APTWREI) Society has employed software applications to equip the students with effective communication skills in English language. “We impart training to teachers in English-speaking using apps such as EnglishBolo and ReadToMe, and they in turn help the students master the language,” says K. Srikanth Prabhakar, Secretary, APTWREI Society. The app, ‘EnglishBolo’, delivers online classes, including translation, pronunciation and meaning of words with picture dictionary, helping the learners improve their proficiency in the language, besides boosting their confidence and encouraging them to integrate it in everyday life. ‘ReadToMe’, on the other hand, is a multi-sensory English reading and comprehension AI software that assists the learners to read and comprehend English textbooks. “Our teachers attend classes regularly and there is already a marked improvement in their English teaching skills,” says Mr. Prabhakar. Competitive exams “Students are good in academics, but low in confidence, primarily due to lack of proficiency in English language. Our effort is to fill this gap,” he says. Teachers have been asked to use ‘ReadToMe’ app at least three days in a week and encourage students to use it for self-learning. “Regular tests will be conducted to measure their learning outcomes,” says the Secretary, informing that students of classes 6, 7 and 8 with smartphones have been asked to install the app. Based on their academic scores and aptitude, the students are selected and trained for competitive exams such as NEET and IIT-JEE Main. Mr. Prabhakar recently visited the students and distributed study material to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-a-mission-to-hone-english-skills-of-tribal-students/article35519025.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor completes two years in office||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan planted saplings on the Raj Bhavan premises on Saturday to mark his completion of two years in office. Speaking to the officers and staff of the Raj Bhavan and the office-bearers of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) State branch who met him on the occasion, Mr. Harichandan said it was a matter of great pleasure to complete two years as Governor, and that he could never forget the love and affection showered on him by the people of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Harichandan said he had received good cooperation from the State government and the entire team of Raj Bhavan in the last two years. Pats IRCS Mr. Harichandan further appreciated the IRCS for breaking all records in tree plantation and blood donation, and lauded the services being rendered by it during the COVID-19 pandemic. Joint Secretary to Governor A. Shyam Prasad, IRCS State branch chairman A. Sridhar Reddy and general secretary A.K. Parida were among those who extended greetings to the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-completes-two-years-in-office/article35519017.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Loyola institutes pay tributes to Fr. Stan Swamy||The students and faculty of Loyola institutions and a large crowd that gathered on Andhra Loyola College (ALC) campus, paid glowing tributes to Jesuit priest and human rights activist Fr. Stan Swamy. At a programme, ‘Standing with Fr. Stan Swamy in Solidarity’, they paid tributes to an urn carrying the ashes of Fr. Stan Swamy after a procession within the campus accompanied by a tribal dance. Aswin Ekka, a resident of Ranchi who had benefited by the good work of Fr. Swamy, said he had relentlessly worked for the welfare of tribal people, fighting for their rights till his death on July 5. Recalling his valuable services, the speakers said Fr. Swamy refused to be a silent spectator amidst growing inequalities, violence and discrimination against the poor and the voiceless. The speakers included Bishop Raja Rao, Bishop Cornelius, President of Andhra Arts Academy Golla Narayana Rao, State president of Minority Hakkula Parirakshana Samithi Mohammed Farooq Shubli and member of AP State Minorities Commission Har Mohinder Singh Sahni. Faculty programme The ELT Centre of ALC, in collaboration with the Indian Society for Commonwealth Studies (ISCS) and St. Mary’s Institute in Melbourne, Australia, conducted a Faculty Development Programme on “Technology to Master Language, Literature, Teaching and Evaluation” in virtual mode. ELT Director B. Raju said more than 125 faculty had participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/loyola-institutes-pay-tributes-to-fr-stan-swamy/article35519095.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven-member gang held for selling ganja||Sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) seized 12 kg of ganja and arrested seven suspected peddlers at different places in the city on Saturday. The arrested were identified as T. Paul, Riyaz Baig, M. Sai Kiran Reddy, K. Vinay, B. Srinivas and P. Chiranjeevi and a minor. The gang was allegedly smuggling the contraband from Sileru and Araku areas in Visakhapatnam district and was selling it in small sachets, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Peddlers at large CTF Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao said the police were searching for few more peddlers, who were at large, and the customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-member-gang-held-for-selling-ganja/article35519090.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM hail Mirabai’s feat at Tokyo Olympics||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan congratulated Indian weightlifter Mirabai Chanu on winning a silver medal in the 49 kilo women’s category at the Tokyo Olympics. In a message on Twitter, he said India was proud of her achievement. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy congratulated the weightlifter on what he called her magnificent feat, and said he was delighted to see India off the mark in the prestigious games on a high note. TDP president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu tweeted that Mirabai gave a powerful start to India’s bid for glory at the Tokyo Olympics and that she proved her mettle by becoming the second Indian woman weightlifter after Karanam Malleswari to win a medal in the global sporting event. Minister for Tourism and Sports Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said in a press release that the diminutive weightlifter from Manipur scripted history for India and hoped that the Indian contingent would come back with a rich haul of medals. BJP State president Somu Veerraju complimented Mirabai for winning the silver medal and said it was an accomplishment which the entire country is proud of. Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan said Mirabai’s growth to the international level and her fighting spirit were inspirational to young people. The silver medal won by her at the Tokyo Olympics would infuse self-confidence among other Indian sportspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-hail-mirabais-feat-at-tokyo-olympics/article35519010.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of contract lecturers renewed||The government has renewed the services of contract lecturers working in the government degree colleges for a further period of 12 months by giving 10 days break for the academic year 2021-22. A G.O. released on Saturday to this effect said the government accorded permission to the Commissioner of Collegiate Education for renewal of teh services of 719 contract lecturers working in the government degree colleges and private aided oriental colleges in the SDtate for one more year by giving 10 days break from June 2021 for the academic year 2021-22 (or) till the posts filled on regular basis, whichever is earlier, or until further orders to enable to run the colleges effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-contract-lecturers-renewed/article35519023.ece
25 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Municipal council should unanimously oppose tax hike’||CPI(M) senior leader Ch. Babu Rao has demanded that the municipal council pass a unanimous resolution that the new tax regime and user charges on garbage collection would not be implemented in the city. Addressing a press conference along with CPI(M) floor leader B. Satya Babu and D. Kasinath, Mr. Babu Rao said that the VMC decided to hold a council meet on July 28 to discuss the new tax system as per G.O. 198 and user charges. He said all the corporators, irrespective of parties, should oppose the tax hike and send the resolution passed in the council to the State government. He said thousands of objections received against the tax hike should be considered by the government and the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/municipal-council-should-unanimously-oppose-tax-hike/article35519094.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain-battered city roads make commuting a nightmare||Rain-battered roads and ongoing underground cabling works at many colonies have made commuting a nightmare for motorists in the city. People have been criticising the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation(GVMC) officials for allowing digging of roads and taking up such works during monsoon season. People allege that after the recent rains, small potholes in their colony roads have gone deeper and bigger, while the bigger ones have turned dangerous, posing a threat to the two-wheeler riders. “In the name of development, the officials have dug the roads a couple of times. The roads were not properly relaid. If a motorist does not carefully watch, he/she may skid on the road or fall,” said K. Raju, a resident of China Waltair, showing the bad condition of his colony roads. Locals from Murali Nagar said that the road stretch from NGOs Colony to Madhavadhara used to a be very decent one a few years ago. But now, travel on the stretch became bumpy and dangerous. They also complain that about 40% of tar road was damaged due to UGD works and a few other works in the stretch. Though a part of the dug up road was filled with concrete, the road condition has turned bad due to rains, they complain. “Since the last two years, the roads have not been properly restored. Even the interior colony roads are in a very bad condition. In most of the parts, the gravel dug up is not removed, leading to skidding of bikes in the area,” said M. Satyanarayana, who runs a fast food centre at Murali Nagar. Flyover and water pipeline works between NAD Junction and Gopalapatnam have made the journey on the BRTS road a difficult one. Locals claim that officials have just done a temporary filling work. Road digging activities near Visakha Eye Hospital have been causing problems to the commuters. The stretches between Tenneti Park and Appughar, Jagadamba Junction and Vizag Central, Daba Gardens, Akkayyapalem have a number of potholes. Apart from the 73 km of NH-16 passing through the city, there is around 950 km of internal roads in the city. According to the GVMC officials, no major road repair works were taken up since the last two years. However, a few works to fill potholes and patchworks were done at several points. “Driving along Gajuwaka BC road and a few other roads in the interior areas has been very difficult. Most of the service roads and NH-16 at certain points are damaged and filled with potholes. The government has not taken up any repair works since the last two years,” said Corporator of Ward 78 and CPI(M) leader B. Ganga Rao. According to a senior traffic police officer, in many two-wheeler accidents, the bikes skid due to loose gravel and potholes. These accidents are generally not reported in police stations. But they occur in many internal roads, due to bad roads and lack of street lighting, the officer said “Many roads have some issues in the city. Whether the road is under the control of R&B, Port or GVMC, they need to be repaired on a priority basis,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-battered-city-roads-make-commuting-a-nightmare/article35519106.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to reopen schools evokes mixed response||The proposal of the State government to reopen schools from August 16 even as the threat of third wave looms large and recent reporting of four COVID-19 positive cases among children in the district has evoked mixed response from parents, teachers and doctors. Some people say it it not fair to stop reopening of schools and children can also get infected at social gatherings and public places. Most parents feel it is better to reopen schools, taking all precautions, instead of making them lethargic by keeping them away from school for months. Some parents, however, feel that it is better to watch the impact of the third wave and then take a call. While the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) suggests reopening of primary schools first as younger children are less susceptible to the infection, some doctors opine that primary schools could be opened later as it is difficult to make the little children comply with COVID-19 protocols. Visakhapatnam district has a population of around 48,00,000 and only around 38% of people are vaccinated. Those below 18 years of age have not been vaccinated so far. Medical experts say that vaccination of 60% or more of the population could result in herd immunity, said District Medical and Health Officer P.S. Suryanarayana. .“We are giving priority to the vaccination of teachers and they are being given the jab irrespective of their age. We are yet to receive guidelines from the government on vaccination of children. The percentage of children being affected is negligible and most of them are recovering as they have better immunity compared to adults,” he said. “Some of our teachers contracted the virus through students, who were infected at home. A majority of our teachers have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Some of them had turned positive and could not be vaccinated immediately. We have prepared both online and offline action plans for conduct of classes,” says T. Sridevi, Headmistress, KDPM High School. “While the option for online classes is always there, we have seen it is no substitute for classroom teaching. There is no assembly or gatherings in the school but children need to be educated on observing standard protocols,” she says. “All our teachers have taken the jab and we have been complying with the protocols. Confining students to the four walls of the house is making them glued to the mobile phones. Children may contract the virus from anywhere and not just schools,” says Uday Kumar, Principal of Keystone School, Seethammadhara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-reopen-schools-evokes-mixed-response/article35519037.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees throng temples on Guru Purnima||Guru Purnima was celebrated with gaiety here on Saturday. The city temples saw a large number of devotees since early morning. Devotees thronged the Shri Shirdi Sai Baba Temple at the East Point Colony since early morning. The main deity was decorated with around 25 varieties of flowers on the occasion. Special rituals were performed. Meanwhile, a large number of devotees thronged Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple on the occasion of ‘Aashada Pournami’ in Simhachalam. Even as the annual 32-km ‘Giri Pradakshana’ and ‘Pradakshanas’ atop hill were cancelled in view of the COVID-19 situation, officials allowed regular darshan from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala said that ‘Aashada Pournami’ was organised in a very peaceful manner without any issues. The EO also said that the final round of sandalwood paste to cover the idol was also applied. ‘Ekantha Seva’ and special pujas were organised, she added. Youth wing of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi- Ukkunagaram rendered services to the needy private school teachers . Sri Sarada Peetham also organised special pujas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-throng-temples-on-guru-purnima/article35519103.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Nanded special express to get LHB coaches from July 31||In its endeavour to provide a comfortable journey to commuters, the East Coast Railway has decided to induct modern Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches to Visakhapatnam-Nanded -Visakhapatnam special express with effect from July 31. East Coast Railway has been working to initiate conversion of conventional coaches of important long distance trains with LHB coaches over its jurisdiction. The LHB coaches, based on German technology, offer better travel comfort, they are lighter in weight and have higher speed potential as well as higher carrying capacity. To begin with, Waltair Division has converted six rakes into LHB rakes and operates in Visakhapatnam-New Delhi-Visakhapatnam Andhra Pradesh Express, Visakhapatnam-Korba-Visakhapatnam express trains and Visakhapatnam-Tirupati- Cudappah. This will give additional accommodation and more comfort to the pilgrims travelling to Tirupati, said a railway official. Train No. 08565 Visakhapatnam- Nanded Tri-weekly special express will run with revised composition of LHB coaches with effect from July 31. And train No. 08566 Nanded-Visakhapatnam Tri-weekly special express will run with revised composition of LHB coaches with effect from August 1. This pair of special trains will have 17 LHB coaches comprising 2nd AC-1, 3rd AC-3, Sleeper Class-6, Second Class-4, AC Pantry car coach-1 and Generator Motor Car-1. Apart from these, more LHB coaches which have been allotted by the Railway Board for Visakhapatnam for the year 2020-21, will be deployed shortly in a phased manner, according to an official release from the East Coast Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-nanded-special-express-to-get-lhb-coaches/article35519097.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death, 103 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 103 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,52,198. A total of 204 persons recovered from the coronavirus. One more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. This takes the total number of deaths to 1,046. With the increase in recoveries in the last two days, the number of active cases has come down below the 2,000-mark and stands at 1,892. The district has reported 98% recovery rate. The number of discharges/ recoveries increased to 1,49,260 as on Saturday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-103-new-covid-cases/article35519107.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister congratulates Mirabai Chanu||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao congratulated India's star weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, who created history on Saturday by winning the silver medal at the Tokyo Olympic Games in the women’s 49kg category. He said that Mirabai's achievement will be an inspiration to many. He also hoped that many more athletes will bring laurels to the country in the Tokyo games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-congratulates-mirabai-chanu/article35519110.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date for submission of online applications||Officials from Andhra University said that the last date to submit online applications to Andhra University School of International Business (AUSIB 2021) for admission into five-year Integrated BBA-MBA Programme is July 31. Director of Directorate of Admissions, D.A. Naidu, in a release on Saturday, said that notification for AUSIB-2021 was issued on July 11 and is available on AU websitewww.audoa.in. Group discussion He said that group discussion and personal interview will be held on August 5 and 6, while the allotment of seats will be on August 7. Candidates need to pay the fees between August 7 and 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-for-submission-of-applications/article35519049.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VHP files petition at PS after cow dies on AU campus||The Viswa Hindu Parishad(VHP) filed a petition at the Three Town Police Station on Saturday that a cow had died due to the alleged negligence of Andhra University security staff. According to the Circle Inspector Eswar Rao, a cow had trespassed into the campus and the security staff had tethered the cow and had asked the owner to pay a fine amount of Rs. 1,000 and take back the animal. But by the time the owner could pay the fine amount,the cow reportedly died of weakness, despite the veterinarian trying to revive it. “Based on this, the VHP had filed a petition and we are looking into it,” he said. Compensation sought Meanwhile, Corporator of Ward 22, P.V.N.L. Murthy, also raised this issue and demanded that the AU pay a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to the owner of the cow. The Circle Inspector said that after the cow had died, the Andhra University officials informed the owner to take away the carcass. But since he did not turn up in time, the officials buried the animal in the ground near YVS Murthy Auditorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vhp-files-petition-at-ps-after-cow-dies-on-au-campus/article35519104.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spandana’ to resume tomorrow||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that ‘Spandana’, the weekly programme will be resumed on July 26 in in the district. The weekly-grievance programmer should be organised in Grama/Ward Sachivalayams, mandal and division-levels without fail, he said. The programme was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic and it was resumed as the cases were coming down, he said. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana also said that ‘Spandana’ will be resumed from July 26 at the GVMC main office and at all the zonal offices in the city. She said that public can lodge their complaints with the officials from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. every Monday starting from July 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-to-resume-tomorrow/article35519109.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains cancelled to facilitate safety works||In order to facilitate the completion of safety-related works in South East Central Railway network under Raipur Division between Lokholi-Ambodala the following trains have been cancelled: Train No. 02857 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus via Rayagada leaving Visakhapatnam on July 25 and August 1. The other trains cancelled include Train No. 02856 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on July 27 and August 3, Train No. 07481 Tirupati- Bilaspur special leaving Tirupati on July 29 and August 1, Train No. 07482 Bilaspur-Tirupati special leaving Bilaspur on July 31 and August 3, Train No. 08528 Visakhapatnam- Raipur special leaving Visakhapatnam on July 25 and August 4 and train No. 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special leaving Raipur on July 26 and August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trains-cancelled-to-facilitate-safety-works/article35519050.ece
25 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders stage protest over bad roads||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Saturday staged a protest alleging deplorable condition of roads in the district, near Gokul Theatre area. They alleged that the ongoing digging works relating to underground cabling project and a few others have been causing a lot of inconvenience to people. As part of the protest, the party leaders mixed gravel and filled some of the potholes in the locality. Raising slogans against the State government, they demanded that the officials focus on roads. They alleged that since the last two years, the government has neither laid any roads nor taken up repair works. They alleged that the government seems to be not bothered even if people lose their lives in accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-stage-protest-over-bad-roads/article35519108.ece
25 July 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement Section 4 of RTI Act, BJP urges Chief Secretary||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s State Convener for Right to Information (RTI) wing Vengamamba Srinivas on Saturday urged the Chief Secretary to implement Section 4 of the RTI Act in letter and spirit since the Section clearly mandated all the government offices to display the information suo motu instead of providing information when petitions were filed by people. He said that the information, decisions and orders needed to be updated regularly on respective websites and made available in their offices for easy access to public. Speaking to the media here, he said that the guidelines of the RTI Act were supposed to be implemented within 120 days of the enactment of the Act which came into force in 2005. He alleged that no government office was following the guidelines, defeating the very purpose of the Act. “We request the State government to give directions for the effective implementation of the Act. The Public Information Officers can be trained in this aspect to follow the guidelines strictly. The petitioners need not move around government offices when they have access to required information,” said Mr. Srinivas. He said that the BJP had been identifying active persons to create awareness among the people about the RTI Act in all the districts. “We will hold a meeting very soon to establish RTI cells in all the parliamentary segments. They will work in tandem with respective BJP legal cells. The cells will help petitioners in filing the applications in the specified format,” said Mr. Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-section-4-of-rti-act-bjp-urges-chief-secretary/article35519040.ece
25 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic body gives in-principle nod for 78 layouts under LRS||The Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation(VMC) sought suggestions and objections within 15 days over the 78 layouts which were tentatively approved under the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS). Addressing the media here, VMC Assistant City Planner K. Venkateswara Rao said that 548 applications were received under the LRS but only 78 were given in-principle approval in accordance with the guidelines of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority. He said that the government was keen to ensure planned development in and around Vizianagaram and unauthorised layouts would not be allowed at any cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-body-gives-in-principle-nod-for-78-layouts-under-lrs/article35519042.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caught in a drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caught-in-a-drive/article35519047.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees’ delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-delight/article35519044.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balancing-act/article35519099.ece
25 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Godavari inches closer towards danger mark||As the swollen Godavari inched closer to the danger mark of 53 feet after crossing the first and second flood warning levels of 43 feet and 48 feet at Bhadrachalam on Saturday, a high alert has been sounded in the areas all along the river course in seven mandals of the district. Swollen tributaries of the Godavari submerged various stretches in the Agency mandals snapping road links to several riverside villages in Bhadrachalam Agency. Vehicular movement between the border mandal of Charla and Mulugu district’s Venkatapuram was disrupted as Palemvagu stream inundated a portion of the main road on Saturday afternoon, sources said. The TSRTC had to suspend its bus services between Charla and Venkatapuram mandals due to the traffic disruption caused by the overflowing stream. Relief camps The official machinery has been put on high alert to shift people living in the flood-prone areas to relief camps, provide food and medical services as per the flood contingency plan. Collector D. Anudeep conducted a tele-conference with officials of seven Agency mandals on Saturday evening. He reviewed the situation arising out of the surging water level in the Godavari and monitored the flood preparedness and emergency response services. He said as many as 27 pregnant women were shifted from the riverside villages in Charla, Dummugudem, Bhadrachalam, Burgampadu, Aswapuram, Manuguru and Pinapaka mandals to nearby government hospitals and health centres as a precautionary measure in the wake of the flood threat. He asked the health department officials to deploy the medical staff round-the-clock and keep adequate stocks of medicines available at relief camps. Control rooms Two control rooms have been working round the clock to monitor the flood situation. The control rooms can be contacted over numbers: 08744 241950 and 08743 232444. Any information pertaining to flood-related incidents can be shared on the WhatsApp helpline number 9392919743 for action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/godavari-inches-closer-towards-danger-mark/article35519058.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s fast-track approach to bolster medical infra||As part of strengthening the medical infrastructure, the State government has decided to expedite the process of filling vacancies, besides positioning adequate stocks of medicine, diagnostic and biomedical equipment, testing kits and others. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a meeting here on Saturday to review the status of medical infrastructure in the State and directed the officials to speed up the process of filling vacant posts besides procuring and positioning other essentials. Officials of the Medical and Health Department briefed the Chief Secretary about the measures being taken on strengthening the infrastructure. IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Secretaries S.A.M. Rizvi (Health), Rahul Bojja (Disaster Management), Ronald Rose (Finance), Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, Director of Medical Education D. Ramesh Reddy and Engineer-in-Chief (R&B) I. Ganapathi Reddy were among those who attended the meeting. Installation of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology oxygen generation plants, making all beds in government hospitals into oxygen facility beds, ramping up of additional storage capacity of liquid medical oxygen, increasing paediatric oxygen and ICU beds and strengthening and upgrade of district hospitals were discussed during the meeting. The Chief Secretary also enquired about the progress in respect of the seven new medical colleges, which were sanctioned recently. Managing Director of Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation, MD of Industrial Infrastructure Corporation E.V. Narasimha Reddy, Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps V. Sheshadri, Officer on Special Duty (Health) to Chief Minister Gangadhar also participated in the meeting chaired by Mr Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-fast-track-approach-to-bolster-medical-infra/article35518847.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ambulance stopped to let VIP convoy pass||Halting of vehicles by Hyderabad Traffic police to give clearance to a Minister’s convoy led to an ambulance carrying a chronic patient stuck in the traffic for a long time at Masab Tank junction on Saturday afternoon. The video of the siren blaring ambulance stuck in traffic followed by one of its medical staff walking up to the traffic constable and an argument between them went viral on social media. Netizens on Twitter and other social media platforms questioned the Traffic police for not allowing the medical emergency vehicle to pass the signal as the traffic was halted for the VIP movement. In fact, on Friday, the busy Masab Tank and Banjara Hills Road Number 12 junctions witnessed over 15 VIP movements, including ministers, for whom normal traffic was stopped for more than 15 times. “Is protocol more important to the police than the lives of people? Ambulance moving a life-threatening patient @Masab Tank (HYD) Ambulance stuck in traffic. Doctors on the way down the ambulance came and led the police on duty,” questioned a Twitter user. Police said that the traffic was halted for movement of Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali. Later in the evening, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said that around 2.30 p.m., two ambulances came from Mahaveer Hospital side towards Masab Tank, 1/12 Junction, one empty and the other shifting a patient. On seeing heavy traffic, ambulance medical technician Kishor came towards traffic constable Ali Khan of Asifnagar traffic police station, who was on duty at the junction, and told him about the stuck ambulance, he said. “Immediately, our officers facilitated the movement of the ambulance to a private hospital in the area. No arguments took place between the traffic police and ambulance staff,” Mr. Kumar clarified. He agreed that there was heavy traffic towards Masab Tank Junction roads, which happened due to clearing the traffic from 1/12 Junction. “Clearance to ambulances and other emergency vehicles is our top priority,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ambulance-stopped-to-let-vip-convoy-pass/article35518859.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Plantation programmes, vehicle donations mark KTR’s birthday||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) cadres and well-wishers of K.T.Rama Rao celebrated the Minister’s birthday on Saturday by planting saplings and announcing donation of vehicles. TRS Ministers, MLAs and the cadre participated in several programmes held across the State to wish Mr Rama Rao a long and healthy life. TRS MP Santosh Kumar Joginapally and founder of Green India Challenge had made arrangements for distribution of three crore saplings to mark the celebrations. They were planted across the State. The Minister himself announced that he would donate 100 customised two-wheelers to physically challenged persons on his birthday and called upon others to do the same, within their capacity. Responding to his call, TRS MPs and MLAs announced their contribution — Chevella MP Ranjith Reddy (101), Minister E. Dayakar Rao (105), Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy (50), Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar (50), Balka Suman (50), MLC Naveen Kumar (100), MLCs Shambipur Raju and Pochampally Srinivas Reddy (60 each), and TRS Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency in-charge Marri Rajashekhar Reddy (24). Last year, the Minister had announced donation of ambulances during the peak of COVID-19 pandemic first wave. Ministers and MLAs had followed suit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plantation-programmes-vehicle-donations-mark-ktrs-birthday/article35518853.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fuel prices soar, so do citizens’ concerns||With the cost of fuel climbing higher by each passing day, the prices of diesel and petrol per litre in the city since June 1 have risen by approximately 5.25% and 7.75%, respectively. In terms of rupees, diesel, which cost Rs. 93.08 on June 1, rose by Rs. 4.88 to touch Rs. 97.96 in a matter of 55 days. One litre of petrol, which was priced at Rs. 98.20, has shot up by Rs. 7.63 to be sold at Rs. 105.83 during the same period. According to those familiar with fuel price trends, it was on June 14 that the petrol per litre breached the Rs. 100-mark, touching Rs. 100.26. They portended that the price of petrol could reach, or even breach the Rs. 106 mark in a day a two. With the State lifting all restrictions on movement, those who have started going to office said that the commute has become expensive. Zadran, a private company employee, said that daily commute on his motorcycle is long, and that he is looking for more economically viable and alternative modes of transport. “I stay near RTC Crossroads. From here to Cyber Towers junction, and back, the journey is around 36 km. This means I have to spend over Rs. 100 per day on the commute. And invariably, I will have errands to run. This increases the expenses for petrol. I am now looking at taking the metro train, despite the station being at a distance. That too costs me around Rs. 100 a day,” he said. Others like Nikhil Tandulwadikar, a certified financial planner, said while increasing fuel prices are indeed a cause of concern, and that the cost component has increased, there is a need to look at the ‘larger picture’. “From paying Rs. 70 per litre to Rs. 105, there is definitely an increase. But there seems to be an undercurrent which suggests that relying on petrol in the long run is not feasible, and electric vehicle adoption should be looked at. The government has been giving incentives and has even increased subsidies. While this may seem like a point of view from a position of privilege, I am looking at the larger picture,” he said.  There seems to be an undercurrent which suggests that relying on petrol in the long run is not feasible, and electric vehicle adoption should be looked at. Nikhil Tandulwadikar, financial planner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fuel-prices-soar-so-do-citizens-concerns/article35518856.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Karimnagar sees gradual spike in COVID cases||COVID-19 cases in Karimnagar are on a gradual upsurge. From 59 cases on Thursday and 68 on Friday, the district reported 76 new infections on Saturday. This is the first time in the month of July that Karimnagar’s daily case burden has crossed 70. A total of 647 coronavirus cases were recorded in the State on Saturday, taking the total to 6,40,659. The highest of 81 cases were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region followed by 76 from Karimanagar, 58 from Khammam, 47 from Warangal Urban and 42 from Pedapalli. The lowest of one case each was detected in Narayanpet and Nirmal. Two deaths During the day, a total of 1,20,213 samples were examined and the results of 1,180 were awaited. The death toll stands at 3,780 with two more patients succumbing to the infection. As of Saturday evening, the State’s active case load was 9,625.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-sees-gradual-spike-in-covid-cases/article35518848.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pregnant women moved out of flood-risk areas||Pregnant women residing in rural areas that are at high risk of receiving floods were shifted to Primary Health Centres or other government health facilities as their delivery date is just days away. Health officials said such precautionary measures have been taken in Adilabad, Mancherial, and other districts which are at risk of getting inundated due to heavy rain. Health officials from the two districts said there have been no incidents of pregnant women getting stuck in inundated localities. “They were shifted out the first day it started to rain this week,” health officials in Mancherial said. In Adilabad, the women were shifted from the localities which usually get inundated during monsoons. Since water keeps flowing in flooded localities, officials are expecting complaints of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea. After a few weeks, when water becomes stagnant, chances of people contracting dengue, malaria, or other vector-borne diseases increase as virus-carrying mosquitoes breed in stagnant water. Adilabad’s District Medical and Health Officer Narendra Rathod said that Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) are already stocked with ORS packets, and medicines used to treat water borne diseases. “ANMs regularly speak with ASHAs to take stock of the situation. Medical Officers are also holding virtual meetings regularly,” Dr Rathod said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pregnant-women-moved-out-of-flood-risk-areas/article35518849.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Question KCR on ‘Dalit CM’ vow, Praveen Kumar told||Telangana Congress working president and MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy called upon former IPS officer R.S. Praveen Kumar to question Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on his ‘Dalit Chief Minister’ promise, and also asked him to work with the Congress. At a press conference, he reminded that Mr. Kumar was appointed secretary of social welfare institutions during the Congress rule as per his wish. He also alleged that the government was snatching all the assigned land given to SCs by previous Congress governments, and TRS MLAs were buying them on benami names. TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi along with Mr. Jagga Reddy told reporters after the political affairs committee meeting that the party would highlight how SCs and STs were deceived by the ruling party in the last seven years. A ‘Dalit Dandora’ programme would be held from August 9 to September 17 to ‘expose’ KCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/question-kcr-on-dalit-cm-vow-praveen-kumar-told/article35518861.ece
25 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Interaction on solutions to Army problems||The Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry on Saturday organised a seminar on ‘Industry Interaction on solutions for Problem Statements of Indian Army’. The Army’s inputs helped industry representatives to understand better prospects for collaborating with this wing of the armned forces better. It entailed presentations from industry representatives on niche technological domains and solutions to various problem statements of the Indian Army. During the product display session, MCEME and civil industry displayed certain innovative solutions to attendant problem statements. Industry experts expressed confidence that the proposals which were discussed during the seminar would soon become solutions for the armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/interaction-on-solutions-to-army-problems/article35518854.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad police hold job mela||Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar inaugurated a job mela programme organised by the city police on Saturday. 4,000 jobs The mela saw the participation of a total of 24 companies. Around 4,000 jobs were on offer. Co-promoter and executive director of Granules India and chairperson of FICCI FLO Uma Chigurupati, TMI Group chairman T. Muralidharan and COO Peter Ballem, Joint Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P. Viswa Prasad and Additional DCP-Central Zone Ramana Reddy attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-police-hold-job-mela/article35518850.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth held for cheating bitcoin investors||A 25-year-old youth was arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crimes police on Saturday for cheating a person on the pretext of selling bitcoins. The accused, Akshay Gowda, is a native of Bengaluru. Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said that on April 8, one Manish Reddy approached their Cyber Crimes team stating that he was cheated to the tune of Rs. 3,14,526 by somebody on the pretext of selling bitcoins. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and police launched a probe. The accused befriended bitcoin traders through Binance and Wzrix websites. Initially, he sold bitcoins to online traders after getting money transferred into his bank account. “After selling bitcoins two to three times, he gained their confidence and started offering them a huge commission. Believing Gowda’s stories, the victims transferred huge amounts to his account,” Mr. Mohanty said. After receiving the money, he stopped responding to their calls and messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-nabbed-for-cheating-bitcoin-investors/article35518865.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Undertrial ends life at prison||An undertrial prisoner was found dead at Cherlapally central prison on Saturday. Shaik Khaja Miya (35) from Tallagadda in Miryalaguda hanged himself at the prison. Jailer Ramakrishna Gotte told Kushaiguda police that he was sent to the prison on July 7 for his involvement in a housebreaking offence. “He resorted to the extreme step around 9.40 a.m. The medical staff examined him and soon, he was rushed to OGH, where doctors declared him dead,” police said. (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/undertrial-ends-life-at-prison/article35518857.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 40 lakh saplings planted on a single day||The Forest department has achieved a single day record by ensuring plantation of 40.34 lakh saplings inside forests and compensatory afforestation land on Saturday. This feat was achieved as part of ‘Mukkoti Vrukshaarchana’, the seventh phase of Haritha Haram. MP J. Santhosh Kumar, who initiated the programme, claimed that a total of 3.3 crore saplings have been planted across all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-40-lakh-saplings-planted-on-a-single-day/article35518860.ece
25 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth calls on NSUI president||TPCC president A Revanth Reddy, on Saturday, called on State NSUI president Venkat Balmoor, who suffered a fracture in clashes with the police during the Congress party’s protest against hacking of phones. Mr. Reddy accused the police of high-handedness in suppressing Congress programmes and demanded action against policemen involved. TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi Goud and working president Anjan Kumar Yadav accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-calls-on-nsui-president/article35518862.ece
25 July 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Applications invited from doctors||Applications are invited from qualified doctors to work on contract basis in Telangana Vaidya Vidhana Parishad hospitals in Medak district. According to Collector S. Harish, 26 civil assistant surgeon posts and five general duty medical officer posts are vacant. Those interested can attend the interview directly at the Collectorate with their certificates on July 30. Salary will be Rs. 1 lakh for civil assistant surgeons and Rs. 52,000 for general duty doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited-from-doctors/article35519056.ece
25 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Governor presents motorised tricycle to fluorosis survivor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday appreciated Ramavath Suvarna, a fluorosis survivor of Marriguda, Nalgonda, for her artworks and handed over a motorised tricycle to her at Raj Bhavan here. The 25-year-old woman, who is bed-ridden for her chronic fluorosis condition, cannot move her limbs and the maximum movement between her wrist and the fingers is just about five centimetres. Suvarna grabbed attention three years ago, when she drew pictures of popular national and State personalities, and various media outlets published her story. On Saturday, accompanied by local leaders K. Subhash and J. Sudheer, who had amplified her work through various platforms, Suvarna presented a framed sketch that she had made of the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-presents-motorised-tricycle-to-fluorosis-survivor/article35518843.ece
25 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao said on Saturday that the distribution of new ration cards will start from July 26 and 8,139 beneficiaries were identified as eligible for these. Stating that as many as 11,281 applications were received, the Collector said that the distribution programme will be formally inaugurated in Assembly constituencies by MLAs and other public representatives. People can get ration from August. In Medak, Collector S. Harish said that 3,689 applications were received of which 321 were rejected. Cards will be distributed on July 26, 27 and 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article35519055.ece
25 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Revise land rates before taking’||The oustees of Gudatipally of Akkannapet mandal have appealed to the authorities to revise the land rates and start the process of land acquisition only after that. They have also requested for a detailed project report (DPR) of Gouravelli reservoir under which the village will submerge. Gouravelli reservoir was proposed with 1.4 tmc ft initially. “Though the project capacity was increased to 8.4 tmc ft, permissions were not accorded to that extent. Hence, the proposed land acquisition will not stand good before the court of law. The authorities have to conduct social impact assessment and ascertain whether our land are really required or not. Primary notification has to be issued only after obtaining our consent,” said oustees in the memorandum submitted to Husnabad RDO M. Jayachandra Reddy. “Instead of furnishing complete details, you have issued notices. This is highly objectionable. Provide us complete details regarding the project. Based on that, we will raise our objections within 60 days,” the oustees added. “We have also asked for revision of land rates,” Baddam Raji Reddy of Gudatipally said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revise-land-rates-before-taking/article35519054.ece
25 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANGIRI,TELANGANA||Repeat offender nabbed, 15 ATM cards seized||Bhongir police arrested a repeat offender and recovered 15 ATM cards, Rs. 1.3 lakh cash and two cellphones. DCP K. Narayana Reddy on Saturday said T. Raju, 40, from Karimnagar, obtained ATM cards and passwords in the guise of helping the elderly withdraw cash. Diverting the user’s attention after the transaction, he would exchange the user’s card with the one he had.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/repeat-offender-arrested/article35518864.ece
25 July 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Victory of farmers top priority’||Newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said for him the “victory” of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is the top priority and he will go “barefoot” to meet farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws whenever they call him. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders since late November, demanding the repeal of the laws. “I consider the victory of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha as my top priority. I have been calling the farmers’ agitation as sacred for the past one year,” Mr. Sidhu told reporters at Chamkaur Sahib, where he got a rousing reception from party workers, a day after taking charge as the State Congress chief. Party supporters showered flower petals on Mr. Sidhu as his cavalcade passed through various places. The cricketer-turned-politician also visited various religious places. Later, he told reporters at Morinda that he wants to ask the protesting farmers how can the State government assist them in their cause. “I want to ask them how our government’s power can help them in a big way. Look, rising cost, declining yield and income for the past 25 years are forcing farmers to hold agitation. It is our intention that this social movement should convert into an economic power,” Mr. Sidhu. He recalled that he had put up a black flag at his house in support of the agitating farmers. “Whenever they call me, I will go barefoot and take their blessings,” he added. He also raised the issues concerning the desecration cases, power tariffs and drug menace. “Every Punjabi wants justice in ‘ beadbi ’ (desecration) of the Guru Sahib,” Mr. Sidhu said. He said people want to know the names of the big fish behind the drug menace. High power tariff “Why we have a power purchase contract at Rs. 18 a unit when it is available at Rs. 2 per unit. When we know every year, solar power rates are declining by 20%, then why Punjab pays from Rs. 7 to Rs. 18 per unit. Why should it not be bought from the national grid? We have to give answers to all these questions,” Mr. Sidhu said raising the issue of power high tariff. He further said his party has an an 18-point agenda. “Every MLA, MP and worker is a guard of this agenda and it has to be implemented,” asserted Mr. Sidhu. “We have no option other than this to move forward,” said Mr. Sidhu while pointing towards the 18-point agenda. The party high command last month had asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to act on 18 issues, including the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, drugs and power purchase agreements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/victory-of-farmers-top-priority/article35518759.ece
25 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Governor appointment copy denied||The President of India’s secretariat has denied giving copy of order of appointment of Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya under the Right To Information Act, 2005, on the pretext that the said warrant is a communication between two constitutional functionaries (President and Governor) in a fiduciary relationship. Hemant Kumar, an advocate at Punjab and Haryana High Court had through RTI, sought the copy of order of appointment of Mr. Dattatreya as Governor of Haryana. In the reply to the RTI application, the President’s Secretariat on July 23, said, “The Warrant of Appointment of the Governor is a communication between two constitutional functionaries in a fiduciary relationship. Hence a copy of the same can’t be provided in terms of Section 8(1)(e)of the RTI Act, 2005.” Mr. Kumar has filed an appeal to the appellate authority of the secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/governor-appointment-copy-denied/article35518760.ece
25 July 2021||Guwahati,||Scheme used to influence voters: AJP||The Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) on Saturday alleged that benefits under the Centre’s PM-KISAN scheme were provided to a section of ineligible farmers to influence voters by the previous BJP government in Assam and by the party in several other States where assembly elections were held earlier this year. The AJP also claimed that the “highest number of ineligible beneficiaries” under the farmers’ welfare scheme has been detected in Assam where the BJP government was in power and retained it in the last Assembly polls. Tamil Nadu, where the BJP had an alliance with the AIADMK, was in the second position with 7,22,271 ineligible farmers under the scheme, AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi alleged. As per the information provided by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in the Lok Sabha on July 20, Assam had provided the PM-KISAN benefits to 8,35,268 ineligible farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/scheme-used-to-influence-voters-ajp/article35518757.ece
25 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Mucormycosis brought under Rajasthan govt. health insurance scheme||The treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus, which affects people recovering from COVID-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic, has been added to a flagship health insurance scheme of the Rajasthan government with the expansion of its ambit. A large number of these cases were reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sirohi and Kota districts. The State government had in May this year declared mucormycosis an epidemic and a notifiable disease, and made it mandatory for the health facilities to report every case of the disease. The notification issued under the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, directed “integrated and coordinated” treatment of mucormycosis along with that for COVID-19. Though the Chief Minister’s Chiranjeevi Swasthya Bima Yojana has benefited over 1.20 lakh people with free medical treatment in less than three months of its launch, the authorities have taken note of reports that some empanelled hospitals charged the beneficiaries for treatment relating to COVID-19 and mucormycosis. State Health Assurance Agency chief executive officer Aruna Rajoria said here on Saturday that a provision had been made for refund in such cases. The State government had assigned nodal officers in all zones to resolve complaints in this regard. Cashless cover Launched on May 1, the Chiranjeevi Swasthya Bima Yojana has registered more than 1.30 crore families, comprising nearly 80% of the State’s population. The scheme is acclaimed as the most affordable health policy, offering cashless annual cover of up to Rs. 5 lakh for all. The beneficiaries are required to pay an annual premium of Rs. 850 per family. Registration is free for families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mucormycosis-brought-under-rajasthan-govt-health-insurance-scheme/article35518756.ece
25 July 2021||Rupnagar,||Farmers show black flags||A group of farmers showed black flags to Navjot Singh Sidhu when he arrived here to pay obeisance at a gurdwara. They also raised slogans against him for his “thirsty walks to the well” remark made on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-show-black-flags/article35518755.ece
25 July 2021||Ahmedabad,||Nine killed in Gujarat cylinder blast||Nine people, including four children, have died of severe burn injuries sustained in an explosion triggered by leakage of gas from an LPG cylinder on July 20 in a small room on the outskirts of Ahmedabad in Gujarat, a police official said on Saturday. While eight victims died in the last couple of days during treatment, another one succumbed on Saturday. They were labourers from Madhya Pradesh, the police official said. “Three people died during treatment on Thursday, five others succumbed on Friday, and one more on Saturday morning,” inspector P.R. Jadeja said. Labourers and their family members were sleeping in the room when the gas started leaking. When their neighbour knocked on their door to alert them, one of them got up and switched on the light, which triggered the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nine-killed-in-gujarat-cylinder-blast/article35518761.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Four dead as lift collapses in Worli||Four people were killed and one injured on Saturday after a construction lift carrying them came crashing down at an under-construction building at Worli. The incident occurred at 5.45 p.m. at near a BDD Chawl at Hanuman Gully, an official said. Police and fire brigade personnel rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation, he said. Of the six people who were injured in the incident, one was declared dead at KEM Hospital in Parel. Three others were declared brought dead at the civic-run Nair Hospital, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-dead-as-lift-collapses-in-worli/article35518766.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Court rejects bail plea of software engineer held in 2014 for terror plot||A Mumbai court has rejected the interim bail application of Anees Ansari, a software engineer who was held in 2014 for allegedly conspiring to blow up U.S. establishments in the city. Mr. Ansari sought temporary bail citing COVID-19, but his plea was rejected by Additional Sessions Judge S.H. Gwalani. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad told the court that Mr. Ansari, while working as an associate geographic technician at a private company, had set up a false Facebook account and published objectionable information using the company’s computer. He had also supported the activities of terror group ISIS, the agency told the court. The court observed that the material in the charge sheet disclosing a conversation between the accused and one Omar Elhaji was sufficient to show the intention of causing terror in the country. “Considering the attitude of the accused, he is not entitled to bail,” the court said in its order on Friday, the copy of which was made available on Saturday. The court said he could obstruct the prosecution’s case if released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-software-engineer-held-in-2014-for-terror-plot/article35518769.ece
25 July 2021||Mumbai,||Barge P305 case: court denies bail to 3 accused||A court has rejected the bail plea of two officials and a director of the commercial Barge P305 that sank off the Mumbai coast during Cyclone Tauktae, in which 71 people lost their lives. Sessions judge U.M. Padwad on Friday denied bail to Prasad Rane, office administrator of PAPAA Shipping; Nitin Singh, one of its directors; and Akhilesh Tiwari, the firm’s technical superintendent. The order was made available on Saturday. The prosecution said the accused did not exercise caution and control over the situation. The court, while rejecting the bail plea, said the the chief engineer’s version of the events indicates that it was more a matter of negligence than a genuine human error of judgement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/barge-p305-case-court-denies-bail-to-3-accused/article35518762.ece
25 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Thousands bereft of power as high-voltage towers fall||About 80,000 power consumers in Mahad and Poladpur talukas of Raigad district have been plunged into darkness after two 220 KV towers of the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) collapsed following heavy rain on Thursday. Telecommunication services in the district were also affected. The collapse led to the closure of Mahad substation and four substations in Chambharkhind, GBL, Kolose, and Turbhe in Pen division. Power was snapped in 260 areas, including Mahad city, Birwadi, Vinhere, Vahur, Nangalwadi, Nagaon, Kumble, Mahad MIDC, Poladpur city, Turbhe, Pitalwadi, and Varandh. “Work to repair the towers and restore electricity is on. MSETCL is supervising the work. Once the towers are repaired, electricity snapped from the switching station of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) would be restored,” a spokesperson of MSEDCL said. 52 missing in Taliye The death toll from the torrential rains that battered the district over the last week and triggered landslides in some areas rose to 60 on Saturday, including 49 from Taliye village in Mahad taluka. Of the 242 residents in the village, 109 were out for work when the landslide occurred. While 49 bodies have been recovered from Taliye so far, the district administration has released a list of 52 missing people from the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/thousands-bereft-of-power-as-high-voltage-towers-fall/article35518764.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre violating rights of Delhi govt. through L-G’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said that the Central government’s attitude towards Delhi was unconstitutional and undemocratic. “The constitutional rights of the elected Delhi government are continuously violated by the Central government through the Lieutenant-Governor and all the decisions are being obstructed. The Central government needs to read the Constitution and reflect that if the government elected by the people is not being allowed to function, then what is the need to hold elections, and what is the need for the Constitution? This shows the unconstitutional and undemocratic attitude of the BJP-led Central government,” Mr. Sisodia said. Mr. Sisodia claimed that the Lieutenant-Governor has rejected the panel of lawyers decided by the Delhi Cabinet to appear for cases filed against farmers who were protesting, because the latter does not want BJP’s “anti-farmer” stance to be exposed. Farmers’ case “It was decided in the Delhi Cabinet on July 19 that lawyers would be appointed by the Delhi government with respect to the farmer agitation cases going on in the court. However, the Lieutenant-Governor reversed this decision of the Delhi government on Saturday and sent the file to the President,’ he said. Unconstitutional stand The AAP Minister claimed that the L-G is repeatedly interfering unconstitutionally in the functioning of the Delhi government, which is elected by the people. “The L-G is repeatedly abusing his powers, going against the decision of the Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court,” he added.  If the government elected by the people is not being allowed to function, then what is the need to hold elections? Manish Sisodia Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-violating-delhis-rights-via-l-g-sisodia/article35518748.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Vendors, hawkers to march to CM, L-G house tomorrow||Street vendor and hawkers’ association on Saturday announced that they would on Monday march to the residences of Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal with begging bowls for compensation due to loss of livelihood. Ashwani Bagri, convener of Delhi Weekly Bazaar United Front and president of Hawkers’ Joint Action Committee, North Delhi unit, said the “begging protest march” was being organised to highlight that the city’s busy markets and liquor vends had been opened but the precarious conditions of street vendors were being neglected. He demanded that the authorities concerned immediately allow street vendors or else compensate them for loss of livelihood at the rate of Rs. 18,000 per month. “If the appropriate decision is not taken soon, then the indebted and helpless street vendors will be forced to intensify agitations in the streets and the insensitivity of the government will be responsible for such a situation,” Mr. Bagri said. Dharmendra Kumar, president of All India Hawkers’ Joint Action Committee said, “Street vending is the last refuge for poor, disabled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vendors-hawkers-to-march-to-cm-l-g-house-tomorrow/article35518751.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police rescue 16-year-old ‘sold’ for marriage||A 16-year-old girl who was abducted, sexually assaulted, and ‘sold’ to a person for Rs. 50,000 — with whom she was also forcibly married, has been rescued from Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district, the police said on Saturday. The accused has also been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Monika Bhardwaj said the accused has been identified as Rajeev Garg, a resident of Bhind. Police said that on May 29, the girl had told her parents that she was going to a friend’s house. When she did not return, the family launched a search and subsequently approached the police. A case was registered at Ranhola police station on charges of kidnapping. During the probe, call detail records of the victim were scrutinised and the police apprehended Rajeev on July 22,” Ms. Bhardwaj said. On Rajeev’s instance, the victim was rescued from a house near a bus stand in Bhind. The girl allegedly told the police that Rajeev had befriended her online by pretending to be a girl named Mahi Garg. When the victim realised she was talking to a man, she broke off contact and blocked his number. “But Rajeev called her from some other number and emotionally exploited her to continue the friendship and unblock his number. He also convinced her to meet him at Madhuban Chowk,” said a senior police officer. On May 29, the girl met Rajeev, who abducted her and took her to Bhind. “The victim was subjected to physical and sexual assault by Rajeev. She also said that the accused sold her to one Ram Mohan, a resident of Bhind, for Rs. 50,000, and she was forced to marry him,” the officer said. The police said they are looking for Ram Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-rescue-16-year-old-sold-for-marriage/article35518932.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal’s U-turn on relief for kin of COVID warriors shameful: BJP||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of making a U-turn when it came to compensating the families of ‘Corona Warriors’. Mr. Bidhuri termed “shameful” that the Chief Minister had allegedly not lived up to his promise of paying every ‘Corona Warrior’ who died in performing his or her duty and had to be reprimanded by the courts to fulfil the promise. Constable case Referring to the case of Delhi police constable Amit Kumar, he said Kumar died last year while performing his duty in dealing with the COVID-19 situation and the Chief Minister had tweeted that his family would be paid Rs. 1 crore compensation. “However, his family is still to receive the compensation once again highlighting the fact that the Chief Minister and his party are a classic example of lies and deceit. His widow had approached the court after which the court had advised the Chief Minister to live up to his promise and pay the compensation,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “In an earlier case also, the court had asked Mr. Kejriwal to fulfil his promise made during the last year’s lockdown that the Delhi government would pay the rent for people who are not able to pay it due to the prevailing lockdown situation,” he said. Mr. Bidhuri said around 500 Corona Warriors have sacrificed their life till date while performing their duties during the pandemic. ‘Betrayal of sacrifice’ But, he alleged, the Delhi government had only paid compensation to around 15-20 families till date which was “a betrayal of their sacrifice”. “Such a sensitive issue of sacrifice and valour was being used by the Kejriwal government for PR stunts and to gain cheap brownie points. The residents of Delhi expect their Chief Minister to live up to the promises he has made to the people. It will reflect poorly on him and his party if he fails to live up to these promises,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/relief-given-to-only-15-20-families-of-corona-warriors-says-bidhuri/article35518743.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Vintage golf carts to offer last-mile connectivity at Chandni Chowk||The Delhi Transport Department has submitted specifications of vintage golf carts for last-mile connectivity at redeveloped Chandni Chowk with the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) paving the way for them on the 1.3-km stretch in days to come. According to a senior government official, a decision on these is likely to be taken at a meeting of the Corporation on Monday. The issue of electric vehicles — especially for the infirm and elderly — to serve visitors to the market had come up for discussion at a meeting of the corporation on June 25. It had been decided to deliberate on the issue in detail. “After these deliberations, we have submitted suggestions to the SRDC regarding the modalities and approvals which will be required to allow such vehicles on the stretch,” said a senior government official. On PPP mode “These will most likely be operated on a PPP mode with market and residential associations chipping in for their procurement and operationalisation. We expect more clarity on this by next week,” the official said. In addition to vintage golf carts, as many as 107 cycle rickshaws, which will be allowed to ply on the pedestrianised stretch soon, are being refurbished in accordance with a “better” and more “user-friendly design” in addition to being RFID-enabled. RFID equipped They will also be equipped with RFID for effective regulation and their number can be increased later in a phased manner. The stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid is a vehicle-free zone — no vehicles are allowed between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. – though non-motorised vehicles are allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vintage-golf-carts-to-offer-last-mile-connectivity-at-chandni-chowk/article35518744.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Batla House encounter: convict moves High Court challenging death sentence||Ariz Khan, who was awarded the death penalty for the murder of decorated Delhi police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma in connection with the sensational 2008 Batla House encounter case, has moved the Delhi High Court challenging his conviction and sentence.  Inspector killing Khan has filed an appeal against the trial court verdict which said the offence fell under the “rarest of the rare category” warranting the maximum sentence and Ariz be “hanged by neck” till death. Inspector Sharma of the Delhi Police’s Special Cell was killed during the 2008 Batla House encounter between the police and the terrorists in Jamia Nagar in south Delhi following serial bomb blasts in the national capital in which 39 people died and 159 were injured. The appeal has been filed by Ariz through advocates M.S. Khan and Quasar Khan. The trial court had on March 8 convicted Ariz saying that it was duly proved that he and his accomplices murdered the police official and fired gunshots at him. The trial court had, on March 15, sentenced Ariz to capital punishment and also imposed a fine of Rs. 11 lakh on him, making it clear that Rs. 10 lakh should be immediately released to the family members of Sharma. It had termed the act of Ariz of firing on police party without any provocation as “abhorrent and brutal” and said this itself showed that he was not only a threat to the society but was also an enemy of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/batla-house-encounter-convict-moves-high-court-challenging-death-sentence/article35518754.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘North body evicting Gaffar Market shops’||The AAP on Saturday alleged that the BJP-ruled North Corporation is evicting shopkeepers from Gaffar Market to build new shops and then give them to other people. “The civic body in connivance with big builder mafias is coming up with a new technique. The markets in which shops should have been on freehold, where shops were given on a lease for 99 years, surveys are now being conducted to find out fallacies and evict people from those buildings,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He claimed that the BJP is marking these buildings to be dangerous and forcing the shopkeepers to empty the markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/north-body-evicting-gaffar-market-shops/article35518745.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Rs. 295 cr. salary dues released to employees’||Former Mayor of North Corporation Jai Prakash on Saturday said that the civic body has released Rs. 295 crore salary of A, B, C and D category employees for June and teachers’ salary for May and one pension of retired employees. Salaries of teachers He said that the North Corporation has given the entire outstanding salary to almost all the employees and that one month’s salary of teachers and one month pension of retired employees would be released by the corporation soon. “If the Delhi government had given this outstanding fund to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, then the latter would have released the salary to all the employees till the month of July. Every effort is being made to fulfil the promises made to all the employees of the corporation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-295-cr-salary-dues-released-to-employees/article35518746.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Ashram underpass work delayed||The construction of a 750-metre-long underpass at the Ashram intersection on Mathura Road is delayed yet again and the deadline has been pushed by two months, Public Works Department officials involved in the project said on Saturday. The revised deadline of the project is now August 31, an official said. The earlier one was June 30. The delay will add to the traffic woes of thousands of commuters who rely on the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ashram-underpass-work-delayed/article35518753.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi continues to face shortage of vaccines||The Capital continued to face a shortage of vaccines and the number of doses of vaccines administered daily was also low. The COVID-19 vaccine stock will last for only less than a day, as per a vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The city has been facing a similar situation for about two weeks and the Health Minister had said last week that 500 vaccination centres were shut due to shortage in the city. On Saturday morning, the city had only 1,08,460 doses of Covishield vaccine and 2,26,760 doses of Covaxin, as per the data. Till now, 96,03,697 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city. A total of 72,69,780 of vaccine doses have been supplied to Delhi and 19,989 doses have been wasted, as per Central government data||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-continues-to-face-shortage-of-vaccines/article35518749.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Savouring success||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/savouring-success/article35518937.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Savouring success||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/savouring-success/article35518768.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||For a single drop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/for-a-single-drop/article35518935.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden, Ghani question Taliban’s motives||U.S President Joe Biden and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani have, during a Friday phone call, concluded that the Taliban’s brutal campaign in Afghanistan after the departure of most U.S. and NATO troops is not consistent with the group’s claimed support for a negotiated peace settlement in Afghanistan. “President Biden and President Ghani agreed that the Taliban’s current offensive is in direct contradiction to the movement’s claim to support a negotiated settlement of the conflict. President Biden also reaffirmed the United States’ commitment to continue supporting the Afghan security forces to defend themselves,” a White House readout of the leaders’ phone call said. The two leaders “deplored” the loss of innocent lives via targeted killings and the displacement of civilians and the damage to infrastructure and buildings. According to the White House, Mr. Biden reaffirmed continued U.S. support and aid for the country, including for Afghan women, girls and minorities – whose status is extremely precarious given the Taliban’s history of repression of these groups. “President Biden urged continued work for unity among Afghan leaders on behalf of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the values on which it is based. The two leaders discussed the importance of Afghans coming together to support their common interest in security and peace, and President Biden underscored continued U.S. diplomatic engagement in support of a durable and just political settlement,” the readout said. Earlier in July, Mr. Biden had said that it was “highly unlikely” that there was going to be one unified government controlling the whole of Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-ghani-question-talibans-motives/article35518177.ece
25 July 2021||Manila,||China braces for Typhoon In-fa||Airline flights were cancelled in eastern China and cargo ships were ordered out of the area on Saturday as Typhoon In-fa churned toward the mainland after dumping rain on Taiwan. This comes amid ongoing rescue efforts to move residents out of flooded neighbourhoods in central China after torrential rains killed at least 56 people In-fa is likely to hit the coast of Zhejiang province, south of Shanghai, on Sunday afternoon or evening, the provincial weather department announced. The storm had sustained winds of 155 km per hour with gusts up to 191 km per hour as it moved northwest away from Taiwan, the island’s weather bureau reported. Schools, markets and businesses in Zhejiang were ordered to close, the official Xinhua News Agency said. It said road traffic would be suspended when necessary. The airport in the provincial capital of Hangzhou, southwest of Shanghai, canceled 90% of flights on Sunday and was expected to cancel more on Monday, the newspaper Zhejiang Daily reported on its website. Large container ships were evacuated from Yangshan Port in Shanghai, one of the world’s busiest shipping centers, according to Xinhua. It cited port management as saying winds off the coast were 89 to 102 kph (55 to 65 mph) and would accelerate. Meanwhile, thousands of residents fled flooded communities and swollen rivers in the Philippines capital and outlying provinces on Saturday after days of torrential monsoon rains, which left at least one villager dead, officials said. Officials said they struggled to open more emergency shelters in order to allow social distancing among the displaced residents and prevent evacuation camps from turning into epicenters of COVID-19 infections. In the hard-hit city of Marikina in the capital region, nearly 15,000 residents were evacuated to safety overnight as waters rose alarmingly in a major river. “This situation will be too difficult if there won’t be a permanent solution to flooding, especially now with the threat from the delta variant,” Marikina Mayor Marcelino Teodoro said. Many of the residents were evacuated from flood-prone villages in Marikina overnight, depriving them of sleep, said Mr. Teodoro. He blamed years of illegal logging in nearby mountains and heavy siltation in Marikina River for constant flooding in his city. In-fa has churned off the country’s eastern coast. A cargo boat overturned after being lashed by strong waves on Saturday close to a port in Pio Duran town in Albay province, southeast of Manila. Its 10 crewmen were rescued by firefighters and villagers, who used a rope to pull the overturned boat closer to the coast, the coast guard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-braces-for-typhoon-in-fa/article35518168.ece
25 July 2021||Sydney,||Protesters, police clash over Australia lockdown||Thousands marched through Australia’s two biggest cities in anti-lockdown protests on Saturday, sparking violent clashes with police in Sydney. Dozens of protesters were arrested after an unauthorised march flouted public health orders in Sydney, while several confrontations with police broke out during the hours-long rally. Officers were pelted with pot plants and bottles of water as opponents of Sydney’s month-long stay-at-home order took to the streets in numbers. Thousands also crowded several streets in Melbourne after gathering outside the state parliament in the early afternoon. The largely maskless protesters were flouting rules on non-essential travel and public gatherings, a day after authorities suggested the restrictions could remain in place until October. “I am utterly disgusted by the illegal protesters in the city today whose selfish actions have compromised the safety of all of us,” the premier of Sydney’s state of New South Wales, Gladys Berejiklian, said in a statement. “The protesters have shown utter contempt for their fellow citizens who are currently doing it tough.” Hundreds of police responded to the Sydney protest, with several demonstrators pulled from the crowd in handcuffs by officers. Police said they issued nearly 100 fines and arrested 57 people. Police in Melbourne said six people were arrested. New South Wales Police Minister David Elliott said a team of detectives would be scouring footage to identify and charge as many people as possible in the coming days. “What we saw today in Sydney is unfortunately something that we’ve seen in cities that we all shake our head at,” Mr. Elliott told media after the protest. “It’s quite clear that you know, Sydney isn’t immune from morons as well.” He also said he expected the gathering to drive a spike in COVID-19 cases and urged all those who attended to get tested and isolate. ‘Wake up Australia’ Organisers had dubbed the protest a “freedom” rally and publicised it on social media pages frequently used to spread vaccine disinformation and conspiracy theories. Attendees carried signs and banners reading “Wake up Australia” and “Drain the Swamp” — echoing messages seen in similar demonstrations overseas. Helicopters buzzed above the streets of Sydney, a city of over five million people that is struggling to contain an outbreak of the Delta variant. The state of New South Wales reported 163 new infections on Saturday to bring its total in the current outbreak to nearly 2,000. After escaping much of the early pandemic unscathed, around half of Australia’s 25 million people are now in lockdown across several cities. There is growing anger at the restrictions and the conservative government’s failure to provide adequate vaccine supplies. Just 11% of the population is fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protesters-police-clash-over-australia-lockdown/article35518171.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Blinken will raise human rights issues’||During his visit next week to New Delhi, the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will raise concerns around human rights in India, according to a U.S. official. Mr. Blinken is expected to arrive in New Delhi late on July 27 and will meet with his counterpart S. Jaishankar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi (according to the U.S. version of Mr. Blinken’s schedule). “And with respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation, because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t,” Acting Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs Dean Thompson told reporters on Friday, when asked how important human rights were to the meeting agenda. “And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward,” he said, adding that the U.S.-India bilateral relationship was “ strong” and has, and would, endure through all types of U.S. administrations. On Pegasus spyware On the question of the Pegasus spyware story, Mr. Thompson was more circumspect. The phones of a number of Indian citizens and foreigners in India were hacked using this software, produced by an Israeli firm – NSO Group – which has said it sells its software only to government clients. “We – I don’t have any particular special insights into the India case. I know this is a broader issue, but I will say that we’ve been, I think, quite vocal about trying to find ways for companies to be able to ensure that their technology is not used in these types of ways. And we will certainly continue to press – to press those issues,” he said. The Biden administration – which only days earlier had accused China and Russia of “protecting” and “accommodating” cyber hackers and their hacking – has been apparently reluctant to apply the same standards to democracies Israel (one of America’s closest allies) and India (a partner of growing significance). Earlier this week, in their reactions to the story, the White House and the State Department refrained from naming either country. The meetings next week will cover a host of issues such as expanding cooperation on the security, cyber, defence and counter-terrorism fronts. It will also include discussions on the Indo-Pacific and a partnership among Quad countries to roll out at least a billion COVID-19 vaccines in 2022 to the Asia region. The overall response to the pandemic and cooperation on climate action are expected to be major issues on next week’s agenda. On Afghanistan On the question of what the U.S. is “ looking for” from India as regards Afghanistan, Mr. Thompson did not want to get into specifics but said that Mr. Blinken would discuss how the U.S. and India could work together to get a “stable and secure” Afghanistan. On whether India and Pakistan’s relationship would figure in next week’s talks, Mr. Thompson said the U.S. believed, “strongly,” that the issues were for India and Pakistan to resolve between themselves. “We are pleased to see that the ceasefire that went into place earlier this year is – has remained intact, and we certainly always encourage them to continue their efforts to find ways to build a more stable relationship going forward,” he said, articulating a position that is different from the Trump administration’s position. Former President Donald Trump had repeatedly made offers to mediate between the two countries if they requested his assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-will-raise-human-rights-issues/article35518203.ece
25 July 2021||Paris,||Amnesty seeks moratorium on surveillance tech||Allegations that governments used phone malware supplied by an Israeli firm to spy on journalists, activists and heads of state have “exposed a global human rights crisis,” Amnesty International said, asking for a moratorium on the sale and use of surveillance technology. In a statement on Friday, the NGO warned of “the devastating impact of the poorly regulated spyware industry on human rights worldwide.” The NSO Group’s Pegasus software — able to switch on a phone’s camera or microphone and harvest its data — is at the centre of a storm after a list of about 50,000 potential surveillance targets was leaked to rights groups. Amnesty International and French media nonprofit Forbidden Stories collaborated with a clutch of media companies, including the Washington Post , the Guardian and Le Monde , to analyse and publish the list. French President Emmanuel Macron, who was on the list of alleged targets, had to change his phone and number. “Not only does it expose the risk and harm to those individuals unlawfully targeted, but also the extremely destabilising consequences on global human rights and the security of the digital environment at large,” Agnes Callamard, Amnesty’s Secretary General, said in the statement. Israel group NSO “is just one company.” “This is a dangerous industry that has operated on the edges of legality for too long, and this cannot be allowed to continue,” she said. “Now, we urgently need greater regulation over the cyber surveillance industry, accountability for human rights violations and abuses, and greater oversight over this shadowy industry.” Amnesty called for an immediate moratorium on any export, sale, transfer and use of surveillance technology “until there is a human rights-compliant regulatory framework in place.” The list of alleged targets includes at least 180 journalists, 600 politicians, 85 human rights activists and 65 business leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amnesty-seeks-moratorium-on-surveillance-tech/article35518166.ece
25 July 2021||Baghdad,||Terrorists behind Baghdad bombing held||Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhemi announced on Saturday the arrest of members of a “terror cell” behind the Baghdad market bombing that killed dozens and was claimed by the Islamic State group. The attack sparked revulsion and renewed fears about the reach of IS, which lost its last territory in Iraq after a gruelling campaign that ended in late 2017, but retains sleeper cells in remote desert and mountain areas. The bombing took place on Monday at Al-Woheilat market in Sadr City, a Shiite suburb in the capital, and officially killed 30 people, excluding the direct perpetrator. “We have arrested all the members of the cowardly terrorist cell that planned and perpetrated the attack,” Kadhemi said on Twitter, “and they will be put before a judge today.” The Prime Minister did not specify the number of people arrested, but a source at the interior ministry said the suspects were anticipated to make televised “confessions”, a common occurence for major crimes in Iraq. Deadly attacks were common in Baghdad during the sectarian bloodletting that followed the US-led invasion of 2003, and later on as IS swept across much of the country in a lightning offensive in 2014. Iraq declared IS defeated in late 2017 after a fierce three-year campaign and attacks became relatively rare in the capital — until January this year when a twin IS-claimed suicide bombing killed 32 people in another market. The US-led coalition that supported Iraq’s campaign against IS has significantly drawn down its troop levels over the past year, citing increased capabilities of Iraqi forces..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/terrorists-behind-baghdad-bombing-held/article35518167.ece
25 July 2021||Kabul,||Night curfew imposed to stem Taliban advance||Afghan authorities on Saturday imposed a night-time curfew across 31 of the country’s 34 provinces to curb surging violence unleashed by a Taliban offensive in recent months, the Interior Ministry said. The Taliban have captured key border crossings, dozens of districts and encircled several provincial capitals since early May. “Night curfew has been imposed in 31 provinces across the country,” except in Kabul, Panjshir and Nangarhar, it said. The curfew will be effective between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m local time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/night-curfew-imposed-to-stem-taliban-advance/article35518165.ece
25 July 2021||Kampala,||New cars for Uganda MPs spark outrage||Uganda this week doled out €25 million euros to MPs to buy new cars, sparking outrage in a poor country where the pandemic has wreaked havoc. Each of the 529 lawmakers were handed 200 million shillings (€48,000 euros) to buy new vehicles at a time when COVID-19 cases are surging. “It is unacceptable for a government to buy luxuries to a small group in Parliament, who receive monthly pay of over 30 million shillings (about $8,000) while the larger population are unable to feed themselves,” said Anet Nana Namata, a human rights defender. A labourer earns monthly salary of about €24 while a teacher gets about €64.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-cars-for-uganda-mps-spark-outrage/article35518169.ece
25 July 2021||PARIS,||EU--Virus Outbreak-France||Tens of thousands of people, including far-right activists and members of France’s yellow vest movement, protested on Saturday across the country against a Bill requiring everyone to have a special virus pass to enter restaurants and mandating vaccinations for all health care workers. Most French adults are fully vaccinated and multiple polls indicate a majority of French people support the new measures. But not everyone.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-virus-outbreak-france/article35518524.ece
25 July 2021||Rome,||Protests across Italy against Covid certificates||Thousands of people protested in cities across Italy on Saturday against the government's introduction of restrictions on unvaccinated people as Rome tries to slow an upturn in COVID-19 infections. They were protesting against Green Pass, an extension of the EU’s digital COVID-19 certificate, which will be required from August 6 to enter cinemas, museums, indoor swimming pools or sports stadiums, or eat indoors at restaurants.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protests-across-italy-against-covid-certificates/article35518526.ece
25 July 2021||Moscow,||Russia sends aid to Cuba after anti-government protests||Russia dispatched nearly 100 tonnes of humanitarian aid to Cuba, the Defence Ministry said on Saturday, following protests over the communist country's worst economic crisis in decades. The delivery was ordered by President Vladimir Putin, it said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-sends-aid-to-cuba-after-anti-government-protests/article35518173.ece
25 July 2021||Istanbul,||Turkey says UNESCO criticism of Hagia Sophia conversion ‘biased’||Turkey on Saturday rejected the UNESCO’s criticism of the conversion of Byzantine-era Hagia Sophia cathedral into a mosque last year. UNESCO asked Turkey on Friday to submit a report about the state of conservation of the Hagia Sophia, expressing “grave concern” over its conversion into a mosque.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-says-unesco-criticism-of-hagia-sophia-conversion-biased/article35518175.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||July exports poised to hit $33 bn: Goyal||July’s exports are likely to reach about $33 billion, keeping India on track to cross the $400 billion mark in outbound trade for the first time this year, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows were also expected to hit a fresh record in 2021-22, he added. Dismissing investor concerns about land acquisition and labour laws, the minister asserted that land, labour and capital were no longer a hindrance for investing in India, and a lot more reforms were in the pipeline at the Central government level as well as in States administered by the Bharatiya Janata Party. “Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, our FDI inflows were the highest ever last year when other countries saw investments falling. This year, we are confident of continuing the seven-year streak of new record highs in FDI,” Mr. Goyal said. “Exports are looking up and we had a record $95 billion of exports in the first quarter. This has energised us to set a target of $400 billion for 2021-22 and I am confident we can achieve that. Even in July, till July 21, exports are above $22 billion and well poised to cross $32-33 billion by the end of the month,” he said at a CII-Horasis India meeting. The government said exports had risen 45% to hit $22.48 billion by the third week of July, 25.4% higher than the pre-COVID level. Engineering goods exports were up 33.7% so far in July, 51.2% above July 2019 levels. “We are now in the top-10 list of agri-produce exporters... and many sectors which are labour-intensive are showing good traction,” Mr. Goyal, who also handles the Textiles, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution ministries, said. Land, labour ‘old issues’ Responding to queries about pending reforms in land acquisition and labour laws, Mr. Goyal said: “Sometimes, we often just go about the same complaint about an issue which may not necessarily be so on the ground. I have been a minister for seven years and am yet to meet an industrialist who came to me and said they are not investing in India because of labour laws. The Centre had identified lakhs of acres for investors to tap, but some business in a particular area may have faced resistance because of political motivations or inability to market the project. “Today, land, labour and capital — with so many venture capitalists and other private investors, banks much stronger than ever before, having cleaned up most of their balance-sheets — are issues which were discussed 10 or five years ago,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/july-exports-poised-to-hit-33-bn-goyal/article35518156.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Mindtree expects Europe to grow faster than U.S. in FY22’||Larsen & Toubro-owned mid-tier tech firm Mindtree is actively looking at suitable, but selective M&A targets that will help the company further its digital vision for its global clients, said CEO & MD Debashis Chatterjee. Excerpts:  What gives Mindtree confidence to anticipate double-digit revenue growth throughout FY22? The context is that an unprecedented disruption caused by the pandemic has created a sense of urgency among businesses to leverage technology to stay relevant. Strategic initiatives that we undertook through last year are yielding good results. All these are positioning us well to deliver industry-leading double-digit growth this year. We just delivered our fourth consecutive quarter (Q1) of solid growth despite difficult times. We reported broad-based growth across service lines, industry segments and geographies. Our order book of half-a-billion U.S. dollars, up 34.2% sequentially, is the highest ever in our history. What would be the impact of fiscal stimulus in the U.S. and EU on IT spends? As businesses look to strengthen their digital backbone and reimagine business models leveraging technology, the demand for our capabilities has risen significantly across both North America and Europe. With the U.S. economy gradually returning to normalcy and Europe opening up to strategic technology partnerships, we are winning important deals across all key verticals. Are you expecting any additional headwinds in the travel, transport and hospitality sectors? Having borne the brunt of the pandemic, travel, transport and hospitality (TTH) sectors are beginning to show early signs of recovery. Volumes are picking up. Vaccinations and easing of travel restrictions are expected to give a further boost to the sector. Client focus is shifting from cash conservation to discretionary spend with a direct bearing on customer experience, outreach, revenue growth, business resilience and security. We remain cautiously optimistic about the sector as it is hard to predict the impact of future variants of the virus. What is the outcome of Mindtree’s increased focus on Europe and reduced concentration in North America? Our investments in Continental Europe, U.K. and Ireland have helped us deliver strong growth of 11.2% q-o-q and 52% y-o-y for the region in Q1. In dollar terms, North America grew 7.7% sequentially and 18.9% y-o-y. For FY22, we expect Europe to grow faster than the U.S., albeit on a smaller base. Size often plays a critical factor in the global markets... what’s your game plan to quickly gain scale and increase market dominance? We think of size as more of an outcome than a strategy. Our focus will continue to be on bringing our clients the competitive benefits of our agile frameworks and approaches in their digital transformation journeys. Our strategy is built around the guiding principles of ‘simplify’, ‘differentiate’ and ‘change’, which are our strategic levers in our role as a business transformation partner to our clients. We continue to focus on enhancing our domain expertise in chosen areas such as healthcare, cybersecurity and deep domain technologies. We are also strengthening our consulting and technology capabilities across our service lines, and deepening and expanding strategic relationships with clients, partners and hyperscalers. Focused M&As are key to our growth strategy. Backed by L&T, Mindtree now can afford a big-ticket acquisition... when will that happen? M&As will be more about complementing or augmenting our capabilities in strategic focus areas, as evident in our recent acquisition of L&T NxT, which has opened new opportunities for us around AI, IoT and Industry 4.0. We are actively looking at companies that will help us further our digital vision for our clients. But we will be selective in the type of companies we go after.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mindtree-expects-europe-to-grow-faster-than-us-in-fy22/article35518152.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Tesla eyes at least ‘temporary relief’ on import duty in India||Electric vehicle maker Tesla may set up a manufacturing unit in India if it first succeeds with imported vehicles in the country, according to CEO Elon Musk. However, at present import duties in India were “the highest in the world” and he was hoping for “at least a temporary tariff relief for electric vehicles”, Mr. Musk tweeted. Interacting on Twitter with followers who asked him to start selling Tesla cars in India, Mr. Musk said, “We want to do so, but import duties are the highest in the world by far of any large country!” Currently, India levies 100% duty on fully imported cars with CIF (Cost, Insurance and Freight) value more than $40,000 and 60% on those costing less. Mr. Musk further said, “Clean energy vehicles are treated the same as diesel or petrol, which does not seem entirely consistent with the climate goals of India.” He, however, said, “We are hopeful that there will be at least a temporary tariff relief for electric vehicles. That would be much appreciated.” Asked if Tesla could start with assembly in India, he said, “If Tesla is able to succeed with imported vehicles, then a factory in India is quite likely.” A senior government official on Friday had said Tesla had asked for reduction in import duty. Recently, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had said Tesla has a golden opportunity to set up its manufacturing facility in India given the country’s thrust on e-vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tesla-eyes-at-least-temporary-relief-on-import-duty-in-india/article35518160.ece
25 July 2021||MUMBAI,||ICICI Bank net rises 78% to Rs. 4,616 cr.; slippages up||ICICI Bank Ltd. on Saturday reported first-quarter standalone net profit rose 78% to Rs. 4,616 crore, from Rs. 2,599 crore a year earlier, due to lower provisioning and a rise in interest income. Digital initiatives helped the bank improving its performance, top executives said. However, the lender witnessed higher slippages from its retail loan book with the absence of any moratorium from the RBI and the second wave severely denting people’s incomes. Despite the second wave affecting a major part of the quarter, net interest income (NII) rose 18% to Rs. 10,936 crore, while the net interest margin increased to 3.89% from 3.69% in the corresponding period last year. Non-interest income, excluding treasury income, grew 56% year-on-year to Rs. 3,706 crore and fee income grew by 53% to Rs. 3,219 crore. During the period it made lower provisions (excluding provision for tax) of Rs. 2,852 crore compared with Rs. 7,594 crore in the year-earlier period. In view of the current scenario the bank said it had changed its policy on non-performing loans to make it more conservative from Q1. “The change in policy resulted in higher provision on non-performing advances amounting to Rs. 1,127 crore for aligning provisions on outstanding loans to the revised policy,” the bank said in a regulatory filing. Based on current assessment of its portfolio, the bank wrote back COVID-19 provisions amounting to Rs. 1,050 crore made in earlier periods and as on June 30 it held COVID-related provisions of Rs. 6,425 crore. The bank’s net non-performing assets increased to Rs. 9,306 crore as on June 30 compared with Rs. 9,180 crore in the March quarter. The net NPA ratio was 1.16%, compared with 1.14% as on March 31, 2021. The net addition to gross NPAs during the quarter was Rs. 3,604 crore, the bank said adding the gross NPA additions were Rs. 7,231 crore during the quarter. ‘Not worried’ “The fresh slippages included approximately Rs. 6,700 crore of retail loans,” executive director Sandeep Batra said on a media conference call. “Out of this Rs. 961 crore was Krishi Credit Card loans and Rs. 1,130 crore of jewellery loans,” he noted, adding “we are not worried about the retail book.” Mr. Batra observed that the second wave-related restrictions had had a significant impact on collections and recoveries. Despite this, the bank had recoveries of Rs. 3,627 crore during the quarter. Gross NPAs written off were to the tune of Rs. 1,589 crore. The bank said total deposits grew 16% year-on-year to Rs. 9,26,224 crore and the retail loan portfolio grew by 20% and comprised 61.4% of the total loan portfolio. Domestic advances grew by 20% and total advances increased by 17% to Rs. 7,38,598 crore, it said. Consolidated assets grew by 9% to Rs. 15,72,772 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-net-rises-78-to-rs-4616-cr-slippages-up/article35518154.ece
25 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Apollo Tyres bullish on Indian, global economies||Apollo Tyres, which has drawn up an ambitious target of reaching $5 billion in revenue by 2025-26, is bullish on the Indian and global economies and has started mapping possible scenarios for the coming months. “Despite the uncertainty of the third wave, I remain bullish on the strength of the Indian and global economies,” said chairman Onkar S. Kanwar, addressing the 48th AGM. He said the pandemic had made the company’s leadership work with renewed vigour towards achieving cost reduction and in enhancing manufacturing efficiencies across the organisation. During FY21, Apollo Tyres had differentiated between good cost and avoidable cost, Mr. Kanwar said. The company continued to invest in good costs such as R&D and marketing and drastically reduced other costs. It also renegotiated advertising costs and re-looked at warehousing expenses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apollo-tyres-bullish-on-indian-global-economies/article35518158.ece
25 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Aditya Birla Group invests Rs. 1,500 crore in Punjab||Aditya Birla Group has made an investment of about Rs. 1,000 crore in the State with its recent foray into paints and another Rs. 500 crore in setting up a cement unit in Rajpura, informed Punjab Chief Minister Captain (retd.) Amarinder Singh. He said the investment would act as a catalyst for industrial activity in the region. The Chief Minister said that Punjab offered a congenial climate to prospective entrepreneurs and industrialists coupled with robust infrastructure in terms of excellent road, rail and air connectivity. Mr. Singh added that Punjab had been ranked second in ease of logistics in the country and would soon be connected to both the eastern and western freight corridors. In a statement, Mr. Singh said that Punjab, due to its pro-investor industrial policy and lucrative incentives, had now emerged as the most preferred investment destination in the country. ‘Invest Punjab’, as a one-stop shop, had seamlessly facilitated the garnering of investments worth Rs. 91,000 crore in more than 2,900 project proposals received during the last four years. “Out of these... nearly 50% have already started commercial production and the State has been able to attract such meaningful investments even during the peak of the pandemic,” Mr. Singh said. He also referred to the massive employment generation plan through which gainful employment had been facilitated in government, private and self-employment ventures for almost 17.63 lakh of the State’s youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aditya-birla-group-invests-rs-1500-crore-in-punjab/article35518150.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||ITC Q1 profit rises 30.2% to Rs. 3,343.44 cr.||ITC Ltd. on Saturday reported a 30.2% increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 3,343.44 crore for the first quarter ended June 30. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 2,567.07 crore during the April-June quarter of the previous fiscal, ITC said in a filing to the stock exchanges. Revenue from operations climbed 35.9% to Rs. 14,240.76 crore during the quarter under review, as against Rs. 10,478.46 crore in the corresponding three-month period of the previous fiscal year. Total expenses were at Rs. 10,220.49 crore, an increase of 28.3% in Q1 FY2021-22, from Rs. 7,967.71 crore in the corresponding year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/itc-q1-profit-rises-302-to-rs-334344-cr/article35518161.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||IndusInd Bank to raise up to Rs. 30,000 crore||IndusInd Bank on Saturday said it plans to raise up to Rs. 30,000 crore through a mix of equity and debt to fund its business growth. The bank’s board approved a proposal for raising funds through debt securities or equity instruments or convertible debt in any permitted mode such as Qualified Institutional Placement or American Depository Receipts or Global Depository Receipts, it said in a filing. The funds would be raised on a private placement basis. However, the private sector bank did not specify a timeline for raising debt and equity capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indusind-bank-to-raise-up-to-rs-30000-crore/article35518162.ece
25 July 2021||Colombo,||India favourite as focus turns to T20Is||Mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy could well be in line for international debut as India, with a galaxy of powerhouse IPL performers, start overwhelming favourite against Sri Lanka in the opening T20 International here on Sunday. IPL credentials Coach Rahul Dravid will want to check out Varun, who proved his prowess in the IPL. Having missed out on a series in Australia and a home series versus England due to fitness and injury related issues, the 29-year-old Varun would be aware India is looking at one spinner for the T20 World Cup in the UAE. Another debutant could be either Devdutt Padikkal or Ruturaj Gaikwad, both of whom are proven IPL performers. With Prithvi Shaw and Suryakumar Yadav set to leave for England, the team management might not risk playing both. Ishan Kishan and Sanju Samson may be included in the playing XI from which Manish Pandey is likely to be dropped. The Pandya brothers — Hardik and Krunal — are automatic choices in this format. Bhuvneshar Kumar and Deepak Chahar, after a well-earned rest, will be back in the mix and Yuzvendra Chahal is likely to join Krunal and Varun in the slow-bowling department. For Sri Lanka, the first ODI win in nine years on home soil against India could just be the turnaround the country needs. Dasun Shanaka is a young captain, but quality players like Bhanuka Rajapaksa, Chamika Karunaratne and Avishka Fernando would pose quality challenge for the Indians.  The teams (from): India: Shikhar Dhawan (Capt.), Prithvi Shaw, Devdutt Padikkal, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Suryakumar Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar (Vice-Capt.), Manish Pandey, Hardik Pandya, Nitish Rana, Ishan Kishan (wk), Sanju Samson (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Rahul Chahar, K. Gowtham, Krunal Pandya, Kuldeep Yadav, Varun Chakravarthy, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini and Chetan Sakariya.   Sri Lanka: Dasun Shanaka (Capt.), Dhananjaya de Silva, Avishka Fernando, Bhanuka Rajapaksa, Pathum Nissanka, Charith Asalanka, Wanindu Hasaranga, Ashen Bandara, Minod Bhanuka, Lahiru Udara, Ramesh Mendis, Chamika Karunaratne, Binura Fernando, Dushmantha Chameera, Lakshan Sandakan, Akila Dananjaya, Shiran Fernando, Dhananjaya Lakshan, Ishan Jayaratne, Praveen Jayawickrama, Asitha Fernando, Kasun Rajitha, Lahiru Kumara and Isuru Udana.     The T20Is schedule: July 25, 27 and 29. Matches start at 8 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-favourite-as-focus-turns-to-t20is/article35518576.ece
25 July 2021||Tokyo,||Gutsy Mirabai brings cheer to Indians||Mirabai Chanu could not believe she had won India’s first medal of the Tokyo Olympics. The Manipuri’s silver on Saturday made her the second Indian weightlifter, after Karnam Malleswari in 2000, to win a medal at the Olympics. Sinking in “It felt like it was a dream. I forgot where I was and the fact that I was standing on the Olympics podium. Everything blurred for a bit. “I realised I had won the silver only when they called my name and I felt the medal around my neck!” she said. Mirabai breezed through the snatch with lifts of 84kg and 87kg on her first two attempts, but failed on her third attempt of 89kg, which would have been a personal best. Hou wins gold Meanwhile, China’s Hou Zhihui set a new Olympic record of 94kg. American Jourdan Elizabeth Delacruz lifted 89kg on her final lift, but it was ruled out due to a technical flaw. An appeal by the Delacruz camp was rejected. In clean and jerk, where Mirabai set the world record of 119kg at the Asian Championships in Tashkent this April, she lifted 110kg on her first attempt and broke into a wide smile, assured of a medal as Delacruz had failed in all her lifts. The Indian then hoisted 115kg on her second attempt, before failing at 117kg. But it did not matter, for the 26-year-old had made history. Mirabai finished with a total lift of 202kg.  “I am ecstatic! I am so happy to win the silver. I tried really hard for the gold but I am happy with the silver. I failed in 2016 and learnt a lot from that experience and where I have to improve and that’s what got me here,” she says with a 1000-watt smile.  She called home right after the medal ceremony. “The gang in Patiala (her mates at the national camp) called me and were dancing in happiness,” she says. The gameplan Her coach Vijay Sharma revealed that they had chosen to scale down her starting weight to reduce the load on her body. “We were going to start with 86 in snatch and 113 in clean and jerk but decided to start at a slightly lower weight so that we could be safe. We planned to scale up once the competition cleared up,” he said. Hou, world record-holder in snatch (96kg) and total (213kg), hoisted 94kg, 116kg and 210kg to set Olympic records in snatch, clean and jerk, and total on her way to the gold. Indonesian Windy Aisah (84, 110, 194) bagged the bronze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gutsy-mirabai-triggers-indias-quest/article35518276.ece
25 July 2021||PARIS,||Hamilton was given a light penalty, says Horner||Red Bull team principal Christian Horner is still angry at the crash which knocked Formula One leader Max Verstappen out of the British Grand Prix last weekend, allowing winner Lewis Hamilton to close the gap at the top of the drivers’ championship to eight points. “We felt at the time, and still feel, that Hamilton was given a light penalty,” Horner wrote in his Red Bull column on Friday. “We are reviewing all data and have the right to request a review. We are therefore still looking at the evidence and considering all our sporting options... That crash has cost us approximately $1.8 million.” Hamilton’s victory was hisfirst in two months, and he risked slipping even further behind Verstappen. His win prompted relief, but Horner felt the elation was too much. “I am also still disappointed about the level of celebrations enjoyed in the wake of the accident. The Mercedes team were aware of the gravity of the crash with Max widely reported as having been hospitalised. Unimaginable “It is unimaginable not to inform your driver of the situation, moreover, to protect your driver in case they do not show the necessary restraint in celebrating. I spoke to him again on Monday and he felt like he’d done a few rounds with (world heavyweight boxing champion) Tyson Fury,” Horner said. Horner said Hamilton was reckless under pressure after losing pole position and trailing Verstappen by 33 points heading into the race. “This was a moment of extreme pressure for Hamilton in the championship, becoming the hunter as opposed to the hunted, and in front of his home crowd,” Horner said. “We all know that these situations can bring out a different driving style and one that is not characteristic of a world champion.” Horner also took a swipe at Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff, claiming he lobbied stewards for Hamilton to escape a penalty. “It was brought to my attention through the TV broadcast that Toto was going to see the stewards with information he had tried to email to (FIA race director) Michael (Masi) before they had ruled on a penalty,” Horner said. “It is a little bit like trying to lobby a jury while they make their final verdict.” Verstappen entirely blamed Hamilton, who said he did nothing wrong. “I don’t think I am in a position to have to apologise for anything. We are out there racing,” he said after the race. But his reference to Verstappen’s aggressive racing style irked Horner. Unjustified “The narrative that Max was being ‘overly aggressive’ at that stage was unjustified. You only have to look at the fact Max has zero penalty points on his license and has not been found guilty of any on-track misjudgments in recent years,” Horner argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-was-given-a-light-penalty-says-horner/article35518717.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit Gujrathi reaches fifth round||Vidit Gujrathi became the first Indian to reach the fifth round of the chess World Cup when he completed a 2-0 drubbing of USA’s Jeffery Xiong in Sochi on Friday. The win also saw Vidit overtake 23rd-ranked P. Harikrishna in live ratings and occupy the 21st spot. Viswanathan Anand heads the Indian list by holding the 14th place on the world ranking list.. Double blow It was a double blow for Harikrishna as he joined R. Praggnanandhaa in exiting the competition. Iran’s M. Amin Tabatabaei held Harikrishna in 115 moves on Friday for a 1.5-0.5 victory. Earlier, Maxime Vachier-Lagrave ended Praggnanandhaa’s campaign by winning with a similar margin after easily taking the second game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-gujrathi-reaches-fifth-round/article35518568.ece
25 July 2021||Colombo,||Fernando and Rajapaksa guide Lanka to consolation win||Avishka Fernando and Bhanuka Rajapaksa hit half-centuries as Sri Lanka beat India by three wickets for a consolation win in the rain-hit third ODI here on Friday. Century stand Chasing 226 for victory in the reduced 47-overs-a-side contest, Sri Lanka rode on a 109-run second-wicket stand between Fernando (76) and Rajapaksa (65) to achieve the target with 48 balls to spare in Colombo. India won the three-match series 2-1. Debutant leg-spinner Rahul Chahar returned figures of 3/54, taking key wickets including Fernando to put Sri Lanka in trouble before Ramesh Mendis steered the team home with an unbeaten 15. "Things didn't go our way after rain break. We had a good start but lost too many wickets in the middle overs. Think we were 50 runs short," India captain Shikhar Dhawan said. “Congratulations to India for the series win. It was a very good series throughout. The young guys showed a lot of maturity, both with bat and ball, and that's what I expect from them,| said Sri Lanka skipper Dasun Shanaka.   Sri Lanka 195 for five  Sri Lanka was 195 for five in 33 overs, with Avishka Fernando (73), Ramesh Mendis (0) at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fernando-and-rajapaksa-guide-lanka-to-consolation-win/article35518259.ece
25 July 2021||TOKYO,||Satwik and Chirag shock the World No. 3 pair||The Indian men's doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty shocked the World No. 3 pair of Yang Lee and Chi-Lin Wang of Chinese Taipei in a thrilling Group A match on Saturday. Satwik and Chirag, ranked 10th in the world, notched up a stunning 21-16, 16-21, 27-25 win over third seeds Lee and Wang, who had claimed back-to-back titles at the Thailand Open, Thailand Open and World Tour Finals in Thailand earlier this year. The Indians had five match points, but the Chinese Taipei pair — bronze medallist at the 2018 World Championship — saved all of them before grabbing one themselves. However, Satwik and Chirag proved equal to the task and had the last laugh, winning a marathon third game. In singles, B. Sai Praneeth, the 13th seed, suffered a 17-21, 15-21 reverse at the hands of World No. 47 Misha Zilberman of Israel in a 41-minute Group D match. “I didn't play 100%. I need to pick myself up for the next match,” said a disappointed Sai Praneeth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/satwik-chirag-shock-the-world-no-3s/article35518270.ece
25 July 2021||Colombo,||Arthur says Sri Lanka is getting better but needs depth in batting||Sri Lanka head coach Mickey Arthur on Saturday said his team is improving fast but needs to have depth in batting as they gear up for the T20I series against India. Sri Lanka lost the ODI series 1-2 to India but the win in the final ODI gave confidence to Arthur. Consistency needed “We are creating depths across all the departments now. We just have to get that little bit of consistency and that same depth into our batting,” Arthur said at a virtual pre-match press conference ahead of the first T20. “For numerous reasons we never seem to put our best batting line-up out there. It is being about creating depth for me, but also trying to be consistent. Giving guys clear roles but then allowing them to go out and playing with freedom. We saw a really good example of that in Charith (Asalanka) the other night,” added the South African. Fantastic growth “The growth I have seen in these players has been fantastic and the growth comes from giving them confidence and giving them that consistency that they are going to play. We will see the rewards of that in the future for sure,” the 53-year-old noted. Arthur also said that the Sri Lankan team learned a “massive amount” from the ODI series against India. “We are right at the embryonic stage of this journey and it is about us playing against ourselves every-day we go out on the ground. We have got benchmarks, which we want to meet in every game. Measuring ourselves  “We are measuring ourselves and the progression in terms of those KPIs has been outstanding. We are getting better and better,” he added. The head coach was also “hopeful” that young leg spinner Wanindu Hasaranga, who picked three wickets in the second ODI against India, would be available for the first T20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arthur-says-sri-lanka-is-getting-better-but-needs-depth-in-batting/article35518714.ece
25 July 2021||MANCHESTER,||Solskjaer signs contract extension with United||Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has signed a contract extension through at least the 2023-24 season, the club said on Saturday. The show of confidence in Solskjaer follows a second-place finish in the Premier League and a trip to Europa League final. The deal includes an option for 2024-25. “Ole and his staff have worked tirelessly putting the foundations in place for long-term success on the pitch,” United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward said. “The results of that have become increasingly visible over the past two seasons and we are all looking forward to seeing this exciting team develop further in the years ahead.” The Norwegian was hired in December 2018 as an interim replacement for Jose Mourinho, and he was made permanent later that season. “Everyone knows the feeling I have for this club,” Solskjaer said, “and I am delighted to have signed this new contract. It is an exciting time for Manchester United. We have built a squad with a good balance of youth and experienced players that are hungry for success.” United ended last season without silverware after losing the Europa League final to Villarreal on penalties. It’s the longest drought for United since the 1980s, in the early days of Alex Ferguson’s otherwise trophy-filled reign. Solskjaer said United is “ready to take that next step.” “Manchester United wants to be winning the biggest and best trophies and that’s what we are all striving for,” Solskajer said. “We have improved, both on and off the pitch, and that will continue over the coming seasons.” Solskajer played for United from 1996-2007 and scored 126 goals. His most famous goal was his late winner in the 1999 Champions League final. Sancho finalises move On Friday, England winger Jadon Sancho finalised his move to United by signing a five-year contract with an option for a sixth season. United paid Borussia Dortmund a transfer fee of €85 million for the 21-year-old Sancho, the German club said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solskjaer-signs-contract-extension-with-united/article35518719.ece
25 July 2021||Chennai,||Memorable day for Janani||It was a historic day at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday when N. Janani became the first woman on-field umpire to officiate in the Tamil Nadu Premier League during the match between Chepauk Super Gillies and Nellai Royal Kings. The 35-year-old Janani is one among two Indian women umpires in the International Cricket Council Development Umpires’ panel and has been officiating in the domestic circuit for the last three years. “I thank the TNCA for letting me officiate in the TNPL and I feel really happy to have officiated this game which went till the last over. “I felt it was a really good game for me. I am sure it will force more women to think about cricket and the opportunities it gives,” said Janani after the game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/memorable-day-for-janani/article35518634.ece
25 July 2021||Colombo,||‘Winning the series is the priority’||India captain Shikhar Dhawan said the team management will try out new faces but only if they fit into the best playing XI during the upcoming three-match T20I series against Sri Lanka, starting here on Sunday. Like India blooded as many as five newcomers in the final ODI, Dhawan indicated on Saturday that he is not averse to experimenting with new men like Ruturaj Gaikwad, Varun Chakravarthy and Devdutt Padikkal in the coming games, but series win will remain a priority. Opportunity “New guys definitely have the opportunity to play. We have to win the series. In the last ODI, there was a good opportunity to give some youngsters a chance and give them a taste of international cricket, because we had already won the series,” Dhawan told mediapersons ahead of the first game. “Now it’s a new series, so we will of course go in with our best XI first. We will try to win the first two matches, and then according to the situation, we can experiment in the last game, if needed,” Dhawan said. He agreed that the IPL has made these youngsters ready for international cricket. “Of course they are ready, that’s why they are here. “As you saw, youngsters have performed so well in the ODI series, so they’ll be taking that confidence ahead in the T20I series. You will see them perform really well. On a personal note, Dhawan knows that even he is auditioning for a place in the T20 World Cup side. “So, on a personal note, I am really looking forward to perform over here and make my place stronger for the World Cup. “Then we’ll see how it goes in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winning-the-series-is-the-priority/article35518570.ece
25 July 2021||TOKYO,||India men ride on Harmanpreet’s brace, Sreejesh’s saves; women lose||Harmanpreet Singh scored a brace while goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh stood like a wall in the closing minutes as the Indian men overcame a late surge from New Zealand to eke out a 3-2 victory in a Pool A match here on Saturday. Harmanpreet found the target in the 26th and 33rd minutes after Rupinder Pal Singh had equalised for India in the 10th minute. For the Kiwis, Kane Russell scored off a penalty corner in the sixth minute before Stephen Jenness (43rd) reduced the margin. The Indians were in for an early shock as Russell found the top right corner of the goal with a fierce flick. Even though he was not among the goal-scorers, skipper Mandeep Singh was a livewire. He earned a penalty corner, which resulted in a penalty stroke, and Rupinder made no mistake. Harmanpreet then put India 2-1 ahead before enhancing the margin with an accurate shot off another penalty corner. The match came to life when Jenness scored with a lovely finish past Sreejesh in the near post in the 43rd. The India goalkeeper ensured that the citadel was not breached again. India plays Australia on Sunday.  The Indian women fought valiantly in the first two quarters before losing steam to go down 1-5 to World No. 1 Netherlands. Felice Albers gave Netherlands the lead in the sixth minute before India skipper Rani Rampal levelled in the 10th minute. The Dutch came out all guns blazing after the change of ends and pumped in three goals. Margot van Geffen (33rd) restored the lead before the team scored in quick succession through Albers (43rd) and Frederique Matla (45th). Caia Jacqueline van Maasakker slammed home a penalty corner in the 52nd minute. India meets Germany on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-rides-on-harmanpreets-brace-sreejeshs-saves-women-lose/article35518272.ece
25 July 2021||New Delhi,||Award for para shuttler Pramod Bhagat||World No. 1 para shuttler Pramod Bhagat was on Saturday named Differently Abled Sportsman of the Year at Indian Sports Honours for 2019. The delay in announcement was due to COVID-19 pandemic, a release said. “I am really honoured to receive the award and it has come at the right time, this award will give me a boost to perform better at the Paralympics,” Bhagat said. Traning hard “I have been training really hard and my dream is to win Gold and make India proud.” Bhagat will be participating in singles and mixed doubles events at the Paralympics which opens in Tokyo from August 24. Indian Sports Honours are awards given annually by the RPSG Group in association with the Virat Kohli Foundation to outstanding sports personalities of India. The awards were founded in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/award-for-para-shuttler-pramod-bhagat/article35518566.ece
25 July 2021||Chennai,||Pradosh, Aparajith do it for Royal Kings||Pradosh Ranjan Paul (62, 52b, 8x4) and skipper B. Aparajith (55, 42b, 5x4, 2x6) powered Nellai Royal Kings to its first win of the Tamil Nadu Premier League, as it beat defending champions Chepauk Super Gillies by seven wickets here at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday. Chasing 166 for victory, the duo paced the chase perfectly with a 98-run stand for the second wicket, starting big in the PowerPlay before consolidating in the middle, while steadily chipping away at the target. R. Sanjay Yadav then took Nellai home with an unbeaten 25 (14b, 2x4, 2x6). Racy start The left-handed Pradosh looked stylish during his knock, be it a flick off his pads through mid-wicket or cutting the left-arm spinners through the off-side. Along with Aparajith, he helped Nellai get 56 in the first six overs. Then, Aprajith found a higher gear picking a six and four off medium-pacer S. Harish Kumar before bringing up his half-century. Scintillating knock Earlier, electing to bat, N. Jagadeesan stood tall for CSG with a scintillating 95 (70b, 9x4, 5x6) to help his side post a competitive total of 165 but lacked support from the other end. Jagadeesan’s strength is his fluent strokeplay square of the wicket, and the Nellai medium-pacers were guilty of providing width, enabling him to unleash his cuts and punches on the off-side. In the second match of the day, Salem Spartans prevailed over IDream Tiruppur Tamizhans by 16 runs. Led by skipper Daryl Ferrario’s 40 (25b, 5x4) and opener S. Abishiek’s 38 (31b, 4x4, 1x6), Spartans posted a par score of 164/5 after electing to bat. In reply, Tamizhans’ chase started very slowly leaving too much to score in the back-end of the innings, with just 27 coming in the PowerPlay. Barring Francis Rokins’ late charge of 58 (48b, 7x4, 1x6), none of the batsmen made an impact.  The scores:   Chepauk Super Gillies 165/7 in 20 overs (N. Jagadeesan 95, V. Athisayaraj Davidson 2/31, M. Abhinav 2/24) lost to Nellai Royal Kings 167/3 in 19.4 overs (B. Aparajith 55, Pradosh Ranjan Paul 62, R. Sanjay Yadav 25 n.o.).   Points: NRK 2 (2); CSG 0 (1).   Salem Spartans 164/5 in 20 overs (S. Abishiek 38, Vijay Shankar 26, Daryl S. Ferrario 40) bt IDream Tiruppur Tamizhans 148/8 in 20 overs (P. Francis Rokins 58, G. Periasamy two for 22, B. Praanesh two for 26, M. Ashwin two for 27 ).   Points: SS 2 (3); iDKK 0 (1) .   Tiruppur Tamizhans 98/4 In the second match of the day, IDream Tiruppur Tamizhans was 99/4 after 15 overs, in reply to Salem Spartans’ total of 164/5 in 20 overs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pradosh-aparajith-do-it-for-royal-kings/article35518628.ece
25 July 2021||Bridgetown,||Windies, Aussie squads test COVID-19 negative||All 152 people involved in the ongoing West Indies and Australia One-Day International series returned negative COVID-19 tests on Friday, a day after the second game was postponed after a positive analysis, officials said. Thursday's game at Kensington Oval was called off at the last minute when a non-playing member of the West Indies team tested positive for the virus. öThe teams as well as officials, event and broadcast staff were sent into isolation at the tournament hotel. Following the negative tests, the third and final match was rescheduled for Saturday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/windies-aussie-squads-test-covid-19-negative/article35518686.ece
25 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Shaw, Suryakumar set to leave for England||Opener Prithvi Shaw and middle-order batsman Suryakumar Yadav are set to join India’s injury-hit Test squad in England ahead of the Test series. Shaw and Suryakumar, representing India in the limited-overs series in Sri Lanka, are likely to leave for England from Colombo as soon as the logistical arrangements are made. India’s request With opener Shubman Gill, back-up all-rounder Washington Sundar and reseve pacer Avesh Khan having been ruled out of the forthcoming five-Test series starting August 4, India’s team management had requested for at least two replacements. The national selectors, after being given a go-ahead by the BCCI hierarachy, are understood to have informed the touring party in Colombo to make arrangements for Shaw and Suryakumar’s departure to England. Despite K.L. Rahul’s presence as a reserve batsman in the middle-order, considering fitness concerns about captain Virat Kohli and vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane, the selectors have decided to draft in a middle-order batsman since the five Tests are scheduled in six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaw-suryakumar-set-to-leave-for-england/article35518571.ece
25 July 2021||TOKYO,||‘River Seine setting for Paris Olympics OC’||The 2024 Paris Olympic Games will feature a unique opening ceremony with the City’s River Seine the scene for the curtain-raising spectacular, French President Emmanuel Macron said. In an interview with the French sports daily L’Equipe to appear on Sunday, Macron revealed that barges on the Seine and its quays would provide the urban setting for the ceremony on July 26, 2024. “We want it to be a ceremony of the people, open to all and unique in terms of the experience it will provide. Something that makes sence to the French people and conveys a message to the rest of the world,” the leader said in Tokyo on the sidelines of the 2020 Games. We want something unique and revolutionary,” he said. The Seine and its banks have undergone a radical transformation over the past five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/river-seine-setting-for-paris-olympics-oc/article35518986.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Mixed luck for paddlers||A. Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra surrendered tamely in their mixed doubles first round, but Batra and debutant Sutirtha Mukherjee won their women’s singles first round in contrasting styles on the first day of table tennis competition. The day started with Sharath and Manika putting up an insipid display against Lin Yun Ju and Cheng I Ching of Taiwan 8-11, 6-11, 5-11, 4-11 in the mixed doubles round of 16. However, later in the day, Manika made short work of Great Britain’s Ho Tin Tin 11-7, 11-6, 12-10, 11-9 to set up a second-round clash against World No. 32 Margaryta Pesotska. Sutirtha ended the day by wiping out a 3-1 deficit against Sweden’s Linda Bergstrom to prevail 5-11, 11-9, 11-13, 9-11, 11-3, 11-9, 11-5. She will next play Portugal’s China-born Yu Fu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-luck-for-indian-paddlers/article35518262.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Saurabh flatters to deceive||Saurabh Chaudhary qualified on top with 586 but finished seventh in men’s air pistol in Tokyo on Saturday. It was a disheartening day for the Indians as Abhishek Verma (575) missed the final by three points, having dropped six points on his last four shots in air pistol. In women’s air rifle, Elavenil Valarivan shot 626.5 and missed the final by two points. World record-holder Apurvi Chandela was unable to step it up in her second Olympics and shot 621.9 for the 36th place in a field of 50. What was remarkable was the convincing fashion in which Javad Foroughi of Iran shot 244.8 in the final, after a modest 580 in qualification, to clinch the men’s air pistol gold with a 6.9 point margin over Damir Mikec of Serbia, the last entrant into the final. Youth Olympics champion and Asian Games gold medallist Saurabh had recovered after shooting 95 in the first series of qualification. He followed with 98, 98, 100, 98 and 97. In the final, a string of 9s and an 8.8 forced him to an early exit.  The results: Men’s air pistol: 1. Javad Foroughi (IRI) 244.8 (OR) 580; 2. Damir Mikec (Srb) 237.9 (578); 3. Pang Wei (Chn) 217.6 (578); 7. Saurabh Chaudhary 137.4 (586); 17. Abhishek Verma 575.   Women’s air rifle: 1. Yang Qian (Chn) 251.8 (OR) 628.7; 2. Anastasia Galashkina (ROC) 251.1 (628.5); 3. Nina Christen (Sui) 230.6 (628.5); 16. Elavenil Valarivan 626.5; 36. Apurvi Chandela 621.9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saurabh-flatters-to-deceive/article35518265.ece
25 July 2021||London,||Tottenham signs up Gollini||Tottenham signed goalkeeper Pierluigi Gollini from Italian club Atalanta on a season-long loan with an option to make the move permanent, the Premier League team said on Saturday. The 26-year-old Gollini will be expected to challenge stalwart Hugo Lloris. The 34-year-old Frenchman has been with Tottenham since the 2012-13 season but his contract expires next June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tottenham-signs-up-gollini/article35518716.ece
25 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Cried when Mirabai won, says Chanu||International weightlifter-turned-coach L. Anita Chanu was in tears when she saw her student Saikhom Mirabai Chanu clinch a silver in the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday. “I cried when I saw Mirabai win a medal. We prayed to God for her success. I am very happy that a student of Khaman Lampak Centre has gone on to win an Olympic medal. We always dreamt of producing an Olympic medallist,” Anita, Mirabai’s childhood coach, told The Hindu from Imphal. “I hope this will inspire kids to take up the sport so that we will have a bigger pool of talent to choose from.” Anita said she would celebrate Mirabai’s victory with her students. “There are 10-15 students who are staying in the centre and training. I will celebrate with the kids. I will keep trying to produce Olympic medallists for the country,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cried-when-mirabai-won-says-chanu/article35518266.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||TCA calendar released||Telangana Cricket Association secretary D. Guruva Reddy released the domestic calendar for the 2021-22 season on Saturday.  The schedule:   Telangana Gold Cup (Adilabad, Warangal, Siddipet, Medchal), September 28 to Oct. 15. Telangana State Premier League (Ranga Reddy, Siddipet), Dec. 10 to 27; Inter-district (u-19) two-day league (Nizamabad, Warangal, Gajwel, Miryalaguda), Aug. 10 to 31.   Senior inter-district one-day tournament (men and women), Mahabubabad, Kamareddy, Mahbubnagar, Sangareddy, Aug. 20 to Sept. 10.   Inter-district (u-23) two-day league (Adilabad, Bhadradri, Godavarikhani, Ranga Reddy), Aug. 30 to Sept. 20; Senior inter-zonal three-day championship (Ranga Reddy, Warangal), Oct. 20 to Nov. 2; Inter-district (u-16) and junior women inter-district tournaments, schedule will be announced soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tca-calendar-released/article35518833.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Cricket resumes, but rain interrupts action||Official cricket action returned to the city with the resumption of the KSCA Group I, Division I league here on Saturday. Cricket activities had stopped when the second COVID-19 imposed was imposed here around three months ago. Heavy rains, however, interrupted several matches. When play was possible, Aditya Somanna (106 n.o.) and Naga Bharath (120) made it count for Mount Joy CC and Swastic Union (2) respectively. The league will continue with outings next weekend.  The scores: Mount Joy 279/5 in 50 overs (Sharath Belur 37, Arun Monnappa 26, Bharath 36, Aditya Somanna 106 n.o., A.M. Kiran 32 n.o.) bt Chintamani SA 134 in 32 overs (Abdul Majid 42, Ajay Krishnan 3/27, Sheetal Kumar 4/23).   Social Cricketers 338/9 in 50 overs (K.V. Aneesh 65, Akshay Ballal 32, V. Vyshak 52, Prithviraj 80) bt Cambridge 173/4 in 31.1 overs (Macneil Noronha 30, Jeswanth Acharya 69, Shubhang Hegde 32) (via better run rate, match stopped due to rain).   Swastic Union (2) 255/9 in 50 overs (Naga Bharath 120, N.A. Chinmay 68, M.G. Naveen 4/58) bt Swastic Union (1) 116/5 in 29.1 overs (R. Samarth 25, S. Rakshith 41 n.o., C.A. Karthik 3/26) (via better run rate, match stopped due to rain).   Modern 184 in 48.2 overs (Prithvi Sadanand 86, Stalin Hoover 5/32, Rishi Bopanna 3/35) lost to FUCC (1) 172/6 in 33 overs (Vinay Sagar 44, K. Shashindra 40, Mithun Bhat 37 n.o.) (via better run rate, match stopped due to rain).   Sir Syed Cricketers 217/9 in 50 overs (Nikin Jose 33, B.A. Mohith 36, Luvnith Sisodia 47, S. Suraj 33) bt Vultures 97/4 in 24.2 overs (D. Nischal 28, Karun Nair 50) (via better run rate, match stopped due to rain).   Rajajinagar Cricketers 304/9 in 50 overs (Nihal Ullal 34, Farhan Magi 45, S. Shivaraj 36, K. Rohit 85, Melu Kranthi Kumar 43, Sourab Muttur 27) bt BUCC (1) 155/2 in 29.3 overs (Rohan Kadam 89 n.o., Liyan Khan 25, Sharath Srinivas 28 n.o.) (via better run rate, match stopped due to rain).    Pranav’s 12th-minute goal helped Even FC defeat Victoria FC 1-0 in the BDFA C-division football league here on Saturday.  Other result: Freedom FC 3 (Raju 35, Mohammed Anas 43, 55) bt GRK Football Youth Club 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-resumes-but-rain-interrupts-action/article35518572.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Vikas Krishan crashes out in first round||India had a disappointing start in boxing as former World championships bronze medallist Vikas Krishan crashed out in the first round on his third Olympic appearance on Saturday. The 29-year-old, who won a bronze in the Asian championships this year, lost to Japan’s Sewonretes Okazawa 5-0 in a men’s 69kg contest. Asian silver medallist Okazawa, born to a Ghanaian father and Japanese mother, moved around the ring well and attacked with confidence to keep the seasoned Indian in check. In a bout involving two southpaws, Okazawa landed his combination of jabs and follow-up punches even as Vikas tried his best to get in and out to score some points. Vikas, bleeding from his left eye, needed some medical attention during the bout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vikas-krishan-crashes-out-in-first-round/article35518538.ece
25 July 2021||TOKYO,||Sumit Nagal advances||Sumit Nagal posted a 6-4, 6-7(6), 6-4 first round win over Uzbekistan’s Denis Istomin, to become the first Indian male tennis player since Leander Paes at Atlanta (1996) to win an Olympics singles match, here on Saturday. “I’m just happy to be able to be here, to be able to perform. To play for my country. That’s what I’m looking for in my next match as well, to have India written on my back and play for my nation,” Nagal told ITFTennis.com. Nagal’s reward for his fine effort is a second round clash with Russia’s Daniil Medvedev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumit-nagal-advances/article35518274.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Syrian table tennis player, 12, content despite Olympic defeat||Syria’s table tennis player Hend Zaza, the youngest athlete at the Tokyo Olympics at just 12, said just reaching the Games was “an achievement” despite bowing out in the preliminary round on Saturday. “Reaching the Tokyo Olympics was already an achievement. I wasn’t asked to win, I was asked to play well,” Zaza, the youngest Olympian since 11-year-old Romanian Beatrice Hustiu competed in figure skating at the 1968 Winter Olympics, told Olympics.com .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/syrian-table-tennis-player-12-content-despite-olympic-defeat/article35518541.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Indians wilt under pressure||Indian archers crumbled under pressure as the ninth-ranked mixed team, comprising Deepika Kumari and Pravin Jadhav, lost to the top-slotted South Korea 6-2 in a quarterfinal contest here on Saturday. San An and Je Deok Kim piled on the pressure on the Indians by taking the first two sets, with scores of 35-32 and 38-37, to establish a 4-0 lead. However, the Indians fought back to win the next set 37-35 before Korea rode on a couple of 10s from Kim to beat India 36-33 in the fourth set to seal the match. Earlier, Pravin and Deepika beat the Chinese Taipei pair of Chih-Chun Tang and Chia-En Lin 5-3 in a last-16 match. Now, Pravin, Atanu Das and Tarundeep Rai will be seen in action in men’s team and individual events, while Deepika will compete in women’s individual events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-wilt-under-pressure/article35518522.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 12:23 IST,||Sudoku — July 25, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-25-2021/article35519966.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||How a gym got fit||Without the restorative power of maintenance, it came across as a parody for a gym. The Corporation-run facility at Sivakamipuram Second Cross Street in Marundeeswarar Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur now reflects more of its intended image, having shrugging off years of neglect. In fact, more than what it was originally intended, as illustrated by the colourful paintings on its walls. This transformation also serves as a case study about what residents’ group can achieve. The process began in late 2016, when a group of youngsters in Marundeeswarar Nagar stopped civic activist Geeta Padmanabhan in the street and requested that she make sure the gym was refurbished. Geeta points out that a newspaper article, petitions to the zonal officer of Zone 13 and the Regional Deputy Commissioner, South Region were critical steps in the path to restoration. After the work order was issued in 2018 to improve the gym, Geeta watched the work closely, pouncing on any departure from the stated plan and informing the authorities about it. There was however more waiting to be done to bring the gym up to the required standard. In June 2019, she again wrote to then GCC Commissioner about the sorry state of the gym and how youngsters of the locality were maintaining it by pooling their own money. In the meantime, a welfare association that included Marundeeswarar Nagar had been formed. During a meeting with then Deputy Commissioner (Works) of GCC, Geeta said, “I would like the gym renovated and made functional. Once done, my association will maintain it.” From there, things moved at a steady clip, beginning with an inspection of the facility by authorities of the Parks department. “Weeks rolled by and soon a refurbished gym emerged from the “ashes” of the dilapidated one. It got new roofing, higher walls, good floor tiles. The walls were painted and the water channels were rebuilt. The toilet in the gym building got a new look with wall tiles, a mirror and a wash-basin. Two areas were designated for planting shrubs. The raised platform in the children’s area was demolished and a mini-playground with EPDM flooring got built. An outdoor gym with new exercise equipment was installed. Kind neighbours added a compound exercise machine to the room. A unique feature of this work was how the throw-away material was recycled. The roof-sheeting formed the wall at the back to prevent garbage-throwing from the other side. The floor tiles were also reused,” says Geeta. The maintenance of the gym was adopted by Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, Marundeeswarar Nagar, Sivakamipuram, and Malaviya Avenue (RMSM) Association. “Following this, our association RMSM found sponsors to paint the walls with relevant images, white-washed the interior of the gym to stop seepage, fixed interlocking mats on the floor, planted flowers and created a herbal patch around a balwadi with help from Nizhal, an organisation that takes care of trees in Chennai. We started fitness and yoga classes, made sure the back door was strictly off-limits for trespassers, adds Geeta. E Anshul, a body-builder, who along with his friend, P. Divyesh visits the gym daily, notes the metamorphosis: “The gym was readied in 2020. Before that, the place was occupied by drunkards. There was no proper roof, benches or lighting.” BM Harish, a youngster, says, “Along with Karam Korpom Foundation, we scrapped, whitewashed, and painted the walls on the importance of exercise, yoga, and physical activities.” K. Shreeja, a resident of Marundeeswarar Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur, comes daily to the gym, and waters and maintains the saplings. The equipment in the gym has been refurbished by Association members. Says Geeta; “We are looking for sponsors for more equipment, a gym board and lights.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-a-gym-got-fit/article35518422.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Gated community on OMR gets its water math right||Names can turn out prophetic. Equally well, a name can be out of step with the bearer’s life. Jains Pebble Brook on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) belongs to the former category, though the contrary held true for a long time. Onomatopoeic, the name of this 620-unit apartment complex in Okkiyam Thoraipakkam gurgles with the sound of gushing waters. It suggests water sufficiency. The odd fact is that the community was not born water-sufficient but had sufficiency thrust on it. For years, water was its vexatious issue, sending maintenance costs through the roof. If that was any consolation, a legion of other communities on Old Mahabalipuram Road were similarly scourged. Without supply from Metrowater, many a community on the IT Corridor still depend heavily, if not entirely, on water tankers. “On an average, we would purchase 11 tankers of water every day. With each water tanker delivering 30,000 litres, they met a daily requirement of 3.3 lakh litres,” says A Shanmugam, president, Jain’s Pebble Brook Flat Owners’ Association. “The cost per tanker being Rs. 3,000, the daily outlay on water alone was Rs. 33,000, which worked out to a whopping sum of nearly Rs. 10 lakh per month.” Clearly, the community had to extricate itself from this situation. And it set about this effort by first covering the obvious ground. That meant getting the huge STP plant into overdrive and recycling the water for flushing purpose. As with frugality in all areas, this measure yielded results. But walking the path of frugality without a broader horizon in view is like walking tortoise-like down a cul de sac . One will eventually hit the dead end — only that it would arrive slowly. The next move illustrated that recyling is more valuable when it accompanies resource generation, which in this case is water. So, around two years ago, the community chose to act on a geologist’s advice. That marked the beginning of the real turnaround. “Around five years ago, we brought a geologist to offer us a solution. He pointed out that the soil type was clayey, and what made matters worse was that around 30 feet into the earth, there was solid rock to deal with, which automatically posed a challenge to both saving and extracting water. The geologist strongly advised against sinking borewells, and asked us to dig open wells. Remembering that consultation, we created five open wells, each around 30 feet deep,” explains Shanmugam. “As the soil was clayey, it would not retain much of the rainwater, which would run off to Okiyyam Maduvu.” The western section of Okiyyam Maduvu, the canal linking Pallikaranai Marsh to the Buckingham Canal, snakes behind the gated community. “The idea behind creating the five open wells is to harvest the water absorbed by the soil,” he elaborates. With this move, the community was on the path to getting its water math right, but there was still an awful lot of ground to traipse across. “During summer, we managed to extract 2500 to 3000 litres of water every day from each well. During winter, whenever the skies were bountiful, on an average, anywhere from 10,000 to 15,000 litres of water every day from each well would be the gains.” As is obvious, these numbers together did not add up to a solution. The next path emerged clearly. The focus had to be divided between terra firma and the terrace, with the latter receiving the lion’s share of it. It was around the time, conversations in Federation of OMR Residents’ Associations (FOMRRA) were getting more intense and regular. Jain’s Pebble Brook was particularly inspired by how Sabari Terrace in Sholinganallur had moved from water poverty to sufficiency through its customised rainwater harvesting model. “In the last two years, we studied various projects, one of them being Sabari Terrace’s. In its RWH system, the water from the terrace was being diverted to the sump via pipes that run beneath the top of the car parking area on stilt. Sabari Terrace being a compact community, they could manage that comfortably. Given its size, Jain’s Pebble Brook with its 13 blocks had to work out its own customised solution. Besides, we have more working space, and therefore decided to bring the pipes underground to the two sumps.” Initially, the community wanted to test their RWH model in two blocks that boasted the biggest dimensions of terrace space. “Initially, around one and a half years ago, two suitable blocks of the type measuring 339 feet by 53 feet (17,967 sq.ft) of terrace space were used. As we finally ended up using four blocks of same dimensions, the overall terrace area where rainwater is being harvested in this manner is 71,868 sq.ft.” Each block in the community has around 13 to 14 rainwater outlets. In the four blocks, these outlets were all connected to the sumps via underground pipes six-inches in diameter. Before being connected to the sumps, these pipes go through a filter point marked by a traditional method of filtering. “In the last six months, we connected two other blocks to the two sumps, which can hold up to 4.3 lakh litres of water. As we are discovering now, it takes only one hour of torrential rain to fill up both these sumps. We were therefore drawn into using two smaller sumps, originally built to collect Metrowater and obviously in disuse, to store the excess water, directed via pipes from the two main sumps. After bouts of heavy rains, we may run on filled sumps for a couple of days. The pattern would be repeated in the next cycle of rains that may happen a few days later.” Here is the amazing bottom line that justifies the exercise. “During the rainy season — on an average, for 10 to 15 days in a month, we depend on the rainwater that we have harvested.” Jains Pebble Brook Flat Owners’ Association understands mind-boggling RWH numbers could be achieved if the remaining nine blocks are also brought into this system. Shanmugam explains the Association’s position. “We are thinking about repeating the exercise for the other blocks, but what is holding us back is the prohibitive cost of constructing sumps as huge as our existing main sumps. These two sumps are really capacious, but not huge to hold all the rainwater that is being harvested during heavy rains. So, you can imagine the challenge.”  The geologist strongly advised against sinking borewells, and asked us to dig open wells. Remembering that consultation, we created five open wells, each around 30 feet deep||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gated-community-on-omr-gets-its-water-math-right/article35518428.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A new initiative blooms||The pandemic might have dealt Chitlapakkam Rising’s solid-waste management initiative a big blow, but the citizens’ group has partly salvaged the situation. The group was relentlessly pushing residents towards practising source segregation when the COVID-19 outbreak hampered its efforts. It now encourages residents to raise gardens, and nurture them with the compost made at home. “Members of our group would go with conservancy workers from door to door to promote waste segregation among residents. Besides, sessions on waste management were conducted for children to make sure they took the message to their parents. The larger aim was to keep our colony clean and reduce the waste going to landfills. To prevent whatever we have achieved so far from going waste, we tried encouraging our neighbours to take up gardening. Once people get into gardening, they may want to segregate waste for the purpose of composting. With this end in view, we formed a WhatsApp group last year, amd its membership has risen to 105. This group has got both seasoned home gardeners and newbies. Members exchange ideas, post photos of the day’s bounty and so on,” says Jaikumar Dhanasekaran, a resident of Chitlapakkam. To begin with, Jaikumar made videos of gardens beng raised by Sridharan. P and Jaya Ramkumar to show how plants and flowers add beauty to houses. Sridharan has adorned his independent house with ornamental plants. Along with her neighbour Ranjani, Jaya Ramkumar has converetd a section of the terrace in their apartment into a green patch. On July 18, Chitlapakkam Rising organised a gathering that sharing and exchanging seeds and saplings. Selvamurthy Aarumugham came with a dozen seed varieties of lady’s finger such as Kasthuri Vendai , Paruman Vendai , Nakshatra Vendai, Mattukombu Vendai and many more. He had brought brinjal varieties native to Vellore, Salem, Manaparrai. Likewise, Leena Gangadharan shared seeds of Shankupushpam , Karpoorvavalli , Sapotta and saplings of table roses. KK Dhinakaran shared seeds of greens like pasali and ponnakani . P Kalaiselvi Mohan Raj shares seeds of gourds, sweet potatoes, and saplings of greens. Work-from-home has indirectly helped some of these home gardeners. “Before pandemic, fours hours of my day would be spent commuting; and I would leave for office by 7.30 a.m. and return late in the evening. With work from home, I finally found the time to take up gardening. Though my office has reopened, I manage to squeeze in some time for my garden. Whole Sundays go into gardening,” says Shiva Shankar. Sindhuja B, a new gardener, maintains a small garden on the terrace of her apartments. “We maintain only a limited number of potted plants as the terrace is a common space. It is mostly chillies, tomatoes, greens, radish, lady’s-finger, and drumstick. Our reliance on markets for vegetables has reduced considerably. Now, we do not dispose of the vegetable and fruit peels; they go into composting,” says Sindhuja. Those already into gardening started expanding their gardens in the last one year. Sunil Jayaram and Jaikumar Dhanasekaran who had gardens around their houses are now setting up gardens in their terraces. While Sunil is interested in raising flowering plants; and Jaikumar is keen on growing veggies. As the pandemic requires people to stay indoors, gardening seems to be promote mental health. Says Udhayavani: “Gardening soothed one’s mind, and helps you beat the boredom that comes from being cooped up at home. Besides exchanging ideas and seeds, group members occasionally pay a visit to others’ gardens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-initiative-blooms/article35518453.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A piece of OMR in Tirupur||In the last year-and-a-half, Arunkumar R, a member of the OMR-ECR chapter of We Are Chennai Cycling Group (WCCG), has demonstrated that old habits die hard. When his company announced work from anywhere due to the pandemic, he moved to his home town Tirupur, his trusty and friendly hybrid bicycle tagging along with him. From cycling-to-work in Bengaluru to discovering-new-trails in Chennai (along with members of WCCG), Arunkumar has a structure to his life, on the saddle. The pandemic was not going to change that one bit. In the early days of the lockdown, Arunkumar would cycle alone, in full gear — jersey and shorts, helmet and sports shoes — down the narrow streets at a leisurely pace rediscovering the textile city. “With my WhatsApp status featuring images from these rides, people in my contact list, some of them from Tirupur, got curious,” says Arunkumar. His roommate Shanthossh and brother Rameshkumar R. were the first to join him and soon followed a few neighbours and juniors from school. Today, Arun administers a WhatsApp group Tirupur Cycling Group. “It is a small community of bicycle riders, but I am happy we were able to revive peoples’ interest in cycling during the pandemic,” says Arunkumar. Two entrepreneurs Arun and Kissan Vignesh invested in a professional cycle after the group rides got exciting. Vijay Balaji and Navaneeth have given up PUBG for cycling. Apparel and other paraphernalia were shipped from Chennai. Arunkumar sees this development as an opportunity to continue with the routine and at the same time promote cycling. He focusses on endurance building, cycling techniques, safety tips and bicycle maintenance. “I am not sure if there is a professional cycling group in my home town but whenever we hit the road, passersby usually look at is as if they have never seen people pedalling together.” Every day, the group hits the road around 5.30 a.m., at a decent clip of 20kph covering 30 km. During the weekends, the group ranges over the outskirts, taking in hills, temples and estuaries. “Group motivation is necessary to build a routine, cover long distances and achieve fitness goals,” says Arunkumar, adding that except for a two-month-long break during the second wave, the group did not miss a day’s cycling The question that remains to be answered: Will the group members stay on the saddle, even after moving back to their work cities?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-piece-of-omr-in-tirupur/article35518417.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Shastri Nagar landmark in ruins||Once a landmark at Seventh Cross Street in Shastri Nagar, the overhead water tank is now in a dilapidated state, with cracks running across its pillars, and its surroundings overrun with vegetation and strewn with rubbish. It has also become a spot for open urination. After sunset, it is taken over by tipplers. Shastri Nagar residents have requested the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to take up repairs of the facility and maintain it, even though the overhead tank has become redundant now. T. D. Babu, a long-time resident of Shastri Nagar, points out why this should be done: “The overhead tank was a landmark due to its pot-shaped structure. Constructed in the late 1960s, it supplied water until the early 1980s. The tank was the distribution point for the whole of Shastri Nagar.” Babu discloses that several representations have been made to the CMWSSB, but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shastri-nagar-landmark-in-ruins/article35518412.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A woman’s journey from a cabin to a garage||Affunissa Chaudhary is often mistaken for a receptionist of an enterprise she owns and manages hands-on. Many a first-time customer has asked her about the technician, and looked expectantly past her. When she would tell them she would go with them on a test drive to identify the issue, there would be a pronounced pause, suggestive of disbelief or awe. Petite and forty, Affunissa is the owner of Motorheads, multi-brand car service outlet at Neelankarai in East Coast Road. Ten years ago, Affunissa gave up a corporate career (in training, operations and quality control) to do what she does, and a decade into the automobile industry, she has co-founded an enterprise, and last year, just before the pandemic struck, she founded a company of her own: Motorheads. Partly to explain her unusual career switch, Affunissa reveals automobiles were an avocation long before they became a vocation. “Even when I was growing up I would hang out at workshops to understand what was going on inside a car,” says Affunissa, who even has a small collection of two-wheelers, a Yamaha RX 135, a modified Honda Unicorn and “Bobby” (as the Rajdoot GTS 175 is better known). The fact that “I get instant feedback and there is the thrill of solving a complex problem on your own” justifies the career change. Word-of-mouth publicity plays a big part in how Motorheads finds its business. Pandemic challenges Motorheads was barely out of the blocks when it had to be shuttered for three months as per the Government order to contain the spread of the Coronavirus. Affunissa has however spotted a silver lining: Her small team is challenged to take up complex jobs as they have more time at their disposal. “We also have school dropouts in our team who are trained by senior technicians,” says this resident of Injambakkam. “Motorheads has chalked up a model whereby they would take youngsters from underprivileged communities and train them and make they financially independent. The pandemic has also forced them to offer pick and drop service for multi-brand vehicles within a 10-km radius. For more details visit www.motorheads.in  Even when I was growing up I would hang out at workshops to understand what was going on inside a car||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-womans-journey-from-a-cabin-to-a-garage/article35518415.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A taste of legacy||Satish Thomas, manager at Liu’s Waldorf on Sardar Patel Road, excuses himself midway through a conversation, as a food delivery order had landed suddenly on his plate. Since the pandemic began, the manager doubles as the delivery person. Liu’s Waldorf, which is known for its non-vegetarian fare, especially chilli pork and beef preparations and affordable food, seems to have managed the pandemic well. It is a Chinese restaurant run by members of a Chinese family. Wang I Hsing, also known as Peter, is the third generation in the family running the restaurant. Started in 1975, the place is owned and run by a Chinese family and our chefs are also Chinese therefore our years of experience with Chinese food is authentic and special, says Wang. With Anna University and IIT-Madras in the vicinity, the restaurant enjoys a steady flow of patrons. “Our earnings have dropped drastically, but I am grateful to the investment made by my ancestors who had bought two grounds of the plot for Rs. 75,000 then and opened the outlet or I would be shelling out lakhs on rent alone,” says Wang. Until October last year, the restaurant did not open its shutters even for delivery. Of the 17 staff on its rolls, 11 left for their hometown when lockdown was first announced in the city last year. The place now runs with six of them and all of them take up additional roles, except for cooking which is obviously best left to the experts. “Even after the government allowed restaurants to open it did not allow dine-in for some time, so I had to ask my small team to multi-task or it would have been difficult to meet the operational expenses of running the place and paying the staff salaries,” says Wang, whose family also runs a few beauty parlours in Chennai. The outlet did not see any big advantage in tying up with an online food aggregators. “We tried it for two months but when we were not getting any margin it was not feasible to continue with such an arrangement,” says Wang. Two bikes owned by the outlet are pressed into service for the staff to deliver food to customers. Old-time customers keep coming back for the food we offer, say the staff. Currently, Wang is the only chef at Waldorf. “To make sure we serve authentic food, I do all the cooking and the staff only help me in getting the ingredients ready. Some of them are recipes that have been handed over to me by my parents,” he says. Box Goodwill gesture by customers Some of the restaurant staff have received a helping hand from customers thanks to the rapport they have built with them over the years. Satish Thomas, who is working at the restaurant for the last three decades, points out how a few customers helped him in cash and kind last year. “One customer sponsored me provision for a month; another offered me a choice of cash or kind and I chose the former as I had to pay the rent for my house. Similarly, Peter’s wife and daughter helped me with financial assistance,” says Satish. He sometimes has customers calling to enquire about the place and their well being. Says Satish: “I am longing for those days when an old student of IIT-M would call our land phone number (that has not changed), asking to reserve a corner table for a batch reunion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-taste-of-legacy/article35518432.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Periya Eri being restored||Going by the planned features of the ongoing restoration of ‘Periya Eri’ in Perumbakkam, the objective seems three-pronged: protection, ecological balance and aesthetics. While the most strikingly visible sign of the exercise yet is a tiled walkway, other remarkable features are said to be in the offing. Walls and fences would reportedly be raised around the lake to check encroachments. Efforts to make birds feel at home would include the creation of foreshore bunds and islands. Funded by the Department of Environment under the Environment Protection and Renewable Energy Development (EPRED) scheme, the restoration is being executed by the Water Resources Department of the Public Works Department. Challenges before the authorities include wild growth of water hyacinth. This invasive species proliferates on a section of the waterbody (towards Sithalapakkam). Another steep challenge is checking the flow of sewage into the lake. Residents of Perumbakkam have requested WRD to take urgent steps to weed out the water hyacinth from the lake. N. K. Raja, secretary, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations’ has taken up the issue with the authorities concerned at the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat, urging them to take up the issue with the WRD. The species has reduced the water-holding area of the waterbody. The invasive plant which grows on waterbodies due to discharge of sewage into lakes, does not allow the growth of native aquatic vegetation. The water-holding area covered by the invasive species becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Raja further points out, “As per the natural coarse, excess water in the lake during the monsoon flows to the Pallikaranai Marsh via water channel located on Nookampalayam Road. presence of water hyacinth can interfere with this natural flow. If steps are not taken to clear the weeds, localities like Kalaignar Nagar and Vanathurai Kudiyiruppu will be flooded during monsoon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/periya-eri-being-restored/article35518435.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Alumni join hands for a cause||The boys from the 1997-batch of Don Bosco Egmore have rediscovered the wisdom of travelling together and therefore farther. Deepu Antony notes that his batchmates were loosening the purse strings for the pandemic-hit packing a provision kit here and donating an oxygen concentrator there, keeping the proffered right hand hidden from the left. However, along the line, they decided to make common cause, and that has made a difference in the lives of fifty unprivileged girl students in Class X. “We thought that as a batch we should do something that would benefit more people,” recalls Deepu. The need for oxygen concentrators and provision kits tends to float around visibly on the surface due to the traumatic images from recent months and the barely-concealed fear of another deadly surge. The 1997 batchmates did think of these essentials, but chose to peer deeper into the cup of woes for unaddressed needs that could have settled to the bottom unnoticed. An image that emerged was that of a girl child dropping out of school because her pandemic-hit family cannot support her education anymore. “There are multiple reports from India and beyond, including reports prepared by United Nations about children dropping out of the school system due to economic pressure brought on by the pandemic. In India, the girl child is at a greater disadvantage in this situation,” explains Deepu. Besides, a quotidian encounter further nailed the necessity of prioritising education during the pandemic. “An auto driver who is allowed to park his vehicle in our apartment casually mentioned the need for providing children with laptops and tablets. His children are attending online classes using tablets that they received due to somebody’s generosity,” Deepu points out. He carried that auto-driver’s thought to the immediate WhatsApp group chat with his batchmates, only adding that the initiative be aimed at helping girl students. As they were on the same page, Min Siragugal (digital wings) was born effortlessly. “Initially, we thought we would get laptops for 25 girl students; but in 10 to 12 days, 17.5 lakh came with, with our batchmates contributing 99 percent of it, and the remaining one percent coming from relatives. It surprised us, as we had expected that it would take a month to make this collection.” The next step entailed identifying the beneficiaries. “We wanted laptops to be given to only girl students, and we identified two Adi-Dravidar schools with the help of a DB batchmate who is a member of the Round Table. One school is in Thaiyur on Old Mahabalipuram Road and the other in Kilambakkam on Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road. From discussions with principals of both these schools, we identified 50 students, 25 from each school. We have chosen only tenth standard students, because we are told that the government is going to offer laptops to eleventh and twelvth standard students.” The laptops are being given to the school, which would in turn distribute them to the identified beneficiaries. “The laptops will be passed on to needy students in the tenth standard batch from next year, followed by another batch the following year. So, students from three 10 standard batches will benefit from this exercise.” At the time of this article going to print, preparations were being made for the laptop distribution programme at the Adi-Dravidar Government School in Kilambakkam, and the chief guest was from the 1997 DB batch — Dr N. Ezhilan, MLA from the Thousand Lights constituency. YR Gaitonde Centre for AIDS Research and Education (YRGCARE), which is known for its community outreach programmes, drives the initiative. Here again, there is a batch connection. Founded by the legendary physician and microbiologist Dr. Sunithi Solomon, YRGCARE has her son Dr. Sunil Suhas Solomon in its governing body. Dr. Sunil, who is Associate Professor in Medicine at the Division of Infectious Diseases, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, United States, traces his schooling days to Don Bosco Egmore and its 1997 batch. “Even in the last two years, the 1997 DB batch were associating with YRGCARE to support it in its initiatives, including the one in which it was giving away sanitary kits to girls from underprivileged families,” adds Deepu. According to him, the 1997 DB batch has plans to make this charity an annual feature, and also extend its scope by reaching out to more schools or even colleges. If that happens, they would approach corporate foundations for support. Joseph Kennedy, another batchmate, underlines how all the boys of the 1997-batch share the credit for the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/alumni-join-hands-for-a-cause/article35518437.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Where small is big||In the world of virtual volunteering, small is clearly the big, especially now. The pandemic promotes shorter volunteering commitments — say those lasting 15 to 45 minutes. Durations of this kind encourages more people to sign up for volunteering. Team Everest’s recent post calling homemakers, retired and working professionals to sign up for the ‘Tell a Story’ initiative received an enthusiastic response for the same reason. The flexibility that goes with ‘Tell a Story’ is also a factor encouraging volunteering. Interested persons are on a 30-minute phone call every day with a school student (Class III to VIII) for 30 days. In case the volunteer cannot complete the module in this period, a buffer of 12 days is provided. The time can be chosen based on the availability of the volunteer and beneficiary. ‘Speak Out’ and ‘Voice Record a Story’ are a few other open events aimed at improving the spoken English skills of college students and the visually-impaired respectively. Social organisation Gold Heart Foundation has been running ‘Table Topics’ since the pandemic began where the average volunteering time is 10-15 minutes a day. Here, a college student submits a voice note on a given topic in English and a volunteer offers feedback. Thuvakkam moved its environment initiatives online by designing programmes where the entire family could participate in. ‘Best out of Waste’, for example, taught children and elders various DIY activities that could be implemented in their surroundings. Similarly, Talent Quest for India’s ‘Express Phone Mentoring’ requires one to commit 30 minutes every day for 30 days to teach spoken English to children from government schools. One-on-one format Those working with non-profits point out that challenges arising from the pandemic are forcing them to target hitherto unreached communities of volunteers. Karthee Vidya, founder, Team Everest, says there are more initiatives than there are volunteers to drive them. “In pre-COVID days, we had two flagship programmes where volunteers could commit time for a certain duration. Now, we have added 20 more based on the requirement,” says Karthee. The advantage of virtual volunteering cannot be overemphasised. Most programmes are nased on a one-time or short-term engagement in a one-to-one format, giving it an edge over other forms of volunteering. “Before the pandemic, an average time a volunteer spent for a weekly group activity was two to three hours, sometimes that does not include the time taken to travel to the venue. Now, it is just 30 to 45 minutes,” he says. So naturally, more people are signing up for these virtual volunteering opportunities. “In 2019, we had 3500 people volunteering and the following year, there was a three-fold increase,” says Karthee, adding that these numbers are from corporate volunteering and the open category. This increase was made possible as a majority of the people were working from home. Adapting programmes Ganesh Kumar Sivasubramaniam says the success of these virtual programmes depends on how quickly the non-profit adapts to the new situation. “For Table Topics, our plan was to assign one mentor to three mentees, we dropped it as some of our volunteers were from other countries and different time zones. We switched to the format where assign one mentor to one mentee. This was a good decision as we wanted to tap into the enthusiasm of the volunteers from day one,” says Ganesh, a core volunteer with Gold Heart Foundation who works with a corporate. He says getting more volunteers for an online initiative is good. But commitment is even more valuable than numbers. Karthee understands that extracting commitment for a long duration might be a challenge, especially from working professionals. He explains: “For instance, ‘Be a Mentor’ is a 13-day programme where the mentor has to spend 15 to 30 minutes to clarify any doubt a mentee may have. Sometimes stretching a programme beyond two weeks will make it difficult for people to make a commitment.”    Volunteering and causes Platforms to check out: Chennai Volunteers, iVolunteer, Goodera Popular causes: Teaching spoken English, becoming a mentor, record an inspirational story, conduct mock interview for final year students, art and craft session   Volunteering and causes Platforms to check out: Chennai Volunteers, iVolunteer, Goodera Popular causes: Teaching spoken English, becoming a mentor, record an inspirational story, conduct mock interview for final year students, art and craft session||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-small-is-big/article35518439.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Seed balls kept ready||Citizens’ group Chitlapakkam Rising has made preparations for sowing 200 seed balls at Pachai Malai in Tambaram Sanatorium and around Chitlapakkam lake among a few other places in the region. Notable species included in the exercise include sara kondrai , pungai , poovarasu , and malai vembu . “The sowing exercise will be carried out once the north east monsoon sets in,” says Sunil Jayaram, member, Chitlapakkam Rising. Over the past two years, the group has planted more than 1,000 tree saplings and raised a Miyawaki forest at Kumar Avenue park, SBI Colony park, and in the premises of Central Warehousing Corporation in Chitlapakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/seed-balls-kept-ready/article35518445.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ahead of a milestone, Neelankarai residents reiterate old demand||It is close to ten years since Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar in Neelankarai was merged with Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), and its residents are still waiting for piped water supply. Residents buy water cans for cooking and drinking purposes. Some have installed reverse osmosis (RO) water filter systems in their borewells and made the water potable. “The groundwater in the locality is saline. Making matters worse, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) has sunk borewells across the locality to draw groundwater and supply it to adjoining areas. Indiscriminate drawing of water by CMWSSB would lead to intrusion of seawater into groundwater sources,” says Rohit Menon, secretary, Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, says. The association is also seeking underground sewage pipes. “Some residents have not cemented the base of septic tanks in their houses to avoid spending on clearing the septic tanks. They discharge the sewage into the earth contaminating the groundwater,” adds Rohit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ahead-of-a-milestone-neelankarai-residents-reiterate-old-demand/article35518405.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Saplings planted||Chettinad Sarvalokaa Education, International School in Kelambakkam, with the support of Chettinad Academy planted 2,500 saplings of 200 varieties of indigenous trees in 4.5 acres of land at Chettinad Health City in Kelambakkam. According to a press release, “forest learning” is an integral part of the Waldorf-inspired curriculum that Sarvalokaa follows. The institution is raising a forest to help students imbibe knowledge about various aspects of nature, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saplings-planted/article35518426.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A vehicular subway is what we need here’||A public hearing was conducted at the office of Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Tambaram Sanatorium recently to ascertain the views of Chromepet residents on the construction of a pedestrian underpass near an educational institution. Priya, RDO, Tambaram Sanatorium presided over the meeting, which was attended by Pallavaram MLA E. Karunanidhi. The Special Teshildar (Tax Officer), Land Acquisition, and Assistant Director, State Highways Department were also at the meeting. In her introductory remarks, Priya said that the hearing was being held to record the residents’ views on the proposal notification by the Revenue Department of Pallavaram Taluk, to construct a pedestrian subway at Level Crossing Number: 26, near Shrimathi Devkunvar Nanalal Bhatt Vaishnav College For Women, Chromepet. The residents and the MLA rejected the notification, and urged the RDO to take steps to construct a vehicular subway, one that would also facilitate the movement of heavy vehicles. Movement of Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses through such a facility would ensure the development of the eastern side of Chromepet in the future. Representing the residents of the area, veteran social activist and a long-time resident of Chromepet V Santhanam and the MLA submitted petitions separately to the RDO, seeking the construction of a vehicular subway. The RDO pointed out that residents’ views had been noted down, and the same would be sent to the State government for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-vehicular-subway-is-what-we-need-here/article35518441.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents make a representation to MLA about roads||Members of KAMPERS (Kailash Nagar, Moogambigai Nagar, Sri Perumal Nagar, Rathinam Nagar, Sairam Nagar and Shanthi Nagar) Welfare Association in Perumbakkam recently met the MLA of Sholinganallur constituency S Aravind Ramesh with a representation seeking that roads be laid in parts of their locality.  “For more than five years, we (KAMPERS Welfare Association) have been submitting petitions to Secretary, Perumbakkam Village Panchayat, Block Development Officer, St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union, Commissioner, St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union and District Collectors of erstwhile Kancheepuram and Chengalpet Districts,” said V. G. N. Prasad, treasurer, KAMPERS Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-make-a-representation-to-mla-about-roads/article35518423.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Four-year-old plays basic ghatam to enter record book||Four-year-old V. Madhanagopalan, a resident of Chennai, has entered the India Book of Records as the youngest to display his skills on the rudimentary lessons of ghatam. He is a disciple of Ghatam Umashankar. A press release said that the attempt falls under the ‘Young Achievers’ category of India Book of Records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/four-year-old-plays-basic-ghatam-to-enter-record-book/article35518443.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||OMR resident releases book||Richa Tilokani, a resident of OMR, has authored a book introducing the teachings of the Bhagavad Gita. The book titled ‘The Teachings of Bhagavad Gita for Modern Times’ presents the essence of the sacred texts in a simple and easy-to-understand manner. In a release, Richa, an advertisement professional, says the book brings alive the principles of karma yoga, gyan yoga and bhakti yoga, which can help one achieve both worldly and spiritual goals. The book is published by Hay House and is available on Amazon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/omr-resident-releases-book/article35518442.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on terrace gardening||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on terrace gardening on July 29. Another workshop on mushroom cultivation will be held on July 30. The sessions will be held at the centre’s premises in Guindy. Prior registration is required. For details, call 044 – 2225 0511/ 044 - 2250 1960 / 86080 40721.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-terrace-gardening/article35518447.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Gated community on OMR gets its water math right||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gated-community-on-omr-gets-its-water-math-right/article35518407.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A piece of OMR in Tirupur||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-piece-of-omr-in-tirupur/article35518409.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteering and causes||Platforms to check out:  Chennai Volunteers, iVolunteer, Goodera  Popular initiatives:  Teaching spoken English; mentoring; recording inspirational stories; conducting mock interviews for final year students; art and craft sessions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteering-and-causes/article35518440.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Gira, on her own terms||When I was asked to write about the renowned architect Gira Sarabhai who passed away last week, I found that Calico Mills, her study under Frank Lloyd Wright, the Textile Museum, and her association with the National Institute of Design (NID) were all already written about. I was in a quandary. Knowing the Sarabhai family since childhood, I never really met Gira ben till I was in my mid-20s. It was Gautam bhai, her older brother, with whom I had interacted for many years. On my return from Europe, Gautam bhai asked me if I wanted to join NID, and that’s when Gira ben walked into the office and told me to be part of the new Design Studio she had just started in their residence. I worked with her for several years and consider myself fortunate to have known her intimately. The first thing that struck me was how Gira ben worked so intensely on so many projects. Her day would start very early, with a cup of coffee, the decoction very strong and a lot of milk. She would then take a quick walk in the garden at Retreat, the family residence, meet with the gardeners to instruct them on the day’s work. Then she and Gautam bhai would drive to their residence in Hansol, a few kilometres away, and go for a camel ride. Gira ben’s Hansol residence was designed stunningly in mud, like a village kothi, surrounded by immaculate gardens. The landscaping was done according to seasons and was micro-detailed, including how the trees would sound when the wind blew. When the two returned to the Retreat, Gira ben would meet carpenters, masons, and structural engineers to settle the day’s business. After a simple breakfast, she would often take a small nap before going off to attend to her several businesses. Lunch would normally be with Gautam bhai, or, very rarely, with a guest. I was invited several times to her house, which was extremely simple with a huge door from which she could enjoy her garden. A glass door would slide shut if it rained or the air-conditioning was on. She was surrounded by books, a large Eames chair, a few small Calder sculptures, all in wood and metal, very modern in design, and a high-end audio system with POLS amplifier and Tannoy speakers. Gopi bai, her domestic help, and Rani, her German Shepherd, were Gira ben’s permanent companions. Rani didn’t like anyone except Gautam bhai and Gopi bai, so extreme caution had to be taken before visiting Gira ben at home. Personal playground The Design Studio was her personal playground where she could execute into reality whatever she dreamt of. I was in charge of photography, films and illustrations. She made a photography darkroom for me to work in, which was a dream one. Some work from the Bombay office of Shilpi Advertising seeped into the studio, but mostly it was Gira who designed things and sent them over, either for advertising campaigns or for the several companies the family owned. I made three films with her. In the first, she wanted the entire Calico Mills (the family company) range of products to be shown in one shot. She designed the set, the famous Jeannie Nowroji did the choreography, Vanraj Bhatia composed the music, and I executed the production and cinematography. For the next film, she insisted I learn animation, gave me books, made me a Disney animation stand, and on her insistence, I learnt from scratch, making 1,600 cartoon drawings. The third film was for Calico Shirts for which she brought in the legendary Subrata Mitra; it was also Parveen Babi’s first film. All three films won CAG advertising awards. We later made two films on Bhavai folk theatre for her foundation. Gira ben confided in me enough to make me an integral part of the book on her family history, which was distributed only within the family. In the process, she told me stories of her childhood and travels, which were so extravagant they could give maharajas an inferiority complex. Gira ben and Gautam bhai would bring several international designer guests to the studio. One of them was Buckminster Fuller, with whom I spent a week. During her years with Wright in the U.S, Gira ben befriended composer and music theorist John Cage, and he introduced the two to jazz. They became keen followers of modern jazz and had an enviable collection, not very large but selective and five-star. We spent many hours together listening to jazz. Gira ben liked cars and spoke in great detail about the Italian automobile design studios she had visited. She knew my passion for motorcycles and even let me park mine inside my air-conditioned studio. Gira ben was a perfectionist and would not tolerate anything but the best. She was impatient with their company’s business executives but extremely tolerant with gardeners, carpenters and craftspeople, anyone who worked with their hands. She had a whacky sense of humour and was always ready for a laugh. I think, in many ways, my life was an amusement for her. She led a reclusive lifestyle, and what with micromanaging so many activities, she didn’t have time, so it was always ‘her way or the highway’. Even so, if she made a mistake, she would apologise profusely before asking it to be redone. Unfortunately, Gira ben was secretive about her work, not wanting it to be published. She rarely attended public functions and was averse to being photographed. She dressed simply, putting on a small bindi only on her birthdays. After the demise of Gautam bhai, she became even more reclusive, surrounding herself with a few trusted workers and select friends. Gira ben lived her life absolutely on her own terms, but made her dreams come alive. She leaves behind an invaluable legacy of aesthetics, education and design, which have touched a great many people. The writer is an award-winning cinematographer and photographer whose jazz series is in the Smithsonian Museum collection.  Gira ben was a perfectionist and would not tolerate anything but the best. She had a whacky sense of humour and was always ready for a laugh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gira-on-her-own-terms/article35518455.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Rights and guarantees||On December 9, 2019, the Home Minister of India introduced the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha. The arrival of this piece of paper met with huge opposition both in Parliament and in the public arena. The book On Citizenship answers many questions regarding the law on citizenship right from where it all started. A relationship contract The first part is authored by historian Romila Thapar who writes about the ‘right to be a citizen’. When it comes to the law on citizenship, the first and foremost question that needs to be answered is — what is citizenship? The Constitution of India does not define it. Thus, to even attempt a definition requires the understanding of the evolution of man from being a ‘slave’ to a ‘citizen’. Citizenship, Thapar writes, is commonly described as “the relationship between the individual as a citizen with the state to which he or she may belong”. This relationship is made binding through a contract between the citizens and the state, a document known as the Constitution that embodies these rights. As per this contract, the citizen agrees to perform certain duties in return for protection by the state. The duty of the state not only involves protection of citizens from harm but also to provide basic living standards such as food, water and shelter. Over a period of time these so-called basic standards expanded and brought within its scope the right to education, equality and social justice as well. These are the bare minimum for any citizen. Thapar makes it clear that it is high time ‘we, the people of India’ realise that citizens established the state and gave it its powers. The Constitution or the contract between citizens and the state was made by citizens and hence they have the right to enforce the rights as well. Politics around an idea Political commentator and journalist N. Ram writes about the present situation in India. He begins his essay by quoting political scientist Niraja Gopal Jayal as to how “365 million subjects of King George VI were not magically turned into citizens” at the stroke of the midnight hour separating August 14 and August 15, 1947. The writer makes it clear that India is absolutely not the republic that was envisioned by the makers of the Constitution seven decades back. What was seen as a ‘little thing’ during the Constituent Assembly debates turned out to be a huge threat in 2019-20. This was the debate on offering citizenship on the basis of religion. The writer condemns the idea of having religion as a basis for citizenship. So how did religious difference suddenly make its way into the Constitution? It was not a sudden phenomenon. The election manifesto of the Bharatiya Janata Party right from the 1989 general election shows its idea of introducing a National Register of Citizens (NRC) to push out infiltrators (Muslim migrants) and give permanent citizenship to refugees (non-Muslim migrants). Reading Article 11 According to Article 11 of the Constitution, Parliament has the sole authority to make laws regarding acquisition and termination of citizenship and all other matters relating to citizenship. Legal scholar Gautam Bhati a argues that Article 11 is an exception only to Part II of the Constitution and not to the entire Constitution. He says that the constitutional commitment to secularism and non-discrimination acts as an implied limitation on the powers of Parliament to bring in citizenship laws on the basis of religion. He goes on to record this more clearly by calling attention to the evolution of the thinking behind the citizenship law in Part II of the Constitution over three phases of the Constituent Assembly debates. Jurist Gautam Patel stresses on the relationship between citizenship and fundamental rights and the importance of their co-existence, especially when the Constitution is viewed as a social document. Patel highlights case laws from various jurisdictions around the world, including India, particularly instances when the judiciary stood by and watched as the state took away the fundamental rights guaranteed to citizens. The writer records the importance of ‘purpose’. If a decision is rendered based on a law without taking into consideration its purpose, then such a decision may prove to be bad in law. An apt example would be the case of ADM Jabalpur v. Shivkant Shukla , where when all the judges of the bench held that the state was right in curbing all fundamental rights during the Emergency, Justice Hans Raj Khanna, the lone dissenter, looked beyond the provisions of the Constitution, into the purpose or motive on which the law was built. His view was that no situation, not even a state Emergency can take away the right to life and personal liberty of a citizen. Although this erroneous judgment was overturned, the writer reiterates the duty of the judiciary to keep a check on executive action and make sure free speech is not stifled at any cost. The book establishes clearly that citizens not only have a set of rights, but they also have the right to enforce them. The state cannot decide who can and cannot be a citizen of India on a non-secular and discriminatory manner. Above all, the book urges the reader to understand the aberration that has taken place and to reflect on, in the words of Ram, “what needs to be done to find a way back to the core values of the Indian Republic as set out in the Preamble to the Constitution — justice, liberty, equality, and fraternity.” The reviewer is a law student.  On Citizenship Romila Thapar, N. Ram, Gautam Bhatia, Gautam Patel Aleph  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rights-and-guarantees/article35518501.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A memo for muggles||On July 31, 1965, at the Yate General Hospital in South Gloucestershire, Anne Rowling née Volant and Peter John Rowling welcomed their firstborn Joanne Rowling into the world. There was nothing particularly unusual about the circumstances. No crow crowed thrice. No comet whizzed by. The baby didn’t have any freaky birthmarks, lightning-shaped or otherwise. The biographical details give little indication that Joanne Rowling aka J.K. Rowling would go on to have one of the most extraordinary careers in modern publishing. A book-filled childhood in Gloucestershire, loving parents determined to give her the college education they lacked, a younger sister to boss around, and all the privileges of being a citizen of a first-world country. There were shadows too: the premature loss of her mother to multiple sclerosis, a seemingly-useless Classics degree, a short-lived marriage, uncertain employment, and the shabby difficulties of being a single mother in Thatcherite Britain. By the time she finally had a novel — Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone — to show publishers, she was 30. Red-carpet welcome As is well known, Rowling’s debut novel was rejected by 13 publishers; this fact has long warmed the chthonic innards of struggling writers. Nigel Newton at Bloomsbury decided to take a chance on the book. Not because he’d read the sample chapter, but because his eight-year-old daughter Alice had. She’d given it her enthusiastic approval. Thus the fate of Rowling’s five years of labour was decided by the thumbs-up of an eight-year-old. The book was published on June 26, 1997 with a print-run of 500 hardcover copies. Wait, let’s backtrack a bit. “Sample chapter”? Who sent Nigel Newton the sample chapter? Rowling? No. It was sent by Rowling’s agent, Christopher Little. She’d managed to secure an agent. Most authors never even get to that point in their careers, so Rowling was already well ahead of the vast number of other unknowns. It’s also not uncommon for a promising debut novel to be rejected multiple times. Booker-winner Marlon James’ debut novel John Crow’s Devil was rejected 78 times. Lisa Genova’s global bestseller Still Alice was rejected over a hundred times. The all-time champ is Dick Wimmer, whose Irish Wine was rejected 162 times. In the book industry, 13 rejections practically amountto a red-carpet welcome. Point is, Rowling seemed all set for a fairly successful career as an author. Maybe shortlisted for a book prize or two down the road; treading the litfest-circuit holding forth on topics such as Palestinian Children’s Literature; and eking out a living from anaemic royalties, articles on celebrity authors, and creative-writing workshops. Gets tricky What followed however was something completely unexpected. Not only was Rowling’s debut novel a smash success, but so were all the subsequent volumes in the series. So far, more than 500 million copies of the series have been sold. Contemplate this number for a moment: 500 million copies. It is a number large enough to have made her the world’s first author to become a billionaire. How about this statistic? A standard pine tree produces about 10,000 sheets of paper. Using this fact, the website saveonenergy.com calculated that Rowling’s seven-volume series, a total of 4,224 pages, has so far sent more than 23.5 million trees to their next lives. Or this: Rowling has outsold the next nine bestselling-authors combined .  What can explain the series’ appeal? This is where it gets tricky. It is like asking what makes a person tall. Attributes like ‘height’ depend on too many factors. Ditto for ‘book appeal’. Richard Caves, an economist who studied creative industries, refers to this as the “Nobody Knows” principle. The term references screenwriter William Goldman’s famous comment in his memoir, Adventures in the Screen Trade : “Not one person in the entire motion picture field knows for a certainty what’s going to work. Every time out it’s a guess — and, if you’re lucky, an educated one.” This is also true of the book industry. Nobody knows what made Fifty Shades of Grey a bestseller. Perhaps the next big thing will be Jane Austen, Vampire Hunter . Nobody knows. This hasn’t stopped otherwise sensible people from offering definitive answers. In a gloomy and bilious essay for The New York Times , A.S. Byatt, herself no stranger to success, and perhaps of the view that she deserves it, suggested that children could be excused for liking the Potter novels — they simply didn’t know better. The real mystery is why adults like these books. The novels, she concluded, were written for “people whose imaginative lives are confined to TV cartoons, and the exaggerated (more exciting, not threatening) mirror-worlds of soaps, reality TV and celebrity gossip.” The ghosts of 23.5 million trees must be feeling even more depressed. Success breeds success The opposite approach is to see in Rowling’s books every desirable virtue: comfort, comradeship, a thumping good adventure, immersion, escape… And why not? These are the reasons that readers themselves offer when asked why they like Rowling’s series. For example, I like her sense of humour. It’s an important part of the novel’s amiability. But there is good reason to be wary of such reasons. Social psychologists have demonstrated that such reasons follow our preferences and not the other way around. We make up reasons, we are unaware we have made up reasons, and then we double down on the reasons when questioned. At the same time, success breeds success. For example, Richard Bachman had exactly the same genetic inheritance, writing skills and experiences as Stephen King. Yet Bachman’s debut novel sold only 28,00 copies. What does Stephen King do for the reader that his alter ego Richard Bachman does not? So is it all just a fluke then? Not quite. It is true that Rowling’s extreme success with the Potter series is both contingent and unexpected. But we can’t thereby conclude that she is irrelevant to that phenomenal success. That is not what ‘random’ means in mathematics. A random number is one that is its own most economical description; there’s no simplifying it further. What ‘random’ means for publishing is that if we wish to replicate Rowling’s particular success, then we’d need to replicate everything else associated with it. And that is impossible to do. You can’t simply duplicate aspects of her work and expect things to play out the same way. Her success is random in the sense that it’s the product of unique and un-substitutable causes. It is, one might say, magical. However, it is a different magic from the magic in the Potter series. In the series, a magic spell can be cast by any suitably trained person and provided it is done correctly, the spell has a fixed consequence. The person casting the spell and the target object are quite independent of the spell itself. In this sense, the magic spells work like toasters and light switches. The spell cast by fiction isn’t that kind of magic. Here, it is the author’s words, the reader, the reader’s social context, why, the entirety of the world, that jointly determine whether the spell will work. Our marketing shamans can gaze at the gizzards of numbers all day and see nothing. But an eight-year-old child may, without obvious effort, open possibility’s door. Perhaps the remarkable thing isn’t that J.K. Rowling was able to cast a spell to create that door, but rather, that she showed such a possibility still exists. Aren’t we told that we now have a shorter attention span than that of a goldfish? That people don’t read any more? That the age of the novel is over? All probably true, and all quite irrelevant. What Rowling has achieved is a sort of existence proof. There is still magic in this world, and the story can still effect its old miracles. Author ofHalf Of What I Say, the writer has a collection of short stories forthcoming from Hachette.  The opposite approach is to see in Rowling’s books every desirable virtue: comfort, comradeship, a thumping good adventure, immersion, escape… And why not?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-memo-for-muggles/article35518479.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The floral carpet||I first met him under the freshwater mangrove tree on one of my early-morning walks in the neighbourhood. A tall, frail figure stooping to collect the red carpet of flowers on his puja pathram . We exchanged the usual pleasantries, and he recollected how he had planted and raised the tree. And how he had never met anything so bounteous in beautiful charity for his puja. Not much of a conversationalist, he resumed collecting flowers almost immediately. A few encounters later, Nagarajan, whom I started calling uncle, invited me into his garden to show saplings of the tree. He shared some of the seeds he collected and a few saplings too. Years passed. My work routines got busier and the morning walks dwindled. But one wondrous morning, on resuming my walk, I found the roadside beside the tree carpeted a brilliant scarlet, with hundreds of flowers. Nagarajan’s house was shut and barred. I learnt from a neighbour that his wife was sick and he was away with his son, in another city. With no one to collect them, the flowers were being swept each day into the rubbish heap. A few days later, the flowers were on their way out, and the delicately interconnected seeds began to appear. I began to visit every day. The seeds matured and began to shed early in the morning. It must have been around Nagarajan’s waking time, I guess. In all the years before, no walker had ever stepped on either the flowers or seeds. For want of his gentle presence and care, most were being run over by the milkman or the newspaper boy, while walkers stomped over the rest. By mid-morning, the roadside cleaner unceremoniously disposed all of them into the dump truck. I felt compelled to help in some way. The next morning, I left home at 5 a.m., with a cloth bag. As usual, the seeds decorated the entire span under the tree’s canopy. And I hastened to pick up each of them. Of course, a few had already been crushed under wheels of vehicles. But the rest of them lay waiting, to be collected. Every day for the next month and more, I would go with a big bag and collect the seeds till the season passed. All the collected seeds have been sown in nurturing garden beds to raise many wonderful babies of the mother tree. So she can spread her bounteous spirit in more spaces in our city and beyond. I am sure Nagarajan will be happy to hear this, wherever he is! Freshwater mangroves ( Barringtonia acutangula ) grow to about eight metres tall, with a fissured rough grey bark. In the flowering season, beautiful red flowers hang pendulously in long strands. Four-sided fruits are produced periodically. It grows on banks of freshwater swamps and seasonally flooded lowland plains. Found in tropical Asia, Madagascar and other places, the tree can grow in a wide range of soils, and is particularly tolerant of heavy clay soils with poor drainage. Parts of the tree have been used in medicine, and is recently in research for pain-killing compounds. shobha61@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-floral-carpet/article35518476.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Feral fancies||Gracy’s Baby Doll in the Malayalam original initially shocked readers with its frank celebration of female desire. Every story in the book gravitates towards places where one confronts a piece of her long-suppressed self. You are taken to a vivid and nuanced world populated by men, women, even ghosts, who are jealous and rebellious, frustrated and depressed, vulnerable and queer in their own triumphant ways. Her protagonists — mostly women — are gloriously flawed. Halfway into the book, the author intervenes in her own voice to say that her “stories never traverse the luminous paths” and she is not “a storyteller who spreads light.” Gracy is irreverent with aplomb. Women are not victims in Baby Doll : some watch the world with brazen insolence, some boldly tread the borderline between normalcy and lunacy. They burn with feral energy, breaking open a realm of memory and mortality, adultery and defiance, menace and paranoia. You see a daughter opting for a burning-crimson sari to attend her mother’s funeral; a young wife trapped in her dreams; and a grumpy mama returning from the netherworld to quibble and curse. While Krishna, refusing to be a sex slave, finds the perfect antidote to her husband’s perverse fantasies, Parvathi is remorseless about the vagaries of desire. The nameless husband in ‘Cat’ is terrified of the feline traits of his wife and believes that a tomcat visits her every night. The she-lizard in ‘A Lizard Birth’ says she is least interested in the breeding-child bearing cycle. But it’s the children in Baby Doll who sear your soul — their tragedies lend coherence to the all-pervading air of melancholy. While some stories are drawn-out chronicles of solitude, some are miniatures strewn with dark humour and sarcasm. Gracy revels in playful blasphemy, stiletto-sharp humour and clever imagery, which bring home the toxic taste of misogyny. E.V.Fathima’s translation deftly handles the intimidating simplicity of Gracy’s syntax, making Baby Doll an immersive collection.  Baby Doll: Stories Gracy, trs Fathima E.V. Harper Perennial  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/feral-fancies/article35518483.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ganga and Yajnaseni, again||The premise of Collegiality and Other Ballads is rather befuddling — here is a range of predominantly male writers pondering women’s experience of gender to establish the point that men shouldn’t be left out of feminist politics. Considering the book as a declaration of solidarity, its poetic merits can be discussed only on the assumption that it does not usurp the proverbial mic from women, trans and queer persons writing in their own voices. The editor, Shamayita Sen, briefly engages with this dilemma in the foreword: “I was concerned if the time is apt for a work such as this.” The general air of the collection is of unmitigated tragedy, barring a few exceptions. To describe the female experience as a saga of sacrifice might be a homage to lived reality, but to confine it there is a misstep. A lot of poems thrum an undifferentiated tune as the same figures of Ganga and Yajnaseni tiredly relate the same experiences of womanhood: womb, fertility, emptiness. Perhaps we haven’t yet reached the stage where we can be unhesitatingly celebratory when talking of femaleness. That said, some poems on sacrifice and violation stand out — K. Satchidanandan’s ‘Non-Negotiable’, ‘Burnt Poems’ and ‘She, Inside Me’ add interesting variations. The voices of Alvin Pang and Amal Matthew Joseph are original. Non-binary poet Chand’s ‘My Gender’ also stands out for this reason: the piece daringly declares, “My gender is a crown of thorns… My gender makes me happy.” The poems that bring out the intersectional aspect of the feminist movement are commendable too. Chandramohan Sathyanathan’s ‘Portrait of a Poet as a Young Woman’ brings together Black and Dalit women. Madhu Raghavendra’s ‘Conflict’ is a witty take on the concept of “sex strike.” Several poems are addressed to mothers, sisters, daughters and grandmothers in a familial context, such as Soradeep Roy’s ‘For My Grandmother’ or Sumallya Mukhopadhyay’s ‘Myths In the Family.’ All of them are sincere and presumably personal portrayals of the titular characters. Overall, the anthology has an eclectic cast of allies holding up mirrors to the lived experiences of women. However, the radical act of breaching language so as to connect it with feminist politics is a task best left to women. The reviewer is a freelance journalist.  Collegiality and Other Ballads Edited by Shamayita Sen Hawakal Publishers  Rs. 450||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ganga-and-yajnaseni-again/article35518485.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The struggles and triumphs of India’s scientific fraternity||Science, even as it takes apart and analyses phenomena, has a unifying effect on humankind as a whole because it plays on the canvas comprising the wide expanse of the universe against which our differences appear meaninglessly small and petty. But what does it take to build such a magnificent enterprise, get it working and actually obtain results to questions of cosmic significance? The answer is a story of endeavour, personal achievement, institution building, mobilising of funds and inspiring and holding together many, many people. It has been no different in post-Independence India, when the pursuit of science has been to a great extent democratised, and India is a key voice in the field of science. How did this come about? This is the story that Hari Pulakkat aims to narrate in Space Life Matter: The Coming of Age of Indian Science . He delves into the lives of some of the visionaries and institution builders and reveals their stories, tied close to the development of Indian science over the decades. A telescope in Ooty The Sun is an object of never-ending fascination. It is also interesting from the point of view of astronomy that the longest datasets we have are of sunspots. The telescope in Kodaikanal itself has a hundred years of such observations. Using the telescope in Ooty, P.K. Manoharan mapped out the Sun’s heliosphere. But the telescope had not been built for just observing the Sun. It was the first radio telescope to be fully built in India, thanks to Govind Swarup, whom the author introduces to readers as a forceful, creative personality, who went on to build the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope in Pune and establish the field. Perhaps because it is a field that excites and tantalises with its grandeur, many more pages have been allotted to documenting the story of Space Science and Telescopes which form the “Space” section. But the writer’s engaging narrative takes the reader on the trip to space quite efficiently. They are inspiring stories — the scientists and researchers often worked on shoe string budgets, building every instrument from scratch. After overcoming many challenges, as Pulakkat reveals, entire fields of research were established and maintained. Women in the field After the first mention of a woman scientist’s name, the reader has to wait for quite some time before the next, and the next. Nipanjana Patra, Annapurni Subramaniam, Shyni Varghese and Manju Bansal are the few women to be named and discussed in the stories. There are a few more mentions, but not comparable in number to the plethora of male scientists whose stories have been narrated. Some of the most inspiring narratives involve Govind Swarup and C.N.R. Rao and also R.A. Mashelkar’s energy in infusing life into the National Chemical Laboratory. In a tribute, the author writes, “Reading Rao’s research papers of the last 50 years is like reading a mini history of the chemistry of solid-state materials.” This is no exaggeration, with Prof Rao being known for being prolific in the field. “I do not accept no for an answer,” is a defining quote of Prof Rao, whose career the author follows through his stints at IISc, IIT Kanpur, Oxford University, back to Kanpur and IISc where he takes over as director. The book includes stories from the lives of scientists like Swarup, B.V. Sreekantan, Venkataraman Radhakrishnan, U.R. Rao, Vikram Sarabhai, Satish Dhawan, C.N.R. Rao, Man Mohan Sharma, Mashelkar, and many others. A lot of attention is given to the illustrious students of these visionary leaders. One person missing in the stellar list of institution builders is physicist Alladi Ramakrishnan and the Madras school. But the strength of the book is not in its completeness — which would be a marathon task anyway — but in its engaging and inspiring quality. It is a must read for anyone interested in the history of science in modern India.  Space Life Matter: The Coming of Age of Indian Science Hari Pulakkat Hachette India  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-struggles-and-triumphs-of-indias-scientific-fraternity/article35518496.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On July 25, 1908, Kikunae Ikeda, a chemist at the Tokyo Imperial University discovered a key ingredient in dashi broth. His research started when suddenly one day the broth was more flavourful than usual and he realised it was because of the addition of a microalgae called kombu. He isolated brown crystals of glutamic acid, which conveyed the flavour. He named the characteristic taste ‘umami’, and patented a process for manufacturing it. What had Ikeda discovered that in Japanese means ‘essence of flavour’? 2One of the legends surrounding the characteristic shape of this bread is that it was invented in Vienna in 1683 to celebrate the failure of the Ottoman (now Turkish) army in trying to take over the city. The army apparently dug a tunnel to get into Vienna. This surfaced in a bakery, and the bakers had alerted the citizens and successfully kept the army at bay. The bread was supposed to have been shaped in reference to an entity on the Ottoman flag. Which bread is this that is light, fluffy and can be filled with cheese or chocolate? 3In 2012 Viator Travel Awards released a list of ‘10 Foods to try before you die’. Number one was Peking duck from China. The fourth item on the list was described as such: ‘The plate-covering, paper-thin pancake is made from rice and lentil, cooked to lacy perfection on a hot griddle. What creates the more-ish flavour is a spiced concoction of mashed cooked potatoes and fried onions, served with a liberal dose of garlicky chutney.’ What item is this? 4There are multiple theories for the origin of the name of this particular dish. The most popular theory was that Indian Army soldiers couldn’t read Tamil, so they referred to this dish by its number on the menu. Other theories claim that it refers to the number of chilli peppers in the mix, or that the chef who invented it had mastered that many cuisines before creating this dish. What very popular dish is this? 5This spice is the unopened sun-dried flower buds of the Syzygium aromaticum tree. It has an assertive, characteristic taste given by the essential oil eugenol, which allows it to accompany both savoury and sweet foods. In Britain, in the 17th and 18th centuries, this spice was worth its weight in gold, due to the high price of importing it. It was used as breath freshener by the Chinese and as an insect repellent. What spice is this that you’d find in spice tea as well as mouthwash? 6This spice has been known for thousands of years, but till a few hundred years ago, no one in the West knew where and how it was found. The name for it in Tamil is literally a description of what it is, the inner bark of the C.verum tree. In the 17th century, it was such a valuable commodity that the Portuguese and Dutch started a war in Ceylon (Sri Lanka) where this spice grew abundantly. What spice is this that adds much flavour in small quantities, but if you ate a spoonful would cause you to cry? 7There is a particular delicious food item that is known as ‘inky cap’ or ‘tippler’s bane’. The second name comes from the fact that under normal circumstances it is very tasty and nutritious when consumed, but if there was any alcohol in the system, it turns poisonous and induces a heart attack. What type of food item is this? 8Despite being synonymous with blandness, this is one of the most complex spices in the world and the second most expensive, next to saffron. For hundreds of years it was not feasible to grow it commercially as no one could figure out its pollination. In 1841, a 12-year-old slave boy called Edmond Albius discovered how to hand-pollinate this plant, and started a global revolution. What spice is this which is the most stocked ice-cream flavour in the world? 9Some people greatly dislike this aromatic herb, saying that it smells like soap and tastes like crushed bugs. This reaction has been linked to a particular set of genes in some people and has been jokingly called the ‘cilantrophobe genes’. This herb’s leaves are a key ingredient in many food items like chutneys and salads, and for garnishing. What herb is this? 10This spice isn’t actually spicy until it is crushed. Only when the plant’s cells are damaged can a harmless component called sinigrin produce allyl isothiocyanate, the compound responsible for the familiar pungent taste. In the West, the spice is mixed with vinegar, lemon juice and other spices to create a condiment that is used in fast food. What spice is this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article35518511.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The nutcracker and the pine||The chilgoza pine tree and a bird called the nutcracker rely on each other to survive. Wind disperses the papery winged seeds of most pines. Without flight appendages of their own, the chilgoza nuts wait for a bird, the chisel-beaked nutcracker, to carry them. Unlike any other bird, the nutcracker stores the seeds in a special pouch below its tongue and buries them far and wide to be eaten later. In winter, the bird’s phenomenal memory leads it to the tens of thousands of buried treats. The nuts that aren’t eaten germinate to become the next generation of chilgoza (meaning ‘pine nuts’ in Urdu) pines. Economist Rinki Sarkar stumbled upon this extraordinary story of mutual dependence when she accidentally turned into an ecological sleuth. The nutcrackers aren’t the only ones to find the pine nuts delicious. Every September, in years past, men climbed chilgoza pine trees in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh to knock down the pineapple-like cones. Their partners below gathered them, and later, the entire village broke open the cones to gather the edible seeds. Although all pine nuts are edible, the fat-heavy oblong chilgoza nuts were highly prized. Garlands of nuts made traditional wedding gifts as well as offerings to deities. The seasonal bounty also sustained residents through the winter months. But Sarkar discovered this wasn’t a rosy local enterprise anymore. Risky job In the old days, handicapped by a lack of roads and the nuts’ short shelf life, villagers harvested and shared the delicious seeds equitably within the community. Not only was it a time and labour-intensive job but also risky since the chilgoza pine trees preferred growing on dry, steep hill slopes. Then roads brought access to markets and a new lucrative crop: apples. “Every villager was encouraged to grow apples and not their local crops,” says Sarkar. “It was a drastic transition.” With Kinnaur apples fetching handsome profits, residents had no time to collect pine nuts. Neither was their negligible income from these seeds an incentive to put their lives in danger. Every year, they auctioned the right of harvest to contractors who hired immigrant workers for the job. Since the nuts are in high demand before Diwali, the workers, also anxious to return home for the festival, hacked the branches bearing cones instead of delicately picking one cone at a time. “It was a near-total extraction for the market,” says Sarkar. “Chilgoza grows in a very restricted area. It can’t handle this level of exploitation.” Although the species ranges from Pangi and Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh to eastern Afghanistan at elevations between 2,000 and 3,500 metres, its small stands are isolated by towering mountains. Unspoken damage The reckless methods of harvesting damaged the ageing trees which produced lesser yields and fewer seedlings germinated the following year. Sarkar feared for the future of the slow-growing species. “They were lopping the big branches which had more cones,” she says. “Trees won’t survive this mutilation. It was a transformation for me as well. They neither move nor make eye contact like animals. But when they are mutilated, you have the same feelings.” The young chilgozas sprouted, sometimes in clusters, in odd locations such as between rocks, at the base of trees, and through mats of moss. “I remember thinking a cone couldn’t have reached here,” says Sarkar. “Something is wrong.” She rolled a few pine cones down slopes to see where they came to rest. They didn’t settle in the awkward places where the seedlings grew. The villagers said a crow buried the seeds as a dog would bury its bone. Among the branches flitted woodpecker-like birds, which Sarkar identified as the Kashmir (or large spotted) nutcracker of the crow family. This unbridled exploitation may lead to the undoing of a unique relationship forged over millennia on the steep slopes of the Western Himalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-nutcracker-and-the-pine/article35518521.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Battling old age blues||While endowing senior citizens with a silvered halo of respectability, the ageing process inevitably renders them forgetful, absent-minded and myopic — frailties that hound them, often leaving them exasperated and at their wits’ end. Helping to clear the dining table after breakfast recently, I dutifully picked up the table mats and the butter dish, depositing the former in the fridge and the latter on the shelf. My wife’s composure melted faster than the butter had! Another time, I slipped my visiting card into a post box while the letter to be posted remained in my shirt pocket. The other day, I started brushing my teeth only to discover that I was using a foul-tasting skin cream. Once, mistaking my toothpaste for shaving cream, I lathered my face with it. Why do toiletries come in identical-looking tubes? The elderly misplace nothing more often than their spectacles. Then everyone at home is roped in to search for them. During one such search for my glasses, I flopped down on the sofa, tired, to feel something needling my fundament. Neatly wedged between the cushions, luckily undamaged, were my spectacles. I had all but crushed them. Now with everyone wearing a mask, recognition has become tricky for the short-sighted senior. My physically distanced but friendly “Hi” directed at seemingly familiar faces sometimes elicit a stony and uncomprehending stare. Apparently, few like to be mistaken for someone else — unless, of course, that someone happens to be a celebrity! I can still drive a car. I am no speedster, nor do I compete with those who are, having once seen a very sensible road-safety sign: “If you want to see 90, don’t look for it on the speedometer!”. Then some time ago, while out trekking in the hills with friends, I learnt the hard way that agility is unquestionably age-linked. Required to jump across a gully, I gamely did so — only to end up at its slushy bottom, luckily sustaining nothing more serious than a badly bruised ego! Yet I’m inclined to endorse American statesman Bernard Baruch’s sunny observation, “To me, old age is always 15 years older than I am.” gnettomunnar@rediffmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/battling-old-age-blues/article35518474.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||On the periphery of change||Can a solitary heroic deed by one among an entire community uplift it from its century-old demeaning tag as rat-eaters? Could conversion of the culture of pig-rearing into a thriving business move the marginalised into the centre of society? Has political representation in recent times helped a community lift itself out of the hierarchical social construct? Dasrath Manjhi’s landmark efforts in cutting through the hillock with a mere borer and a hammer; Babu Majhi’s success with conversion of pig-rearing tradition into a roaring business; and, Jitan Manjhi’s drawing political capital in a caste-dominated politics — did they help correct the stigmatised image of Musahars? At the crossroads The Musahars have a sizeable population in Bihar, and limited numbers in the neighbouring states of Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Five chapters deal with the lived realities of Musahars who find themselves at the crossroads of human development, marred as much by the denial of development as their own culture of resistance to the process of enforced change. Counting them as one among many of its unintended victims, The Marginalized Self offers a well-reasoned critique on the project of development that contributes to the phenomenon of underdevelopment leading to further marginalisation of the excluded. It is in this context that Dasrath Manjhi, the mountain man, had exhorted his fellow community members to take cognisance of their own underdevelopment in getting beyond income poverty in understanding social exclusion as the cause for deprivation. ‘Change should necessarily respect the ethos of the community, and create enabling conditions where they have the freedom of choice.’ Contemporary relevance What gives purpose to the five standalone articles is an attempt to view development from a cultural lens. The slender volume may have been an outcome of a research project conducted over a decade ago, but the insights and observations have not lost out on their contemporary relevance. The Marginalized Self offers an engaging multi-layered narrative, which questions the top down prescription of development. With a deep dive into myths, beliefs and practices of the Musahars, the writers suggest the need for producing a bottom-up version of development conducive with the cultural underpinnings of the community. Much has been written in recent times on how ‘development’ has come to colonise the world ever since the term was first coined in 1945, at the end of World War II. However, there is no denying that the promise of development has failed the marginalised millions across the world. The seductively packaged idea of economic emancipation has continued to persist, a non-negotiable entity that has contributed to strengthening the political economy of the nation-state in the name of the poor. The book is an optimistic undertaking that raises the stakes of the marginalised community as it glorifies the marginal space it has been pushed into. All said, it is unlikely if the discourse on development will get a dent in the State where caste-based economic marginalisation is more of a norm than exception. However, the fact that the Musahars are seeking change beyond sheer material progress underscores the need for placing dignity and freedom ahead of the prevailing ideology of development.  The reviewer is an independent writer, researcher and academic.  The Marginalized Self: Tales of Resistance of a Community Edited by Rahul Ghai & Others Primus Books  Rs. 1095||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/on-the-periphery-of-change/article35518498.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Of sugar and spies||Dear Agony Akka,  I am 18 years old and studying for a B.Sc. in Botany from a Chennai college. My parents are getting on my nerves. Always nervous about their precious daughter, they have now started spying on me. They take turns to snoop into my phone and read my WhatsApp chats and they comment on what I should say and who I should talk to. My father is even talking of hiring a driver so that I can always be supervised when college reopens. How to bunk class and go for a movie? Or hang out with buddies peacefully? When I objected, he said ‘I am only worried about your safety kanna.’ I want to scream. Don’t I have a right to any private life? — Severe Privacy Yearner  Dear SPY,  Asis the wont of all youth, you are being foolish and impulsive. Parents are only worried about your well-being, and it is their god-given right to spy on you. They might not read your extensive notes on Parthenocissus quinquefolia , but they will surely read the notes you write to the handsome bloke in second year B.Com. It is all for your own good. And what is all this privacy-shrivacy you’re talking about? The very word ‘privacy’ comes from the old French word privauté , which means that it is a foreign concept and has nothing to do with sanskari Indians. Anyway, you must be taking public transport all your life and talking to conductors and auto drivers, so why bother if mother-father are reading your private messages, you foolish girl? Don’t you trust your own paavam parents? After all those nappies they changed? Last month, when I went to the corner shop to buy some Kurkure and potato chips for my evening snacks, Mani, the shopkeeper, looked very upset. Apparently, he has a new neighbour called Omit Pasha. Omit advised him to install security cameras in his shop and house and told him he would personally monitor them and keep Mani safe from robbers and intruders. A grateful Mani agreed. One month later, hey presto, Omit Pasha had started a kirana store and taken away all of Mani’s customers. What is worse, he also seduced Mani’s wife and is now married happily to her. Mani was most distraught, but I calmed him down. ‘Why are you only thinking of your business and wife, Mani?’ I asked. ‘Remember, Pasha has given you 3-4 brand new security cameras. Nobody can rob you ever again. At any rate, you will be able to see them robbing you. Isn’t that important?’ Mani thought for a while and then he realised the wisdom of my words. Last heard, Mani worships the cameras each morning before opening his shop. Like that, you must also learn to embrace the new normal. No need to get all excited because your parents and maternal uncle and paternal aunt-in-law know everything from your teenage crush to your best friend’s marks in Plant Cell Mixology. Information age does not mean that you voluntarily share information. It means that all and sundry can voluntarily snoop on your information. My friend Alu Tikki tells me that Indians are getting this ancient principle straight from Chanakya. In order to keep his king’s throne safe, the sly seer spied on everyone from minstrels and ministers to courtiers and crown princes. They didn’t have mobile phones then, so Chanakya probably hacked their palm leaves or whatever. The Mauryan citizens were reportedly very grateful for this daily supervision of their lives. Now, if Chanakya can do it, why not your parents? — AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/of-sugar-and-spies/article35518510.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Technique||North bid four hearts when accepting South’s game try in case South had a four-card heart suit. South correctly went back to spades. The game was a little pushy, needing a 3-2 split of the missing spades and a successful guess for the jack of hearts. South also had to ruff a club in dummy at some point, but it was important to wait a while for that. Should declarer try to ruff a club too soon, a defender with a doubleton club and a doubleton spade might overruff, leaving South with three, or possibly even four, trump losers. The same defender might be able to get a second club ruff. The correct technique is to win the opening club lead and then play a low spade from both hands. Declarer will reclaim the lead, say with a club continuation, and bang down the ace of spades. leaving one trump outstanding. Then it will be safe to ruff a club in dummy. A side benefit of using the correct technique is that declarer will discover, on this deal at least, that East started with only two clubs. That will give South good reason to infer that East was likely to have started with the greater heart length. Should East have started with four hearts, he was twice as likely to hold any missing heart, as West would only have started with two hearts. Accordingly, declarer should finesse East for the jack of hearts and bring his contract home. Nicely played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/technique/article35518514.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Tokyo games||The delayed 2020 Olympics kicked off in Japan, as softball and football tournaments started ahead of the opening ceremony scheduled for July 23. The games were played in empty stadiums amid COVID-19 worries, with more than 90 people in the Olympic village having tested positive. It was also announced that the 2032 games had been awarded to Brisbane, Australia. A day before the opening ceremony, its director, former comedian Kentaro Kobayashi, was sacked for making a joke about the Holocaust in a 1990s show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tokyo-games/article35518457.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bail, not jail||Manipuri political activist Leichombam Erendro walked out of jail after the Supreme Court ordered his immediate release on bail. He had been imprisoned under the National Security Act since May after he made comments on Facebook criticising claims that cow dung and cow urine were effective against COVID-19. A journalist who was arrested at the same time for similar posts, Kishorechandra Wangkhem, remained in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bail-not-jail/article35518460.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Trojan horse||A global media consortium reported that Pegasus, a phone-hacking spyware sold to governments by the Israeli NSO Group, may have been used to spy on political opponents worldwide. A database of phone numbers included 10 prime ministers, three presidents and a king. There were over 300 Indian numbers, including politicians, activists and journalists. Amid an outcry, the Indian government neither confirmed nor denied that it had bought Pegasus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/trojan-horse/article35518462.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Kundra arrested||Raj Kundra, a businessman and husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai Police in connection with producing pornographic films and streaming them via an app called Hotshots. The racket came to light in February when the police raided a bungalow in Malad where people were found filming porn. Eleven people have been arrested thus far in the case, which the police have linked to a U.K.-based company named Kenrin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kundra-arrested/article35518464.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bezos goes to space||Days after U.K. businessman Richard Branson rocketed into space on his own commercial space flight, fellow billionaire and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos made the supersonic voyage aboard a rocket and capsule system developed by his space company, Blue Origin, reaching an altitude of 107 km. Flying alongside Bezos were pilot Wally Funk, 82, and school graduate Oliver Daemen, 18, the oldest and youngest persons, respectively, to travel to space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bezos-goes-to-space/article35518466.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||China floods||Record-breaking rainfall — 640mm in three days — left at least 33 people dead in central China, even as hundreds were rescued from flooded tunnels in Henan province. At least 12 deaths occurred on the subway, and a video posted on social media showed passengers shoulder-deep in water in underground tunnels. As many as 2,00,000 people were evacuated in Henan, where over a dozen cities were affected. Soldiers were deputed to divert rivers as dams and reservoirs breached warning levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/china-floods/article35518468.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Punjab politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu was announced as the new Punjab Congress chief by the party high command, along with four new working presidents. This was seen as a blow to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, with whom Sidhu has been publicly at loggerheads. While dozens of MLAs met Sidhu and accompanied him to the Golden Temple, Singh refused to meet with Sidhu until he apologised for his “personally derogatory social media attacks”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/punjab-politics/article35518470.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The Maidens||Alex Michaelides  Orion Publishing Group Rs. 599 St Christopher’s College, Cambridge, is a closed world to most. But behind its idyllic beauty is a web of jealousy and rage emanating from an exclusive set of students known only as The Maidens led by the enigmatic professor Edward Fosca. Soon there’s a murder and Fosca seems to know all about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-maidens/article35518481.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Malibu Rising||Taylor Jenkins Reid  Hutchinson Rs. 699 This a story about one unforgettable night in the life of a family. On the night of Nina Riva’s annual end-of-summer party, alcohol will flow, music will play, and loves and secrets will all come bubbling to the surface. By morning, the Riva mansion will have gone up in flames.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/malibu-rising/article35518487.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Written in the Stars||Divya Anand  Ebury Press Rs. 299 When all her efforts fail to land Sitara that coveted promotion, she decides to use marketing head Abhimanyu’s obsession with his horoscope to her advantage. Soon Abhimanyu is pursuing Sitara romantically, without realising that the astral ‘signs’ are all engineered by Sitara herself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/written-in-the-stars/article35518490.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A Death in Shonagachhi||Rijula Das  Pan Macmillan India Rs. 599 In the red-light district of Shonagachhi, Lalee dreams of trading a life of penury for one of luxury as an ‘escort’, just as her old client, erotic novelist Trilokeshwar Shau, realises he is in love with her. Then Lalee discovers an underbelly of terrible secrets beneath the facade of plush hotels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-death-in-shonagachhi/article35518492.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The Art of Conjuring Alternate Realities||Shivam Shankar Singh, Anand Venkatanarayanan  HarperCollins Rs. 599 Two writers delve into the operations of political parties, cyber criminals, godmen, nation states and intelligence agencies from around the world to explain how the power to manipulate thoughts is being harnessed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-art-of-conjuring-alternate-realities/article35518494.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Things Are Against Us||Lucy Ellmann  Picador India/Pan Macmillan Rs. 499 The first collection of essays by Booker Prize-shortlisted Ellmann covers matriarchy to environmental disasters. She calls for a moratorium on air travel, glares down patriarchy “which has trashed the place”, moans at the loss of orangutans, and takes on Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/things-are-against-us/article35518503.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Landslide: The Final Days of the Trump Presidency||Michael Wolff  Henry Holt and Co Rs. 1120 (Kindle price) Tracing the final days of the Donald Trump presidency, Wolff finds the Oval Office chaotic. Trump, he writes, was behind his desk, surrounded by schemers who spoon-fed him “alternative facts” about COVID-19 and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/landslide-the-final-days-of-the-trump-presidency/article35518505.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A Begum and a Rani: Hazrat Mahal & Lakshmibai in 1857||Rudrangshu Mukherjee  Penguin Random House Rs. 699 Unusual circumstances catapulted Begum Hazrat Mahal of Awadh and Rani Lakshmibai of Jhansi into the 1857 rebellion. Both sacrificed their lives in trying to overthrow the British, and this book chronicles their struggles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-begum-and-a-rani-hazrat-mahal-lakshmibai-in-1857/article35518508.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3160||Across  1 Duck, swans, tercel mostly flap about — everyone knows it (4,6) 6 God’s surpressed by Schrodinger (4) 9 Fish, some wines, then who’s inclined to have a snooze? (3,7) 10 Uriah, beheaded, coming back: bit of a shock (4) 12 Bunch of keys? (11) 15 Walked casually, topless: deliberately caused provocation (7) 16 Mostly worry, back and forth; energy to go all over the place (7) 17 Song whereby fool captivated by childish things (3,2,2) 19 Some silica gel essence makes you eternally young (7) 20 The French, OK, are into fizzy water in abundance (4,7) 23 ‘Duffer’s not half fouled up with ball!’ (4) 24 Whose make-up is dorsal mail? (10) 25 Announced prophet’s brand (4) 26 Cast spells, seen to leave you without anger (10)  Down  1 Bad-tempered person’s so stuck up (4) 2 Blyton’s vacuous designs (4) 3 Batty aunt’s idea: covering lake with cream (6,6) 4 Coast’s Atlantic; people enjoying clams or dogfish for starters? (4,3) 5 At heart, men’s semis test rivals (7) 7 Drink a quart and careen, half-cut: who’ll worry? (5,5) 8 Censor play, suffering drowsiness (10) 11 Generosity fed into love’s invigorating (4-8) 13 Second time Everyman will crop selfie, ghastly imagery (5,5) 14 King and a horse out travelling country (5,5) 18 Spur to win in hairdressing contest!? (7) 19 Rabelais composed line wanting source of flight (3,4) 21 In Köln, ewer oddly depicted by artist (4) 22 Employs some house-sitters (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3160/article35518518.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Can vaccinating health workers be made mandatory?||On July 12, France made it mandatory for healthcare workers to get vaccinated. Beginning September 15, all unvaccinated healthcare workers in France will not receive salary or be allowed to work. Likewise, Greece and Italy too have made vaccination mandatory for healthcare workers from fall this year. In the U.K., care home workers would be required by law to have the COVID-19 vaccination. Virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, cites mandatory smallpox vaccination in several European countries. Similarly, polio vaccination was made mandatory in several European countries. At this time childhood vaccination is mandatory in several EU countries and recommended in others, Dr. Jameel adds. Wide exemptions “Compulsory vaccination has never meant people should be vaccinated against their will. These provisions have always been implemented with fairly wide exemptions on religious, social and philosophical grounds,” says Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, physician-epidemiologist in an email. In France, it is not the healthcare workers alone who have been targeted. As per the announcement, all unvaccinated people will be denied entry into certain public places like theatres, sports venues and festivals involving more than 50 people in France from July 21, and cafes, bars, restaurants, shopping malls, and long-distance trains from August 1. Entry will be permitted only when unvaccinated people show a negative test result. Age-old measure Enforcing reasonable restriction in access to public places to prevent virus transmission appears fair and is an age-old public health measure. Individuals still retain the choice — whether to get vaccinated or not. “Such policies serve more of a nudge to get vaccinated. There is a qualitative difference between being denying entry to a venue and denying salary or refusal to allow to work, as this would impact their economic and social well-being and can have implications beyond the individual,” says Dr. Anant Bhan, global health and bioethics researcher. “Denying salary unless vaccinated would be coercive as it puts an individual at disadvantage,” says Dr. Lahariya. Dr. Giridhara Babu, Epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru is of the opinion that getting vaccinated is an individual's choice, and none can be forced out of their will to get the shot. “It is important to educate and have strong social mobilisation strategies to empower people to be aware and get vaccinated. In the case of healthcare workers, vaccination can be made an essential criteria for employment, which can be part of medical fitness after a pre-employment health assessment.” Ways of protecting In healthcare settings, there are other ways to ensure that an unvaccinated healthcare worker and the patients are protected — using a PPE kit, mask, face shield, other protective gears and redeployment of unvaccinated staff for services which do not require direct patient engagements, Dr. Babu says. Dr. Jameel strongly disagrees. He says: “Healthcare professionals provide an essential service and work in a high-risk environment. They are at high risk to get infected and to pass infection to others. Therefore, when licensed vaccines are available, they must take them. No one in a hospital who is exposed to blood and other body fluids is allowed to work without hepatitis B vaccination. COVID-19 vaccination should be no different.” Effect of nudges Incidentally, two days after France announced its vaccine policy, 2.2 million people signed up to get vaccinated. It could suggest that nudges can play a role in health promotion, but it could also indicate fear or apprehensions about denial of access to key services or social opportunities which people value, says Dr. Bhan. According to Dr. Lahariya, a majority of those who signed up were in the 18-35 years of age group, who in all likelihood were willing but delaying their vaccination. The compulsion seems to have nudge people to prioritise their own vaccination. At the end of it, it is people who are making a choice about vaccination. Though only less than 7% have been fully vaccinated in India, according to India's Health Ministry, nearly 80% of healthcare workers and 90% of frontline workers were already fully vaccinated by early July. Any attempt to make vaccination mandatory for healthcare workers in India will surely exacerbate the inequities of differential access to vaccines, says Dr. Babu. There is also the possibility that any coercion might lead to more fake vaccination certificate scams. Inform and empower “I am not for making it mandatory for any section or class. This will not only undermine the public support but will also be counterproductive and create newer problems where none exist. As per evidence, coercive measures are always counterproductive; they will only create further panic and fail to increase vaccine uptake,” says Dr. Babu. “The purpose of risk communication is to inform and empower people and respect individual choice. Mandating anything will fundamentally alter this dynamic by overriding personal autonomy.” Dr. Lahariya says that prior to making any intervention compulsory, a few principles have to be adhered to. “The benefit of such an intervention should be scientifically supported. Vaccines should be easily available and accessible to every eligible citizen, and there should be reasonable exemptions. India does not fulfil one or more of these principles,” he says.  With demand outstripping supply, vaccine shortages have been reported by several States. Also, if the core argument of compulsory vaccination is to protect others and stop virus transmission, then the role of currently used COVID-19 vaccines in India is not backed by scientific evidence. Clinical trials have documented vaccine efficacy against moderate to severe disease, hospitalisation and deaths; there is limited data on their role in preventing virus transmission. Breaking the chain “It is clear that while those vaccinated can still get infected, they produce much less virus, thus reducing the chances of transmission. Further, they are protected from severe disease and in a pandemic situation you want your healthcare and frontline workers to be protected and available as much as possible,” says Dr. Jameel. Dr. Bhan agrees that vaccination contributes to breaking of the transmission chain and case reduction even if it does not completely stop the possibility. This makes a strong case for promoting vaccination particularly among healthcare workers. “But this does not necessarily mean we should be exploring the mandatory vaccination route to push this,” Dr. Bhan adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/can-vaccinating-health-workers-be-made-mandatory/article35518244.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Keep your mind alert and active||The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 15% of the world’s population, or about 785 million people, are mentally disabled – with dementia, memory loss, anxiety and stress-related disorders, Alzheimer’s disease and similar disabilities. In India, a recent study reported in this newspaper states that 74% of senior citizens (people above 60 years of age) reported stress and 88% reported anxiety, after the coronavirus pandemic and the associated lockdown. By the year 2050, the number of senior citizens in India can be about 20% of the population. Treating aged people Given this situation, we need a variety of methods to detect and treat such mental disabilities in aged populations, and indeed even in ‘junior citizens’ before they attain the senior stage. Several traditional practices such as Ayurveda, Unani, Yoga and breathing exercises have been going on for centuries. Yet, we need to use modern science and technology, new detection and treatment modes. Reduces anxiety It is here that a recent report from a group at the Weizmann Institute in Israel is of interest. They have shown that the compound called beta-sitosterol (BSS) reduces anxiety and synergises with established anxiety drugs in mice. Their paper explores the effect of BSS on various parts of the brain and its chemistry, and can be accessed (Panayotis et al., 2021, Cell Reports Medicine 2,100281). We need more drugs to treat anxiety and stress-related disorders. The discovery and development of such compounds is a challenge. The most common sources of BSS are plants (called phytosterols). They have been used in traditional Indian medicine and are vegetarian since they are plant-derived. The most abundant source of BSS is canola oil, which has over 400 mg of this molecule per 100 grams, and so does corn (makki, cholam) and its oil. However, canola is not easily available in India. The easiest source of BSS in any supermarket across the country are nuts such a pistachio, almonds, walnuts, and even chickpeas (with 198, 132, 103 and 160 mg/100 grams of BSS).  Dementia is a term that describes a group of conditions affecting the gradual impairment of brain function. It is associated with memory loss, and impaired cognition and mobility. An individual’s personality may also change, and functional ability decline as the condition progresses. Dementia can also impose a burden on the sufferers and their families. An excellent and comprehensive review, titled “The Dementia Epidemic: Impact, Prevention and Challenges for India”, published by R. Sathianathan and S. J. Kantipudi in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry (2018, Vol 60(2), p 165-167), is available for free on the net. Biomarkers of dementia Scientists and clinicians are concentrating on detecting the onset of dementia and Alzheimer’s, by looking for biomarkers such as the deposition of insoluble plaques leading to neurodegeneration. In addition, imaging methods, that use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) can detect the onset of dementia conditions ahead of time. We have quite a few centres in several cities with MRI and PET scanning facilities. But we need more clinical and biological laboratories that can detect the roles of genetic and neurobiological aspects even before imaging techniques are used. We also need organic chemists to synthesise newer and more efficient drug molecules to act on neurological problems at their very early stage, inhibiting the neural system from degrading. India has been a world leader in the area of the chemistry of natural products – identifying key molecules of health interest and synthesising and marketing them across the country and the world. We also have world class biology laboratories that study genetic and molecular biological aspects. In addition, we have centuries-old herbal medicine centres (in Ayurveda and Unani systems) which continue to produce effective cures for dementia. If the country’s Central and State governments, plus private foundations can come together to support research, there is no reason why we cannot reduce the number of dementia and Alzheimer’s disease cases. Senior (and junior) citizens can offer their support by adopting diets rich in BSS, eating plant food and nuts, doing exercises- walking, bicycling, vigorous outdoor games – and yoga practices that help in making fitter bodies and brains. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/keep-your-mind-alert-and-active/article35518235.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Study proposes repurposed drug to treat COVID-19||A long wait for drugs to treat COVID-19 may come to a close, if Phase II trials of the drug niclosamide deliver positive results. The repurposed drug, an antihelminth originally used to treat tapeworm infection, was found to show promise in an exploratory study undertaken by Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS-TIFR) and Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InSTEM) along with Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (CSIR-IIIM), Jammu. Based on the recommendations of this preliminary study, the drug is now under “multi-centric, phase-II, randomized, open label clinical study to evaluate efficacy, safety and tolerability of NIclosamide for the treatment of hospitalized Covid-19 patients,” according to a press release of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) dated July 5. Among those following the news about the novel coronavirus, it is well known that the spike protein of the receptor binding domain attaches itself to the ACE2 receptor present in the cell. This is a route the virus uses to enter the cell. There is also another way of entering the cell, especially in cells that do not carry ACE2. Alternative route “The stomach and proximal intestinal epithelium have cells that do not carry the ACE2 receptor but also are infected by the virus, and the cell line we are working with may be a surrogate model for such a system,” explains Satyajit Mayor, Director of NCBS-TIFR, who is an author of the study which has been published in PLOS Pathogens.  To enter such cells the spike glycoprotein finds a different pathway using alternative binding proteins on the surface of the cell. These are not yet fully characterised. “The other pathway is something that we have been involved in uncovering and working on for the past 20 years at NCBS, and therefore we could immediately deploy our knowledge in seeing how we could influence this route,” says Prof. Mayer. Blocking the virus To study the path taken by the virus, the group isolated and purified the spike glycoprotein, attached it to a pseudovirus and tagged it with a fluorescent dye. When the virus tries to enter the cell, it is first engulfed in a membranous vesicle. This vesicle provides an environment of low pH (acidic medium) which is necessary for the virus to infect the cell. Thus, a substance that would alter the pH of the environment would block the entry of the virus. This role can be played by, for instance, niclosamide. “Niclosamide is a drug used for tapeworm treatment. Other worms, such as pinworms and roundworms, are not affected. It is taken orally so can be used right off the shelf if the dosage and efficacy is proved for Covid,” says Varadharajan Sundaramurthy from NCBS-TIFR, a co-author. The group has used this method to block the real SARS-CoV-2 virus in culture. “As the pandemic started, we established dedicated space in our biosafety level 3 suite for SARS-CoV-2 infection assays and obtained relevant approvals. So, when bafilomycin and niclosamide showed inhibitory effect in pseudovirus assays, we could immediately test them in real SARS-CoV-2 infection assays,” says Dr Sundaramurthy. “We could further extend these results to the gastric AGS cells with and without ACE2.” Clinical trials The drug is being taken through a clinical trial by CSIR. Ram Viswakarma of CSIR-IIIM, another co-author, said the following in an email to The Hindu: “CSIR New Delhi (through its constituent laboratory CSIR-IICT, Hyderabad) with an Industry partner received DCGI approval for a Phase II clinical trial, which is currently [underway] in multiple hospitals across India. Once the trial is complete, the results will be submitted to the drug regulator.”  This pathway is something that we have been involved in uncovering and working on for the past 20 years, Satyajit Mayor NCBS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-proposes-repurposed-drug-to-treat-covid-19/article35518236.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Memory matters||Can age-related memory loss be reversed? Scientists at Cambridge and Leeds have successfully reversed age-related memory loss in mice and say their discovery could lead to the development of treatments to prevent memory loss in people as they age. The researchers show that changes in the extracellular matrix of the brain – 'scaffolding' around nerve cells – lead to loss of memory with ageing, but that it is possible to reverse these (Molecular Psychiatry).  Recent evidence has emerged of the role of perineuronal nets (PNNs) in neuroplasticity – the ability of the brain to learn and adapt – make memories. The main function of PNNs is to control the level of plasticity in the brain. They appear at around five years of age in humans. Then, as one ages, plasticity is partially turned off, making the brain more efficient but less plastic.  The researchers investigated whether manipulating the composition of the PNNs might restore neuroplasticity and alleviate age-related memory deficits. They used old mice for their studies. The team has already identified a potential drug, licensed for human use, that can be taken orally, which inhibits the formation of PNNs. When this compound is given to mice and rats it can restore memory in ageing and also improves recovery in spinal cord injury. The researchers are investigating whether it might help alleviate memory loss in animal models of Alzheimer's disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/memory-matters/article35518242.ece
25 July 2021||Delhi,||The four pillars of Delhi’s Olympic dream||Delhi has some of the best sports facilities in the country, thanks to the massive investment made for the Commonwealth Games in 2010. The Capital was also projected as a possible Olympics host, before Odisha and some other States took over the risk of nursing such an expensive dream. The nation as a whole needs to harvest a rich haul of medals in the Olympic Games to convince everyone that it would be a good idea to invest huge money to host the quadrennial event, easily the biggest spectacle that unites the world. Support in nurturing talent and rewards are the key to having more athletes winning Olympic medals. The national capital has taken a big step forward in both directions, first by setting up Delhi Sports University with the Sydney Games medallist, Karnam Malleswari, as its Vice-Chancellor, and then by announcing a cash prize of Rs. 3 crore for athletes from the city winning gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics. It is not surprising that Delhi has only four athletes — Deepak Kumar, Manika Batra, Amoj Jacob and Sarthak Bhambri — who will compete in Tokyo. With Haryana having a very rewarding sports programme for many years, the best talents have been inclined to stake allegiance to the State. Of the 127 athletes representing the country in the Tokyo Olympics, the neighbours of Delhi — Haryana (31) and Punjab (19) — account for the lion’s share. It is perhaps some consolation to Delhi that the big State of Uttar Pradesh has only eight athletes going to Tokyo, the same number as from sporting States such as Kerala and Maharashtra. It is not the numbers but the performance in Tokyo that would be remembered. To that extent, Delhi has a realistic chance to strike an Olympic medal this time.  Medal prospects   It may be hard for the relay runners, Amoj Jacob and Sarthak Bhambri, to dream of an Olympic medal considering the harsh fact that Indian athletics from Milkha Singh and P.T. Usha’s time to the more immediate past of Anju George and Krishna Poonia has been finding an Olympic medal most elusive. Shooting offers the best prospects for medals in Japan for India, and Delhi has a bright shooter in the Asian Games silver medallist, Deepak Kumar, 33, who serves the Indian Air Force. Coached by Manoj Kumar, Deepak has made rapid strides towards excellence and matching world standards in a very short time. He joined the national team only in 2017, but by next year he made the final of the World Championship in Changwon, Korea, after winning the silver medal in the Asian Games in Palembang, Indonesia. Deepak shot a national record 630.1 in air rifle and was placed sixth in a field of 112 shooters in the World Championship. Such a score would comfortably put him in the Olympic final and give him a shot at a medal. Deepak will also have a chance to win a mixed air rifle medal with the World Championship silver medallist, Anjum Moudgil. Deepak, along with Olympian Apurvi Chandela, had won the gold in the World Cup in Rio de Janeiro in 2019. With the men’s air rifle scheduled for July 25, the fans of Gurukul student Deepak will not have to wait for long to see their star perform on the biggest stage of sports. Delhi will have another familiar face, table tennis star and Commonwealth Games gold medallist Manika Batra. Indian table tennis has not reached such standards yet to eye an Olympic medal but there is a realistic chance for Manika in the mixed event with the seasoned Sharath Kamal, who would be competing in his fourth Olympics. The Indian pair will open against the third seeds from Chinese Taipei in the mixed event on Saturday. Manika, 26, who has already been bestowed the nation’s highest sports honours — Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna and Arjuna awards — will be competing in her second Olympics in Tokyo. She has won mixed event medals in both the last Commonwealth Games and Asian Games in 2018. In the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia, Manika not only won the individual gold but helped the Indian women’s team get top honours by beating four-time champion Singapore. The highlight of that triumph was Manika’s win over world No. 4 Feng Tianwei. She also won the doubles silver medal with Mouma Das. Manika and Sharath will have to be at their best to make it memorable for Indian table tennis.  Missing out   Tennis ace Divij Sharan, who had won the Asian Games gold with Rohan Bopanna, would have also strengthened Delhi’s representation in Tokyo, but he missed the entry. Another Delhi boy, Yuki Bhambri, was also in line to get an Olympic entry in tennis on his injury-protected rank but has been unable to play owing to a recent knee surgery in the U.S. The chance went to junior Wimbledon champion and the country’s No. 1 Sumit Nagal, who lives in Delhi but hails from Haryana. The Tokyo Games in these difficult times would perhaps inspire the youth of Delhi to take up sports in a big way. The best support from the Delhi government will ensure that the youth do not move away to greener pastures but take pride in representing the Capital, at every level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-four-pillars-of-delhis-olympic-dream/article35518737.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police rescue minor who was abducted, sold for Rs. 50,000||A 16-year-old girl who was abducted, sexually assaulted, and ‘sold’ to a person for Rs. 50,000 — with whom she was also forcibly married, has been rescued from Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district, the police said on Saturday. The accused has also been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Monika Bhardwaj said the accused has been identified as Rajeev Garg, a resident of Bhind. Police said that on May 29, the girl had told her parents that she was going to a friend’s house. Call detail records When she did not return, the family launched a search operation and subsequently approached the police. A case was registered at Ranhola police station on charges of kidnapping. During the probe, call detail records of the victim were scrutinised, and the police focused on a mobile number whose location was found to be in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah, then Gwalior and finally Bhind in M.P. “The location of that number was in Delhi on the day the girl went missing. Its movements were followed and the police apprehended Rajeev on July 22 from Bhind,” Ms. Bhardwaj said. On Rajeev’s instance, the victim was rescued from a house in Bhind. Befriended online The girl allegedly told the police that Rajeev had befriended her online by pretending to be a girl named Mahi Garg. When the victim realised she was talking to a man, she broke off contact and blocked his number. “But Rajeev called her from some other number and emotionally exploited her to continue the friendship and unblock his number. He also convinced her to meet him at Madhuban Chowk,” said a senior police officer. On May 29, the girl met Rajeev, who abducted her and took her to Bhind. Forced into marriage “The victim was subjected to physical and sexual assault by Rajeev. She also said that the accused sold her to one Ram Mohan, a resident of Bhind, for Rs. 50,000, and she was forced to marry him,” the officer said. The police said they are looking for Ram Mohan. The police said that Rajeev had spent seven months in Gwalior jail in connection with a dowry case. “Ram is a tenant of Garg and is absconding,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-rescue-minor-who-was-abducted-sold-for-rs-50000/article35518729.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Standing travel still not allowed, says DMRC||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Saturday said that in view of the revised guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), entry to metro stations will continue to be regulated as standing travel is still not permitted.  In its notification, the DDMA said that metro trains can operate at “100% seating capacity”, but specified that standing travel is not permitted. Standing travel comprises around 80% of the total capacity of each coach. Till now, the metro was operating at 50% capacity and allowed only 25 people per coach, in alternate seats. Under the new rules, around 50 passengers will be able to sit in each coach. According to sources, an eight-coach metro train can accommodate around 2,400 passengers. With the revised guidelines, an eight-coach train will be able to accommodate 400 passengers seated next to each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/standing-travel-still-not-allowed-says-dmrc/article35518738.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Brexit in troubles||The story so far: On July 21, the Boris Johnson administration informed the European Union (EU) that it wants to renegotiate the Brexit deal’s Northern Ireland Protocol. The EU has ruled out a renegotiation, but says it is open to “practical, flexible solutions”. What’s behind Northern Ireland Protocol? The sovereign territory of the U.K. includes England, Wales, Scotland, and what is known as Northern Ireland, which occupies a portion of the island of Ireland. The lion’s share of the island (26 of the 32 counties) forms the independent Republic of Ireland. Ireland has long seen tensions between the Catholics/Nationalists, who want a unified Irish republic, and the Protestants/Unionists, who are loyal to the British crown. The long and violent conflict between the two sides — known as The Troubles — ended with the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, whose fragile peace rests on a principle that Brexit has now disrupted: there won’t be a border (and all that entails, such as checkpoints and customs) between Northern Ireland and Ireland. Northern Ireland is the only part of the U.K. that shares a land border with the EU, as Ireland is an EU member-state. As long as the U.K. was part of the EU, there was no problem. But Brexit took the U.K. out of the EU’s customs union. It created a problem whose solution needed two seemingly contradictory outcomes: preserving the sanctity of the EU’s single market, as well as that of the U.K.’s domestic market. The Protocol’s solution was to avoid a customs check on the island of Ireland. Instead, it envisaged a ‘sea border’ at the ports of Northern Island. Certain goods — meant only for Northern Ireland but not for Ireland, which falls within the EU market — would undergo checks here before entering the island. Why does the U.K. want changes? The creation of an economic barrier between the British mainland and Northern Ireland has affected the free flow of goods between the two. Businesses in Northern Ireland have been complaining about cumbersome paperwork and compliance costs. Some British companies would like to avoid the hassle altogether by withdrawing supplies to Northern Ireland. All this has angered the Unionists, who see it as another attempt to dilute their links with the U.K., pushing them into the arms of the Irish republic. April this year saw rioting in Northern Ireland for nearly two weeks, with government vehicles being burned and 90 police officers injured. Clearly, apart from the economic irritants, Brexit seems to have resurrected old sensitivities about political identity, with the Unionists questioning why they alone — among U.K. citizens — should suffer differential treatment. While the Johnson regime has expressed concerns over the “febrile” situation in Ireland, even the U.S. — which helped broker the 1998 Agreement — has warned the U.K. against disturbing the fragile peace over Brexit. What is Britain proposing? In a nutshell, the U.K. is telling the EU, “Trust us to protect your single market.” It has proposed five changes to the Protocol: no more checks on goods moving from mainland Britain to Northern Ireland where a business self-certifies that its products are not meant for use in the EU; a dual regime wherein goods made to either U.K. standards or EU standards can circulate anywhere in Ireland; removal of the need for any ‘export declarations’ on goods going from Northern Ireland to Great Britain; rewriting of the clause in Article 10 that requires the U.K. subsidies that affect trade with Northern Ireland to comply with EU rules; and finally, ending the right of EU institutions such as the European Court of Justice to enforce the Protocol. What lies ahead? These proposals would be unacceptable to the EU, as they outsource the enforcement of the Protocol — and the European customs union — entirely to the U.K. Besides, it’s only last year that the U.K. signed the Protocol, and given that nothing has changed since then, the EU will insist that the U.K. honour the deal. The two sides will certainly seek a solution through talks. But if talks fail, the U.K. could invoke Article 16, which allows the unilateral suspension of a part of the agreement in extreme circumstances. In such a scenario, the economic barrier might shift to a land border on the island, which would basically shred the 1998 Agreement, and the peace that came with it. Interestingly, one U.K. legislator has admitted that the Northern Ireland Protocol was not a sincere effort to address the problem but merely a ‘fudge’ that sought to close the Brexit deal by kicking the can down the road. Now that ‘fudge’ has returned to haunt the Brexiters.  The two sides will seek a solution through talks. But if talks fail, the U.K. could invoke Article 16, which allows the unilateral suspension of a part of the agreement in extreme circumstances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brexit-in-troubles/article35518164.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man caught trying to dispose of body||A 41-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly killing a man and attempting to dispose of the body in southwest Delhi’s Mahipalpur. A head constable caught the accused while he was taking the body to a garbage dump in a cart. The body was covered with a white cloth but the feet were hanging out, which caught the policeman’s attention. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused, Surmesh, told investigators he had killed Santosh, 25, as he had been harassing and stalking his daughter. Surmesh, who works as a security guard, told the police that Santosh was their neighbour and had been troubling his daughter for the last three years.  Harassment angle “The accused said Santosh used to pass comments on his daughter and often follow her when she would go out. Surmesh had told Santosh to stop many times but he did not,” said a senior police officer. However, Surmesh had never given a formal complaint regarding harassment of his daughter, the police added. On Thursday night, Santosh allegedly came to Surmesh’s house drunk and started arguing with him. “During the argument, the duo came to the ground floor of the building and entered a vacant room where Surmesh punched Santosh and then strangulated him with a cloth that Santosh was wearing,” the officer said. Surmesh kept Santosh’s body in the basement, where he used to work as a security guard. In the early hours of Saturday, Surmesh took a wooden cart lying on the road and dragged the body onto it and covered it up with a cloth. He was taking the body to a garbage dump when he was spotted and caught. Mr. Singh said a case under Section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-caught-trying-to-dispose-of-body/article35518730.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six labourers injured as speeding car jumps kerb||Six labourers sitting on the roadside sustained injuries when a speeding car hit them in outer north Delhi’s Narela, the police said on Saturday. The accused is absconding. A PCR call regarding an accident in Narela Industrial Area was received on Friday. By the time the police reached the site, the injured had been taken to a hospital. The offending vehicle was found at the spot. “An inquiry revealed that the car was coming from Narela and going towards Bawana. The driver lost control due to speeding and hit the labourers who were sitting on the side of the road. They were taken to a hospital in an ambulance,” the police said. The injured have been identified as Narender, 43, Sharad, 40, Sanjay, 35, Sunil, 30, Nand Lal, 32, and Sukhdin, 21. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act of negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged. “The registered owner of the vehicle is a resident of Sonipat. Upon interrogation, he said that a person named Dharmender had taken the car. Dharmender’s phone was found inside the offending car. He is absconding,” said the DCP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-labourers-injured-as-speeding-car-jumps-kerb/article35518731.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT sets up panel to look into cause of factory fire||The National Green Tribunal has constituted a joint panel to ascertain the cause of a fire at a shoe and garments factory in west Delhi on June 21 this year that claimed the lives of six workers. The green panel directed the committee, comprising officials from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the district administration, to collect facts independently and ascertain remedial measures for compensating the families of the victims. The Tribunal has sought a report within one month.  The directions came as the NGT initiated proceedings following media reports that the manufacturing unit was allegedly operating in violation of green norms. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that before passing a final order, it was necessary to have “authentic information about the factual position of the nature of activity and nature of violation of law”. “It is also necessary to require compliance of safety norms to avoid such incidents in the future. The committee may particularly ascertain whether any hazardous, inflammable material was stored on the premises. The committee may visit the site and interact with the stakeholders, including the owner of the unit,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-cause-of-factory-fire/article35518740.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Driver attacks policeman||A 38-year-old tempo driver has been arrested for allegedly attacking a Delhi Police Head Constable following a parking issue in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri on Saturday, the police said. A video of the incident surfaced online showing a police official forcing the driver into a vehicle. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said Head Constable Manoj had repeatedly asked the tempo driver to park the vehicle properly as it was blocking traffic. The accused, Kishan, allegedly abused and manhandled Manoj, following which he was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/driver-attacks-policeman/article35518728.ece
25 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for killing truck driver||A 22-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly robbing and killing a truck driver in Swaroop Nagar, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the accused, Rehan, is a resident of Bareilly. The police said that a body of a man was found lying on G.T. Karnal Road on July 3 and a murder case was registered. Subsequently, the police got information that a truck driver along with the truck was missing. During investigation, the incidents were found to be connected after which the truck driver was identified as Satpal Singh, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. Later, the abandoned truck was recovered from KMP Highway in Bahadurgarh, Haryana. The police scanned CCTV footage following which “a raid was conducted and Rehan was nabbed near Bareilly.” During interrogation, it was revealed that Rehan along with his associates Barkat and Sahid had tried to steal the truck, loaded with pan masala, in Alipur. When the driver resisted, the accused killed him and dumped his body in Swaroop Nagar. Barkat and Shahid have also been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-killing-truck-driver/article35518732.ece
25 July 2021||July 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Emotion is a female superpower’||Put your own oxygen mask on first. Award-winning fashion designer, successful entrepreneur and mother of five, Anya Hindmarch knows a thing or two about stress — juggling 60 stores, design, PTA meetings, and her Instagram-ready civil projects can’t have been easy (understatement!). Along with her emoji-inspired accessories, for 30 years this queen of handbags also has fans invested in the witticisms of her brand. But in her new book, If in Doubt, Wash Your Hair , Hindmarch, 53, embraces fear and self-doubt. And self-care. Thus the opening sentence, chapter three in her book. The increasing focus on the self, and the quest for mindfulness and calm, could explain why self-help books are back in demand in the West. Especially the ‘part memoir, part manual’ hybrid by celebrities. According to NPD BookScan, a retail sales monitoring service for books in the U.S., the number of unique ISBNs in self-help rose nearly three-fold from 30,897 in 2013 to 85,253 in 2019. And modern customers are no longer sounding apologetic about reading them. Recall the instant spike in interest last year when singer Adele recommended Untamed by activist and public speaker Glennon Doyle: “This book will shake your brain and make your soul scream,” she exclaimed on Instagram, crediting the source of her ‘joy’.  Room for tears  “I didn’t write it as a self-help book, but kind of vomited out my creative journey,” says Hindmarch about her own book, in a video call with The Hindu Weekend . Describing what went into her rather practical project, she continues, “I am a woman, a mother, a stepmother, a woman in business, a creative… it is about how doubt snakes through those roles. But I guess there is a lot of self-help in there.” Having started her brand as a teenager after a trip to Florence (her father, whom she names as her mentor in the book, also began his business at 18), the British designer was awarded an MBE in 2009 for her contribution to the British fashion industry. The former U.K. trade ambassador says that over the years she was often asked about the best bit of advice for busy mums and working women. “I’d say, ‘If in doubt wash your hair’. It’s one of those things that can change your day, even if it’s so trivial and silly; it stands for so much else.” That said, the biggest takeaway from her book is this motto: emotion is a female superpower. “Workplaces have traditionally been perhaps male, and emotion considered a weakness. I was upset after someone said something unfair to me at work once, and I was told, ‘Anya, you must take emotion out of this.’ The way he said it was a little bit stinging. It made me stop and think: no, I think emotion is what we do really well. Men know, too, that it is emotion that builds businesses and loyalties. We must never lose it, not just in the office but at home as well!” Since then she has been unabashed about celebrating people’s birthdays and promotions at work, and not hiding her tears. She says showing vulnerability is more authentic, and in the book writes about honest communication. “I think communication and organisation are pivotal to my managing work and home. It’s probably why I like handbags.” True, her passion for zips, compartments and pockets is no secret, and she has been labelling almost everything since her brother gifted her a label maker for Christmas. As for her bags, a bestseller on her website is the Working from Home tote, designed for the pandemic, with a padded pocket for the laptop, and labels for headphones, glasses, stationery… “making you feel in control when everything is out of control. There is a pleasure to have everything in its place”.  Power of lists  The designer who gave Princess Diana her ‘‘cleavage bags’’ (in an interview in The Telegraph , Hindmarch revealed that Lady Diana used her matching satin clutches to cover her cleavage when stepping out of cars), and whose clients include Kate Moss and Duchess of Cambridge, is also rather private. “The small things are the big things. A good cup of coffee with a friend is so much more important than going to some fashion party,” she explains. One of the exercises in the book is to write down what makes one happy. “It isn’t always money, so sit down and unravel from a personal perspective: what is success to you, the people who make you happy. There are common threads. What are your happiest moments? It’s not a new car.” She has been criticised for her lists, which are at odds with her whimsical designs and her unusual promotional events — at a London Fashion Week, she got customers to take part in meditations and talks while lying on a giant bean bag — but insists they keep her head clear. The book is packed with parenting tips too (see box), many of them simple yet ingenious. As for the oxygen mask, “Life is stressful, with lots of role changes. We need to be quite kind and manage to prioritise ourselves. As foundations of family, it doesn’t work if we don’t. We need to put on our oxygen masks.” Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/emotion-is-a-female-superpower/article35518920.ece
25 July 2021||new delhi,||NGT seeks report on encroachments on water body||Following a plea seeking enforcement of a 2016 National Green Tribunal order to remove encroachments on a water body in south-west Delhi, the NGT has directed the district administration and the Delhi Jal Board to provide a factual position and action-taken report within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-seeks-report-on-encroachments-on-water-body/article35518741.ece
