30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||27% for OBCs, 10% for EWS in national quota medical seats||The Union Health Ministry has announced 27% reservation for the OBCs (Other Backward Classes) and 10% quota for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in the all-India quota (AIQ) scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from 2021-22. This decision, it said, would benefit every year nearly 1,500 OBC students at the undergraduate level (MBBS) and 2,500 such students at the postgraduate level, and around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1,000 such students in postgraduate courses. The AIQ was introduced in 1986 under the directions of the Supreme Court to provide for domicile-free merit-based opportunities to students from any State aspiring to study in a medical college located in another State. It comprises 15% of the UG seats and 50% of the PG seats in government medical colleges. Initially, there was no reservation in the AIQ. In 2007, the Supreme Court introduced reservation of 15% for SCs and 7.5% for STs in the scheme. When the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act became effective that year, providing for uniform 27% reservation to the OBCs, the same was implemented in all the Central educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/27-for-obcs-10-for-ews-in-national-quota-medical-seats/article35618584.ece
30 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Dhanbad judge killing: two, including auto driver, held||The Jharkhand police on Thursday arrested two persons, including the driver of the autorickshaw that “deliberately” knocked down fatally Uttam Anand, additional sessions judge, Dhanbad, on Wednesday morning. The incident happened when he was jogging on an empty road about 500 m from his official residence. A passer-by took him to hospital but he was declared brought dead. The judge was hearing two high-profile murder cases and one pertaining to the illegal transportation (theft) of coal. Initially, it was thought to be a hit-and-run case. But after the emergence of closed circuit television (CCTV) footage, which has gone viral, it became clear that the hit was deliberate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhanbad-judge-killing-two-including-auto-driver-held/article35618582.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Considerably high number of COVID-19 cases in rural dists||Considerably high number of COVID-19 cases continue to be recorded in rural districts of Telangana. Of the 623 new infections recorded on Thursday, 68 were from Karimnagar which is next only to the highest of 70 cases from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Besides this, 67 were from Warnagal Urban, 51 from Khammam, 43 from Pedapalli. From the past four days, the daily cases in some of the districts is either equal or only a little less than the infections recorded in GHMC, which is a thickly populated region. No case was detected in Narayanpet, and only one infection each was recorded in Nirmal and Jogulamba Gadwal. While 1,11,947 samples were put to test across the State, results of 1,714 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients have died. From March 2-2020 to July 29 of this year, over 2.17 crore samples were examined and 6,43,716 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 9,188 were active cases, 6,30,732 have recovered, and 3,796 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/villages-record-more-cases/article35618863.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||CM Bommai tells officials to shift Kalache village completely||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who on Thursday visited Kalache village in Yallapur taluk of Uttara Kannada, where landslips have caused devastation, has said that the village will be shifted completely to a safer place. He has asked the district administration to submit a proposal. Review meeting Chairing a review meeting of officials and elected representatives at Ankola in that district after a visit to rain and flood-affected villages, the Chief Minister said that the residents of the village have said that they were not in a position to lead life in Kalache where landslips have occurred. “Kalache residents have sought that the village be shifted and said that they will relocate. It will be a total waste of money if relief works are taken up there,” he said. “So, please make arrangements to shift the village completely. Submit a proposal after identifying 10-15 acres of suitable land for the purpose,” Mr. Bommai told the officials. Kalache village has 283 houses and a population of 993. The heavy downpour on July 22 and 23 has caused landslips with 15 houses having completely collapsed. Scores of houses have developed cracks and they are on the verge of collapse. The heavy downpour has also caused fear of further landslips in the adjoining hillock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-bommai-tells-officials-to-shift-kalache-village-completely/article35618829.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Cabinet formation a challenge’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seems to have bought more time and put off the arduous task of Cabinet expansion — his first and probably the most complex political challenge in a faction-ridden party. On the eve of his maiden trip to New Delhi as Chief Minister, Mr. Bommai said in Hubballi that his Friday’s trip would only be a “courtesy call” and he would be discussing Cabinet expansion with the party’s central leadership during his second trip next week. “It is a challenge to form the Cabinet, satisfying everyone and providing fair representation to all regions, communities even as we recruit talent,” Mr. Bommai said in Bengaluru. Mr. Bommai is meeting the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister on Friday morning and will hold a meeting with MPs from the State in the afternoon. He would return to Bengaluru on Saturday. It may be recalled that former Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa was a single-man Cabinet for nearly a month after he took charge on July 26, 2019, amidst floods that ravaged North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-formation-a-challenge/article35618617.ece
30 July 2021||Chennai,||Chola idols among 14 art works to be returned by Australia||The National Gallery of Australia (NGA) on Thursday announced that it would return 14 works of art from its Asian art collection to India. The works being repatriated include 13 objects connected to art dealer Subhash Kapoor through his antique shop ‘Art of the Past’ in New York, and one acquired from art dealer William Wolff. They include six bronze or stone sculptures, a brass processional standard, a painted scroll and six photographs. Three other sculptures, also sourced from Art of the Past, have been removed from the collection. After research to identify their place of origin, they will be repatriated, the NGA said. Following this action, along with the repatriation of works in 2014, 2016 and 2019, the NGA will no longer hold any works acquired through Subhash Kapoor in its collection. The decision to return the works is the culmination of years of research, due diligence and an evolving framework for decision-making that includes both legal principles and ethical considerations, the NGA said in a media release. The NGA Director Nick Mitzevich said as the first outcome of this change, the Gallery will be returning 14 objects from the Indian art collection to their country of origin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chola-idols-among-14-art-works-to-be-returned-by-australia/article35618586.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Next three weeks crucial: Veena||Health Minister Veena George has said the rise in disease transmission, leading to an increase in daily cases, is just a small surge in the epidemic curve which has been remaining on a plateau after the second wave peaked in May second week. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, she said while this cannot be seen as the beginning of a third wave, the next three weeks in the run up to Onam festival would be extremely crucial when the State as well as the community would have to maintain utmost vigil to ensure that the current rise in disease transmission did not become a resurgent wave. With over 50% of the State’s population still remaining susceptible to the infection, according to the ICMR sero prevalence study, vaccination was the only way out for the State’s current predicament, Ms. George said. She said this phase of disease transmission, when the number of daily cases and test positivity rate (TPR) would go up and remain at a sustained level, was expected post lockdown. This was especially so, since the second wave had started much later in the State than it had in rest of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/next-three-weeks-crucial-veena/article35618905.ece
30 July 2021||Agartala,||TMC team visiting Tripura was under constant surveillance: MP||Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien on Thursday lashed out at the BJP for introducing “Gujarat model” in Tripura to repress Opposition parties. He also alleged that he and his party colleagues, including two Cabinet Ministers, were under constant surveillance in Agartala. Speaking to journalists, the TMC floor leader in the Rajya Sabha lambasted the State’s BJP-led coalition government for, what he called, detention of election strategist Prashanth Kishor’s 23 I-Pac employees, contracted by the TMC to conduct a survey. Mr. O’Brien, West Bengal ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu, and former MP Ritabrata Banerjee arrived in Agartala in the backdrop of the controversy surrounding the I-Pac staff’s alleged confinement at a hotel. “The detention of 23 young men and women established the fact that the BJP has set up Gujarat model in the State,” Mr. O’Brien said, adding at least 100 police personnel were deployed for surveillance on the visiting TMC leaders. “Are we terrorists?” he wanted to know.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-team-visiting-tripura-was-under-constant-surveillance-mp/article35618975.ece
30 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,||Chargesheet filed against former Special DGP in harassment case||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department filed a chargesheet at a court here on Thursday against a former Special Director-General of Police accused of sexually harassing a woman IPS officer. According to the prosecution, the chargesheet was filed at the chief judicial magistrate court. On February 27, the CB-CID registered an FIR against the former Special DGP under Sections 354 A (sexual harassment), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), and 506(1) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002. The then Chengalpattu Superintendent of Police was also named in the FIR for stopping the woman officer while she was going to Chennai to file a complaint. The CB-CID has recommended departmental action against the then IGP, Central Zone; the then DIG, Tiruchi range; the then Superintendent of Police, Automation; and the then Deputy Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, on charges of either trying to persuade the victim to compromise or not informing superior officers about the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-filed-against-former-special-dgp-in-harassment-case/article35618655.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Retired SI killed as car plunges into farm well||A retired Sub-Inspector drowned after the car he was driving veered off the road and plunged into an open agricultural well at Chinnamulkanoor village of Chigurumamidi mandal in Karimnagar district on Thursday morning. According to Commissioner of Police V.B. Kamalasan Reddy, the accident took place around 11.30 a.m. and the rescue operation continued for more than seven hours to retrieve the body and the vehicle from the water bed. Initially, police suspected at least three persons travelling in the vehicle, but later in the evening the teams retrieved only one body from the well. “The car was speeding at more than 120 km per hour and suddenly he lost control and it plunged into the roadside open well. The water body is around 20 feet in depth,” he said. Mr. Reddy said that the victim was identified as Papaiah Naik. He was travelling towards Husnabad in Siddipet from Karimanagar town. There are reports that Naik’s brother, a fire-fighter who was in the rescue operation team, retrieved and identified the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retd-si-killed-as-car-plunges-into-farm-well/article35618903.ece
30 July 2021||GUNTUR,||Education alone empowers people: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday released the second tranche of the ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’ of Rs. 693.81 crore. The amount was directly credited to the bank accounts of the mothers of 10.97 lakh students pursuing their higher studies. “We believe that education alone can empower the people. We have spent Rs. 5,573 crore on fee reimbursement through the Vidya Deevena scheme since 2019, besides clearing Rs. 1,880 crore dues kept pending by the previous government during 2018-19,” the Chief Minister said on the occasion. Real wealth The scheme had been designed to make education accessible to the poor and create an opportunity for those who wanted to pursue higher education without burdening their families, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, and added that the “real wealth that can be given to the future generations is education, which alone can eradicate poverty and bring about a change in the lives of the people.” “As per the 2011 census, there is 33% illiteracy in Andhra Pradesh against 27% in the country,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/education-alone-empowers-people-cm/article35618542.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Asthana posting violates SC verdict: Delhi Assembly||On the first day of its monsoon session, the Delhi Assembly adopted a resolution expressing “strong disapproval” of the decision of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to appoint IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner. The MHA order was “in complete violation” of the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Prakash Singh Vs Union of India 2019 case, the resolution said. The judgment clearly laid down that no individual with less than six months of service left could be considered for appointment as the head of a police force. Quoting the judgment, the resolution questioned the appointment of what it termed “a controversial Gujarat cadre officer” such as Mr. Asthana, who is scheduled to retire shortly. On Mr. Asthana’s appointment, the resolution said the post of Commissioner of Police in Delhi “belongs to the AGMUT [Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory] IPS cadre” and argued that there had been “multiple inquiries on serious charges” against Mr. Asthana in the past. It also questioned why an officer who was removed by the Central government from the post of Special Director CBI in October 2018 and not considered fit for the post of CBI Director only very recently, was being “imposed on Delhi Police”. “Given the past track record of this officer, there is a reasonable apprehension that the Central government will use him for foisting false cases on political rivals to create a reign of terror. Such a controversial individual should not be heading the police force in the country’s national capital,” the resolution stated. “This House directs the government of NCT of Delhi to convey to the MHA that the appointment order of Sh. Rakesh Asthana be immediately withdrawn and fresh process for the appointment of Commissioner of Police for Delhi be initiated in accordance with rules and regulations,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asthana-posting-violates-sc-verdict-delhi-assembly/article35618577.ece
30 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Maravoor Bridge to be thrown open for traffic today||Connectivity to the international airport here will get restored on Friday afternoon as engineers from the Public Works Department (PWD) successfully conducted load test on the restored sunken slab of the Maravoor Bridge across the Phalguni. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in a communique here said that a formal notification allowing vehicular movement will be issued on Friday after he gets reports from the PWD. The load test was successfully conducted on Thursday, Dr. Rajendra said. PWD Executive Engineer S. Yashvanth Kumar said that load test was conducted with trucks carrying loads up to 70 tonnes and the result was positive. No disturbances were found in the structure during the test. All categories of vehicles will be allowed to pass through the bridge at 4 p.m. on Friday. Once the new parallel bridge, which is now under construction, opens for traffic, the PWD will strengthen and rehabilitate all the remaining pillars of the old bridge so as to retain it for service, Mr. Kumar said. Superintending Engineer, PWD, Mangaluru Circle, Ganesh S., AEE, PWD, K.T. Chandrashekaraiah and proprietor, Mugroady Construction, Mangaluru, Sudhakar D Shetty were present during the load test. One of the slabs on the bridge towards the airport sunk by about 2.5 ft on June 15 forcing the authorities to immediately suspend vehicular movement. It was found that one of the supporting pillars sunk into its foundation resulting in the displacement of the slab. Vehicles were then diverted on alternative routes. The Public Works Department, with expert advice from R.K. Jaigopal, who is Managing Director of Struct Geotech Research Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. in Bengaluru, executed the challenging work of restoring the sunken slab to its original position. The foundation was initially stabilised with boulders, sand dredging and sand blasting with nearly a 100 men working day and night to restore the slab. Thereafter, the slab was lifted using sophisticated jacks. Pedestal caps were installed and bearings were placed carefully on them to support the slab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maravoor-bridge-to-be-thrown-open-for-traffic-today/article35619011.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS opposes AP’s water drawal from PRP||Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Telangana Irrigation Department C. Muralidhar, in a letter to KRMB, has opposed commencement of water drawal from Srisailam reservoir by Andhra Pradesh to the systems based on Pothireddypadu Head Regulator and Handri-Neeva to take the Krishna water outside the basin without the consent of even the three-member committee of the Krishna River Management Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-opposes-aps-water-drawal-from-prp/article35618859.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC objects to case against AAP legislator||The Delhi HC on Thursday slammed the Drugs Control Department for initiating proceedings against AAP MLA Praveen Kumar for distributing oxygen cylinders during the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-objects-to-case-against-aap-legislator/article35618726.ece
30 July 2021||Kolkata,||COVID-19 restrictions extended in West Bengal||The West Bengal government on Thursday extended the pandemic restrictions till August 15 but allowed cinema halls to open with not more than 50% seating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-restrictions-extended-in-west-bengal/article35618974.ece
30 July 2021||Patna,||Trinamool MP’s alleged remarks on Bihar flayed||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey’s allegations that Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra called him a Bihari goonda thrice during a meeting of the IT Standing Committee was condemned by all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-mps-alleged-remarks-on-bihar-flayed/article35618976.ece
30 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra mulls easing more restrictions||The State government is planning to ease COVID-19 restrictions in 25 districts where the case positivity rate and fatalities are low. It is also mulling opening up local train services to those who are fully vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-mulls-easing-more-restrictions/article35619021.ece
30 July 2021||Mumbai,||State to transfer Rs. 10,000 into flood victim’s account||Maharashtra’s Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Thursday said that the State would transfer Rs. 10,000 into the account of every flood-hit victim as emergency aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-transfer-rs-10000-into-flood-victims-account/article35619022.ece
30 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Corpn. to seek nod for land for electronics park||Mangaluru City Corporation will write to the government seeking its approval for acquiring 10 acres of land under the provision of the Transferable Development Rights for setting up an electronics park. The council of the corporation, which met here on Thursday, has taken a decision in the matter. Mayor Premananda Shetty told the council that the government will be urged to give approval under sub-section (28 J (ii)) of Section 14 B of Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act 1961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corpn-to-seek-nod-for-land-for-electronics-park/article35619010.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘I love Hubballi and will do everything for it’||“Hubballi is the city I was born in and brought up. I have a big bunch of friends and acquaintances. And, Hubballi is the city I love the most. I will do everything for its development,” these were the words of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who on his first visit to Hubballi on Thursday after becoming the Chief Minister. Basanna, as he is fondly known among his followers, was given a rousing welcome soon after he landed at the airport in a special aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-love-hubballi-and-will-do-everything-for-it/article35618831.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC extends relief for Newsclick founder||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the ED not to take any coercive action against NewsClick founder Prabir Purkayastha in a money laundering case, subject to his joining the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-extends-relief-for-newsclick-founder/article35618724.ece
30 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Gurdwara panel resigns after row over CM’s visit||All members of the managing committee of Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand resigned amid allegations of violation of “Sikh maryada” during CM Pushkar Singh Dhami’s recent visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gurdwara-panel-resigns-after-row-over-cms-visit/article35619042.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Bommai inspects flood-hit areas||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who visited the flood-affected areas in Uttara Kannada on Thursday, announced that special grants would be provided for reconstruction of public infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-inspects-flood-hit-areas/article35619025.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Extended metro line inspection on Aug. 11, 12||The Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety, Southern Circle, is scheduled to inspect the extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road station to Kengeri on August 11 and 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/extended-metro-line-inspection-on-aug-11-12/article35618619.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC swings into action after judge’s death||The higher judiciary swung into action on Thursday after a chilling video of an autorickshaw fatally hitting additional sessions judge Uttam Anand, while he was on a morning jog in Dhanbad, Jharkhand, surfaced online. Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana is said to have informed the Supreme Court Bar Association president, senior advocate Vikas Singh, that he had discussed the issue with the Jharkhand Chief Justice. The Jharkhand High Court has, in turn, taken cognisance of the video and initiated an investigation. As soon as the top court started on Thursday, Mr. Singh made an urgent oral mention before a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah, stating that the alleged murder of the judge was a “shocking and brazen attack on the independence of the judiciary”. The video, Mr. Singh said, showed the vehicle suddenly swerving off the road and slamming into the judge from behind on a lonely stretch early on July 28. He was found bleeding on the road and taken to the hospital, where he was left unidentified for hours. The police finally traced the body after the family gave a missing person’s complaint. His family, who initially thought the cause of the death to be a hit-and-run accident, has filed a complaint of murder. Mr. Singh said the video footage was evidence and should be taken on record. Justice Chandrachud had advised Mr. Singh to make a mention after sending an email to the CJI and the Registrar in charge of mentioning process in the court. “Our judicial officers should be protected. If judiciary has to be independent, we have to come in very sternly,” Mr. Singh submitted. Justice Chandrachud asked Mr. Singh to take up the issue with the CJI. “I had then mentioned it before the CJI, who said he has already talked to the Jharkhand Chief Justice. I was informed that the issue was taken up by the High Court on the judicial side. I am demanding a CBI inquiry into the incident,” Mr. Singh said. July 22 judgment Judge Anand’s death comes close on the heels of a July 22 judgment, authored by Justice Chandrachud, that turned the spotlight on the “appalling work conditions” of the district judiciary. The observations in the judgment concerned an order passed by a trial judge in Madhya Pradesh revealing that he was facing threats in a murder case in which the husband of a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA was the prime accused. The Supreme Court, in its judgment, had highlighted how “judges are targeted simply for standing up for what is right, and sadly, a subservience to the administration of the High Court for transfers and postings which renders them vulnerable”. The apex court had said the “independence of the judiciary is the independence of each and every judge”. The judgment had also pointed to a larger malaise of the application of political pressure on trial judges. “Judicial independence of the district judiciary is cardinal to the integrity of the entire system. The courts comprised in the district judiciary are the first point of interface with citizens. If the faith of the citizen in the administration of justice has to be preserved, it is to the district judiciary that attention must be focused as well as the ‘higher’ judiciary,” Justice Chandrachud had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-swings-into-action-after-judges-death/article35618318.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||LS passes 2 Bills without debate||Amid continuous Opposition protests, the Lok Sabha on Thursday passed two Bills before it was adjourned for the day. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (AERA) Amendment Bill, 2021, and the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, were passed in the din without debate. Opposition members kept protesting over the Pegasus snooping issue and the three Central farm laws despite Lok Speaker Om Birla cautioning them that he would be forced to take strict action against those who “repeatedly disrupt the proceedings”. When the House began at 11 a.m., Mr. Birla said he was deeply hurt by the Wednesday incident, when some members tore papers and threw at the Chair and Treasury benches. “If you don’t take care of the parliamentary practices, then how will the parliamentary process strengthen? My endeavour is that all members get adequate time to raise their issues and give them their due respect,” he said. Minister seeks apology When Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi demanded an apology, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Opposition members were not able to put forth their views because of the “stubborn” attitude of the government. Amid continuous sloganeering, Mr. Birla adjourned the House until 11.30 a.m. The BJP’s Rajendra Agrawal ran the Question Hour proceedings for some time but had to adjourn twice in an hour. In between the interruptions, Business Advisory Committee members met to discuss the agenda. When the House reconvened at 2 p.m., Kirit Premjibhai Solanki, who was in Chair, took up the two Bills. Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia moved the AERA Amendment Bill for passage after some scathing remarks on the Opposition benches. “During the pandemic, instead of discussion, the House is witnessing sloganeering... We will convert this crisis into an opportunity and provide all possible facilities to farmers and people... Let the people of the country know what great work the Prime Minister is doing and what they [Opposition] are doing,” he said. The amendment will allow the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) to regulate tariff and other charges for aeronautical services for not just airports with annual passenger traffic of more than 35 lakh but also a group of airports. Once the Bill becomes a law, the government will be able to club profitable and non-profitable airports as a package for privatisation as envisaged in this year's Budget speech. Soon after, Ports and Shipping Minister Sarbananda Sonowal moved the Inland Vessels Bill that seeks to introduce a uniform regulatory framework for navigation across the country and provide a central database for registration of vessels and their crew. In order to prevent pollution, the Bill also specifies safety standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-passes-2-bills-without-debate/article35618327.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Key nasal vaccine data likely in 2 months||Bharat Biotech founder and CMD Krishna Ella said on Thursday that the company was expecting significant data on its intranasal COVID-19 vaccine in about two months. “In another two to two-and-a-half months, we are going to have significant data,” he said, without committing to a timeline by which the nasal vaccine, whose clinical trials are under way, is likely to be rolled out. Perceived as a game changer in the battle against the virus, the vaccine from the makers of Covaxin promises to deliver multiple benefits, from being more effective, since it is expected to generate immune responses at the site of infection (respiratory mucosa), to ease of administration and production. “It is also easy to scale it up... can produce 100 million doses a month,” Mr. Ella told a FICCI Capital Markets Conference. The company is also awaiting permission to conduct clinical trials using a combination of Covaxin and the nasal vaccine doses. “We have applied for clinical [trial] permission,” he said. In September, Bharat Biotech had announced a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis for the “novel chimp adenovirus” single-dose intranasal vaccine for COVID-19. BSL-3 facilities On Covaxin, Mr. Ella said manufacturing of the inactivated vaccine, unlike the vector or M-RNA vaccines, was challenging. However, Bharat Biotech’s existing BSL-3 production facilities, which are required to make inactivated vaccines, helped it overcome the challenge. Noting that the safety profile of Covaxin was the best, Mr. Ella said clinical trial of the vaccine for children between the age of two and 18 was nearing completion. He said the possibility of a third wave of COVID-19 in India would be determined by the people’s behaviour or in other words, their conforming to COVID-19 appropriate guidelines. “My feeling is until Deepavali, if no epidemic comes, we are through as a country. Also with different vaccines coming, we can take care of society at large. We are well geared up now... there was a little delay but now we have caught up,” he said, expecting everyone in India to be vaccinated by March next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-nasal-vaccine-data-likely-in-2-months/article35618539.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Convergence in U.S., India positions on Afghanistan’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Thursday told the Rajya Sabha that India would not accept any outcome in Afghanistan that was decided by force and that there was “strong convergence” on this between India and the United States. Mr. Jaishankar replied to a starred question by Samajwadi Party (SP) MP Rewati Raman Singh about the relationship with the U.S. and then a supplementary question posed by nominated MP Swapan Dasgupta about the situation in Afghanistan. Mr. Jaishankar said he had a good discussion with U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken during his visit to Delhi this week. Detailed discussion “We had a very detailed discussion on Afghanistan. I articulated our position at a press conference jointly held with the visiting Secretary. We were very clear that there must be negotiated political settlement in Afghanistan. There cannot be a military solution, there cannot be a takeover by use of force. We will work with the international community to ensure that political negotiations for a settlement are pursued seriously and we would never accept any outcome that is decided by force. I think there was a very strong convergence in our positions —India and the United States — on this matter,” the Minister said. In response to Mr. Singh’s assertion that India was being compared with Russia and China in terms of human rights violations, Mr. Jaishankar said the observation was “not an accurate one”. He said India was seeking to “right historical wrongs” and freedom should not be treated as “non-governance and abdication of responsibilities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/convergence-in-us-india-positions-on-afghanistan/article35618304.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We are waiting to see the follow-up from the meeting with the PM’||More than a month after the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders of political parties from Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference vice-president and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah expressed disappointment at its outcome .Excerpts:  It is over a month since you met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the multi-party meeting in New Delhi. How fruitful has the meeting been to create a conducive atmosphere for the dialogue process? The meeting was a first step. It was also important that the first step was taken by New Delhi because they were the ones who were instrumental with regard to the August 5, 2019 move [removal of J&K’s special status] and all the detentions thereafter, particularly of the mainstream leaders. So, the onus was on them to take the first step. But no meeting is successful without any follow-up. So, we are waiting to see what the follow-up is from the meeting that took place with regard to addressing the issues that was brought before PM Modi. All we want to see is how the PM and his government plan to move forward on the words, ‘Dilli saey doori aur dil ki doori’ [the distance from Delhi and the distance between hearts], where the PM himself acknowledged these gaps. We are waiting to see what is going to be done to reduce these gaps. Were any specific demands made before the PM? There were specific demands made, some political and some administrative in nature. There were various people who put demands before the PM. I haven’t seen any evidence of any of them being met so far. Immediately after the meeting, the J&K administration decided to end the tradition of shifting of capitals, ‘Darbar Move’, terminated 11 government employees and booked a National Conference activist under the Public Safety Act. Are these measures hinting at the Delhi-Srinagar dialogue hitting a deadlock? The measures, individually and collectively, are problematic. First the termination of government employees without being given the right to explain. There has to be a due process. Even under the law, you are innocent till proven guilty. The new laws that they framed for J&K are able to terminate at will without any due process. Where is it right to hold someone responsible for omissions or commission of parents? Some are terminated for their political linkages. The BJP conveniently forgets that a lot of people were accommodated in the government services by the then Governor (Jagmohan) in early 1990s because the private schools of the Falah-e-Aam trust (of the Jamaat-e-Islami) were banned. It’s strange and difficult to comprehend that the policy of (then J&K Governor) the late Jagmohan, a lifelong BJP member, at least for the last two decades, is being twisted in this way. Regarding the detention of the NC activist in Banihal, he was part of a public protest on a governance-related issue. There seems very little appetite for any criticism. We saw what happened in Ganderbal where a gentleman was arrested because he spoke the truth. J&K still has two capitals. So, even the move to downsize the ‘Darbar Move’, if not end the tradition, has bothered people of Jammu more than Kashmir. Traders and shopkeepers in Jammu city do the lion’s share of their business when the Kashmiri employees and their families move to Jammu in the winter. The same cannot be said of the traders in Srinagar. It’s the people in Jammu who are up in arms against curtailing the ‘Darbar Move’. Is there a deadlock between Srinagar-Delhi again? These measures suggest that there is a disconnect between what the PM says and what the L-G administration does. The L-G was present at the multi-party meeting where the PM clearly talked about ‘ Dilli saey doori aur dil ki doori’ , then it is the responsibility of the L-G to steer his administration in a way in which these differences are reduced and not to increase. You said after the meeting that you do not expect the Modi government to return the pre-August 5 position to J&K. What is the engagement all about? Foremost for the NC, in terms of political agenda, is the reversal of August 5, which is connected to a host of other things that can be resolved in the interim. Not every conversation has to be about the August 5. The fact that we don’t expect the PM to reverse the August 5 decision does not mean we cannot express our anger and disappointment over what happened. We made it very clear that a majority of people of J&K and Ladakh do not accept what happened on August 5. They are deeply bitter and disappointed by it. Members of Parliaments of the NC have decided to be a part of the delimitation commission. Is the process going in the right direction? The MPs were not involved in the process that took place here when the J&K Delimitation Commission visited J&K. That again raised some questions in our mind because we are convinced what happened the other day was an informal exercise. The entire Delimitation Commission was not there. It is not only made of the main members but also the associate members, three MPs from Kashmir and two from Jammu. They were not included in the process. This is simply an informal exercise conducted and has no statutory or legal bearing whatsoever. The L-G administration suggested that the situation has improved in J&K, as protests and stone pelting have come down. Has it? The law and order situation is better. Is that because of the way in which people are being arrested and detained without due process? Artificially suppressing people’s anxieties and concerns is a recipe for disaster. We have seen it in the past as well. It’s much better to go out and address peoples’ concerns and anger rather than suppress it. Ultimately, it blows up at some point or the other. While the L-G may be satisfied with the numbers given by the police on protests showing a slide, he may have to dig deeper and satisfy himself. On unemployment, the L-G and his administration need to come out of the security bubble and talk to youth. Unemployment has gone up. (Full interview at bit.ly/OmarAbdullahInt)  Suppressing people’s anxieties and concerns is a recipe for disaster.... it blows up at some point or the other||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-waiting-to-see-the-follow-up-from-the-meeting-with-the-pm/article35618325.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Engineering course in 11 languages||The All India Council of Technical Education is creating a database of resources to allow colleges to offer more programmes in regional languages and has developed a tool to translate engineering course content into 11 languages, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. He was speaking at an event to mark the first anniversary of the National Education Policy, 2020, (NEP) which placed a strong emphasis on education in the mother tongue. Though there has been little progress on one of the NEP’s most controversial recommendations to teach all children in their mother tongue or home language until Class 5, the first steps have been taken to promote regional languages in technical education. “I am glad that 14 engineering colleges in eight States are going to start engineering studies in five Indian languages: Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and Bangla,” said Mr. Modi. Teaching in regional languages will offer access to higher education for students from rural, low-income families who may not be fluent in English, said the Prime Minister, adding that this would help prevent language-based discrimination. He also announced the launch of Indian Sign Language as a regular language subject in secondary schools, promoting inclusivity for speech and hearing-challenged students. As reported earlier, the Prime Minister rolled out several other NEP initiatives such as an academic credit bank and a three-month play module to prepare children to enter Class 1. Mr. Modi emphasised that the NEP was a key component of nation building, and a future-oriented exercise preparing today’s youth to help build tomorrow’s India. A four-hour training programme on artificial intelligence developed by the Central Board of Secondary Education and Intel India would also contribute to a digital-driven economy, he said. The programme aims to introduce artificial intelligence to 10 lakh people in its first year, and is available in 11 languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/engineering-course-in-11-languages/article35618535.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC objects to case against AAP MLA||The Delhi High Court on Thursday slammed the Drugs Control Department of Delhi for initiating proceedings against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Praveen Kumar for procuring and distributing oxygen cylinders during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said they could not permit prosecution of good Samaritans for helping society at a time when the authorities had failed to provide oxygen. “If you initiate prosecution like this, you will have to pick up half the gurdwaras, temples, churches and all political parties as well. We won’t allow this,” the High Court remarked, adding it was “unfortunate that a tragedy is being used for political capital”. Gambhir case The High Court, however, drew a distinction between the AAP MLA’s case and that of BJP MP from the East Delhi constituency Gautam Gambhir, who had procured, stocked and distributed a large quantity of the FabiFlu medicine to COVID-19 patients. The High Court remarked that Mr. Gambhir had “irresponsibly hoarded medicines” when people did not have access to them. Though Mr. Gambhir’s intentions were “in the right place, it is not allowed”, the High Court noted. The HC gave time to the Drugs Control Department of Delhi to clear its stand on whether it wished to prosecute all such persons who had procured or distributed medical oxygen free of cost to needy COVID-19 patients and listed the case for further hearing on August 5. “Had we not said that you will not proceed against oxygen? If this is the way you are going to proceed, then you proceed against half of Delhi and also proceed against all the gurdwaras. How can you take such a hyper technical view,” the Bench asked. The High Court was informed by the Drugs Control Department of Delhi’s counsel that prosecution had been launched against the Gautam Gambhir Foundation and AAP MLA Imran Hussain Kumar for alleged violations under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, and a trial court had on July 28 taken cognisance of the issue and issued summons to them for August 26. Senior advocate Kailash Vasudev, representing Mr. Gambhir, urged the court to grant him a hearing as he wished to make certain clarifications. He also requested the court to clarify in its order that the adverse observations made against Mr. Gambhir at the HC would not be used against him before the trial court at which prosecution had been initiated against him. The High Court made it clear that the observations made by it earlier in these hearings would not come in the way of proceedings in the trial court. COVID-19 medicines The HC was hearing a petition seeking the lodging of an FIR on allegations that politicians were able to procure COVID-19 medicines in huge quantities and distribute them even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. Earlier, the Drugs Control Department of Delhi had told the High Court that the Gambhir Foundation had been found guilty of unauthorised stocking, procurement and distribution of the FabiFlu medicine to COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-objects-to-case-against-aap-mla/article35618333.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC not to review order on exams for private students||The Supreme Court has refused to review its June 22 order agreeing with a CBSE scheme to hold physical exams for private, compartment and patrachar (distance education) candidates of Class 12. The students of these three categories had sought parity with the regular CBSE students. The Board had cancelled the physical exams for regular CBSE Class 12 students in view of the pandemic. It had devised an objective assessment scheme to evaluate their performance. The Supreme Court had given its consent to this scheme. The private/patrachar/compartment candidates had subsequently approached the court. They wanted the court to direct the CBSE to frame a similar scheme for them. Instead, the Supreme Court, on June 22, agreed with the CBSE plan to conduct exams for the private, compartment and patrachar candidates some time between August 15 and September 15. The CBSE had made it clear that their results would be declared at the earliest “so that even these students would be in a position to pursue their further education”. Clause 29 of the “Policy for Tabulation of Marks for Class XII Board Examinations 2021” framed by the CBSE had specified that the examination would be conducted for private, patrachar , second chance compartment candidates and so on by the Board as and when the conditions become conducive. In their plea before the court, students had contended that the decision may endanger their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-not-to-review-order-on-exams-for-private-students/article35618344.ece
30 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Maken continues interactions with MLAs||All India Congress Committee general secretary Ajay Maken continued his interactions with the Congress MLAs for the second consecutive day here on Thursday to get their feedback on the State government’s performance. Mr. Maken also sought their views on the changes needed to ensure the ruling party’s victory in the next Assembly elections. Mr. Maken held one-on-one discussions with 52 legislators from 20 districts in the State Assembly building. The Tonk district was covered through the interaction with the MLAs representing Deoli-Uniara and Niwai constituencies, in the absence of Tonk MLA and former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. Mr. Pilot had met Mr. Maken in New Delhi on Tuesday, a day before his visit to Jaipur, and discussed the party’s roadmap reportedly prepared for the State. Mr. Maken met 66 MLAs, including the Independents supporting the Congress, on Wednesday in the Assembly building. The sources in Congress said that several of the MLAs expressed dissatisfaction with some Ministers, accusing them of being inaccessible and not resolving people’s grievances. Some legislators, especially those belonging to the Pilot camp, also raised the issue of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities not being adequately represented in the State Cabinet. There were speculations that the State Cabinet might be reshuffled and expanded early next month. This is likely to be followed by appointments to various boards and corporations as well as nominations to the block and district units of the ruling party. ‘Cong. tradition’ Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi told reporters outside the Assembly that the exercise to get the views of MLAs on different aspects of governance would strengthen the ruling party. “It is a tradition in Congress to keep taking such feedback. Every MLA has a right to convey his or her opinion to the top leadership in the party,” he said. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot hosted dinner for Mr. Maken, who is the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan, and the MLAs at his official residence here on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maken-continues-interactions-with-mlas/article35618731.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Declare moratorium on use of Pegasus’||The Supreme Court of India must declare a moratorium on the export, sale, transfer and use of the Pegasus spyware in India and investigate the snooping scandal, women’s rights activists, human rights defenders and concerned citizens have urged Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana in an open letter to him. “We believe that the Supreme Court can only instil confidence in people’s, and particularly women’s minds by transparently demanding and making public all answers relating to the use of Pegasus in India. Above all, we look to the Supreme Court to declare a moratorium on the export, sale, transfer and use of Pegasus in India,” said the open letter with over 500 signatories. The signatories include Ayesha Kidwai, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Professor; Romila Thapar, historian; Harsh Mander, human rights activist; Kavita Krishnan, secretary, All India Progressive Women’s Association; Vrinda Grover, senior lawyer; and Lillette Dubey, actor and director. Ranjan Gogoi issue The open letter also raised the issue of the woman who accused former CJI Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment being snooped on as well as 10 mobile numbers linked to her family members being hacked. ‘Deeply troubling’ “If the complainant was under such criminal duress at the time, can the proceedings of the In-House Committee really have been free and fair? The silence of the Supreme Court as an institution on these revelations is deeply troubling for women in India,” it stated. The open letter called the hacking episode an act of “state-sponsored cyberterrorism”. It further asserted that the “Pegasus project and information in public domain raises concerns for the integrity of constitutional authorities, including the independence of the Supreme Court. The investigation starkly discloses that the rights and freedoms of peoples, of which the Supreme Court is the guardian, are under grave risk”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/declare-moratorium-on-use-of-pegasus/article35618307.ece
30 July 2021||Srinagar,||Kishtwar cloudburst: rescue operation resumes to trace 19||Rescue operations resumed on Thursday morning to trace around 19 missing people of Honzar village in Kishtwar in the Jammu region, where a cloudburst triggered massive flash floods and left seven dead on Wednesday. “The rescue operations resumed early Thursday morning. Senior Superintendent of Police, Kishtwar, Shafqat Hussain, is camping at Honzar to oversee the rescue operations,” Mukesh Singh, Additional Director-General of Police, Jammu, said. Besides the policemen, officials of the district administration, personnel of the Army and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were busy removing the rubble. However, the Indian Air Force (IAF) could not fly a chopper to shift the injured out of the area due to the inclement weather. Around two dozen houses and cowsheds were damaged by gushing waters after the cloudburst, which occurred in the intervening night of July 27-28. Officials said several houses have turned into a mound of debris. There were women among the missing, according to locals. “There was a huge sound and then houses started caving in near the nallah [stream]. There were four houses on one side of the bank and it’s a flat surface now. It was like doomsday,” Muhammad Jamal, a resident of Hunzar, said. An official said camps were set up at Dangadooru and Soundar areas for the affected people. The government has announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives, and Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 12,700 under the State Disaster Relief Fund (to the grievously injured).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kishtwar-cloudburst-rescue-operation-resumes-to-trace-19/article35618311.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Careers in investment management||The CFA Institute and The Hindu BusinessLine will conduct a webinar on careers in investment management titled ‘Gaining an edge in the post-COVID investment industry’. It will be held on 1 August at 12 p.m. The panellists for the webinar are Saurabh Mukherjea, founder and CIO, Marcellus Investment Managers; Nisha Awasthi, managing director, BlackRock; Vaibhav Jain, head (strategic partnerships and sales), WealthDesk; and Vidhu Shekhar, country head (India), CFA Institute. It will be moderated by Parvatha Vardhini C., head, Research Bureau. To register for the webinar, please visit: https://bit.ly/CFABLE or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/careers-in-investment-management/article35618316.ece
30 July 2021||Aizawl,||Mizoram says ready for lawsuit on border issue||Mizoram Deputy Chief Minister Tawnluia on Thursday said his government was ready to face any lawsuit over claims that it had encroached on neighbour Assam’s territory. The Deputy Chief Minister’s remarks came as a rebuttal to the “encroachment” charge levelled by Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday, who said his government would move the Supreme Court over the issue. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Tawnluia denied any encroachment by Mizoram on the neighbouring State’s territory. “We are ready and well prepared to be tried in a law court. We have valid documents to substantiate our stand,” he said. He said that Mizoram was merely protecting the territorial integrity of the State. The two States have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an inner line drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from the influence of plainsmen, Assam goes by a district demarcation survey done in the 1930s. Mr. Tawnluia, who heads the boundary commission constituted by the State government last week, said the commission will deal with the boundary issue and its decision on issues related to the border with neighbouring States would be final. He claimed that the commission has obtained important documents on boundary issue. Earlier on Tuesday, Mr. Sarma had told reporters in Silchar that his government would move the Supreme Court over encroachment by the neighbouring State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-says-ready-for-lawsuit-on-border-issue/article35618727.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Asthana posting violates SC verdict: Delhi House||Quoting the judgment, the resolution questioned the appointment of what it termed “a controversial Gujarat cadre officer” such as Mr. Asthana, who is scheduled to retire shortly. On Mr. Asthana’s appointment, the resolution said the post of Commissioner of Police in Delhi “belongs to the AGMUT [Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory] IPS cadre” and argued that there had been “multiple inquiries on serious charges” against Mr. Asthana in the past. It also questioned why an officer who was removed by the Central government from the post of Special Director CBI in October 2018 and not considered fit for the post of CBI Director only very recently, was being “imposed on Delhi Police.” “Given the past track record of this officer, there is a reasonable apprehension that the Central Government will use him for foisting false cases on political rivals to create a reign of terror in the national capital. Such a controversial individual should NOT be heading the police force in the country’s national capital,” the resolution stated. “This House directs the government of NCT of Delhi to convey to the MHA that the appointment order of Sh. Rakesh Asthana be immediately withdrawn and fresh process for the appointment of Commissioner of Police for Delhi be initiated in accordance with rules and regulations,” it stated. With the BJP opposing the resolution, the debate leading up to its adoption saw a bitter exchange between AAP and BJP legislators. The Opposition MLAs also staged a walkout. The entire BJP Legislature Party, led by Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, strongly protested against the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asthana-posting-violates-sc-verdict-delhi-house/article35618299.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||27% for OBCs, 10% for EWS in national quota||These included Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Harding Medical College, Aligarh Muslim University and Banaras Hindu University among others. However, this was not extended to the AIQ seats of State medical and dental colleges. “The OBC students from across the country shall now be able to take the benefit of this reservation in AIQ to compete for seats in any State. Being a Central scheme, the Central List of OBCs shall be used for this reservation. Around 1,500 OBC students in MBBS and 2,500 in postgraduation will be benefited through this reservation,” said the Ministry in a release. In the last six years, the MBBS seats in the country have increased by 56%, from 54,348 seats in 2014 to 84,649 seats in 2020, and the number of PG seats by 80%, from 30,191 seats in 2014 to 54,275 seats in 2020. In the same period, 179 new medical colleges have been established and now the country has 558 medical colleges — 289 government colleges and 269 privately run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/27-for-obcs-10-for-ews-in-national-quota/article35618302.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Chola idols among 14 art works to be returned||Following this action, along with the repatriation of works in 2014, 2016 and 2019, the NGA will no longer hold any works acquired through Subhash Kapoor in its collection. The decision to return the works is the culmination of years of research, due diligence and an evolving framework for decision-making that includes both legal principles and ethical considerations, the Gallery said in a media release.  The NGA Director Nick Mitzevich said, “As the first outcome of this change, the Gallery will be returning 14 objects from the Indian art collection to their country of origin. This is the right thing to do, it’s culturally responsible and the result of collaboration between Australia and India.” Mr. Mitzevich said the Gallery would continue its provenance research, including for the Asian art collection and resolve the status of any works of concern. The Indian High Commissioner to Australia, Manpreet Vohra, welcomed the decision by the Australian government and the NGA to return the art works. The works being returned are being returned are: Child-saint Sambandar, dancing child-saint Sambandar of 12th century belonging to Chola dynasty, processional standard [alam], from Hyderabad, arch for a Jain shrine (11th-12th century), seated Jina, 1163 from Mount Abu region, Rajasthan, the divine couple Lakshmi and Vishnu [Lakshmi Narayana] (11-12th century), Durga Mahisasuramardini, from Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chola-idols-among-14-art-works-to-be-returned/article35618305.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tharoor says privilege motion has ‘no validity’||Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology (IT), on Thursday claimed that the privilege motion moved against him by BJP MP’s Nishikant Dubey had “no validity” as it didn’t follow “constituted procedure”. Without naming Mr. Dubey, he said “some elements” in the panel had reduced it to a “ping-pong match” that went against the the spirit of Parliament and its committees. ‘Extremely amicable’ Recalling his previous stint as the Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on External Affairs for five years, Mr. Tharoor said members worked in an extremely amicable and cooperative spirit even though that committee, too, had “a strong BJP majority”. Asked about Mr. Dubey’s allegation that a Trinamool Congress MP had resorted to name-calling when the panel members assembled for the meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Tharoor pleaded ignorance. “How can I tell you about a meeting that never happened? I am completely unaware if somebody allegedly said something at a meeting that never took place to somebody who was not there. How am I to be concerned about it?” he asked. Though BJP members were present at the meeting venue, they refused to sign the register and the meeting had to be cancelled due to a lack of quorum. On Wednesday, Mr. Dubey moved the privilege motion against Mr. Tharoor, seeking his removal Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi told presspersons, “I have had the privilege of being a former chairman of a committee... I have never heard of 10 people of a ruling party saying that we are present, but not marking our attendance... It is collectively an insult to all parliamentarians”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-says-privilege-motion-has-no-validity/article35618312.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Judge killing: 2, including auto driver, arrested||The footage shows the autorickshaw suddenly veering towards the judge, who was jogging along the extreme left side of the road, and hitting him. After post-mortem, his body was sent to his home in Hazaribag district for last rites. The footage found resonance in the Supreme Court. SIT formed The police constituted a special investigation team (SIT) under Dhanbad Superintendent of Police (City) R. Ramkumar to probe the case. Addressing a press conference, Dhanbad’s Senior Superintendent of Police Sanjeev Kumar said: “We managed to arrest Lakhan Verma, the autorickshaw driver, and another person, Rahul Verma.” The two had previous involvement in petty theft cases, he stated. Police sources said the autorickshaw was stolen around 2 a.m. and the judge was knocked down at 5 a.m. The Jharkhand High Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter. “The incident is condemnable. The government is very sensitive to the issue. What appears from the footage is that it was a case of murder. The culprit will not be spared,” said Jharkhand Advocate General Rajiv Ranjan. The progress of the investigation would be submitted in the High Court. An officer of Additional Director General of Police would supervise the SIT investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judge-killing-2-including-auto-driver-arrested/article35618320.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No database on rent paid by govt. offices’||There was no centrally-maintained data on the amount spent by various government establishments for renting office space in the National Capital Region, Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore informed the Lok Sabha on Thursday. In his written response to a question raised by members Dipsinh Shankarsinh Rathod and Mohanbhai Kalyanji Kundariya, Mr. Kishore said: “The details of rental premises/area-wise hired by the various establishments of government and expenditure incurred on those private rental premises/area-wise since their origin of lease agreement are not centrally maintained.” This comes even as the government has said that the ongoing Central Vista redevelopment project, which includes the construction of 10 new Secretariat buildings, would lead to a saving of Rs. 1,000 crore a year in the form of rent for government offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-database-on-rent-paid-by-govt-offices/article35618322.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||List issues that couldn’t be taken up: Venkaiah||With the functioning of the Upper House curtailed for eight consecutive days due to protests by Opposition parties seeking clarification from the government on the Pegasus snooping issue, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat will now list all the issues that could not be taken up due to the disruptions. Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu directed the Secretariat to list out all Zero Hour submissions and special mentions permitted by him, which members could not raise because of adjournments forced by the protests, in the House bulletin that records the business transacted in a day. Members can raise issues of public importance during the Zero Hour and via the special mention submissions. “Rajya Sabha bulletin is to give a brief account of what has been transacted during the day, but in the prevailing situation, it has been decided to give an account of what couldn’t be transacted due to disruptions,” a senior Rajya Sabha official said. Wednesday’s bulletin was the first one to make this change. “Due to continuous disruptions in the House, 14 matters to be raised with permission (Zero Hour submissions) and 15 special mention notices permitted by the Chairman on matters of public importance could not be taken up,” it read. So far, three Bills have been passed in the Rajya Sabha without discussions. Mr. Naidu on Monday said 90 members had been denied opportunity to raise issues of public importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/list-issues-that-couldnt-be-taken-up-venkaiah/article35618330.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||As cases surge, Central team to visit Kerala||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday decided to depute a high-level multi-disciplinary team to Kerala to collaborate with the health authorities there in instituting effective public health measures for COVID-19 management in view of the significantly enhanced number of daily cases there. The Ministry said in a release that the six-member team would be headed by S.K. Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control. It would reach Kerala on Friday and visit a few districts. It would work closely with the State Health Department, take stock of the ground situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the large number of cases being reported. Active caseload Kerala, with an active caseload of 1.54 lakh, is contributing 37.1% of the total active cases in the country, with a growth rate of 1.41 in the past seven days. The average daily cases being reported in the State are above 17,443. The State has also reported a high test positivity of 12.93% cumulatively and 11.97% weekly. Six districts are reporting more than 10% weekly positivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-cases-surge-central-team-to-visit-kerala/article35618339.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||391 complaints of sexual harassment, says Centre||A total of 391 complaints have been filed by employees of Central government Ministries about sexual harassment at workplace, the government told Parliament on Thursday. These complaints were filed on the government’s SHe-Box portal, which was launched in 2017 for effective implementation of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The portal is meant for government as well as private sector employees. “Of the 391 complaints, 150 were received since January 1, 2020,” Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani said in the Rajya Sabha in response to a question. However, an analysis of 36 cases filed through SHe-Box by employees of the Ministry of Women and Child Development showed that there were only two cases of sexual harassment of women at workplace. Nearly 32 cases were “in the nature of public grievances on various matters relating to violence against women, dowry harassment, misbehaviour, suggestions, etc.” and the remaining two were repeat entries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/391-complaints-of-sexual-harassment-says-centre/article35618342.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool sees opening in I-PAC team’s detention||The Trinamool Congress sees the detention of the 23-member team of its political advisory firm, I-PAC, in Tripura as an opportunity to build its presence in the State, party leaders said. The I-PAC team, which reached the State on July 20, was detained on Tuesday and later booked under Section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order promulgated by the public servant) for allegedly flouting COVID-19 restrictions. The party so far has been an insignificant force in the State, except for 2016, when six Congress MLAs joined the Trinamool Congress making it the lead Opposition party. But this was only a blip. Currently, the party’s State unit is dysfunctional. In 2018, the BJP won 36 seats and the IPFT won eight, while the CPI(M)’s tally was reduced to 16 and the Congress and the Trinamool drew a blank. The next Assembly polls are due in 2023. “This is an opportunity gifted directly by Biplab Kumar Deb (Tripura CM). By making noise about the I-PAC team, he is indirectly conceding that we are a force to reckon with,” a senior Trinamool leader said. After their third consecutive victory in West Bengal, the Trinamool is now keen to expand its footprint to give it a greater national presence. “We will go in for a win or to be the lead Opposition. We are no longer in the game to be a minor player,” a top Trinamool leader said. Trinamool MPs Derek O’Brien and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar are already in Agartala. Party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will also be reaching on Friday. The party is also exploring possible alliance partners.  By making noise about I-PAC team, Tripura CM has indirectly conceded that we are a force to reckon with Senior Trinamool leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-sees-opening-in-i-pac-teams-detention/article35618328.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Lakha gets anticipatory bail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in a case related to his alleged involvement in the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day, saying no case is made out against him. “The IO is unable to respond why custodial interrogation of the accused is further required in the probe,” Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakha-gets-anticipatory-bail/article35618729.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||One must control senses||Vamana tells Mahabali that all He wants is land equal to what He can measure with three steps. This seems so insignificant a request, that Mahabali begins to advise Vamana, said Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. Mahabali says, “You look like a highly educated boy, but with Your words, You have shown that You are still childlike in Your innocence. You do not know what is good for You. I am Emperor of the three worlds. I have the capacity to give you an entire island. I was happy when You said You wanted something from me. But now You have asked for something so petty — land measured with three steps. How can I now say You are intelligent? As far as I am concerned, if someone comes to me for something, he must never have to go to anyone else for it, for I can give everything a man may desire.” Vamana replies: “A man is happy only if he controls his indriyas . The mind is like a monkey. Even if you train it, it will remain restless. But, if you control your indriyas , even if you have desires, you will not go astray. If a man has not conquered his indriyas , even if you give him all the things available in the three worlds, he will still not be satisfied. A person who is not happy with a small plot of land, will not be happy even if he were to come into possession of a larger plot of land. He will want seven islands. Contentment leads to happiness, and this happiness is possible, only if you have control of the indriyas . Expectation burns like a bright fire. But this fire will never be put out. If an educated man is content with what he has, then he will have Brahma tejas . You may have the capacity to give a lot. But I want nothing more than a small piece of land. We must know what we need, and to know this, we must know who we are.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-must-control-senses/article35618341.ece
30 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Gurdwara panel members quit||All members of the managing committee of the Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand have resigned amid allegations of violation of Sikh maryada (code of conduct) during Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s visit to the gurdwara earlier this week. During his visit, a dance performance by children was held and the recitation of the gurbani was reportedly interrupted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gurdwara-panel-steps-down/article35618331.ece
30 July 2021||Guwahati/Aizwal/Silchar,||Assam notice on travelling to Mizoram||The Assam government on Thursday issued a travel advisory asking people not to travel to Mizoram. It also advised people from the State staying there to “exercise utmost caution”. The two States also traded accusations over the deployment of security forces along the inter-State border on Thursday, three days after both sides were locked in a gun battle near the boundary that left six policemen and a civilian dead. The travel advisory, which is perhaps a first of its kind issued by any state government, signed by Assam Home Secretary M S Manivannan said “given the prevailing situation, the people of Assam are advised not to travel to Mizoram.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-notice-on-travelling-to-mizoram/article35618574.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Sachar report infringes on Hindus’ rights’||A petition filed in the Supreme Court has accused former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of acting on a “whim” and setting up the Justice Rajinder Sachar Committee over 15 years ago to inquire into the social, economic and educational status of the Muslim community. The petition filed by a few residents of Uttar Pradesh, who introduced themselves as followers of the Sanatan Vedic Dharm, asked the court to stop the Union government from implementing any recommendations based on the Justice Sachar Committee report of 2006. They said the report “infringes” on the rights of Hindus. The petitioners claimed that the March 2005 notification setting up the committee did not mention it was based on a Cabinet decision. “It is clear that the then Prime Minister on his own whims issued the direction appointing the committee to inquire into the social, economic and educational status of Muslim community, whereas, by virtue of Articles 14 and 15, no religious community can be treated separately,” the petition said. “It is relevant to mention that the entire Muslim community has not been identified as socially and educationally backward class,” the petition argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sachar-report-infringes-on-hindus-rights/article35618308.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amended Factoring Regulation Bill passed||The Rajya Sabha on Thursday passed the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, while the Opposition continued its protest against the government over the alleged use of Pegasus spyware, and the farm laws passed last year. The Bill, which Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said would benefit Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), was passed just around 15 minutes after it was introduced, with a brief discussion and members opting to table their views instead of speaking amid the din. The Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on Monday. Ms. Sitharaman said the Bill would enable MSMEs to access about 9,000 NBFCs (non-banking financial companies), an increase from the current seven available to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amended-factoring-regulation-bill-passed/article35618323.ece
30 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||HC orders verification of prawn farms||The Orissa High Court has ordered the immediate satellite verification of illegal aquaculture being taken up around the Bhitarkanika wetland in Kendrapara district. The Division Bench of Chief Justice S. Muralidhar and Justice B.P. Routray has said that it would hear the matter in a special sitting on August 14. “The amicus curiae points out that the satellite verification in Kendrapara district has still not been undertaken despite the directions issued by this court on May 31, 2021,” the Division Bench stated on July 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-orders-verification-of-prawn-farms/article35618338.ece
30 July 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC seeks Hany Babu’s medical report||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed a private hospital to submit the latest health report of Hany Babu, associate professor with Delhi University who is under arrest in the Elgaar Parishad case. Babu was shifted to Breach Candy hospital following a HC order in May. The court is hearing a petition filed by Babu’s wife seeking his bail on health grounds.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-seeks-hany-babus-medical-report/article35618728.ece
30 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu meets partymen, lists ‘five priorities’ again||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday again flagged the five ‘key issues’ faced by the State, days after being told by Chief Minister that his government was close to resolving them. Addressing party workers in Jalandhar, Mr. Sidhu said the Congress high command’s 18-point programme will be implemented. He also called for the “rejection” by the Congress-ruled State of the three farm laws.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-meets-partymen-lists-five-priorities-again/article35618732.ece
30 July 2021||Patna,||Parties decry TMC MP Mahua Moitra’s alleged comments on Bihar||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey’s allegations that Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra called him a Bihari goonda thrice during a meeting of the Standing Committee on Information Technology (IT) on Thursday invited condemnation from political parties in Bihar. “The people of Bihar are hard-working and it has been a land of saints. So, if someone makes such comments, we feel sorry for it,” Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav said. Mr. Yadav also added that this could be an individual’s comment and not that of the TMC. Janata Dal (United) leader and spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said, “The language Ms. Moitra used is linguistic lumpenisation. Ms. Moitra must first apologise for her comments or action should be taken against her.” State BJP leader Nitin Navin, raised the issue in the State Assembly, and sought a reaction from Mr. Yadav. “He had gone to West Bengal for the TMC’s poll campaign. Now what does he have to say?” Mr. Navin asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parties-decry-tmc-mp-mahua-moitras-alleged-comments-on-bihar/article35618301.ece
30 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat ATS nabs key drug peddler||The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of the Gujarat Police on Thursday nabbed Shahid Kasam Sumra, a key drug peddler allegedly involved in smuggling 530 kg of heroin worth around Rs. 2,500 crore into the country via sea route from Pakistan on different occasions. He was arrested at the Delhi airport as soon as he landed from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-ats-nabs-key-drug-peddler/article35618309.ece
30 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra to deposit Rs. 10,000 into flood victims’ accounts as emergency aid||Though the Maharashtra government is yet to announce a package for the rain-ravaged Konkan and western region, its Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Thursday said that the State would be transferring Rs. 10,000 into the account of every flood-hit victim as emergency aid. Mr. Wadettiwar said that the direct transfers to help the flood victims till the government came up with a comprehensive package would begin on Saturday. “Often, in the aftermath of such natural disasters, there are allegations and apprehensions of money being misappropriated or not having reached the intended recipient. We do not want to fall into that trap and hence the relief money will be directly credited to the flood victims’ account,” he said. Mr. Wadettiwar said that all district authorities had been instructed to complete their damage assessments within eight days and that the report would be sent to the Centre as well. More than 210 people and 20,000 livestock have lost their lives in landslides and other rain-related accidents in the last one week and more than two lakh people have had their homes and properties destroyed by the floodwaters. More than four lakh hectares of cropland in eight districts have been damaged besides staggering losses to rural infrastructure. Former Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis criticised the State government for its tardiness in declaring a package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-to-deposit-rs-10000-into-flood-victims-accounts-as-emergency-aid/article35618313.ece
30 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Number of villages in Odisha may go up by 4,000||The number of villages in Odisha is likely to increase by 4,000 as the State government is set to declare several hamlets as revenue villages. The identification of revenue villages assumes significance as new villages will get the benefits of the government’s schemes upon formal declaration. At the district level, more than 3,500 proposals for creation of new villages are pending. In a letter to all Collectors, State Revenue and Disaster Management Secretary Bishnupada Sethi issued a set of instructions for converting hamlets into revenue villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/number-of-villages-in-odisha-may-go-up-by-4000/article35618321.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC extends relief for Newsclick founder||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) not to take any coercive action against NewsClick founder and editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha in connection with a money laundering case subject to his joining the investigation. Justice Mukta Gupta extended the interim protection granted to Mr. Purkayastha till the next date of hearing on September 2. The High Court also recorded that the ED was yet to supply a copy of its Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) to the parties concerned. On June 21, the court had directed the ED not to take coercive action against the news portal as well as its editor-in-chief in connection with the case.It had also issued notice to the ED on the news portal’s plea seeking a copy of the ECIR lodged by it in the case. The money laundering case arises out of a Delhi Police FIR alleging that PPK NewsClick Studio Pvt. Ltd. received Foreign Direct Investment of Rs. 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the financial year 2018-19. The FIR claimed that the investment was made by greatly overvaluing the shares of the petitioner company to allegedly avoid the cap of 26% of FDI in a digital news website. It further alleged that some of the investment was siphoned off for various other motives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-extends-relief-for-newsclick-founder/article35618334.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Gurugram-based Ambience Mall owner Raj Singh Gehlot held||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested Raj Singh Gehlot, the owner of Gurugram-based Ambience Mall, on money laundering charges. According to the ED, a sizeable portion of over Rs. 800 crore taken in loans from a consortium of banks for a hotel project was diverted and round-tripped via a web of companies. Some employees of the Ambience group and associates of Mr. Gehlot were allegedly appointed as directors or proprietors of such entities, but he was the “authorised signatory”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-gurugram-based-ambience-mall-owner-raj-singh-gehlot/article35618340.ece
30 July 2021||Lucknow,||Woman stabbed to death by brothers in U.P.||A 20-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her two brothers near a police station in Budaun district while she was on her way to record her statement regarding a case lodged by her family on her alleged elopement, the police said. Her brothers, aged 19 and 24, intercepted her and stabbed her in the neck, said Dataganj SHO Ajit Kumar. They have been arrested and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-stabbed-to-death-by-brothers-in-up/article35618345.ece
30 July 2021||Lucknow,||Prayagraj youth dies after assault for alleged casteist FB video||A man died in Prayagraj district of Uttar Pradesh after being assaulted by members of another community who were allegedly offended by a “casteist” video he uploaded as his status on Facebook recently, the police said on Thursday. Four persons were arrested on a complaint by the victim’s family, said the police. Another youth living in the same village objected to the video which led to a scuffle, said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prayagraj-youth-dies-after-assault-for-alleged-casteist-fb-video/article35618533.ece
30 July 2021||Kolkata,||COVID-19 restrictions extended till August 15 in West Bengal||The West Bengal government on Thursday extended the pandemic restrictions till August 15 but allowed cinema halls to open with not more than 50% seating capacity. A notification issued during the day allowed State government programmes that are held indoors with 50% seating capacity. The notification however, restricted the movement of people and vehicles from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., except for emergency, healthcare, law and order, essential commodities and other emergency services would not be allowed. There was no word on the resumption of local train services. Metro services will operate for five days a week for the general public. Meanwhile, the number of infections in the State has dropped to about 800 a day. On Tuesday 815 cases were recorded and the case positivity rate was about 1.81%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-restrictions-extended-till-august-15-in-west-bengal/article35618537.ece
30 July 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur DIET bags Green Champion Award||The District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Keezha Pazhur, here received the Green Champion Award from the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), Union Ministry of Education. The award is in recognition of the maintenance of the school's campus in a clean and green manner. The award was received by Principal K. S. Mozhiyarasi from P. Ramana Saraswathi, District Collector. “The institution has successfully set up a Swachhta Action Plan Committee and adopted the best practices in sanitation, hygiene, waste, water, energy and greenery management,” the citation on the award said. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Mozhiyarasi said that the campus had made serious efforts to turn their campus green and this award was a recognition of those efforts. Around 1,000 trees were planted around the campus, and all the lights in the main block, pathways leading to the other blocks, and the boys and girls hostels was solar-powered. At the main block, the water used to wash hands, etc., is recycled and reused in the toilets and for watering the trees on the campus. The campus also encourages waste segregation and hopes to make and distribute natural fertilizers made from biodegradable waste, soon. “We are also a plastic-free campus,” she said. A report on the efforts of DIET was submitted to the MGNCRE, Ms. Mozhiyarasi said. “Following the submission, a meeting was conducted with officials from New Delhi. We were able to present our work, and since we were on campus at the time, we were also able to show them through the video call,” she said. Ms. Mozhiyarasi hoped that their campus would serve as an inspiration to other institutions in Ariyalur district. “We want to show that if we can do it, so can they. We can all work towards a clean and green Ariyalur,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-diet-bags-green-champion-award/article35618781.ece
30 July 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Bus services on new routes flagged off||Ministers R.S. Raja Kannappan (Transport), K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Revenue) and Thangam Thennarasu (Industries) on Thursday flagged off buses on five new routes and a new bus from Veeracholan to Chennai. The Ministers said the buses in the new routes were introduced to fulfill increased demand from passengers. The new routes were Virudhunagar-Tiruchuli via Mallankinaru, Kalkurichi, Krishnapuram, P. Pudupatti junction, Narikudi-Tiruppuvanam via A. Mukkulam, Pulvaikarai, Avarangulam, S. Nangur, Karuvakkudi; Aruppukottai-Tiruchuli via Aathipatti, Kandamangalam, Paraikulam, Kottam, Pulikurichi. The other two routes are Kariyapatti-Tiruchuli via Kukkankulam, Esali, Kumilangulam, Inakkaneri and Kariapatti-Allalaperi via Mudkkankulam, Avarampatti, Uduppukulam, Manaivenadal. Resumption of services Three town bus services that were suspended were revived on the occasion. The buses would be operated on Kariyapatti-Chokkanendal via Srirampurm, Mudukkankulam and Thenri; Aruppukottai-Velaneri via Narikudi, Karaiyur, Mayaleri and Pidariseri and Kariyapatti-Tiruppuvanam via Meenakshipuram, Mustakurichi, S. Nangoor, Karuvakudi and Allinagaram. SETC bus A new long-distance bus service of State Express Transport Corporation from Veeracholan to Chennai was also flagged off by the Ministers. The bus would go through Parthibanur, Paramakudi, Ilayangudi, Sivaganga, Tirupattur, Tirumayam, Pudukottai, Tiruchi and Villupuram. “If there were more demand for buses in any particular route, that would also be considered,” Mr. Raja Kannappan said. The Ministers also gave away assistance worth Rs. 12.82 lakh under various schemes to 100 beneficiaries under “Chief Minister in Your Constituency” scheme. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy and MLAs A.R.R. Seenivasan (Virudhunagar), Murugesan (Paramakudi) and G. Ashokan (Sivakasi) were present. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Managing Director of Madurai TNSTC, S.S. Rajmohan, Project Director (District Rural Development Agency) P. Thilavagathi, Regional General Manager (TNSTC) R. Sivalingam, Commercial Manager K. Marimuthu and Tiruchuli Tahsildar Muthukrishnan were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/town-buses-on-five-new-routes-long-distance-service-flagged-off/article35618807.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Major floodwater channels in Chennai will be restored soon||Many major channels carrying floodwater to Cooum and Adyar rivers, which remain largely neglected, will be rejuvenated as the Water Resources Department (WRD) is preparing estimates for the restoration of waterways and their associated drains. The project would be implemented with the concerted efforts of various government agencies under the aegis of the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust (CRRT). WAPCOS Limited, the chosen consultant, has prepared a detailed project report for the scheme. Nearly 23 channels connected to the Adyar and eight drains to the Cooum, maintained by the Greater Chennai Corporation and the WRD, would be restored. While projects for the integrated eco-restoration of rivers have been in progress for a few years now, this scheme will aim for a holistic approach for rejuvenating channels linked to the Adyar, Cooum and Buckingham Canal. Sewage inlets Among the various components, the WRD and the Corporation will be improving the channels, removing solid waste and undertaking urban waterfront development work. Improving these channels is significant for flood mitigation in the city, and reducing river pollution. “We conducted walk-through surveys in the Adyar and Cooum basins, and found challenges in implementing the drive. We have identified about 100 sewage inlets so far in various channels, including in the Kundrathur and Tharapakkam drains, flowing into Adyar river. We plan to coordinate with local bodies, and ask Metrowater to strengthen the sewerage network and plug such sewage outfalls,” an official said. Some channels draining into the Cooum include the Virugambakkam-Arumbakkam canal, the Nolambur canal and the Ayanambakkam surplus course. Many of these channels now have only one-third of their capacity and are covered with vegetation. The project proposes to increase their floodwater carrying capacity by three times to prevent spillovers. “We are proposing to restore the right of way or boundary of channels by up to 8-10 m. For instance, there are plans to build a combination of chain-link fences and compound walls on both sides of Kolapakkam channel. This will prevent encroachment and garbage dumping.” On urban waterfront development, officials said saplings of native species, including neem, palm and bamboo, would be planted along the restored boundaries of the channels. “We plan to create parks and provide lighting and benches wherever there is space, particularly in channels on the fringes of the city,” an official said. However, many challenges await, such as plugging the sewage outfalls and the removal of encroachments. As of now, nearly 6,000 affected families, living within the boundary of the channels, had been identified for resettlement and rehabilitation, officials said. Tenders are expected to be called for some components of the Rs. 1,260 crore project in two or three months. Similar work will be executed in 21 major drains linked to the Buckingham Canal, and is expected to be completed in three or four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/channels-in-city-likely-to-be-rejuvenated-in-a-few-years/article35618665.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases rise marginally to 1,859||Fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu rose marginally to 1,859 on Thursday, taking the tally to 25,55,664. As the State saw an increase by a little over 100 cases when compared with Wednesday, it was a handful of districts, including Chennai, that accounted for the rise. The sudden rise in daily tally comes weeks after fresh infections started to dip during the last week of May. Cases went up marginally in the range of 10 to 30 in some districts. In Chennai, 181 people tested positive, when compared with 164 the previous day. There were 188 cases in Coimbatore. In Erode, the cases shot up to 166, from 140 on Wednesday, while Thanjavur had 102 cases after its daily tally dipped to 78 the previous day. In Tiruchi, fresh cases rose from 55 to 70. A total of 1,57,074 samples were tested. “The number of samples has been increased to ensure that cases don’t slip up. In districts where there has been an increase, tests of contacts and extended contacts returning positive is also a reason. But it is mainly a pointer and a warning to people, as many are seeing the overall decrease compared with the peak in May as if COVID-19 has completely gone,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. He said people were being casual, not wearing masks and taking physical distancing lightly. “Disease surveillance has been tightened in all districts, particularly those bordering Kerala and Andhra Pradesh in the light of higher positivity rates,” he said. He added that renewed efforts in information, education and communication were being made with the Chief Minister’s campaign this weekend. “We are also following up on expediting vaccinations and focusing on vulnerable groups, depending on availability,” he said. With another 2,145 people discharged after treatment, the total figure touched 25,00,434. Active cases stood at 21,207. The State recorded 28 deaths, taking the toll to 34,023. There were three deaths each in Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruppur, and two each in Cuddalore, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi. Chennai saw a single fatality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-rise-marginally-to-1859/article35618695.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic puts the brakes on organ transplants in T.N.||The COVID-19 pandemic has slowed down organ transplants in Tamil Nadu. Though a few hospitals continued to perform living donor kidney and liver transplants throughout the pandemic, some of the major hospitals — especially in the government sector — had to push back transplantations after being flooded with COVID-19 cases. Though resumption of services is on the cards, the pandemic has brought along a set of challenges for transplant teams. Patient safety is a key priority. Officials said the deceased donor transplant programme was slowly picking up. “Soon after the lockdown in March last year, the programme came to a standstill in April for want of protocols. Transplant services resumed in May after protocols were drafted but there were fewer donors owing to the lockdown...,” an official said. Last year, there were 55 deceased donors. So far this year, there have been 28. While a total of 236 organs were utilised last year, 133 organs were utilised this year, according to data from the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu. Utilisation rate Though there were fewer donors, officials said the organ utilisation rate was “good”. “Kidney utilisation during April 2020-March 2021 was 84%. The remaining 16% could not be utilised owing to the medical conditions of the donor kidneys. During the same period, 90% of the livers were utilised. The remaining 10% were not utilised owing to their being fatty and other medical conditions,” the official said. As many as 500 living donor kidney transplants and 222 liver transplants were performed from January to December 2020. This year, 394 living donor renal transplants were performed during the period from January to June. During the same period, 191 living donor liver transplants were done. The challenges are numerous, transplant surgeons said. A surgeon in the government sector said they did very few living donor transplants in 2020 and so far this year, with COVID-19 disrupting the services. Cadaver transplants were almost nil. In some instances, patients did not opt for transplants knowing the risks involved in a pandemic situation. “Some patients suffering from chronic kidney diseases preferred to continue on dialysis rather than take the risk and develop COVID-19 as there is a high chance of contracting the infection in the post-operative period,” the official said. After the entire medical services were focused on COVID-19 care for over a year now, some hospitals in the city are planning to re-start the transplant programmes soon. “We are planning to resume them next week. But there are huge challenges and we cannot afford to do it in a hurry. Patients who undergo organ transplants are on immunosuppressant drugs — high dosage especially in the first few months — to prevent rejection. In such circumstances, if they contract COVID-19, we will be forced to reduce the immunosuppressants that will result in organ rejection,” said N. Gopalakrishnan, director, Institute of Nephrology, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Total vaccination While patients are managing with dialysis, the emphasis is on getting them fully vaccinated. “We are telling patients coming to the outpatient departments and on dialysis to get vaccinated at the earliest. It is ideal that they receive both doses before going in for transplant,” he said. While the conflict of immunological challenges and COVID-19 challenges remain, there is another fear factor. “Transplant recipients who contract COVID-19 face yet another challenge — mucormycosis — which would warrant withdrawal/down- titration of immunosuppressives,” Mr. Gopalakrishnan added. Raja Mahesh, nephrologist and transplant surgeon, Apollo Hospitals, said the hospital opted not to go ahead with transplants because if patients on immunosuppresants were infected with COVID-19, the outcome was not good. He added that patients with chronic kidney diseases could sustain life on dialysis, and required transplants for better quality of life. “We did one or two transplants for patients who could not be managed on dialysis,” he said. “The overall number of deceased donor transplants has come down. We did a few living donor renal transplants between the two waves. It started to pick up slowly but we had to stop owing to the rise in infections in the second wave,” he said. Except for emergencies, patients were asked not to come for routine hospital visits and were managed by and large over the phone. “There are a lot of issues. We avoided admitting patients in hospitals as the risk of contracting infection within any hospital set-up is high,” he said. The wait-list has built up in the last one-and-a-half years, he said, adding that Apollo Hospitals was planning to re-start transplant services soon.  Patients who undergo organ transplants are on immunosuppressant drugs to prevent rejection. In such circumstances, if they contract COVID-19, we will be forced to reduce them N. Gopalakrishnan Director, Institute of Nephrology, RGGGH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-puts-the-brakes-on-organ-transplants-in-tn/article35618693.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMU moves HC challenging new criteria for recognition of trade unions||The Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU) has filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court challenging two provisions of the Industrial Relations Code, 2020 since they introduce new criteria for recognising trade unions. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ordered notices to the Centre as well as the Railway Board and made it clear that they should file their counter affidavits before the matter gets listed on September 8. Appearing on behalf of SRMU, senior counsel A.L. Somayaji urged the court to strike down Sections 14(3) and 14(4) of the Industrial Relations Code on the ground that the new criteria for recognition of trade unions were impossible to comply with. According to the new criteria, if there were more than one union in an establishment, the method of selecting the recognised union would be by secret ballot and the union securing 51% or above of the total strength of the workmen present on the muster roll of the organization alone would be considered as the recognised union. Stating such criteria was difficult to achieve and it was an impracticable guideline, the senior counsel said 100% polling could not be ensured even in the democratic elections of the country, right from the stage of corporation councillor to the President. In an affidavit filed through its counsel on record C.K. Chandrasekar, SRMU, said if a union was expected to achieve 51% of the total strength of the muster roll in the polling exercise and assuming if there was only 51% polling in an election, then a union expecting recognition must achieve the impossible fete of securing 100% of the polled votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmu-moves-hc-challenging-new-criteria-for-recognition-of-trade-unions/article35618821.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT slaps Rs. 2 crore fine for damage to Sita river in Udupi||The southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has slapped a fine of over Rs. 2 crore on the Public Works Department; the Ports and Fisheries Department, Udupi; and the Minor Irrigation Department, Udupi, as “environment compensation for damage caused to the the riverine ecology of the Sita river” in Karnataka’s Udupi district. The case relates to a proposal to expand the existing jetty at Kodikanyam village, and dredging a 3.12 km stretch from the mouth of the Hangarkatte river to the Kodikanyam jetty through a contractor, Yojaka India Private Limited. A joint committee appointed by the NGT found that the Ports and Fisheries authorities undertook dredging work without obtaining any clearances, including from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, and the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) authorities. The dredged materials were dumped on the western side corner of the river, beside the road, in violation of the CRZ Notification, 2011, and about 5.9 acres of river portion was reclaimed. The Department of Minor Irrigation constructed bunds and roads on the reclaimed land to prevent the dredged materials from getting washed away by tidal effect. “This area of the river is found to be rich in natural mangroves and prawn breeding area (ecologically sensitive). Natural mangroves seem to have been destroyed during filling up of the river. Also, the authorities have caused damage to the river flow in violation of CRZ Notification 2011,” the committee had submitted. The committee also submitted that the Minor Irrigation Department was responsible for changing the course of the river, damaging the mangroves and fish breeding grounds, and causing the area to flood more. The committee noted that the Karnataka State Coastal Zone Management Authority had considered these clear violations and filed criminal cases against the violators. “It is clear from the report that there were violations committed by the Public Works Department, Port and Fisheries Department, Udupi and Minor Irrigation Department, Udupi. They are jointly and seriously liable to pay this amount,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-slaps-rs-2-crore-fine-for-damage-to-sita-river-in-udupi/article35618551.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancer Institute, IIT-M to develop diagnostic kit for ovarian cancer||Cancer Institute, Adyar (WIA) and the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras are joining hands to develop a kit for early diagnosis of ovarian cancer. The aim is to develop a cost-effective, point-of-care device that will use only a blood sample and can be deployed for outpatient diagnosis. Cancer Institute had been involved in a research project to identify early biomarkers for ovarian cancer, a lethal but silent killer which occurs without symptoms. Once diagnosed only 25% survive, said T. Rajkumar, head, Department of Molecular Oncology. The researchers studied the blood samples of women with ovarian cancers. With funds from the Department of Science and Technology, the institute studied 138 ovarian cancer patients, 20 patients with benign ovarian cancers and 238 healthy patients, as the control group. The study used high-end proteomics to identify proteins that were expressed differentially in the epithelial ovarian cancers that account for over 90% of all ovarian cancers. The Institute has filed for a patent and published its findings in theJournal of Proteomics. “The collaboration with IIT-Madras will help develop a single point-of-care device instead of doing five ELISA reactions. This can help in faster and cheaper early diagnosis. This is not for screening purposes,” Dr. Rajkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-institute-iit-m-to-develop-diagnostic-kit-for-ovarian-cancer/article35618672.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scarless robotic liver donor surgery scheme launched||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday inaugurated the scarless robotic liver donor surgery scheme, to be performed under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, at Rela Hospital, a press release said. The Chief Minister said his government was committed to providing quality healthcare at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels at affordable costs. The Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme will benefit the poor, and will help motivate people to donate part of their liver to family members as the scars this procedure leaves behind are negligible and the donation can save lives. Mohamed Rela, chairman and managing director of the hospital, said, “The present government under the able leadership of M.K. Stalin has been working amazingly in containing the pandemic, and also planning for minimising the next wave. Including scarless robotic liver donor surgery under the Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme is to make healthcare facilities widely accessible to the public, which is the vision of Rela Hospital.” He thanked the Chief Minister and said the procedure would ensure a shorter recovery time as well. J. Sri Nisha, chairperson, also participated.  Including the procedure under the Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme is to make healthcare facilities accessible to the public Mohamed Rela Chairman, Rela Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scarless-robotic-liver-donor-surgery-scheme-launched/article35618657.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of slurry in Cooum continues||Residents of Nerkundram and Mogappair complain that a portion of Cooum river in their localities is often an easy target for the discharge of slurry from construction sites. While efforts to restore the stretch of the river from Paruthipattu are under way, residents charge that the pollution has not stopped. L. Prasad, a resident of Mogappair, said lorries released slurry from the bridge connecting Nerkundram and Golden George Nagar along Poonamallee High Road. Heavy vehicles dumped slush daily despite police presence on the arterial road, including near Arumbakkam. This often led to the obstruction of water flow in the river up to Thiruverkadu, he said. Residents alleged that lorries disposed slurry from pile foundations in the construction site of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board near Arumbakkam. Members of the Golden George Residents’ Welfare Association said scrap was dumped along the riverbank near George Ratnam Road. Debris dumped by commercial firms also occupied nearly 300 m along the riverbanks. Police complaints Stating that they have lodged police complaints, the residents said they expected the State government to allot a separate spot to dump slurry. Previously, Metrowater had initiated measures to prevent sewage release by lorries into the Cooum and registered police complaints against offenders. Officials said measures would be taken to follow up on the residents’ complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-slurry-in-cooum-continues/article35618666.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No concessions for marriage hall owners, says High Court||The Madras High Court on Thursday held that those owning valuable properties such as marriage halls in Chennai did not deserve any concession in payments water or sewerage charges by citing the COVID-19 lockdown. Justice S.M. Subramaniam held so while dismissing a writ petition filed by the Chennai Kalyana Mandapam Owners’ Association, which complained about water and sewerage charges being demanded from its members based on new rental values. A counsel representing the petitioner association said the new rental value was yet to be finalised, and hence it was not fair on the part of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board to demand charges based on such inconclusive values. He said marriage halls had lost business due to successive lockdowns, and hence, members of the petitioner association were not in a healthy financial position to honour such huge demands towards water and sewerage charges. Disagreeing with the petitioner association, the judge said the closure of marriage halls due to COVID-19 was only a temporary curb, which otherwise charge “exorbitant” amounts of money for renting out the halls. “Members of your association are wealthy enough to own marriage halls. How can you be equated with the poor who have lost their livelihood?,” the judge said. Later, he dismissed the case with an observation that the CMWSSB was bound to collect water and sewerage charges from the members of the petitioner association promptly and without showing any leniency. The judge also told Greater Chennai Corporation counsel Vaitheeswari to ensure that property tax too is collected promptly.  It is only with the tax money that you pay that the government and the Corporation can provide free vaccines to the poor Justice S.M. Subramaniam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-concessions-for-marriage-hall-owners-says-high-court/article35618660.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM tells PM to remove cap on Centre’s share in PMFBY||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to take necessary action urgently to remove the cap on the Centre’s share in premium subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), and revert to the 49:49:2 ratio premium share for the welfare of the farming community. Its financial implications on Tamil Nadu were causing a lot of concern, he said. Though the pattern of sharing in 2016-17 was 49:49:2 (i.e., Central, State and farmer’s share respectively), the Central share had been capped at 25% for irrigated area and 30% for rain-fed area, leading to a large increase in the State’s share in premium subsidy by 12% (totally 61%), he said in the letter. A copy of the communication was shared with the media. “In money value, the State’s share in the premium subsidy, which was only Rs. 566 crore in 2016-17, has increased by 239% to Rs. 1,918 crore during 2020-21, after the capping of the Central share in premium subsidy. This further increased to Rs. 2,500 crore during 2021-22 due to exorbitant actuarial premium rates (APR) quoted by insurance companies empanelled by the Government of India. Thus, the financial implications on the State are causing a lot of concern,” Mr. Stalin said. Though it was launched with a noble intention of mitigating economic losses of farmers at the time of natural calamities, PMFBY has become a heavy liability to the States over the years. The intention of capping the subsidy to bring down APRs has not happened in reality, as the insurance companies are continuing to quote exorbitant APRs, citing reasons like high loss ratio, inadequate financial capacity and lack of support from reinsurers, the Chief Minister said. “The States are coerced to tweak the existing guidelines and adopt new co-insurance models, increasing risks to the States. Otherwise the insurance companies refrain from bidding. As the State is already reeling under a severe financial crunch due to the pandemic, the onus of bearing a huge State share in the premium subsidy under PMFBY is unaffordable,” Mr. Stalin said. The capping of the Centre’s share in the premium subsidy, no doubt, has been a “major detrimental factor” for the implementation of PMFBY, he said. Mr. Stalin said the State’s share in premium subsidy had increased at a compound annual growth rate of 28.07% in five years. “This has stymied the very purpose of the scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-tells-pm-to-remove-cap-on-centres-share-in-pmfby/article35618697.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT committee to look into environmental degradation in Thadagam valley||A joint committee formed by the National Green Tribunal Southern Zone will ascertain the extent of environmental degradation at Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district. Taking the case suo motu based on a news report that in Thadagam valley, the entire part of western ghats was affected due to mining and brick kiln units, Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Dr. K. Satyagopal formed the committee to ascertain the real issues. According to the report, there was no regulation and unauthorised brick kilns were coming up overexploiting nature and the authorities were not taking proper steps despite the issue brought to their notice. On going through the report, the NGT felt it appropriate to appoint a joint committee comprising Coimbatore District Collector, a senior officer from Tamil Nadu State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, a senior officer from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and one from Department of Geology and Mining to inspect the area in question and submit a factual as well as action taken report of violations found. The committee would consider if the brick kilns have environmental clearances, obtained necessary permissions from the Mining Department and the process of regulation, and also find out if there was any excessive mining. The committee would also find out if there has been damage to any of the water bodies in the area and has mining affected them and the depletion of groundwater tables. Nodal agency The Mining Department would be the nodal agency for co-ordination and also for providing necessary logistics for the purpose. Filing a status report before the NGT, the Coimbatore District Collector had asked the departments concerned to appoint the committee members who will conduct a field inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-committee-to-look-into-environmental-degradation-in-thadagam-valley/article35618699.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drive to rescue mentally ill homeless persons||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Thursday launched a drive, along with the Health and Family Welfare Department, to rescue and rehabilitate mentally ill homeless persons in the city. The Corporation and the National Health Mission have opened an emergency care and recovery centre with 50 beds, where persons with mental illness can be treated. It was inaugurated at the Communicable Diseases Hospital at Tondiarpet. Six buses were flagged off, two each for the north, south and central zones. Two rescue teams of shelter coordinators and a psychiatrist travelled to the areas earmarked in each zone. Persons who were rescued were taken to a school in each zone, where RT-PCR tests were carried out. They would be taken to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital if they tested positive for COVID-19, and if not, to the emergency care and recovery centre. Ahead of this drive, however, activists raised concerns about rounding them up and argued that it was not an effective method of psycho-social rehabilitation. Archana Sekar, a city-based activist, said in a representation to the Corporation that such drives were a violation of constitutional rights and the rights guaranteed to them by the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. She called for a plan which was more subjective, sustainable, sensitive and prompt. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi clarified that all the stakeholders were particular that any homeless person, including those with mental illness, should be treated with respect and care. “The National Health Mission and the Health Department are very particular that nobody should be picked up forcibly or without their consent.” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, too, said the volunteers were instructed not to forcibly round up anyone. “I accompanied a rescue team today and we rescued two mentally ill persons. We spoke to them, found out what they needed and then proceeded to bring them in,” he said. The Minister said there were plans to extend this drive across the State, and the Health Department would engage with organisations working with the homeless and mentally ill to get their inputs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-to-rescue-mentally-ill-homeless-persons/article35618676.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister orders removal of HR&CE nameboard sans the word ‘Hindu’||An official nameboard installed at the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department in Kanniyakumari district without the word “Hindu” was removed on the directions of the Minister on Wednesday. The board with just the words “Charitable Endowments Department” was placed at the office of the Superintendent of the Department in Nagercoil. The photo of the nameboard was shared widely on social media. “I ordered the removal of the board. Officials have been asked to issue a memo to the Superintendent,” said HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-orders-removal-of-hrce-nameboard-sans-the-word-hindu/article35618678.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shashi Tharoor accuses BJP of practising a malignant form of nationalism||There is a rise of majoritarianism under the BJP rule, speakers at a panel discussion on religious nationalism and majoritarian democracy said. The virtual discussion was organised by the Dravidian Professionals Forum. “There is a malignant form of nationalism being practised by the BJP. Mr. Narendra Modi [the Prime Minister] did not govern on what he campaigned in 2014 but ruled based on exclusionary practices. After 2019, they have taken the licence to be far more majoritarian, far more direct in imposing their view of Hindutva...,” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said. He said the government had turned Parliament into a notice board, one that is not interested in debate and accountability. He said there was also a view that if the BJP felt that it would not win the 2024 election, it might move fast to increase the number of seats in Parliament, reapportioning a larger number of seats to the Hindi-heartland States, and even amend the Constitution. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, DMK MLA and Finance Minister, said fake news media had very little outcomes in Tamil Nadu, compared with other parts of the country, and it was the right-wing upper caste, upper economic strata not connected to the daily economic activity, thinking that they were warriors of the Hindutva brigade, who were influenced by the right wing propaganda. “Even as they [the BJP] think that they are controlling the media, it just doesn’t work especially in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, definitely did not work in West Bengal.” Christophe Jaffrelot, research director, Sciences PO, said there was a decline in checks and balances, and this was evident from the manner in which officials were appointed to such agencies as the Election Commission, the RBI, the CBI and the NIA. He said these were friends of the government. He questioned the manner in which the Supreme Court functioned since 2017 till recently, not questioning the government on any issue. “The Pegasus revelations can reveal the blackmailing of this domain,” he said. If the judiciary was not questioning the government, it was not good for democracy. He said there was a rise of electoral authoritarianism, something coming from the legitimacy provided by elections.  After 2019, they [the BJP] have taken the licence to be far more majoritarian, far more direct in imposing their view of Hindutva Shashi Tharoor Congress MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shashi-tharoor-accuses-bjp-of-practising-a-malignant-form-of-nationalism/article35618686.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation to start mass movement for planting trees||The Greater Chennai Corporation held a meeting with 200 residents’ welfare associations to kickstart a tree plantation programme. The civic body has finalised a list of species for arterial roads, waterbodies, interior roads, coastal sandy areas and traffic islands. The saplings will be procured from three government nurseries, including the State Horticulture Farm in Madhavaram, the Forest Extension office in Medavakkam and the Forest Range Office in Anna Nagar, and private nurseries in Kanathur, Uthandi, Akkarai and Panaiyur along East Coast Road and other areas, such as Dindigul. The movement will focus on native tree planting on government land and private land in each area. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has ordered all zonal officers and Regional Deputy Commissioners to meet residents’ welfare associations from 12.30 p.m. to 1.30 p.m. every working day to facilitate tree planting and initiate projects for beautification.  The Corporation launched another initiative to vaccinate persons at private hospitals free of cost with funding support from residents. In a tweet, the Corporation said: “CitizensParticipation is core to success of any governmental intervention! Shobhana Hosangady, a resident of Mylapore made a donation towards a vaccination drive for auto drivers, newspaper & vegetable vendors. The drive was organised by #GCC in association with Apollo Hospitals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-corporation-to-start-mass-movement-for-planting-trees/article35618670.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Refund deposits to public’||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the police has directed Rafoll Retails (OPC) Pvt. Ltd., Eggmart, to refund deposits collected from the public. The firm had collected deposits from the public under three schemes. It claimed that for an investment of Rs. 700 per year, Rs. 1,400 per year and Rs. 2,800 per year, they would supply 6 eggs, 12 eggs and 24 eggs each week respectively. The EOW, in an official release on Thursday, said it had summoned Sivam Narendran, founder of the firm, for inquiry during which it came to light that the company did not possess any licence for getting deposits from the public. Hence, the firm was directed to refund the deposits and also to freeze its online account so as to not accept further deposits from gullible public, said the EOW in its press release. The agency cautioned the general public against falling for schemes soliciting deposits by making exaggerated claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refund-deposits-to-public/article35618673.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases against media houses to be withdrawn||The DMK government on Thursday issued orders to withdraw 93 cases of defamation registered against editors, printers and publishers of print and electronic media houses by the previous AIADMK regime, from 2012 to February 2021. An official release said the order was issued by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin as per an announcement made on the floor of the Assembly last month. This was also one of the promises made in the DMK’s Assembly election manifesto. The cases were registered against the editors of Nakkeeran (23 cases), Murasoli (17), Dinamalar (12), Junior Vikatan (11), Ananda Vikatan (nine), The Times of India (five), Dinakaran (four), The Hindu (four) and The Economic Times (one). One case each was also registered against seven television news channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-against-media-houses-to-be-withdrawn/article35618684.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Robotic cardiac surgery could be norm in future’||Though the pros of robotic cardiac surgery outweigh the cons, the long training curve made it difficult for surgeons to readily take up the procedure, said M.M. Yusuf, robotic cardiac surgeon at Apollo Hospital, Chennai, at The Hindu Wellness webinar on Thursday. He said said awareness about the use of robots in cardiac surgery was low despite its advantages. Tracing the evolution of cardiac surgeries, Dr. Yusuf, one of the very few trained in the procedure, said both the patient and surgeon benefited from it. Since open heart surgeries necessitate cutting open the sternum, the patient needed three months of rest for the bone to heal. The patient’s immunity is also compromised due to the surgery, and they lose a lot of blood. In contrast, robotic cardiac surgery is not only minimally invasive, but also helps patients return to normal life within two weeks. Since only small incisions are made, the question of blood loss is ruled out. However, the surgical procedure is the same. Only a handful of centres across the world perform the procedure owing to the long training curve, Dr. Yusuf said. He had to wait three years to be accepted for training. He took a year off to train after learning to perform open heart surgeries, he recalled. “We started off by treating single valve disease, but now we are able to treat double and triple vessel diseases. The robot is guided by the surgeon. The procedure is the same as in open heart surgery but there is a huge improvement in its outcome,” he said. Fielding questions about the cost, Dr. Yusuf said the cost for an open heart procedure was Rs. 3- Rs. 3.5 lakh, but for the robotic procedure it was roughly Rs. 7 lakh. “The economic benefits are huge for the patient, studies abroad have shown. We are also in the process of conducting a study which will be published in a couple months,” he added. Immediate safety and long term outcome for the patient are the factors that are assessed while offering the procedure, Dr Yusuf said, adding: “If even one of these two is not fulfilled the procedure is not offered.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-regarding-robotic-cardiac-surgery-still-very-low/article35618668.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OBC quota: victory for T.N., DMK, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday said the Union government’s decision to provide 27% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota (AIQ) seats in medical courses was a “victory for Tamil Nadu and especially for the struggle of the DMK for social justice”. However, he reiterated the DMK’s demand for reserving 69% seats, including 50% for the OBCs. “The DMK will continue to take steps until social justice is completely realised,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. The Chief Minister said the Mandal Commission’s recommendations had not been entirely implemented even 25 years after they came into effect. “The Union government’s decision today [July 29] is a consolation. This is a significant move in the history of social justice,” he said. Meeting with PM Mr. Stalin recalled that the DMK had pitched for OBC reservation in AIQ seats in both Houses of Parliament, and he had personally insisted upon the demand during his meeting with the Prime Minister after assuming office as the Chief Minister. “It was on a plea moved by the DMK that the Madras High Court on July 27, 2020, delivered a historic judgment saying that students from OBCs had the right for reservation in AIQ seats in medical education,” the Chief Minister said. Over the years, more than 10,000 students have lost their right to benefit from the non-implementation of the reservation in this quota by the Union government, he said, adding that students from Tamil Nadu were the worst affected. Citing the Union government’s announcement that over 1,500 MBBS seats and 2,500 postgraduate medical seats would be earmarked for OBCs in AIQ, Mr. Stalin said, “The DMK has ensured that about 4,000 students from OBCs benefited from its struggle for social justice.” ‘State’s victory’ Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader Anbumani Ramadoss, too, welcomed the Union government’s announcement, and termed it a victory for Tamil Nadu. In a statement, he said the PMK and all other parties in the State had pursued the issue legally, and it was a big victory for all of them too. Mr. Anbumani, however, said the PMK’s stand was that the AIQ should be abolished, and States should fill the seats. He assured the people that the party would take steps to achieve the goal.  The Union government’s decision today [July 29] is a consolation. This is a significant move in the history of social justice M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/obc-quota-victory-for-tn-dmk-says-stalin/article35618689.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ESIC told to refund amount collected from TEXCO||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has been directed to refund about Rs. 35.82 lakh deducted as contribution from Tamil Nadu Ex-Servicemen’s Corporation (TEXCO), a government undertaking formed with an objective to provide jobs to ex-servicemen. In its petition before the Employees’ Insurance Court (Principal Labour Court), TEXCO said since its inception in 1986, the government granted it an exemption from the purview of the ESI Act and an order was issued periodically up to August 31, 2007. It also pointed out that for the period from September 2007 to July 2008 there was a delay in getting the exemption from the government and alleged that by taking advantage of it, the ESIC had issued a demand notice and subsequently recovered the said amount by way of Garnishee proceedings in 2010. ESIC denied the allegations and also argued that an order issued subsequently granting the exemption for the said period had listed some conditions and one of them was contribution for the exempted period shall not be refunded. However, the Labour Court did not order any interest payment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/esic-told-to-refund-amount-collected-from-texco/article35619181.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not delay cancer treatment: doctors||Patients with cancer should get the COVID-19 vaccine after consulting their oncologists, said doctors at The Hindu’s Wellness webinar, and also emphasised the need to not delay treatment any longer than necessary. The webinar, titled ‘Cancer Care During the Pandemic’, presented by Kauvery Hospital, had as panellists A.N. Vaidhyswaran, director and senior consultant radiation oncologist, Kauvery Hospital, Chennai; B. Anis, consultant surgical oncologist, Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi, and Arvind Krishnamurthy, professor and head of surgical oncology, Cancer Institute (WIA), Adyar. Protocol Speaking about how cancer care was handled during the pandemic, Dr. Vaidhyswaran explained that the hospital put in place a protocol that took into account patient and staff safety. Staggering of patients, using telemedicine and shortening of treatment time wherever possible were some of the measures put in place, he said. Dr. Anis spoke about the challenges faced in continuing cancer care during the first wave of the pandemic and its impact on patients, such as the suspension of screening programmes. “We should encourage cancer patients and their family members to get the vaccine,” he said, and stressed the need to maintain a healthy lifestyle. ‘Delays indicated higher risks’ Addressing the issue of treatment, Dr. Krishnamurthy said evidence indicated that delays led to higher risks. “If any person in the community has shown certain symptoms of cancer, do not hesitate to go to your doctor or the hospital,” Dr. Krishnamurthy said. Queries on measures to be taken in cases of a cancer patient and a COVID-19 patient in the same home, the benefits of yoga for cancer patients, and the need for community screening programmes were among those addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-delay-cancer-treatment-say-doctors/article35618662.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Form expert panel on Mekedatu: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday condemned Karnataka’s Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s remarks on going ahead with the Mekedatu dam plan and urged the Tamil Nadu government to form a panel, headed by a water resources expert, to deal with the issue. In a statement, he alleged that the new Chief Minister, instead of looking to strengthen the relationship with Tamil Nadu, was engaged in destructive activities. “Consecutive Chief Ministers of Karnataka have been firm in constructing the dam and the Tamil Nadu government must be vigilant,” Dr. Ramadoss said, while calling for the formation of an expert committee similar to that of the Cauvery Technical Cell. He also said that while it was a welcome move by the DMK government to form a separate Department for Water Resources Management, it is looked after by the PWD Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-expert-panel-on-mekedatu-ramadoss/article35619094.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers of govt., aided schools to return on Aug. 2||Teachers of government and aided schools across the State have been asked to start coming back to school from August 2. In a circular, the School Education Commissioner and the Director of Elementary Education asked District Educational Officers and Chief Educational Officers to ensure that all safety norms laid down by the State government for the prevention of COVID-19 are followed by school heads and teachers. Staff members who are cancer patients, have heart issues, are highly diabetic, disabled, or are undergoing treatment from COVID-19 can be granted exemption from coming to school by the CEOs or DEOs, provided that they submit the necessary medical documents pertaining to their health conditions, the circular said. Currently, teachers have been visiting schools in smaller batches to help with admission work, distribution of free textbooks, preparation of assignments to be sent to students based on video lessons telecast on Kalvi TV and to ensure the maintenance of classrooms and the school premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-of-govt-aided-schools-to-return-on-aug-2/article35618691.ece
30 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||All demands of police personnel will be fulfilled soon: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday said all aspirations and demands of police personnel would be fulfilled soon. He was speaking at the passing-out parade of Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) trainees at the Tamil Nadu Police Academy, Oonamanchery. Recalling the measures taken by the previous DMK governments for police welfare and the modernisation of the force, he said former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had constituted police commissions in 1969, 1989 and 2006, and introduced the Anna Medal for Gallantry. Karunanidhi had penned a drama, called ‘Udaya Suryan’, which highlighted the grievances of police personnel, and it was banned by the then Congress government. Mr. Stalin also laid the foundation for the construction of an integrated cybercrime centre at a cost of Rs. 10.28 crore. He said that cybercrimes had increased and become serious offences. Sexual offenders and financial fraudsters were increasingly using the latest technologies, and the police should have modern tools to detect and prevent such offences. “The U.S. and England are using the latest technologies and protocols to prevent cybercrimes. We should also keep ourselves abreast of these technologies. The government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has declared that it will make the country free of cybercrimes by 2030. The Tamil Nadu police should know what kind of technology they are going to adopt,” Mr. Stalin said. On completion of one-year institutional training, 86 DSP trainees, including 40 women, passed out. Mr. Stalin congratulated the medal winners who had excelled in the training and presented the ‘DGP Sword’ to the ‘All Round Best Cadet’. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, and other officers were present. Of the 86 trainees, three are dentists, 57 are engineering graduates, five are agriculture graduates, seven are postgraduates and 11 are graduates of other streams.  Karunanidhi had constituted police commissions in 1969, 1989 and 2006, and introduced the Anna Medal for Gallantry M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-meet-all-aspirations-of-police-personnel-soon-stalin/article35618675.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police crack down on drug peddlers||In the past two weeks, the police have arrested nine drug peddlers, who allegedly sold psychotropic tablets to juveniles in north Chennai, especially Washermenpet. Over 20,000 nitrazepam and tapentadol tablets, along with marijuana, were recovered from them. While nitrazepam is used to treat anxiety disorder and insomnia, tapentadol is an opioid pain medication. The police began investigations after a video of juveniles using psychotropic drugs in a particular area in Washermenpet surfaced. They arrested five accused, including Shannu alias Abdul Hameed, 22, of Washermenpet. The investigation continued, and a special team nabbed four more accused, including Rithesh Kumar, 38, a native of Kerala, at a burial ground in Moolakothalam. R. Shiva Prasad, Deputy Commissioner, Washermenpet, said, “Investigations are on. We have details of buyers and will crack down on them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-crack-down-on-drug-peddlers/article35618658.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veterinarians protest, ask for govt. postings||Veterinary graduates staged a protest near Valluvar Kottam on Thursday, asking the government to expedite appointment orders for those who cleared the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) exam. The protesters demanded that they be posted in existing vacancies. The candidates said in 2020, the government conducted an exam through the TNPSC, and the results were declared. However, they had not received their posting orders yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veterinarians-protest-ask-for-govt-postings/article35618659.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for contract posts||Applications are invited for positions on a temporary, contract basis for six months at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children. These posts will not be filled on a permanent basis. Eligible applicants can send in their resumes by post to the Director of Social Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, Chepauk, Chennai -05.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-contract-posts/article35618680.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postal insurance agents to be engaged||The Department of Posts has called for applications to engage direct agents for sale of postal life insurance products. A walk-in interview will be conducted at the Ashok Nagar post office at 11 a.m. on August 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-insurance-agents-to-be-engaged/article35618679.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Open University declares results||Around 97.62% of students who appeared for the online end-semester exams of the Tamil Nadu Open University have passed. Candidates can visit the University websitewww.tnou.ac.into download the results and apply for revaluation and retotalling. The University said it will despatch the printed certificates shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-open-university-declares-results/article35618681.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor distributes awards to doctors||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday distributed the Tamil Nadu Medical Council Awards to 31 doctors for their exemplary services during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Raj Bhavan release said the Governor hailed doctors for working round-the clock to save lives since the onset of the pandemic. In the process, many had succumbed to the virus, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-distributes-awards-to-doctors/article35618683.ece
30 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation plans 100 Miyawaki forests across city||Coimbatore Corporation has drawn an ambitious plan to improve the city’s green cover by going in for Miyawaki urban forests across the city. Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara told The Hindu the civic body had planned Miyawaki forests at 100 places – all reserved sites – in the five zones. The Corporation had invited non-government organisations, corporate companies and industries based out of Coimbatore, industry associations and residents’ welfare associations to join hands with it to raise the Miyawaki forests. The Corporation was ready to sign an MoU with the associations or organisations or companies coming forward to raise the forests and had prepared a draft agreement. The civic body would play the role of a facilitator. As a pilot initiative, the Corporation and Environmentalist Foundation of India had selected two reserved sites – Maharani Avenue, Veerakeralam and Jothi Garden, Pongaliyur, near Vadavalli – to develop the urban forests. At other sites, after the associations or other agencies come forward, the Corporation would look at sinking borewells to provide access to water, Mr. Sunkara said and added that the Corporation wanted to replicate the success the Greater Chennai Corporation had had in the metropolis. The Corporation was also looking to improve the upkeep of the parks. It had deployed its conservancy workers to clean the parks, which were out of bounds for the public until recently due to the COVID-19 lockdown restriction. It had cleaned a few parks and would complete cleaning all the 100-plus parks in the coming days. Thereafter, the Corporation would float tenders for the maintenance of the parks. The contracts for maintenance of parks had expired a year ago or were under extension due to the COVID-19 lockdown. But before floating the tenders, engineers had been asked to list all the parks and classify them type-wise, the Commissioner said. Bigger parks like the V.O.C. Park, Bharathi Park or Gandhi Park would come under category ‘A’, medium-sized parks under type ‘B’ and the small parks under group ‘C’. For each of the classifications, the Corporation would adopt a unique approach for maintenance. The civic body was even open to letting the residents’ welfare associations or local companies take care of the maintenance of the local parks or group of green spaces. For the bigger parks, which required a professional approach to maintenance, the Corporation would have to go to contractors, he further said. While floating the tenders, the Corporation would also include penalty clause and looking at enforcing the penalty clauses in case of dereliction, something that the Corporation had not done thus far, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-plans-100-miyawaki-forests-across-city/article35618720.ece
30 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Podanur S&T workshop receives five IMS certifications||The Signal and Telecommunications Workshop of the Southern Railway in Podanur recently received five certifications under the Integrated Management Systems (IMS), becoming the only railway workshop in India to have received the five IMS certifications. A press release issued here said that the five certifications were Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015), Environment Management System (ISO 14001:2015), Occupational Health and Safety Management System (ISO 45001:2018), Energy Management System (ISO 500001:2018) and Food Safety Management System (ISO 22000:2018). An Integrated Management System combines all aspects of an organisation's systems, processes and standards into one system and allows a business to streamline its management and increase efficiency, the release said. Forum The certifications were issued by LMS Certification, a forum that comes under the International Accreditation Service and also a member of International Accreditation Forum (IAF). Having functioned at Podanur since 1958, the S&T Workshop of the Southern Railway has “achieved several milestones in the field of modernisation of signalling systems” and has adopted technologies “in ensuring safety of train movements and ensuring optimisation of line capacity,” according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/podanur-st-workshop-receives-five-ims-certifications/article35618702.ece
30 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. places cage to trap monkeys that raid houses for food||The Forest Department has placed a cage in a gated community in Coimbatore to trap monkeys that are raiding houses for food items. According to the Department, several complaints were received from city residents regarding the menace posed by monkeys that mainly steal food through open windows. Assistant Conservator of Forests M. Senthil Kumar said that another cage would be kept in a place that monkeys visited frequently. The Department suspects that more than one troop of bonnet macaques ( Macaca radiata ) are wandering in the city, stealing food from houses and shops. “We placed a trap cage in a gated community on Nanjundapuram Road after residents complained that six simians were creating a menace,” said Mr. Kumar. The Department staff also visited an apartment at Uppilipalayam near Singanallur where residents complained of the problem. Troops of monkeys were sighted earlier in another gated community on Nanjundapuram Road and in an apartment at Race Course. “They move on the sunshade of buildings and look for open windows of kitchens. They grab whatever they can before the inmates notice. “If there are no people, they take all items that they can access through the windows,” said a woman resident of P.N. Palayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-places-cage-to-trap-monkeys-that-raid-houses-for-food/article35618716.ece
30 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA’s son-in-law booked on charges of cheating woman||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore East, has registered a case against the son-in-law of former MLA Kovai Thangam on a complaint from a woman that he duped her of several crores of rupees. The police said that a case was registered against Arun Prakash (41) and two others, Vignesh and Ignesh, based on a complaint lodged by S. Sindhuja (33) of Tex Park Road. The woman, a divorcee who owned a chocolate shop at Nava India, said Prakash was one of her business partners. He lived with her for the last seven years with mutual understanding, said the police. The complainant claimed that she had given more than Rs. 7 crore to Prakash. When she asked him to return Rs. 2 crore, he refused and allegedly threatened her. She claimed that Prakash, along with Vignesh and Ignesh, came to her house on July 12, tore her dress and assaulted her parents. The police registered a case under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 417 (punishment for cheating) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation- if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt, etc) of the Indian Penal Code. The woman had also given a complaint to the Director General of Police claiming that Mr. Thangam and his daughter also issued threats to her. Mr. Thangam told journalists on Thursday that she had dragged his name to tarnish his image. “I have not seen her or talked to her,” claimed Mr. Thangam, who quit the Tamil Maanila Congress and joined the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in March. He said that he had moved the court against the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mlas-son-in-law-booked-on-charges-of-cheating-woman/article35618718.ece
30 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Child workers rescued from workshop||The National Child Labour Project (NCLP), the police, Childline, and the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health on Wednesday rescued children employed at a gas welding workshop here. According to a release, the officials conducted inspection in Karumbukadai area on Wednesday based on a complaint received on Childline number 1098. It was found that two children aged below 14 years and two aged less than 18 years were employed at a gas welding workshop. The rescued children were handed over to the Child Welfare Committee and a notice was served on the employer. A complaint has been registered against the employer. On Thursday, NCLP Project Director T.V. Vijayakumar had discussions with the employer and the parents of the children on the impact of employing children for work. He also took steps to enrol the children rescued in school, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-workers-rescued-from-workshop/article35618707.ece
30 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen||A total of 60 sovereigns of gold jewellery were stolen from a house at Karupparayanpalayam here on Wednesday. The police said P. Arulmani of Ramasamy Nagar at Karupparayanpalayam complained that the jewellery were stolen between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. when she had gone out to give food to her father at his workplace. The Peelamedu police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen/article35618698.ece
30 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two persons surrender||Two persons, who were wanted in a murder case in Kanchipuram, surrendered before a court here on Thursday. The accused have been identified as S. Prabhakaran (30) and K. Satheesh Kumar (23), natives of Pallavarmedu in Kanchipuram. They are among the eight accused booked in connection with the murder, said sources. The duo surrendered before the fifth judicial magistrate court and magistrate A. Abdul Rahman remanded them in judicial custody till August 4. The court ordered to produce them before a Kancheepuram court on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-surrender/article35618703.ece
30 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||LHB coaches for Chennai train||A pair of special trains between Chennai and Coimbatore will have the new Linke-Hofmann-Busch (LHB) coaches from Sunday, Salem Division of Southern Railway said in a release on Thursday. Train No.02675/02676 Chennai Central – Coimbatore – Chennai Central (‘Kovai’) Special Trains will be operated with LHB coaches from August 1. There will be 19 new coaches in total, comprising two AC Chair Cars, 13 Second Class Chair Cars and four General Second Class coaches. “LHB coaches are safer, more efficient, have higher capacity and provide better riding comfort than conventional coaches,” the release said. Train No. 02675 will leave Chennai at 6.10 a.m. and arrive at Coimbatore Junction at 2.05 p.m. and Train No. 02676 will leave Coimbatore at 3.15 p.m. and reach Chennai at 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-chennai-train-to-have-lhb-coaches/article35618701.ece
30 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Essential items via post||The Superintendent of RMS CB Division, Coimbatore, said the Department of Posts would allow sending of COVID-19 essential items such as masks, PPE kits, pulse oximeters and medication via Speed Post, Express Parcel, Business Parcel and Logistics Post. Those wishing to avail themselves of this service shall approach the RMS counters in Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur and Dharmapuri.   Four students training in Sri Ramakrishna Cricket Trust Academy have been selected to participate in the Under-19 Girls Round Robin Cricket Match, which will be organised by the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA). A release said three more students were selected from the academy by TNCA for the training camp of ‘women development squad’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essential-items-via-post/article35618712.ece
30 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No power||June 30 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)   Seeranaikenpalayam, Madhampatti, Periyanaikenpalaym, and Devarayapuram sub-stations:  Seeranaickenpalayam, Pappanaickenpudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatty, Veerakeralam, Telungupalayam, Velandipalayam, Sai Baba Colony, part of Sundapalayam, Selvapuram, Madampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Pooluvampatti, Viraliyur, Narasipuram, Jahir Naicken Palayam, Kaliannanpudur, Puthur, Thennamanallur, Kondaiyampalayam, Thendral Nagar, Periyanaikenpalayam, Naikenpalayam, Kovanur, Gudalur Koundampalayam, Jothipuram, Press Colony, No. 4 Veerapandi, Idigarai, Sengalipalayam, Poochiyur, Narasimhanaikenpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power/article35618714.ece
30 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records two deaths, 68 positive cases||Cuddalore district reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 68 new cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 60,309. A 45-year-old woman and a 74-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 809. The district saw 58,724 recoveries and 697 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 30 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 43,794. Kallakurichi district recorded 49 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 28,969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-two-deaths-68-positive-cases/article35619095.ece
30 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for Chairperson’s post||The Department of Social Defence has called for applications for the filling up of vacancies of Chairperson and members of the Child Welfare Committee here in the district. The appointments of Chairperson and Members in Child Welfare Committee constituted under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act,2015 is undertaken by the Government on an honorarium basis. One of them shall be a woman. The applicants should have been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities pertaining to children for at least 7 years or shall be a practising professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or sociology or human development. The applications shall be forwarded to the District Child Protection Officer, District Child Protection Unit, Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-chairpersons-post/article35618825.ece
30 July 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man murdered in bus stand||An aged man, who was asleep on the pavement at Kamarajar bus stand here, was allegedly murdered by a three-member gang in the early hours of Thursday. The three men forcibly attempted to take the victim’s bag believing there was cash inside. However, the bag contained a toothbrush, mobile phone and some clothes, police said. After the elderly man raised an alarm, the gang members allegedly snatched the bag. After taking out the toothbrush, they hit him on the throat. The seriously injured victim was transported to government hospital, where doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Dindigul North police registered a case.. Later, police nabbed the three men on the same premises based on descriptions given by eye-witnesses. Unaware that the elderly man had died, the youth were roaming in the bus stand, sources said. They were identified as Sathish Kumar, 31, of Pillayarpalayam in Dindigul, Mahesh, 26, of R S Mangalam in Ramanathapuram and Eswarapandian, 30, of Pethanayakanpatti near Palani in Dindigul. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-man-murdered-in-bus-stand/article35618808.ece
30 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Government plans textile university in Erode: Minister||The State government is examining a proposal to establish a textile university in the district, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy said here on Thursday. The Minister, who performed the groundbreaking ceremony for laying new roads to the tune of Rs. 10.63 crore at various parts of Erode corporation limit, said that steps are being taken to establish agriculture college and a law college in the district. The Minister later with District Collector H. Krishnanunni inspected the land identified to construct new bus terminus at Solar. Bus terminus Speaking to reporters, Mr. Muthusamy said that the 54 acres identified for setting up the bus terminus belongs to the corporation and officials are working on a proposal to construct a bus stand utilising 15-20 acres. The existing bus stand would continue to be used as town bus terminus, he said. The Minister said that they are planning to shift the wholesale market and set up a parking area for goods trucks. He said that the turmeric park would be expanded to 15 acres and measures are being taken to bring Texvalley and the excess land available to full use. Steps are also being taken to set up a stadium at Rs. 35 crore, he said. The Minister said that a land was being surveyed at at Modakuruchi to set up a turmeric research centre. He said that measures are being taken to complete the ring road project to reduce traffic congestion and further expansion of the Perundurai Government Medical College and establishing an Auto Nagar at Perundurai. Mr. Muthusamy said that the Whatsapp number launched by the civic body the redress the grievances recently has received 117 petitions till date and action has been taken on 93 petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-plans-textile-university-in-erode/article35618804.ece
30 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Make Kadambur hills separate panchayat union’||Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the district administration to create Kadambur hills as a separate panchayat union so that development activities would be undertaken for the benefit of the people. K. Ramasamy, secretary, CPI, Kadambur block, in an email to the District Collector H. Krishnanunni, said that Guthiyalathur, Koothampalayam and Gundri are the panchayats in the hill. While Guthiyalathur panchayat has over 15,000 electors, both Gundri and Koothampalayam panchayats are located inside the reserve forest lacking road and communication facility. People in Gundri hills have to travel 43 km to reach the Sathyamangalam union office for various works. Also, monitoring the development works in these hill areas from Sathyamangalam is very difficult. The email said that most of them are tribal communities and executing development works for them is not given priority. Recently, State Balanced Growth Fund (SBGF) was allotted to Talavadi panchayat union for carrying out development activities while Kadambur hills, which is also a most backward area, was not allotted funds. “Since Kadambur hills was attached to the Sathyamangalam panchayat union, officials feel Kadambur is a plain area and development works had already taken place, ” the email said. Hence, the email wanted Guthiyalathur panchayat to be divided as four panchayats, Karalayam, Iruttipalayam, Pavalakuttai and Kadambur. The Thingalur panchayat that comes under Talavadi Panchayat Union should be separated and annexed with Kadambur and it should be made as a panchayat union, the email said. The email said that only by creating a new panchayat union with Kadambur as its headquarters, transportation is possible to the most backward regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-kadambur-hills-separate-panchayat-union/article35618826.ece
30 July 2021||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Kelavarapalli dam waters released for irrigation||Kelavarapalli dam was opened for irrigation for a period of 135 days in Hosur on Thursday. The reservoir’s waters will irrigate over 8,000 acres spread over 22 villages in Hosur and Shoolagiri blocks. Kelavarapalli reservoir’s left canal waters will cover 5,918 acres and the right canal will cover 2,082 acres spread over the two blocks and the 22 villages. Thattakanapalli, Moranapalli, Pethakollu, Poothinatham, Thorapalli, Samanapalli, Pettha Muthali, Thiruchipalli, Sennathur, Muthali, Kamathotty, Attakurukki, Attur, Thinnur, Nallakaanakothapalli, Kathirepalli, Subagiri, Marthandapalli, Marasanthiram, Koneripalli, Kothur, and Chinnakollu will benefit from the Kelavarapalli dam in Hosur and Shoolagiri. Acording to the Public Works Department, the water will be released through turn system with a break of five days after 10 day sustained water release and shall continue for the entire 135 day irrigation period. The water distribution envisions 88 cusecs in the left and the right canal of the dam. This would entail 26 cusecs in the right canal and 62 cusecs in the left canal, according to the PWD. Kelavarapalli dam’s storage capacity is 44.28 ft, and as of date, the water level in the dam is 41 ft. Earlier on Thursday, the dam was opened for irrigation by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy in the presence of Hosur MLA Y.Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kelavarapalli-dam-waters-released-for-irrigation/article35618827.ece
30 July 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||One killed in wasp attack||A 46-year-old person with disability was killed and 18 others injured after being stung by wasps at Appipalayam near Chettipalayam in the district on Thursday. The incident occurred when a group of people was working on a watercourse under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. It was said that a swarm of wasps began attacking the workers. Unable to bear the pain, the workers ran for safety. But, Karthick, the person with disability, could not move quickly. He sustained severe injuries. He died on the way to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur. Collector T. Prabu Shankar visited the injured at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-wasp-attack/article35618777.ece
30 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Minister holds meeting with farmers on demands for agriculture budget||The government’s policy is to implement development projects that had public consent and not implement projects that are detrimental to people’s welfare, said Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam here on Thursday. The Minister was responding to a query on the objections raised by the farmers to the GAIL’s Kochi- Koottanad- Bangalore- Mangalore Gas Pipeline (KKBMPL) project pipelines being laid under farmlands, on the sidelines of a public hearing with the farmers over the separate agriculture budget. Earlier, speaking at the meeting, Mr. Panneerselvam said, a separate agriculture budget was an election promise made by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. In preparation of an agriculture budget, the government was seeking out information from the farmers on their needs and demands.  A range of demands including strengthening of farmer producer companies, increasing the number of pulp factories, setting up of a horticulture university, coconut procurement centre, horticulture development and marketing, enabling labour from MNREGS for farm work, remunerative prices for farm produce, increasing subsidy for horticulture and agriculture equipment, and increasing the subsidy for seeds were placed before the Minister. When asked about the proposed allocation for agriculture, Mr. Panneerselvam said, there was a plan to meet the demands but cut down expenditure, because of the deficit of the past. The public hearing with the farmers in Krishnagiri is the fourth in the series of meetings held in various zones starting from Thanjavur, Tiruchi, followed by the meeting in Coimbatore. The meeting in Krishnagiri witnessed farmers of Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Thirupathur participating and placing on record their demands and expectations from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-holds-meeting-with-farmers-on-demands-for-agriculture-budget/article35618797.ece
30 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Expedite creation of new tiger reserve, says forum||Members of Vaigai Nadhi Makkal Iyakkam submitted a petition to the Collector here on Thursday to expedite the work towards creation of Srivilliputhur Meghamalai Tiger Reserve, on the occasion of World Tiger Day, which falls on July 29. Led by its Chief Coordinator M. Rajan, the forum members wore tiger face masks while submitting the petition to the Collector. Mr. Rajan said that Vaigai river was one of the main water sources for five southern districts of the State. Creation of Srivilliputhur Meghamalai Tiger Reserve would help in protecting Vaigai river and its catchment areas. It would also help in the long-term sustenance of people in the southern districts. Also, the tiger reserve would help in maintaining the ecological balance in the area. Hence creation of the tiger reserve must be expedited, said Mr. Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-creation-of-tiger-reserve-says-forum/article35618800.ece
30 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Stan Swamy||Several party functionaries, members of political movements and human rights organisations, participated in an event organised at St. Mary's Higher Secondary School here on Thursday to pay tributes to Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy. The event was organised by Human Rights Defenders Forum. The ashes of Father Stan Swamy arrived from Chennai and Nagercoil as part of the event. The ashes were sent to Sivaganga after the end of the event. Archbishop of Madurai Antony Pappusamy chaired the event. Rev. Father S. Marianathan, Rector, St. Mary's Cathedral, and C. J. Rajan of Human Rights Defenders Forum, also participated. Madurai South MLA M. Boominathan, former MLA N. Nanmaran, DMK leader Pon Muthuramalingam, and Executive Director of People’s Watch Henri Tiphagne were among those who participated in the event Mr. Rajan said that several resolutions were passed at the event. Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act must be repealed. All 15 co-accused in the Bhima Koregaon case should be released - these were among the resolutions passed at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-stan-swamy/article35618999.ece
30 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Take strict action against unauthorised construction’||Once it was evident that there is an unauthorised construction, the law must take over. Far too often the high and mighty in real estate have flouted the law with political benevolence, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Thursday. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice S. Ananthi took a serious view of unauthorised construction in Thoothukudi and directed the Corporation Commissioner to take appropriate steps to remove those structures. The court observed there was a large-scale deviation in construction and some of the floors had been built without getting approval. Laws must be enforced strictly. Proper action must be taken to ensure that such unauthorised constructions never take place. A strong deterrent The demolition of such buildings must be carried out in such a way that it should act as a strong deterrent to people who build such buildings in violation of rules. The court was hearing a petition filed by S.T. Karunanithi from Thoothukudi. He complained that one S. Thanaraja had built a commercial building in violation of the plan. The court directed the authorities to give a reasonable opportunity to the owner of the building before taking action against the unauthorised building structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-strict-action-against-unauthorised-construction-says-high-court-bench/article35618805.ece
30 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Pennycuick memorial premises not the right choice for library’||Federation of Periyar-Vaigai Irrigation Ayacut Farmers’ Associations has asked the State government to reconsider its decision on setting up Kalaignar Memorial Library on the premises that has been serving as the memorial of Col. John Pennycuick, the architect behind the construction of Periyar dam. In a memorandum submitted to Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, its president M. P. Raman said that British engineer Pennycuick had constructed the reservoir with strenuous efforts and selfless service by selling his properties in England. The reservoir had been the lifeline of Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts and the river waters saved people from severe drought. Stating that Col Pennycuick was a “God” for farmers of southern districts as he gave them their livelihood for over a century and ensured food for people, the forum said that the State government should not construct the library on the two-acre premises that housed the residence of Pennycuick. Farmers of southern districts held Pennycuick in much reverence that his photograph adorns many houses, especially in their puja room. So the government should look for some other site, the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pennycuick-memorial-premises-not-the-right-choice-for-library/article35619007.ece
30 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Consider farmers’ views before implementing project: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed Public Works Department officials to interact with the farmers of Andipatti in Theni district and take a decision on implementing a water pipeline project to meet their agricultural needs. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice S. Ananthi observed that the plea of the farmers was regarding supply of water for their agricultural needs. A pipeline project was conceived to bring surplus water from Kullappa Goundan Patti stream to Andipatti. But the authorities were yet to get administrative sanction to implement the project. Taking note of the submissions, the judges said the State should look into the needs of the people, especially when it was the need for adequate water for agriculture. PWD officials should look into the issue and pass appropriate orders for allocation of funds to the project or for any other project that would alleviate the problems of the farmers, the judges said. The court was hearing the petition filed by T. Rathinavel of Andipatti, Theni district secretary of Tamilaga Malar Farmers Association. The petition was disposed of with the direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-farmers-views-before-implementing-project/article35618809.ece
30 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to resume physical hearing dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition that sought resumption of physical hearing of cases and reopening of advocate chambers on court premises. The court said that it was an uninformed petition. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice S. Ananthi observed that the petitioner must be reminded that the entirety of the COVID-19 lockdown and the restrictions clamped by the State in the wake of the second surge had not been lifted. ‘No scientific opinion’ There was no conclusive scientific opinion on when a third or a subsequent surge might arise and the numbers of positive cases in the neighbouring States were at an alarming level in the past few days, the judges said. Further, the judges said that the court had continuously warned that in such a situation one must exercise caution. The second wave of the pandemic created a havoc. The country was caught unawares. Experts had advised that the only protection was completion of vaccination so that even if the virus attacked an individual, the chance of fatality would stand reduced. The courts had been substantially opened and virtual hearings were being conducted, the judges said. As far as the virtual hearing was concerned, the judges said that the performance at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court appeared to be better than at the Principal Bench in Chennai and some form of physical hearing was made possible through permission. The judges said that petitions of this kind should be avoided, and the court should be allowed to concentrate on matters that required attention. The High Court dismissed the petition filed by advocate Ukkarapandiyan of Madurai. The petitioner’s plea to reopen advocate chambers was also turned down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-fully-resume-physical-hearing-of-cases-dismissed/article35618687.ece
30 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||It is a policy matter, says court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday disposed of a petition that sought a direction on permanent closure of Tasmac shops in the State. The court observed it was a matter of policy. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice S. Ananthi observed that the petitioner appears to have knocked at the wrong doors. The relief sought cannot be granted, the judges said and disposed of the petition filed by S. Gandhirajan of Virudhunagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-a-policy-matter-says-court/article35618798.ece
30 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three tonnes of ration rice seized||Civil Supplies – Criminal Investigation Department seized 3,000 kg of rice meant for public distribution system and booked four persons, including a salesman and helpers of a ration shop, in Tirunagar here on Thursday. Following a tip-off, the sleuths conducted a vehicle check near Tirunagar bus stop and intercepted a mini-cargo vehicle. The officials found in the vehicle 60 gunny bags of rice, each weighing 50 kg, being smuggled from a ration shop. The officials picked up the driver, D. Kannan, 24, of Jaihindpuram. His associates V. Ramesh, 35, of Tirupparankundram and R. Moorthi, 38, of Sindhupatti, both helpers at the ration shop, were also nabbed. The police are on the lookout for Annadurai, salesman of a ration shop in Tirunagar. They have been booked under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Scheduled Commodities (Regulation of Distribution by Card System) and the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized/article35619005.ece
30 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CBI arrests two in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a Social Security Officer and a Deputy Director, both working in the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Puducherry, in a bribery case. According to a CBI press note, a case was registered against a Social Security Officer, ESIC (Ministry of Labour and Employment), Puducherry, on a complaint that alleged that the ESIC had issued recovery notice to the complainant’s company for pending dues since January 2020 amounting to about Rs. 8,51,252 along with interest. It was further alleged that during July 2021, the accused contacted the bank and asked them not to allow operations in the said account. When the complainant met the accused, he allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 25,000 for himself and also in the name of the Deputy Director of ESIC, Puducherry, for de-freezing the bank account till the disposal of the matter in court. The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while demanding and accepting the bribe of Rs. 25,000 from the complainant. Searches were conducted at two places on the premises of the accused at Puduchery, which led to the recovery of some documents. Both accused were produced before the competent court and were remanded to judicial custody till August 12, the CBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-arrests-two-in-bribery-case/article35618772.ece
30 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. lacks full-fledged public transport system||A full-fledged public transport system continues to elude the Union Territory of Puducherry over the years, posing hardship to the commuters. Though the Union Territory has made rapid growth in various sectors over the years, the development of public transport has not kept pace. In spite of the unbridled increase in the number of vehicles, including non-transport ones, and a significant hike in revenue to the government through the transport sector, there has been no proper plan to put in place an effective public transportation system. For want of public transport, people resort to using their own vehicles and the majority of the vehicles are two-wheelers. More private vehicles The number of private vehicles, including two-wheelers has registered a phenomenal growth over the years, while vehicles under the non-transport category have remained stable. Statistics from the Regional Transport Department reveal that as many as 11,27,940 vehicles are plying in the Union Territory. This included a whopping 7,70,839 two-wheelers, 6,993 three-wheelers (autos and tempos), 3,694 buses, and 3,794 omnibuses. While the number of vehicles grew at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of close to 35%, the growth of public transport vehicles was a meagre 0.38% of the buses per 1,000 population, according to a report of the Transport Department. For that matter, the number of private buses outdo the strength of the public transport system. It was 20 years ago that a separate corporation — Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) — was established to operate intra-State and inter-State buses. But the difficulty in meeting the budgetary requirement has been seen either in the retrenchment of staff or in managing the fleet strength. According to S. Kasturi, a senior citizen, “The impact of shortage of public transportation has been contributing to the congestion in the town. There is a need for the Puducherry government to look into the health of the transport sector and make public transport more accessible to boost ridership.” According to an urban planner, “Several cities in the country have come up with their own models of public transport. The Puducherry government should incentivise public transport and encourage people to use the facility.” “To start with, the government could start operating electric and air-conditioned buses within the boulevard. Puducherry needs a quality bus service that covers even the suburbs. Public transport must be given a boost to make it a desirable alternative to other modes of transport,” he added. When contacted an official said, “Agence Francaise Development (AFD), the French bilateral agency, is working on an urban mobility plan for Puducherry. The plan envisages an exhaustive plan for the safe and sustainable mobility needs of the people. The study was delayed due to the pandemic, and is expected to be submitted by this year-end.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-lacks-full-fledged-public-transport-system/article35619104.ece
30 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SLBC pegs credit outlay at Rs. 3,599 crore||The State-level Bankers Committee (SLBC) has proposed an Rs. 3,599.41 crore Annual Credit Plan for 2021-22 for the Union Territory of Puducherry as against the previous year’s plan of Rs. 3,281.86 crore. The Annual Credit Plan outlay, tabled at the quarterly review meeting of the State-level Bankers’ Committee, represents an increase of Rs. 317.55 crore over the plan outlay for 2020-21. In percentage terms, it works out to 9.68% growth rate. Over 70% of the total outlay has been allocated for agriculture and the MSME sector. The outlay for agriculture has increased by 8.15% and is projected at Rs. 1,842.1 crore, accounting for 51.18% of the total outlay for 2021-22. The MSME sector has been earmarked Rs. 820 crore, accounting for a share of 22.78% of the total outlay. Allocation has been made for export credit at Rs. 40 crore, educational loans at Rs. 80 crore, housing loans at Rs. 220 crore, renewable energy at Rs. 20 crore, social infrastructure at Rs. 150 crore and sectors forming part of SHGs have been allotted Rs. 350 crore. Addressing the SLBC’s quarterly meet for release of the Annual Credit Plan and review of the performance of banks for the quarter ended June 2021, V. Shenoy Vishwanath, SLBC chairman, noted that year-on-year banks in the Union Territory were surpassing the annual credit plan targets. Mr. Vishwanath, who is the Executive Director of Indian Bank, requested banks to continue the same in future also for the development of the State. He also appreciated the bankers for the good work done during the COVID-19 pandemic. K. Lakshminarayanan, Minister for Public Works, released the plan booklet. In his special address, the Minister appreciated all the bankers for their achievement in various sectors and requested the banks to actively participate in the development of agriculture, MSME, tourism and infrastructure projects in the Union Territory. ‘Lend more’ He also requested the bankers to lend more to farmers, dairy, students and women SHGs as this would improve the income of small entrepreneurs and also help in overcoming the crisis caused by COVID-19 lockdowns. Suman Ray, Chief General Manager, RBI, Chennai; T. Venkatakrishna, Chief General Manager, NABARD; Chennai, A.S.P.S. Ravi Prakash, Secretary (Rural Development); E. Vallavan, Secretary (Industries); and G. Rajeswara Reddy, Field General Manager, Indian Bank, Chennai, also addressed the meeting. S. Senthil Kumar, zonal manager and convener of the SLBC, Indian Bank, Puducherry, presented the agenda items for discussion in the SLBC. B. Suribabu, General Manager, Indian Bank, corporate office, Chennai; Margaret Laetitia, chairperson, PBGB, head office, Puducherry; Rishita Gupta, Sub-Collector (South); P. Ananda Babu, deputy zonal manager; A. Udayakumar, lead district manager; executives and officials from banks and senior officials from the administration participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slbc-pegs-credit-outlay-at-rs-3599-crore/article35619101.ece
30 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Government betraying people: former CM||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has accused the AINRC-led NDA government of “betraying” the people of the Union Territory. Participating in a function organised by the Indian National Trade Union Congress to unveil the portrait of its former president G. Ravichandran, the former Chief Minister said while the Congress government had obtained a grant of Rs. 1,694 crore as Central assistance, the present government led by N. Rangasamay was able to get only Rs. 1,718 crore, which was just Rs. 24 crore more. “It is a betrayal of the people. There is no word on Statehood by the Chief Minister N. Rangasamy,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. The former Chief Minister said the present government was only implementing the schemes planned by the Congress. The Congress government had planned to increase the welfare pension by Rs. 500. The scheme was evolved by the Congress government and the same programme was implemented by the AINRC-led NDA government, he added. INTUC national president G. Sanjeeva Reddy said trade unions had to unite to oppose the policies of the Centre as they were against the working class. Opposition leader R. Siva, former government whip R.K.R. Anantharaman, PCC chief A.V. Subramanian, and INTUC Tamil Nadu unit president Jagannathan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-betraying-people-former-cm/article35619099.ece
30 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CAG report submitted||The Comptroller and Auditor General has submitted the finance audit report on the Union Territory for the year ended on March 31, 2020, to the Lieutenant Governor for tabling in the Legislative Assembly. An official press note from the Accountant General said the audit report was forwarded to the Government on Thursday as mandated by Section 49 of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cag-report-submitted/article35619096.ece
30 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No death in U.T. while cases exceed recoveries||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 98 new cases were confirmed against 49 recoveries on Thursday. The cumulative toll remained at 1,792 — Puducherry 1,422, Karaikal 227, Yanam 105 and Mahe 38. Puducherry accounted for 72 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,126 tests, followed by Karaikal 20, Yanam 1 and Mahe 5. The test positivity rate was 1.91%, the case fatality rate was 1.48% and the recovery rate was 97.71%. The active cases in the Union Territory stood at 972 with 195 patients in hospitals and 777 under home isolation. The Union Territory recorded an aggregate of 1,20,725 cases against 1,17,961 recovered patients. Of an estimated 14.88 lakh tests administered so far, over 1.27 lakh have returned negative. Meanwhile, the vaccinated population in the Union Territory aggregated to 6,90,800 with 3,908 people taking their Covid vaccine shots in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-death-in-ut-while-cases-exceed-recoveries/article35619097.ece
30 July 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fire at land survey office||A fire broke out at the Land Survey (Technical Section) office at the Collectorate here early on Thursday. Passersby, who noticed the smoke during their morning stroll, informed Fire and Rescue Services department. Immediately, fire tenders rushed to the spot. After breaking open the doors, firefighters rushed to the second floor, where the office was located. A thick ball of smoke led to a delay in bringing the flames under control. However, the fire was put out in about two hours, the firefighters said. Computers, printer machines, furniture and records were destroyed in the fire and the extent of loss was yet to be assessed. The cause of the fire was not known. District Revenue Officer Kamatchi Ganesan, Assistant Director (Land Survey) Kandasami and DSP (Ramanathapuram) Raja inspected the spot. Kenikarai police registered a case. A senior police officer said investigation into the fire had just started. A few months ago, fire broke out in the office of the education department in the same block. Many records and furniture were destroyed. The staff in the building said the district administration should order a thorough probe into the incident as important files and documents were destroyed in the fire. Also, the offices had no security. Besides government offices, two courts functioned in the building. Hence, such incidents should not be neglected, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/records-destroyed-in-fire-at-land-survey-office-in-collectorate/article35618813.ece
30 July 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Over Rs. 30,000-cr. loss to TNSTC in last 10 years’||Transport Minister R.S. Raja Kannappan on Thursday said malpractice and mismanagement, among other factors, had resulted in loss of over Rs. 30,000 crore to Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) in the last 10 years. Attacking the previous AIADMK regime, he said the new DMK government under the leadership of M.K. Stalin would make up for the losses through efficient management and introduction of cost-effective programmes without compromising on the welfare of the people and employees. The government would redress the grievances of employees and pensioners over a period of time. The Chief Minister’s announcement of free ride to women on TNSTC buses had come as a blessing for the beneficiaries. Earlier, about 40% commuters travelled in TNSTC buses, while it had increased to 60% of women now, the Minister said. When the government pulled up former ministers, they should not give political colour to the issue but face it legally, he added. Accompanied by Collector J.U. Chandrakala, he said a new uzhavar sandhai (farmers’ market) would be established at Kamudi soon and land for the facility was being explored. The market would help consumers in the region and also enable farmers to sell their produce directly without middlemen. The Minister gave away Rs. 19.68 lakh worth of assistance to 51 people at a function. He also flagged off new bus routes from Mudukalathur and Sayalkudi bus terminus.  Chief Minister’s announcement of free ride to women on TNSTC buses has come as a blessing Transport Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-30000-cr-loss-to-tnstc-in-last-10-years/article35618815.ece
30 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Permanent buildings to be constructed for 7,000 ration shops: Periyasamy||Minister for Co-operation I. Periyasamy has said that measures would be taken for constructing permanent buildings for 7,000 ration shops operating in rented buildings. Co-operative credit societies would be developed into multi-service centres, he said. Mr. Periyasamy along with A. Shanmugasundram, Registrar of Co-operative Societies, District Collector S. Karmegham and other senior officials conducted a review with department officials here on Thursday. Mr. Periyasamy advised officials to disburse more loans to farmers, women self-help groups, education loans, vehicle loans and for youth to start own businesses. The Minister advised societies to make even farmers without land and youngsters aged above 18 members in societies. Mr. Periyasamy told presspersons that societies had been advised to provide loans to whoever in need and government will provide necessary funds. He added that 99% of COVID-19 relief kit distribution had been completed and the progress was being monitored. The government was working on a plan regarding number of ration shops that need to be constructed each year. Legislators have raised issues regarding problems in existing buildings. If those buildings are beyond repair, new structures should be constructed for them as well, he said. On issues in biometric systems in ration shops, Mr. Periyasamy said that he was assessing the problems and it was under trial at the moment. It would be implemented full-fledged soon. Mr. Periyasamy said that societies had been advised to provide loans for new applicants as well and not just for those who have earlier benefited. He added that co-operative societies would be soon expanded to multi-service centres. Mr. Periysamy said that measures would be taken to make available all medicines at co-operative pharmacies at low cost. On irregularities that occurred in co-operative banks during demonetisation, Mr. Periyasamy said that officials were inquiring about what happened at co-operative banks and government will take a stand based on it (their report). On elections to co-operative societies, he said that the Supreme Court recently struck down amendments brought by Central government regarding co-operative societies. Decision will be taken after discussing with legal experts, he said. Mr. Periyasamy said measures were being taken to integrate (digitally) central co-operative banks with societies. Mr. Periyasamy said that Rs. 2,500 crore had been provided from State co-operative banks to societies to provide farm loans. He added that appointments to 3,997 vacancies under the department would be filled soon in a transparent manner. The State government would surely implement waiver of gold loans and other poll promises. He said the Opposition’s protest was for political reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permanent-buildings-to-be-constructed-for-7000-ration-shops-periyasamy/article35618802.ece
30 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 95 cases, three deaths||Salem district on Thursday reported 95 positive cases and three deaths. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, in Namakkal, 60 indigenous cases and one death were reported. Erode district reported 166 cases and one death. Krishnagiri recorded 38 cases, while 36 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 338 cases as of Thursday. A total of 41,275 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 30 cases and one death. As many as 39 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 342. As of date, a total 26,048 cases were reported in the district. Tiruppur district reported 78 new cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 87,650 cases. The Health Department reported three deaths as the district’s toll went up to 821. A total of 1,123 patients were active cases and 143 patients were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-95-cases-three-deaths/article35618824.ece
30 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Annual credit plan released||The annual credit plan for the district was released here on Tuesday. District Collector S. Karmegham released the credit plan along with representatives of lead bank. According to a release, the banks here have targeted to provide loans to the tune of Rs. 9,417.67 crore for this financial year. The target amount is 12% higher than previous year, a release said. According to a release, loans to the tune of Rs. 7,610.37 crore would be provided to agriculture, industries and service sectors. An amount of Rs. 875.55 crore would be provided as loan to Small, Micro and Medium enterprises. Of the total loans, they have targeted to provide 82.73% loans through commercial banks, 13.61% through co-operative banks, 3.34% through village rural banks and 0.32% through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-credit-plan-released/article35618822.ece
30 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Idol found in house||A metal idol of Lord Arthanareeswarar, which was dug out from an irrigation tank in 2017, was recovered from the house of a priest at Pudupatti near here on Thursday. Acting on a petition, Additional Director General of Police Abhai Kumar Singh directed sleuths of Idol Wing-Madurai to go to the house of the priest, Manikandan, where they found the idol. “The idol, around two feet high, was found when villagers dug up the tank. The priest of the local Siva temple kept the idol at his home,” Additional Superintendent of Police V. Malaichamy said. Stating that any material found underground was considered a treasure and belonged to the government, he said the idol should have been handed over to the revenue department. The sleuths had to bring the recovered idol to their office in Madurai after the Sivakasi Tahsildar refused to keep it in his custody. “We are yet to ascertain the metal content and antiquity of the idol,” Mr. Malaichamy said. Only after verification of records, it could be established whether it was stolen from any temple, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idol-found-in-house/article35618817.ece
30 July 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Sugarcane growers stage demo||Sugarcane growers staged a demonstration in front of Arignar Anna Sugar Mills, Kurungulam, on Thursday demanding the immediate disbursement of payment due to them. The cane growers, led by P. Ramasamy, president of the Sugarcane Growers Association, demanded that the mill immediately disburse the Rs. 18 crore due to farmers who had supplied cane for 2020-21 crushing season. They also urged the State to fix sugarcane price at Rs. 4,000 a tonne as promised in the DMK’s election manifesto. Farmers called upon the Cauvery Water Management Authority to intervene to prevent the construction of a dam across the Cauvery River at Mekedatu by the Karnataka government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugarcane-growers-stage-demo/article35618789.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||CM rejects demand for Sivankutty’s ouster||Members of the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) boycotted the Kerala Assembly on Thursday. They accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of setting a wrong legislative precedent by “attempting to pick holes” in the Supreme Court’s decision to quash the government’s move to withdraw the criminal case registered against six Left Democratic Front (LDF) leaders for “creating disorder and destroying public property” in the Assembly during the UDF rule on March 13, 2015. Mr. Vijayan rejected the Opposition’s demand for the resignation of General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, who is among the accused in the case. The Chief Minister noted that the Supreme Court had neither mentioned the Minister by name nor passed an adverse remark against him. Speaker M.B. Rajesh rejected the adjournment notice moved by Congress legislator P.T. Thomas to discuss the matter, prompting UDF legislators to raise anti-government slogans and troop out of the House in protest. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said parliamentary privilege did not cover criminal acts. The immunity was only for debating and voting on issues without fear or favour. “March 13, 2015, will be a Black Friday that will live in infamy in Kerala’s legislative history. The LDF had maliciously prevented then Finance Minister K.M. Mani from presenting the budget on an unproven corruption charge relating to the reinstatement of annulled bar licenses,” he said. Kerala Congress (M) legislators should quit the LDF if they had any self-respect or regard for their founder. They would soon realise the ruling front’s embrace was a stranglehold, he added. Mr. Thomas said Mr. Sivankutty was no role model for students or teachers. The images of the Minister running riot in the Assembly remained vivid in public memory. ‘Double jeopardy’ Mr. Vijayan said the court’s duty was not to “re-appreciate” a public prosecutor’s request for withdrawing a case. The judiciary’s responsibility was limited to verifying whether the prosecutor had exercised his mind independently. The Chief Minister said upheavals in society often echoed in the Assembly. The House was a microcosm of the State. Pointing out that the Speaker had suspended the LDF MLAs in 2015 for causing uproar in the House, he said further prosecution of the then LDF legislators would be tantamount to double jeopardy. Mr. Vijayan said the Oommen Chandy government in 2015 had crossed a line by unjustifiably pushing a political protest in the Assembly into the realm of criminal prosecution. The UDF had attempted to dismantle the protections of the parliamentary privilege granted to MLAs to raise issues in the Assembly without fear of punishment or legal action. Similar turmoil had occurred in other legislatures in the country. However, no government had ensnared protesting members in criminal cases. Instead, they had allowed respective Speakers to decide matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-rejects-demand-for-sivankuttys-ouster/article35618547.ece
30 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water scheme to be commissioned soon||Monitoring Officer for the district and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation G. Prakash reviewed the progress of the ongoing development projects like construction of check-dams, drinking water projects being implemented by the TWAD Board, ‘yatri nivas’ in Tiruchendur and the projects being implemented by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board and the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, School Education etc. After inspecting the Kovilpatti Municipality’s drinking water scheme, he said the residents would get 15 million litres of drinking water everyday as it was about to be commissioned either by August-end or September first week after filling up a few gaps. He informed that shuttle services to connect the old and the new bus-stand of Kovilpatti would be ready soon after getting special permission from the Department of Transport. He said the Kovilpatti Municipality had been instructed to put in place a credible and scientific solid waste management system to deal with the degradable and non-degradable solid waste getting generated in the urban civic body. Be alert Though the number of fresh cases in the district has come down drastically after the dreadful ‘second wave’ of the COVID-19, the district administration has been instructed to conduct 3,000 tests everyday so as to keep the situation under control. While addressing the review meeting held here on Thursday, he said the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations such as collection of samples at doorsteps of residents, intensifying vaccination drive, keeping ready the isolation centres, stocking adequate quantity of drugs should be continued in sustained fashion as the third wave of the viral infection was being anticipated. So, 3,000-odd tests should be conducted everyday in a sustained fashion while intensifying vaccination of hotel workers, auto and taxi drivers, ration shop workers, market workers, transport workers, police personnel, government employees, who could become ‘super spreaders’ due to their direct contact with the public everyday. “Since the anticipated ‘third wave’ is expected to affect more people from urban areas, the district administration should take steps for door-to-door check for fever cases or persons with COVID-19 symptoms in the town panchayat, municipal and corporation areas. Those who have symptoms should be given proper line of treatment based on the medical findings. As only 20% of the total population of Thoothukudi district have received the first dose of the vaccine and 14% had been given the second dose, vaccination drive should be intensified,” Mr. Prakash said. He said the fever survey workers should be deployed across the district right from the village panchayat to the Thoothukudi Corporation. Even as the Thoothukudi Medical College had 1,000 oxygen-supported beds, 250 beds with similar facility had been kept ready in Kovilpatti Government Hospital. COVID Care Centre with 1,000 beds should to be kept ready. Collector K. Senthil Raj and senior officials from all government departments accompanied the Monitoring Officer during the inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-scheme-to-be-commissioned-soon/article35619166.ece
30 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against former Sub-Registrar||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police have registered case against Gurusamy, 58, manager of District Registrar Office, for allegedly amassing wealth through corruption. Earlier, he was working as Sub-Registrar of Thoothukudi Melur Sub-Registrar’s Office. Following corruption charges against him, the vigilance wing conducted inquiry. It found that he had amassed wealth to the tune of Rs. 83 lakh between 2015 and 2020 when he was working as the Sub-Registrar. Subsequently, case was registered against him. A team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Hector Dharmaraj, raided the house of Gurusamy at KTC Nagar, TNHB Colony, on Thursday They found that he has built a house by annexing three housing plots. The team seized incriminating documents. “He owns more than five houses in this area and has purchased huge quantity of gold ornaments as per the documents we’ve seized,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-former-sub-registrar/article35619000.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Improper planting of saplings may hit Green Tiruchi initiative||Improper planting of saplings under the Green Tiruchi initiative has raised questions over their survival. Considering the importance of improving the green cover in the city, Minister for Municipal Administration, K. N. Nehru launched a special drive to plant saplings shortly after assuming office. The Tiruchi City Corporation and the Forest Department were involved in sourcing the saplings, planting and maintaining them. Several saplings have been planted along both sides of arterial roads including Thillai Nagar Main Road, Shastri Road, Anna Nagar Link Road, Lawsons Road and others. To protect the saplings from becoming prey to stray cattle, tree guards have been provided. The Corporation has employed its water tankers to water the plants daily. According to sources, 1,200 saplings have so far been planted in different parts of the city. The officials invariably arrange tree planting wherever Mr. Nehru and Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi attend government functions. While the initiative has been received well among the public, there are concerns that the planting has not been done properly at various places. As per the well-accepted practice, the earth's surface should be dug up for at least two to three feet for planting a sapling. Sufficient space must be provided between each plant. The size of the pits vary depending upon the height of the plants so as to enable the plants to take root. But, it is alleged that saplings have not been planted properly in Thillai Nagar and other places. In some places, saplings had been just placed on the selected spots without digging pits. In some places, pits are very small in size. “While we are grateful to Mr. Nehru for taking this initiative, we regret that the saplings have been planted in an improper way at various places . Improper planting will lead to low percentage of survival of roadside trees,” said Kannan N. Ramakrishnan, a civic activist. When contacted D. Sujatha, District Forest Officer, told The Hindu that the issue would be looked into. If needed corrective steps would be taken. The workers, who had been engaged in the drive, would be given training on the methods to be followed while planting, watering and maintaining the tree saplings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improper-planting-of-saplings-may-hit-green-tiruchi-initiative/article35618770.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Runway resurfacing work over||The Airports Authority of India has completed the runway resurfacing at the Tiruchi International Airport. The work was taken up after a gap of 10 years in July last year at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. The project was carried out on the entire stretch of the existing runway which has a total length of 2,424 metres and a width of 60 metres. The project was a three-layered work that was carried out conforming to the prescribed standards and specifications. As part of the resurfacing works, the first layer was done using dense bituminous macadam while the second layer was done using semi dense asphaltic concrete. Dense asphaltic concrete which has more bituminous content was used for the top layer of the runway. “The main runway resurfacing work has been completed in a year’s time with some miscellaneous works currently on,” P. Sree Krishna, General Manager, Projects, Airports Authority of India, Tiruchi, told The Hindu on Thursday. Bitumen and graded metal besides cement were among the ingredients used for resurfacing of the existing runway, he said. The project was taken up at a cost of Rs. 18 crore. The project was initially taken up during night hours and subsequently executed during day time. The works were carried out in such a way that there was no hindrance to movement of aircrafts at Tiruchi airport. “Works relating to elevation of runway light fixtures has also been completed”, Mr. Sree Krishna further said. As part of the project, the Airports Authority of India had also completed the works in the intersection between the 'Alpha' and 'Delta' taxiways and the main runway. The COVID-19 pandemic did impact the pace of the runway resurfacing works as supply of materials got hit due to closure of quarries for some time, Mr. Sree Krishna said and added that the target given for completion of the entire project was one year. He said the construction of a new apron to accommodate 11 aircraft at a time along with 10 aero bridges and isolation bay works at Tiruchi airport have been completed. Nearly 65 % of the parallel taxiway works have also been completed. Mr. Sree Krishna said the Airports Authority of India had completed nearly 60 % of the construction works of the integrated passenger terminal building that was coming up near the existing terminal building at the Tiruchi airport.  Three-layered work The first layer was done by using dense bituminous macadam The second layer was made by using semi dense asphaltic concrete The top layer needs more bituminous content so dense asphaltic concrete was used||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/runway-resurfacing-work-over/article35618784.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||GH is all set to tackle a third wave||The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital is augmenting its infrastructure to tackle a possible third wave of COVID-19. Work on three Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plants and a triage facility are under way. A 1000-litre capacity PSA plant funded through the PM CARES has arrived at the Tiruchi GH campus and will soon be installed behind the Super Speciality Ward. This is the second such plant being installed within a month. A 350-litre capacity PSA plant was inaugurated at the Tiruchi GH a few weeks ago. A PSA plant uses a technology where a specific gas can be separated from a mixture of gases under pressure. This is an oxygen production unit, and therefore, the hospital does not need to depend on suppliers to provide oxygen to patients. This PSA plant would be able to supply oxygen to the beds in the Super Speciality Block. Another PSA plant, the third on campus, donated by doctors around the world will be set up next to the paediatrics ward of the GH. “If we do have an increase in the number of children contracting the virus, we want to be prepared,” a senior official said. Meanwhile, the hospital is also readying a triage centre wherein patients’ vitals can be checked and their condition stabilised. This would help in case of emergency cases wherein patients require oxygen administration immediately, Dean K. Vanitha said. “Pipelines for supply of oxygen and electricity are being laid. Around 30 beds can be set up in this facility,” she said. At the Paediatrics ward too, 200 beds have been readied. The hospital has made arrangements for an additional 300 cots, and a total of 1,200 ventilators. Adequate staff to treat and monitor patients are also available. “A total of 75 staff nurses, 40 doctors and 15 lab technicians who were appointed during the peak of the second wave have been asked to continue,” she said. The hospital faced some water shortage and therefore, work has also begun to repair four borewells. Two new ones are also being dug. “We will be ready in about 10 days. While we hope that the number of cases does not increase as it did in May, we are prepared to handle it,” Dr. Vanitha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-all-set-to-tackle-third-wave/article35618779.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Banned gutkha products worth Rs. 20 lakh seized; five held||A special police team on Thursday seized 1,800 kilograms of banned gutkha products kept in 55 gunny bags and hoarded in godowns in Pensioner Colony and Eda Street here. The team conducted the checks in the godowns based on a secret information. Five persons were arrested against whom a case was registered in the Palakkarai police station. A mini freight carrier that was allegedly used by the accused, a two -wheeler and four cell phones were seized. The contraband was kept in the godowns for sale. A police press release said the value of seized contraband was Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-gutkha-products-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized-five-held/article35618774.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Banned gutkha products worth Rs. 20 lakh seized; five arrested||A special police team on Thursday seized 1,800 kilograms of banned gutkha products kept in 55 gunny bags and hoarded in godowns in Pensioner Colony and Eda street here. The team conducted the checks in the godowns based on secret information. Five persons were arrested against whom a case was registered in the Palakkarai police station. A mini freight carrier that was allegedly used for the illegal act by the accused, a two -wheeler and four cell phones were seized. The contraband was kept in the godowns for sale. A police press release said the value of seized contraband was Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-gutkha-products-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized-five-arrested/article35619158.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lorries transporting fish intercepted||A joint team consisting of Assistant Director, Fisheries, Sirkazhi, and police personnel intercepted seven lorries at Karuvi Junction near Sembanarkoil in Mayiladuthurai district on Thursday after it was found transporting fish caught apparently using banned nets in violation of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1983. A group of fishermen from Vanagiri and Tharangambadi assembled at Karuvi after coming to know that the vehicles were seized and picked up an argument with the officials. As the Assistant Director, Fisheries, apparently refused to allow the vehicles initially, fishermen threw down a box containing fish from one of the vehicles triggering tension. Police personnel held talks with the fishermen. Following the talks, one lorry was prosecuted under the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act. The remaining six lorries were released after registration of the Motor Vehicle Act case, said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorries-transporting-fish-intercepted/article35618787.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||8-year-old braveheart receives accolades||An eight-year-old boy of Thulukkampatti near Manapparai, who played a key role in rescuing a girl from a well, has received accolades. According to sources, Guna (29), wife of Balakrishnan, had gone for collecting firewood along with her daughter Lithika (8). While Guna was collecting firewood, Lithika reportedly fell into a nearby well. Noticing her daughter falling into the well, Guna, who was not good at swimming, jumped into the well to save her. On hearing her cries, Logith, son of Chandrasekaran of the same village, who was playing nearby, rushed in and jumped into the well and managed to hold Lithika, preventing her from drowning. On hearing an alarm raised by Logith, the villagers rushed to the spot and brought them from the well. Despite their efforts, Guna drowned. Upon hearing the information, Collector S. Sivarasu presented a cheque of Rs. 5,000 to Logith as a token of appreciation.“The boy’s presence of mind has saved the girl. He deserves appreciation,” Mr. Sivarasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-year-old-braveheart-receives-accolades/article35618776.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||321 new positive cases||The central region reported 321 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. Five more persons succumbed in the districts, according to the Department of Health. In Tiruchi district, two patients succumbed to the viral infection. One patient each died in Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai. The remaining five districts- Ariyalur, Karur, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur reported no deaths of COVID-19 on Thursday. Thanjavur continued to report the highest number of cases amongst the central districts. The district reported a slight spike in cases with 102 patients testing positive on Thursday. On Wednesday, the district had 78 fresh cases. In Tiruchi, 70 patients reported positive. In Nagapattinam district, 34 fresh cases were reported, and in Pudukottai district, 26. Tiruvarur district meanwhile, recorded 22 fresh cases, while Ariyalur reported 23 and Mayiladuthurai, 20. In Karur district, 18 patients tested positive, while Perambalur district continued to report the lowest number of cases in the region with six cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/321-new-cases-in-central-region/article35618782.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today in city||COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held at the following places in the city on Friday: Covishield doses would be administered at Kanchiamman Middle School, Teppakulatheru; Maternity Centre, Mela Chinthamani; SIT College, Ariyamangalam; Corporation Elementary School, near Khajapettai Overhead Drinking Water Tank; Corporation Middle School, Ellakudi; Seva Sangam Girls Higher Secondary School, Cantonment; St. Mary’s Nursery and Primary School, Ponmalaipatti; Nesam Centre, Pudutheru, Sembattu; Uzhavar Sandhai, Thennur; St. Francis School, Shanmuga Nagar West Extension; and Jaganmatha School, K. K. Nagar. Three-fifty doses would be administered at each of these camps. Thousand Covaxin shots (second doses only) each would be administered at the camps to be held at Kalaiarangam Mahal and Thevar Hall, West Boulevard Road. The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m., according to a Corporation press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article35618771.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Newborn male infant found abandoned in garbage bin||A newborn male infant was found abandoned inside a garbage bin on the Old Karur road at Mela Chinthamani here on Thursday. A rag-picker noticed the infant and alerted the locals and the matter was informed to the Fort Police. The abandoned infant was rescued and sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for medical examination and care, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-male-infant-found-abandoned-in-garbage-bin/article35618785.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Demo against fuel price hike||A group of 60 members of the Tamizhaga Vaazhvurimai Katchi staged a demonstration here on Thursday condemning the sharp rise in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. The demonstrators raised slogans urging the Centre to reduce fuel prices and that of cooking gas. The demonstration held at Chinthamani was led by the party’s urban district secretary Raja, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-against-fuel-price-hike/article35618786.ece
30 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||People throng vaccination centres||The vaccination centres across the district witnessed huge crowd on Thursday as supply of Covaxin resumed after a gap of 12 days. As the supply of Covaxin to Tirunelveli district was stopped abruptly two weeks ago due to the lack of supply from the Union Government, the people had to rely only on Covishield. Officials say that 3.50 lakh people had been vaccinated. While 3.25 lakh had received Covishield, Covaxin has been administered to only 25,000 people due to short supply and other reasons. When the supply of Covaxin stopped abruptly, those who were waiting for the second dose struggled a lot. As the supply resumed on Thursday, the vaccination centre of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital witnessed huge crowd. Even before the fresh stock of Covaxin could reach this vaccination centre, more than 500 persons were waiting for the vaccine. “Only 3,300 Covaxin doses were allotted to Tirunelveli district on Thursday. Of this, 1,500 were given to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital vaccination centre,” said sources in the Department of Public Health. In Thoothukudi, 4,160 Covaxin doses were received after 15 days to be distributed equally between Kovilpatti and Thoothukudi Health Unit Districts, where the vaccination started after the noon. Of this, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital received 500 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-vaccination-centres/article35619168.ece
30 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Skills of rural woman artisans to be fine-tuned||A business initiative set in motion by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission to fine-tune skills of rural women artisans in making fibre products may soon take their products to international market. The KVIC, under its Khadi Reform and Development Programme, funded by the Asian Development Bank, creates rural artisans’ groups to improve their livelihood by marketing their products after giving them due training or fine-tuning their skills. Moreover, this venture takes the rural artisans’ products to the national and international markets to fetch the right price for the products. In this line, the Khadi Reform and Development Progamme, through a non-governmental organization, has coordinated 175 rural woman artisans who are experts in making decorative articles, bags and a other products from banana and cactus fibre and palmyrah leaf. The KVIC has invested Rs. 1 crore in this venture of which Rs. 96 lakh is subsidy while the remaining Rs. 4 lakh has been contributed by the NGO, CAST (Community Action for Social Transformation) of Bhoothathaankudiyiruppu near Kalakkad in the district. “The rural women artisans’ skills are fine-tuned in designing new products based on the domestic and international market trend after comprehensive studies. We’re targeting to reach the international markets with these world-class eco-friendly products,” said Collector V. Vishnu who inaugurated the training centre at Padmaneri near Kalakkad on Thursday in the presence of Shekhar Rao Perala, member, South Zone of KVIC. Since the Kalakkad region is known for banana cultivation and known as ‘Banana Basket’ of southern Tamil Nadu, the artisans can easily get the raw material for their products. Moreover, cactus grows easily in this region housing several thousands of palmyrah trees. The training centre, established on an outlay of Rs. 13.50 lakh, houses machineries worth Rs. 9.50 lakh to train the artisans and prepare the palmyrah leaf and fibre-based products. This Centre has been given the task of producing products worth Rs.73.53 lakh annually and sell them with the marginal proft of Rs. 86.76 lakh. “This business module will ensure the revenue of Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 500 per artisan,” says Mr. Vishnu under whose leadership a coordination committee has been formed to review the performance. “The rural artisans getting coordinated by the KVIC gets medical assistance and life insurance benefits,” Mr. Shekhar Rao said. He informed that experts from other States would be brought here to train the woman artisans in making the world-class ornamental products. Mr. Vishnu has started working on taking the Pattamadai mats, earthenware of Kaaarukurichi, brassware of Vaagaikulam, Kaani Tribes’ organic products besides others to the international markets. “The women, who were once embroiled in beedi rolling industry, have come out to try their hands in a different industry. Every woman artisan has the capacity to become an entrepreneur one day as we’re also equipping them with leadership quality and business skills,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skills-of-rural-woman-artisans-to-be-fine-tuned/article35619170.ece
30 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Smart City CEO resigns||The Chief Executive Officer of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited V. Narayanan Nair has submitted his resignation from the post. In the resignation letter sent to Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner and Managing Director of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited B. Vishnu Chandran, Mr. Narayanan Nair has cited the “health issues” as the reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-ceo-resigns/article35618795.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Residents of tribal settlements allege poor quality of rice||Residents of two tribal settlements within the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) at Udumalpet staged a demonstration on Thursday alleging poor quality of public distribution system (PDS) rice delivered every month. Over 100 residents from Mavadappu and Kattupatti settlements took part in the demonstration held outside the part-time ration shop in Madavappu as the officials from the Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department visited to supply the monthly quota of rice to the settlements. A. Selvi of Kattupatti alleged that the rice supplied to the two tribal settlements was of low quality and emanated a foul odour when cooked. “Earlier, we used to get the rice by 15th of every month,” Ms. Selvi told The Hindu , claiming that the rice supply had been delayed to the last week of the month. G. Chinnappan from Kattupatti, who circulated videos of the demonstration on social media platforms on Thursday to take the issue to the authorities concerned, alleged that the officials were asking the residents to reach Ravanapuram village panchayat outside the ATR limits for better quality of rice, which is about seven km away from here. The residents would soon stage a protest in Udumalpet if no action was initiated in this issue, Mr. Chinnappan said. When contacted, an official from the Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department in Udumalpet denied these allegations and asserted that boiled rice was being supplied to the settlements. The delay occurred as the vehicles carrying the rice from the godown in Ravanapuram had to travel uphill to reach the tribal settlements and had to wait for the rain to abate, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-tribal-settlements-allege-poor-quality-of-rice/article35618711.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two AIADMK MLAs booked||The City Police booked two AIADMK MLAs – Pollachi V. Jayaraman and K.N. Vijeyakumar – and over 300 members on charges of violating the COVID-19 lockdown rules during the demonstrations held here on Wednesday. Top police sources said on Thursday that the Tiruppur Rural (Nallur) police registered a case against Mr. Jayaraman, MLA and Tiruppur urban district secretary of the AIADMK, as he led a demonstration outside the party office on Kangeyam Road. Meanwhile, the Anupparpalayam police booked Mr. Vijeyakumar, Tiruppur North MLA who led a demonstration in Angeripalayam. The eight police stations under the City Police booked 318 members of the AIADMK who participated in the demonstrations held across the city, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-aiadmk-mlas-booked/article35618722.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned new-born rescued in Tiruppur||Residents rescued a newborn baby girl that was found abandoned on the street on Thursday. The police said the residents of Postal Colony in Tiruppur North police station limits found the baby lying on the bushes near a movie theatre around 6 a.m. One of them dialled the ‘108’ ambulance service, which rushed the baby to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. The police are investigating using CCTV footages to determine who had left the baby. Sources at the hospital said the baby was stable and no external injuries were found. The baby was admitted in the neonatal intensive care unit, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abandoned-new-born-rescued-in-tiruppur/article35618709.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Siblings drown in quarry pit||Fire service personnel retrieved the bodies of two brothers from a water body in a stone quarry near their residence in the Tiruppur City Police limits on Wednesday. The police said P. Sathya (13) and P. Kumaresan (11) were residents of Golden Nagar. On Wednesday afternoon, while their parents were away for work, the duo went to the stone quarry for fishing in a 15-foot-deep pit filled with rainwater. As they did not return home in the night, the parents informed the Tiruppur North police, who along with personnel from Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services began searching for them. During the searches, the bodies were found in the pit late on Wednesday. The police said the boys might have accidentally fallen into the pit while fishing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-drown-in-quarry-pit/article35618708.ece
30 July 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||3 lorries seized||Revenue officials of Mannargudi have detained three lorries transporting paddy, allegedly belonging to traders from other districts. The three lorries were intercepted and seized during as surprise check conducted by the Mannargudi Revenue Divisional Officer, Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan said in a press release. The lorries, transporting about 73 tonnes of paddy, were later taken to the Sundarakottai Modern Rice Mill campus. Revenue authorities have preferred a complaint with the Mannargudi police in this regard, the release added. The action follows complaints that traders from other districts were selling addy under the guise of farmers at the DPCs functioning in the district. Currently 104 DPCs were functioning in the district to procure paddy from farmers at the minimum support price offered by the government. Some traders, under the guise of farmers, were trying to sell their paddy, it was alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-lorries-seized/article35618790.ece
30 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Children sold by parents rescued||Three children were rescued by the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in the Nilgiris after their parents sold them to families in neighbouring districts. J. Prabhu, District Child Protection Officer, said that the parents of the two children aged four months and two years, had sold them for Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 25,000, officials confirmed, and more than a year had lapsed since the two children were sold, he said. Following a tip-off, the DCPU swung into action and held inquiries, following which they approached the district police with a complaint. The parents, aged 24 and 29, spoke to reporters outside the police station, and said they gave up their children as they were not able to provide for them. Their third child, aged three, was living with one of the couple’s relatives, and was also rescued. All three children are currently in the protective custody of the DCPU. The Nilgiris police registered a case against the couple, as well as the people who bought the children. Mr. Prabhu said discussions would be held to decide on what’s best for the three children. “We are organising awareness campaigns every day in a specific location on trafficking, sexual abuse, violence against women and children and other issues. We hope that more people will come forward and register complaints against parents and caregivers who are putting children in danger,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-sold-by-parents-rescued/article35618706.ece
30 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Move afoot to decongest traffic near Green Circle||District Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian on Thursday said the service lanes at the Green Circle, a roundabout below the elevated Bengaluru Highway in Vellore, will be widened to ease traffic congestion in the area. In this regard, Mr. Pandian held a meeting with officials from the Vellore Corporation, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), revenue and the traffic police and discussed plans to end the traffic chaos in the coming months. Apart from widening the service lanes, a storm water drain would also be constructed, said Mr. Pandian who worked as the Deputy Commissioner (Works) with the Greater Chennai Corporation before taking charge as the Collector a month ago. “Like others, I am a witness to the traffic chaos at the Green Circle every day. I wanted to end that chaos in the interest of every one in our town. I will follow the widening work there closely,” the Vellore Collector told The Hindu . As per his plan, the widening of the service lanes below the highway would be done between the Green Circle and the District Collectorate, a distance of around 2 km. The existing 60-feet service lanes would be expanded into 80 feet stretch to accommodate more vehicles, mainly two-wheelers and cars. The NHAI would commence the work next week and is expected to complete it before the onset of northeast monsoon. Simultaneously, old storm water drains on the service lanes would be demolished and new ones built at the end of the widened stretches, providing more space for motorists and walkers. At present, motorcycles, autorickshaws and cars use the service lanes to reach Vellore and Katpadi via the Green Circle and the bridge across the Palar river. Other vehicles have to use the narrow road space available near the underpass work area. A police patrol team has been deployed at the intersection to regulate traffic especially during night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-afoot-to-decongest-traffic-near-green-circle/article35619184.ece
30 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||E-post counter opened in Vellore||An exclusive e-post counter was opened at Vellore Head Post Office (HPO) on Thursday for sports enthusiasts to send their wishes to Tokyo Olympic silver medallist, Mirabai Chanu. A nominal fee of Rs. 10 will be charged for each e-post. According to a press release, the initiative is aimed at encouraging the winners at the Olympic games and also those who are still contesting. Sports enthusiasts can also send an e-post message ‘Best of Luck Indian Olympic Team’ for the forthcoming events. The event was inaugurated by M. Tamil Selvan, a national bronze medallist a decade ago and works as a postman in the Department of Posts in the Fort Town. The function was presided over by P. Komal Kumar, Superintendent of Post Offices (Vellore division), and G. Srinivasan, senior postmaster, Vellore HPO. Citizens can dial this number - 9043745442 - for assistance, the release issued here added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-post-counter-opened-in-vellore/article35619180.ece
30 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 30 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,015 with 30 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 46,559 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 362. The district's death toll is 1,094. In Ranipet district, 20 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,926. In Tirupattur district, 18 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,213. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 54, taking the tally of cases to 51,974. Out of this, 50,608 persons have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 729.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-30-new-cases/article35619178.ece
30 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Sathuragiri closed to devotees||The district administration has temporarily banned entry of devotees to Sundaramahalingam temple atop Sathuragiri for Aadi Amavasai due to COVID-19 pandemic threat. Since Aadi Amavasai attracts a large number of devotees to the temple, their entry has been temporarily banned between August 6 and 9 as a precautionary measure, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy has said in a statement. Regular puja will continue as usual at the temple on those days. The Collector appealed to devotees not to come to the foothills of the temple at Thaniparai with the intention of climbing up the hills for darshan, the Statement said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sathuragiri-closed-to-devotees-on-aadi-amavasai/article35618818.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||OFT launches TriCa carbine||The Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, (OFT), on Thursday launched TriCa, a 7.62X39mm carbine. A light and compact weapon, TriCa, was developed through in-house R&D of OFT. It is designed for crew of infantry combat vehicles, helicopters, paratroopers, police, security men guarding highly secure building such as airports and special operation forces, which require compact and relatively powerful individual automatic weapons, according to a OFT press release. TriCa has special muzzle booster which helps hide the flash and mitigate the sound during firing. It also has a better effective range than a typical sub-machine gun. TriCa can use ammunition and magazines as well as the interchangeable parts of general assault rifles (TAR and AK-47). It can be hidden in jackets of security personnel and even concealed under clothes. Sanjay Dwivedi, General Manager, OFT, launched TriCA at a function held at the factory in the presence of Rajiv Jain and A. K. Singh, Additional General Managers and S. Krishnaswamy, Joint General Manager, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oft-launches-trica-carbine/article35618792.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||War Room employees seek contract extension||A section of data entry operators, nurses, health inspectors, and other health workers - all employed on contract at COVID-19 War Room for two months- petitioned the Collector here on Thursday seeking contract extension. The employees said that they worked round the clock when COVID-19 positive cases were at the peak during the second wave of the pandemic. Now that an order had been issued to terminate their job contract, the had lost the only means for their livelihood. So the State government must extend their employment contract to December-end, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/war-room-employees-seek-contract-extension/article35619003.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees increase in new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district registered an increase in the number of new COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Thursday. The district reported 188 cases on Thursday against the 179 cases it had on Wednesday. The district had 169 cases on Tuesday. Officials with the Health Department said they were analysing factors behind the increase in the number of cases. An official said a similar increase in cases was reported in a few other districts too. Three more persons died of the disease and the toll increased to 2,172. A total of 198 persons were discharged on Thursday and the district had 1,905 active cases. Tiruppur reported 78 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 87,650. Three deaths were reported and the toll went up to 821. There were 1,123 active cases and 143 persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 40 persons tested positive and the total number of cases stood at 30,438. The toll stood at 179 while 564 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-increase-in-new-covid-19-cases/article35618717.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting for communication skills, 6.30 p.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Virtual faculty development programme, 2 p.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: ‘Tech Connect’ webinar, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article35618713.ece
30 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Krishna sees reduced inflow||Another sunny day in Belagavi and South Maharashtra meant reduced inflow into the Krishna and its tributaries in North Karnataka on Thursday. Water release into the Krishna and its tributaries has reduced to 3.43 lakh cusecs. Outflow from Alamatti was around 4 lakh cusecs. Inflow into the Renuka Sagar Dam on the Malaprabha was 4,909 cusecs and outflow 5,094 cusecs. The dam has 27 tmcft of water against the gross storage capacity of 37.73 tmcft. In the Raja Lakhamagouda Reservoir on the Ghataprabha, inflow was measured at 17,260 cusecs and outflow 6,109 cusecs. However, the problems remain. As on Thursday, there are 45,908 persons in 141 relief centres. As many as 146 houses have been completely damaged and 2,822 partially damaged. Agriculture and horticulture crops have been damaged on 38,043 hectares of land. Officials have shifted or rescued a total of 1.04 lakh persons and 4,469 head of cattle in 192 villages in the district. As many as 21 bridges are still under water and they are expected to be thrown open for traffic by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-sees-reduced-inflow/article35618833.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Safety inspection of extended Purple Line on August 11 and 12||After a long wait, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) have finally been intimated of the dates for the safety inspection of the extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road station to Kengeri. The Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS), Southern Circle, is scheduled to inspect the line on August 11 and 12. Commercial operation on the 7-km line can be opened only after safety clearance by CMRS. BMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that he is hopeful of opening the line by August. “The CMRS and his team will inspect the line. Prior to the opening of the line, we have to comply with the instructions given by the CMRS,” he said. Facilities have been put in place to ensure that there is ample space for buses and pedestrians. “Our officials have learnt various lessons from phase I of Namma Metro. The new stations built under phase II have bus bays. Access has been provided for pedestrians to cross the road using the metro stations and avoid jaywalking. Provisions have also been made to build a foot overbridge with the Traffic and Transit Management Centre at Kengeri,” said Mr. Parwez. The line has six metro stations at Nayanadahalli, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattengere, Kengeri Bus Terminal, and Kengeri. BMRCL estimates that opening of the line would benefit 70,000 passengers a day. This is the second extended line of Namma Metro to be opened to the public under phase II of Namma Metro. In January, BMRCL had opened the extended green line on Kanakapura Road from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute. Bannerghatta road Commenting on the status of awarding tenders for resumption of work on the elevated corridor on Bannerghatta road, Mr. Parwez said it will resume shortly. The process of awarding the contract is on and will be done after getting clearance from the European Investment Bank, the agency providing the loan for the project, he said. Early this year, BMRCL had terminated the contract of Simplex Infrastructure Ltd. for failing to execute the elevated metro project on Bannerghatta Road in time, the slow pace of work, and failure to comply with the tender norms. To date, only 37% of the construction work has been completed on the stretch between Kalena Agrahara and Swagath Road Cross. In March, BMRCL had floated a tender to complete pending work. Three companies participating in the tender have been technically qualified. The elevated line is part of the 21-km pink line, under phase II of the metro project from Kalena Agrahara to Nagawara, which includes an underground line from Dairy Circle to Nagawara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safety-inspection-of-extended-purple-line-on-august-11-and-12/article35618629.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deaths reduce, but 18 districts continue to record high seven-day average CFR||A day after COVID-19 fatalities in the State fell below 20 — for the first time in over three months — the number again shot up to 35 on Thursday. Two districts — Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada — reported nine and eight deaths, respectively, while fourteen districts reported zero deaths. With a drop in new cases, although the daily fatalities too have been declining, the seven-day average Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in at least 18 districts is higher than the State average. For the past one month, the State has been consistently reporting zero deaths in over a dozen districts, bringing down the seven-day average CFR from 3.01% on June 29 to 1.79% on July 29. However, districts such as Haveri, Bidar, Ramanagaram, Raichur, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Dharwad, and Kolar continue to see a high seven-day average CFR. The seven-day average CFR, which was highest in Bagalkot last week at 18.18%, has reduced to 11.11% this week (seven days prior to July 28). Haveri, which had the fourth highest seven-day average CFR last week at 7.50%, now has the highest mortality rate at 25.93%. As on July 28, the seven-day average CFR was less than 1% in 13 districts with the lowest in Chitradurga and Yadgir, which had 0%, followed by Udupi and Davangere that had 0.68% and 0.88%, respectively. In Bengaluru Urban, the seven-day average mortality rate has reduced from 2.05% on June 29 to 1.06% on July 29. Till June 5, although there was a significant decline in new cases, the number of deaths remained intriguingly high. Data, however, showed that many deaths that occurred as early as in March, April, and May were being accounted for in the State media bulletins, leading to the high number. Experts attributed the decline in fatalities to the easy availability of healthcare facilities such as oxygen and ICU beds, apart from drugs. “During the peak of the second wave of infections, finding an ICU/oxygen bed was an ordeal for patients and many died waiting for a bed. But now, with availability of beds and oxygen, patients have access to better treatment facilities and prioritised care,” said a doctor who is part of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike death audit committee. V. Ravi, who is nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka and is also part of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said the high rate of mortality in some districts could be because of late reporting. “People should not be under the impression that the pandemic has ended. Any symptom such as fever, cough, and breathlessness should not be neglected and people shouldreport early,” he said. “All districts are better equipped with health infrastructure now and the onus is on people to seek immediate healthcare. They should not let their guard down and should continue to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said this was the usual pattern of growth and fall of CFR that was noticed during the first wave last year too. “Such fluctuations are common when the caseload is low. When there is a decline in the number of new cases, even few deaths are projected statistically as a high mortality rate,” he explained. “What is important now is to sustain the low CFR. People should not become complacent. Early reporting will help in early intervention, thereby preventing complications,” he said.  What is important now is to sustain the low CFR. People should not become complacent. Early reporting will help in early intervention, thereby preventing complications C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in Karnataka’s COVID-19 task force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deaths-reduce-but-18-districts-record-high-7-day-average-cfr/article35618636.ece
30 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Lobbying for Dy. CM posts, ministerial berths gains pace||The new Cabinet is likely to have three posts of Deputy Chief Minister (Dy. CM) and it is learnt that the names of Govind Karjol, from among the Dalits, R. Ashok from among Vokkaligas, and B. Sriramulu from the Valmiki community have almost been finalised. However, with at least a week to 10 days before Cabinet expansion, many have taken to lobbying for Dy. CM posts, while also protesting over the names reportedly finalised. With all three of them are considered to be close to Mr. Yediyurappa, the other faction in the party, which played a key role in dislodging him, has reportedly protested demanding representation in the posts, sources said. While C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Laxman Savadi, Dy. CMs in the previous dispensation, have been lobbying hard to retain their posts, senior Minister and a former Dy. CM K.S. Eshwarappa has thrown his hat in the ring, saying unlike Jagadish Shettar who bowed out of the Cabinet race, he was ready to be either a Dy. CM or a Minister in Mr. Bommai’s Cabinet. Prominent Kuruba seers also made the demand to make him a Dy. CM on Thursday. Several other prominent leaders, including some of those who are yet to make their debut as Ministers, have been lobbying to become Dy. CM, sources said. Meanwhile, how will the party high command and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai accommodate other chief ministerial aspirants and dissenters against Mr. Yediyurappa such as Arvind Bellad, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Murugesh Nirani, and C.P. Yogeshwar in the new Cabinet, is being keenly watched even within the party circles. Panchamashali Lingayat seers have expressed disappointment over one of their leaders not becoming the Chief Minister, but demanded a fair representation in the Cabinet. Mr. Bellad, Mr. Yatnal, and Mr. Nirani belong to the community. Major changes Party sources said the high command would likely go for major changes in the composition of the Cabinet, giving chances to many new faces, especially from among the party cadre from the RSS stables. “At least 10 or 12 Ministers in the former dispensation will likely be dropped to make room for new faces. Even among the defectors not all are tipped to be Ministers again,” a senior party leader said. Notwithstanding Mr. Bommai’s assertion that his New Delhi trip on Friday would be only a courtesy call and he would discuss Cabinet expansion with central leaders only next week, several ministerial aspirants have already been camping in the national capital trying to lobby for a suitable berth. Former Ministers Umesh Katti, Shashikala Jolle, and R. Ashok are in New Delhi even as more aspirants are likely to join them by Friday, sources said. Mr. Yediyurappa told mediapersons on Thursday that he would not interfere in the Cabinet formation. However, when quizzed on the fate of defectors who have said they joined the party trusting him, Mr. Yediyurappa said he would speak to the Chief Minister and advice him on the future of those who were responsible for bringing the BJP to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lobbying-for-dy-cm-posts-ministerial-berths-gains-pace/article35618649.ece
30 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||JD(S) petitions President on hastening notification of tribunal awards||A delegation of Janata Dal (Secular) legislators, led by the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, met Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Thursday to impress upon him the need to hasten notifying the Krishna tribunal and Mahadayi tribunal awards “The phase III of Krishna irrigation works in Karnataka are yet to start though the Krishna Water Tribunal second award was given in 2013, allocating 130 tmcft of water to the State. There is no problem for notifying the award through a gazette, which is getting delayed,” Mr. Kumaraswamy told presspersons here after meeting the Governor. “The memorandum has been submitted to open the eyes of the Centre in this regard,” he added. Similarly, he pointed out that though the allocation of Mahadayi water was done in 2014, the allocation has not been notified through the gazette. “Karnataka is unable to complete the Kalasa–Banduri canal project since the notification has not been done. We are asking the President through a memorandum to the Governor to direct the Centre to notify both the awards.” With respect to the balancing reservoir across the Cauvery at Mekedatu, he said the Centre had gone back on the approvals given to take up the project under pressure from Tamil Nadu. “The Centre allowed the preparation of the DPR for the project but the project is yet to take off due to the policies of the Union Government.” The balancing reservoir is to meet the drinking water needs of Bengaluru, which is estimated to require 60 tmcft for an estimated population of three crore by 2044, he added. “The opposition of Tamil Nadu is against the spirit of federal structure and the Centre has to intervene to settle the dispute.” The former Chief Minister also announced that a delegation of JD(S) leaders would shortly meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind to discuss the irrigation issues. “We are trying to get appointments from both,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-petitions-president-on-hastening-notification-of-tribunal-awards/article35618642.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 364 more Delta variant cases||Karnataka on Thursday reported 364 more Delta (B.1.617.2) variant cases taking the total number to 1,089. The new cases are from samples collected two to four weeks ago. Delta variant cases in the State that stood at 725 till Wednesday shot up to 1,089 on Thursday. This strain has been labelled a variant-of-concern (VoC) by the WHO because of its ability to evade an immune system response. Members of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee said the high number of Delta cases being detected from retrospective samples clearly indicate that the second wave in the State was largely driven by this variant. “All samples sequenced now are Delta cases and this is the trend across the country. Although the detection of more Delta cases from retrospective samples is not a matter of concern now, it is a highly infectious variant and people have to follow all COVID protocols and get vaccinated,” said V. Ravi, who heads the Genomic Surveillance Committee. Dr. Ravi, who is also the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said: “All vaccines protect against severe illness and death but not against infection. This protection is the same even in Delta variant infected cases and it is important that all eligible people get vaccinated.” New cases The State on Thursday reported 2,052 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,01,247. Of these, 506 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 35 deaths, the toll rose to 36,491. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,332 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 28,41,479. The State now has 23,253 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.37%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-364-more-delta-variant-cases/article35618637.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘CFE given for Karwar port project illegal’||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday held as illegal the consent for establishment (CFE) granted by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) for the second stage development of the commercial Karwar port at Baithkol village in Karwar in July 2020. However, the court allowed the KSPCB to take a fresh decision for grant of CFE within a month by adhering to the provisions of the laws related to control of air and water pollution. It accepted the undertaking given by the KPSCB to carry out a fresh inspection and process to consider the application for grant of CFE made by the port officer, Karwar. Also, the court directed the government to ensure all the terms and conditions of the Environment Clearance granted on January 2019 by the State Level Environmental Impact Assessment Authority were scrupulously followed and implemented while carrying out the project. The court said that work of second stage development cannot commence until the KSPCB grants CFE. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order while partly allowing a PIL petition filed by the Uttara Kannada District Fishermen’s Association Forum, Karwar. Except for finding illegality in the KSPCB process, the Bench rejected all the other objections raised by the petitioner against the project. While pointing out a series of procedural lapses in the process adopted by the KSPCB in granting CFE, the Bench said the jurisdictional environmental officer had not inquired into the extent of possible air and water pollution which may be caused by the project and in what manner the project’s proponent was going to deal with the pollution and control it. “Apart from the shocking manner in which the KSPCB dealt with the applications made by the port officer for grant of consent for establishment, the entire process is vitiated because of the non-application of mind, non-consideration of the relevant factors, and the illegality in the decision-making process,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cfe-given-for-karwar-port-project-illegal/article35618845.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Threshold for micro-containment zones reduced from 10 to three||The number of micro-containment zones in the city has risen to 101, after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) recently re-defined the parameters, making them more stringent. Initially, a micro-containment zone was defined as a 100-metre radius around a place from where more than 10 COVID-19 positive cases were reported. The number has now been reduced to three. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that while 300-400 cases are being reported in the city every day, the threshold for containment zones was reduced to check further spread. “There is no need for anxiety among citizens over the increase in containment zones or clusters. In fact, they should be rest assured that positive cases have been detected and contained. This has been done mainly to help civic health officials keep a closer watch, take up intensive testing, and contact tracing,” he said. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep said reduction of the threshold has helped the civic body ascertain the source of infection in positive cases. People who have tested positive either have travel history – mainly inter-district and inter-State – or visited crowded places like markets and social events. “We have directed civic officials to trace up to 30 contacts in the containment zones, and increase testing in those areas as well,” he said. At 29, Mahadevpura has the most number of active micro-containment zones, followed by Bommanahalli (27). With more COVID-19 cases being reported in Kerala, the civic chief said it was all the more important to follow COVID appropriate behaviour. He urged those travelling into the city from other places to not ignore symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/threshold-for-micro-containment-zones-reduced-from-10-to-three/article35618640.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for selling opium||The Parappana Agrahara police on Thursday arrested two men for allegedly peddling drugs, and seized one kg of opium worth Rs. 20 lakh from them. The accused Amararam, 32, a resident of Electronic City, and Motilal, 48, of Chikkabanavara, hail from Rajasthan. The police said the accused were arrested following a tip-off that they were trying to sell opium to working professionals who live in paying guest accommodations, near a restaurant in Ananda Reddy Layout in Electronic City Phase II. “We have also seized their two-wheeler. Investigations revealed that they purchased the opium from their source in Rajasthan,” said police. This is the second opium seizure this month. Around 10 days ago, the Magadi road police arrested a 31-year-old salesman from Rajasthan for allegedly selling opium near a college. At the time, they recovered 1.8 kg of opium from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-selling-opium/article35618621.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ejipura-Koramangala flyover: ‘State timeline for completing project’||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to state the timeline for completing the 2.5 km-long flyover between Ejipura main road and Kendriya Sadana in Koramangala. A Division Bench issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by Adinarayan Shetty, resident of Koramangala 5th Block. The petitioner pointed out that tender was floated for construction in 2014 and the contract was awarded and work order was issued in favour of M/s Simplex Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. in May 2017 for construction at a cost of Rs. 203 crore. The construction was supposed to be completed in 30 months from the date of issuance of work order. However, work progressed at a snail’s pace and the company was able to complete only 50% of the work even after grant of extension of time till December 2020 after imposing penalty for delay beyond 30 months. Pointing out from a newspaper report that the company appears to have abandoned the project resulting in BBMP floating new tender for completion of the flyover, the petitioner sought early completion of the work while stating that public are put to hardships due to traffic congestion and incomplete construction works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ejipura-koramangala-flyover-state-timeline-for-completing-project/article35618624.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three held for stealing two-wheelers||The Kamakshipalya police have arrested three youths for allegedly stealing two-wheelers and recovered 26 scooters and bikes from them. According to the police, one of the accused, would fly down to Bengaluru from Rajasthan to steal two-wheelers. A police team recently went to Rajasthan to nab the accused – Vikas Kumar, 20, Dhavaldas, 21, and Dhasharath, 20. “They started stealing two-wheelers in January this year, and also attempted to break into an ATM,” said a police officer. The police started tracking the trio while investigating a case of a stolen scooter in Sunkadakatte in February. “They sold the stolen two-wheelers to customers in Vijayanagar, Kamakshipalya, Jnanabarathi, and Annapoorneshwarinagar in West Bengaluru,” the police officer added. Investigations so far have revealed that the accused are school dropouts. Vikas, a mechanic by profession, moved to Bengaluru three years ago and worked in a garage in Nagarabhavi for a year. He returned to Rajasthan during the lockdown. Dhasharath and Dhavaldas, who hail from Rajasthan, worked at hardware shops in Bengaluru. According to the police, Vikas knew how to cut the ignition wires and connect them to start the vehicles without a key. Dhasharath would call him whenever they wanted to steal two-wheelers, and Vikas would then book a flight from his hometown in Rajasthan to Bengaluru. “They stole vehicles parked in front of houses at night and hid them in forest land at Andrahalli,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-for-stealing-two-wheelers/article35618627.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School association official attacked||D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, escaped with minor injuries when he thwarted an attack by an armed gang outside his house in Jalahalli on Thursday night. The incident was caught on CCTV. Mr. Kumar was getting down from his car at around 9 p.m. outside his residence, when three men attacked him with lethal weapons. He quickly jumped back into the car and pulled the door towards him to avoid the blows. But the accused continued to attack him, until Mr. Kumar pulled out a gun in self-defence. The attackers fled the scene. He, along with his driver, chased them, but the gang escaped. Mr. Kumar sustained injuries on his leg and was taken to a hospital. The police said Mr. Kumar’s weapon was licenced. “We have taken up a case and are analysing CCTV footage from in and around to identify the attackers,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-association-official-attacked/article35618625.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccine shortage: BBMP fails to meet target||With severe vaccine shortage, the BBMP has not been able to achieve its ambitious target of covering at least 70% of the eligible population by the end of the month. Civic chief Gaurav Gupta said the BBMP had in place necessary infrastructure to administer up to 1 lakh vaccinations a day. owever, with just around 40,000 doses being allotted to the civic body every other day, the number of people being vaccinated in public health facilities is very less. “So far, around 60% of the eligible population has received at least one dose and 16% have received both doses. The State government has apprised the Centre about the demand for more vaccines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-shortage-bbmp-fails-to-meet-target/article35618638.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. response sought on PIL on safety of doctors||The High Court of Karnataka onThursday sought the State government’s response on a PIL petition seeking measures to protect medical practitioners from attacks from the relatives of patients and to appoint a joint expert committee to address the grievances of doctors. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda issued the direction on the petition, filed by Vinod G. Kulkarni, a neuropsychiatric from Hubballi. The petitioner complained that attacks on medical professionals, particularly doctors, by the family members of patients were on the rise and several such instances were reported during the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The petitioner contended that subjecting doctors to cruelty, violence, and atrocity by any means, including attacks on them/the hospitals/health infrastructure/their family members, amounted to a violation of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Dr. Kulkarni also said that besides effectively enforcing the existing legal remedies available for the protection of doctors, several other measures were required to provide security to medical practitioners, including setting up a committee headed by a retired High Court judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-response-sought-on-doctors-safety/article35618633.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It’s Janata Parivar govt.: Kumaraswamy||The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday likened the present BJP government under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai as a “Janata Parivar government”. “We should be proud that today’s government is a Janata Parivar government. Mr. Bommai is our friend and he has come from our (Janata) parivar,” he told reporters. He said, “Though he has been elected by the BJP, I have a feeling that he is the Chief Minister from Janata Parivar.” “We will support him [Mr. Bommai] to take up development works. I had extended issue-based support to B.S. Yediyurappa government too. I will not interfere and destabilise the government. However, we have to see how much the BJP supports him.” The BJP-led government at the Centre, which did not cooperate with Mr. Yediyurappa, was likely to put Mr. Bommai also at inconvenience, he added. The former Chief Minister said the Centre should cooperate with the new government by releasing the pending grants and GST compensation towards the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-janata-parivar-govt-kumaraswamy/article35618643.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC bus driver killed in accident at depot||A Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus driver was killed on the spot and a dailywage worker was injured in an accident involving three buses at the depot in Majestic on Thursday morning. The driver of an Airavat bus lost control and rammed into two other buses, mowed down a driver who was walking out of the depot, jumped a divider and hit another passenger. The deceased driver, Ningappa, 46, who hailed from Yadgir, died on the spot. Ranjith Takhur, 30, from Jharkhand is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital. “His legs were caught and smashed between the grilles of two buses,” said the police. The driver of the Airavat, Hanumanthappa, 34, allegedly lost control while taking a steep turn. “Three buses were damaged and the Airavat bus has been seized,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-bus-driver-killed-in-accident-at-depot/article35618626.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tweet that warmed JD(S) leaders’ hearts||A tweet by Vijetha Ananth Kumar, daughter of late BJP leader H.N. Ananth Kumar, complimenting the Janata Dal (S) was lapped up by regional party leaders. “Why Karnataka politics is really interesting? JD(S) is still a strong political force,” she tweeted on Thursday. The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy welcomed the tweet and said it was an answer to those questioning the relevance of the regional party. Party MP Prajwal Revanna and party spokesperson T.A. Sharavana also welcomed her tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tweet-that-warmed-jds-leaders-hearts/article35618644.ece
30 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Two years marked by corruption scandals’||The BJP government, which came to power through “defections”, completed two years in office with a long list of corruption scandals that dashed the hopes of good administration and the promise of a double-engine government for the State, alleged Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised a double-engine government to the State, with the BJP in power both at the State and the Centre. But insteadof that, what we got was a corrupt government and maladministration on all fronts, right from handling the pandemic to floods,” the Congress leader alleged. Releasing a 64-page booklet on “corruption scandals and failures” of the BJP government, here on Thursday, Mr. Siddaramaiah claimed that BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa had been removed to control the damage to the government. Corruption was rampant in departments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-years-marked-by-corruption-scandals/article35618650.ece
30 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be disruption in power supply from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. July 30 and 31 in view of maintenance works. The affected areas are: July 30: Electronic City Phase-1, Doddathagur, Bommanahalli, NJR Layout, Chikkathogur, Hongsandra. July 31: Electronic City Phase-2, Veersandra, Doddanagamangla, Ananthanagara, Chokkasandra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article35618622.ece
30 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||In BJP bastion, it’s time for aspirations and prayers||Ahead of Ccabinet formation under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, supporters of legislators have begun raising a voice seeking ministerial berths for their leaders. A few have held press conferences asking the party high command to consider their leaders’ contributions to the party, others held special prayers in temples. Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts are strong bastions of the BJP. B.S.Yediyurappa, who resigned as Chief Minister, was elected from Shikaripur constituency in Shivamogga. Party sources say that senior leader K.S. Eshwarappa, who was Minister for RDPR, might not get a position in the new Cabinet. With this, other senior legislators from the district are hoping to get a chance this time. Araga Jnanendra, who has been elected to the Assembly from Thirthahalli four times, is hopeful that he will make it this time. His supporters held special prayers in the temples at Thirthahalli on Thursday. Former Ministers Kumar Bangarappa and Hartal Halappa are also strong aspirants. One of them could get into the Cabinet. In Chikkamagaluru, BJP has won four of five Assembly seats. C.T. Ravi who was a Minister in the Yediyurappa-led Cabinet, resigned after he was appointed party’s national general secretary. His name was also doing the rounds for the Chief Minister’s post. He has made it clear that the party would take a decision on his role in the party or the government. Mudigere MLA M.P. Kumaraswamy, a three-time MLA, is hopeful of getting an entry into the Cabinet this time. When he was offered chairmanship of a corporation earlier, he refused to accept it, maintaining that he wanted a ministerial berth. Preetham Gowda, elected from Hassan constituency, is the only BJP MLA from Hassan district. He told presspersons in Hassan on Wednesday he was not into lobbying for a Cabinet position and would go by the party’s decision. However, his supporters are hopeful that he would get a berth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-bjp-bastion-its-time-for-aspirations-and-prayers/article35619027.ece
30 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ready for any post: KSE||Senior BJP leader K.S. Eshwarappa has said he was ready to be in the Cabinet led by Basavaraj Bommai, making it clear that he would not follow another senior leader Jagadish Shettar’s decision not to be in the Cabinet. He told presspersons in Shivamogga on Thursday that he was ready to handle either the post of Deputy Chief Minister or a ministerial berth. “I will not take the decision that Shettar had taken. I will go by the party’s decision”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-for-any-post-kse/article35619029.ece
30 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||74 fresh cases in Shivamogga, 126 in Hassan||Shivamogga district reported 74 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one more death on Thursday. With that, total deaths due to the infection increased to 1,041. Among the fresh cases, 28 were reported in Shivamogga, 14 in Bhadravati, 17 in Thirthahalli, three in Shikaripur, four in Sagar, seven in Hosanagar and one from out of the district. As of Thursday, 435 are under treatment. Hassan reported 126 fresh cases and one death on the day. The total number of cases in the district increased to 1,06,425. So far 1,266 people have died in the district due to the infection. As many as 1,062 are under treatment, said a bulletin issued by the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/74-fresh-cases-in-shivamogga-126-in-hassan/article35619039.ece
30 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fare revision favoured||The Shivamogga district transport authority, headed by Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar, has favoured revision of travel fare in private buses by 25%. A decision would be taken to this effect soon in this regard, the Deputy Commissioner said in a communique from the district administration. The neighbouring districts have already revised the bus fare. Considering the rates prevailing in those districts, the administration would take a decision. Similarly, there had been a demand from the autorickshaw drivers to revise the fare. The authority would take a decision considering the prevailing minimum fare in other districts, he said. The authority had stopped issuing permits for fresh autorickshaws in the city. There was no need of taking permits for electric autorickshaws. However, the drivers had to wear uniforms and have the meter installed, he said. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad, RTO Sridhar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fare-revision-favoured/article35619028.ece
30 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Casual workers stage protest||Casual workers of government hostels of the Backward Classes Welfare Department have alleged that they have not got salaries for the past one year. They staged a protest in Hassan on Thursday, under the banner of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike Swabhimani Sene. As many as 76 people have been working in the hostels on a contract basis in the district. They get Rs. 10,200 a month as salary. Following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the hostels remained closed for several months, denying them work and pay. Only those who were asked to work at hostels, which were converted into COVID Care Centres, got salaries. “The workers in three hostels were asked to repay the salary they got for a month,” said a worker. However, District Officer Harsha, said there were no payment dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/casual-workers-stage-protest/article35618844.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Former Minister’s MUV hits CM’s escort vehicle||In a freak accident, a multi-utility vehicle (MUV) of the former Minister Shivaram Hebbar hit the escort vehicle of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Hubballi on Thursday. The accident occurred after the Chief Minister’s vehicle left the airport and was on its way to Keshav Kunj. The driver of the MUV was trying to follow the Chief Minister’s convoy, when he lost control and hit the escort vehicle. According to sources, Mr. Shivaram Hebbar was not in the MUV and was in the Chief Minister’s car. Those in the vehicle suffered minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-ministers-muv-hits-cms-escort-vehicle/article35618839.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bommai visits Keshav Kunj, garlands Hedgewar’s bust||Visiting his home town Hubballi on Thursday for the first time after becoming Chief Minister, Basavaraj Bommai paid a courtesy visit to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s North Karnataka office in Hubballi Keshav Kunj. Soon after landing in Hubballi and after being greeted by his followers at the airport, Mr. Bommai, accompanied by BJP State general secretary Mahesh Tenginakai, drove straight to Keshav Kunj where a group of senior RSS functionaries, led by Akhil Bharat Vyvastha Pramukh Mangesh Bhende, and others were waiting to greet him. Soon after his arrival at Keshav Kunj, Mr. Bommai garlanded the bust of RSS founder Keshav Hedgewar and then paid floral tributes to Bharat Mata. After the formal introduction to those who were present, Mr. Bhende, Nagar Sangh Chalak Shivanand Avati, Uttar Prant Sanchalak of Kutumb Prabhodhan P.R. Nagaraj, Divisional Secretary Kiran Guddadakeri, president of Seva Bharati Raghu Akmanchi, Vibhag Prabhari Jayateerth Katti, BJP Mahanagar Zilla president Umesh Dushi and others formally felicitated him on behalf of the sangh. Soon after the exchange of pleasantries and distribution of sweets, Mr. Bommai left Keshav Kunj. He, however, did not speak to media persons who were waiting outside. Blessings Subsquently, the Chief Minister visited the Samadhis (Gadduge) of his parents located at Amaragol in-between Hubballi and Dharwad and paid floral tributes. He garlanded the busts of his father Somappa R. Bommai and Gangammma S. Bommai and prayed for a few minutes. He later told presspersons that the blessings of his parents were above all and so he had gone there to seek them. Before proceeding to Uttara Kannada, the Chief Minister met Sri Veerasomeshwara Shivacharya Swami of Rambhapuri Peetha at Rambhapuri Kalyanmantap in Hubballi and sought his blessings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-visits-keshav-kunj-garlands-hedgewars-bust/article35618841.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protest against semester exam||Hundreds of students from various degree colleges of Hubballi, Dharwad, and surrounding places marched to the Karnatak University campus on Thursday, opposing the university’s decision to hold examinations for first, third, and fifth semester students. Karnatak University has 261 affiliated colleges in Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, and Uttara Kannada districts. On Thursday, hundreds of students staged the protest under the banner of the National Students Union of India (NSUI). They congregated in front of the office of the Vice-Chancellor and demanded that the exams be cancelled and the students promoted to next semester. The protesters said that as per the calendar of events, Karnatak University should have conducted degree exams in March. However, because of various reasons such as the pandemic-induced lockdown and related restrictions, they were put off indefinitely. The protesters said that now the university had announced the time table for the exams, to be conducted in August. However, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had issued a circular directing all universities to terminate all semester exams and hold exams only for the final-semester students. The UGC had also asked the universities to promote the students of first, third and fifth semesters based on internal marks. But now, violating the UGC circular, Karnatak University has decided to conduct exams from August 16, the students alleged. The students said that they were already facing problems, with many in rural areas unable to attend online classes due to connectivity issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-semester-exam/article35618851.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Floods: CM promises special grants for road, bridge reconstruction||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who visited the flood-affected areas in Uttara Kannada district on Thursday, announced that special grants would be provided for reconstruction of public infrastructure such as damaged bridges and roads. Accompanied by the former Minister Shivaram Hebbar and senior officials, the Chief Minister visited various villages of Yellapur taluk in Uttara Kannada district. Visit to ‘Keshav Kunj’ The Chief Minister’s tour of the district was preceded by a visit to the RSS office ‘Keshav Kunj’ in Hubballi. He also visited the ‘samadhis’ (Gadduge) of his father, the former Chief Minister S.R. Bommai, and his mother, Gangamma, at Amaragol before going ahead with his official visit. He also took the blessings of the seer of Rambhapuri Peetha Veerasomeshwara Shivacharya Swami in Hubballi. After visiting a collapsed bridge in Yellapur taluk, the Chief Minister said that as grants under the SDRF would not be sufficient for taking up reconstruction of damaged roads and collapsed bridges, provision for additional grants would be made by the State government. Extensive damage Mr. Bommai said that due to heavy rainfall and subsequent floods, roads, bridges, and houses had suffered extensive damage in Yellapur and Ankola taluks and six persons had died. Mr. Bommai said that the immediate task would be to provide relief to the families that had lost shelter. Compensation would be paid for house collapse and for the damage, and works on restoring road connectivity would be taken up immediately. Videoconference Amid his visit to the flood-hit areas of Uttara Kannada district, Mr. Bommai also attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s videoconference with Chief Ministers on the National Education Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/floods-cm-promises-special-grants-for-road-bridge-reconstruction/article35618646.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Need Opposition unity now, says Y.S.V. Datta||Senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader Y.S.V. Datta on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was systematically creating an “Emergency situation” in the country and to put up a strong fight against it, there was a need for all Opposition parties to unite for the common cause. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr. Datta said that during the 1970s, the Congress was directly responsible for Emergency in the nation. Then, under the leadership of socialist Jayaprakash Narayan, all united under the Janata Parivar and initiated a new era of political movement. “Now it has become inevitable for all the Opposition parties to unite against the BJP, and the JD(S) will also join hands,” he said. On the Pegasus software, Mr. Datta said that already the tech company NSO had revealed that it sold the spyware only to government and government agencies. “Over 50 leading personalities of the country have been put under surveillance using the spyware. The government has misused nearly Rs. 2,500 crore of public money for snooping on journalists, Opposition leaders, and activists,” he alleged. Mr. Datta also said he would congratulate new Chief Minister of the State, Basavaraj Bommai. “He is originally from Janata Parivar and is a humble man. However, there is war-like situation in State politics and the new Chief Minister has series of challenges before him. Let us see how a peacetime leader will tackle the situation,” he said. To a query, Mr. Datta said the party was taking various measures towards strengthening itself and expanding its base in various districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-opposition-unity-now-says-ysv-datta/article35618852.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CBI resumes questioning in Goudar murder case||Sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), who are investigating the murder of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, resumed questioning on Thursday and grilled the slain panchayat member’s wife Mallamma and a close aide of the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, Nagaraj Gouri. The CBI team questioned Mallamma and Nagaraj Gouri for several hours at the Suburban Police Station in Dharwad. The grilling was reportedly regarding destruction of evidence. On Wednesday, the CBI team conducted extensive search at the old building in the Police Headquarters in Dharwad, which earlier housed the Dharwad Suburban Police Station. In 2016, the year Yogeeshgouda Goudar was murdered, the Suburban Police Station was functioning from this old building, as renovation of the present building was under progress then. The team carried out the search for nearly three hours, sources said. Vinay Kulkarni has been arrested by the CBI on the charge of masterminding the murder of Yogeeshgouda Goudar and destruction of evidence. Vinay Kulkarni is lodged in Hindalga Jail in Belagavi since November 5, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-resumes-questioning-in-goudar-murder-case/article35618832.ece
30 July 2021||HUBBBALLI,KARNATAKA||I love Hubballi and will do everything for it, says Bommai||“Hubballi is the city I was born in and brought up. I have a big bunch of friends and acquaintances. And, Hubballi is the city I love the most. I will do everything for its development,” these were the words of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who on his first visit to Hubballi on Thursday after becoming the Chief Minister. Basanna, as he is fondly known among his followers, was given a rousing welcome soon after he landed at Hubballi Airport in a special aircraft. Slogans were raised and many tried to greet him by shaking hands and the police had a difficult time controlling the crowd. “I never imagined that one day I would land in Hubballi as Chief Minister. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J.P. Nadda, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have bestowed on me a big responsibility. The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has blessed me,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that he was well aware of the issues concerning Hubballi-Dharwad and he has plans for its better future. “Being the second biggest municipal corporation in the State, there are issues concerning infrastructure and industrialisation. I have seniors Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar to discuss issues with along with the party’s senior leaders and based on their suggestions, I will implement programmes for its development,” he said. On the Upper Krishna Project, the Chief Minister said that he was very well aware of the matter. After the tribunal’s award Andhra Pradesh approached the Supreme Court and together with Maharashtra, Karnataka is fighting the case there. “We are hopeful of the matter being resolved in another one, one-and-a-half months. Soon after that, a gazette notification will have to be issued and once that is done, R&R plan for increasing the height of the dam has to be prepared, which is very crucial. I have clarity on the project and also what needs to be done. It is a very huge project irrigating around 13.5 lakh acres of land and it is crucial for agricultural and economic growth of the North Karnataka. It will be my priority project,” he said. Earlier, on his arrival at the airport, Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti and Congress MLA Prasad Abbayya greeted him. The former Minister Shivaram Hebbar, MLA Amrut Desai, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, HDMC Commissioner Suresh Itnal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-love-hubballi-and-will-do-everything-for-it-says-bommai/article35618842.ece
30 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Encourage students to take up quality research work’||Commending Sharnbasva University for its contributions in the field of higher education in the Kalyana Karnataka region, Regional Commissioner N.V. Prasad has called upon the university authorities to encourage students in taking up quality research work. “Sharnbasva University’s contributions in the field of higher education in Kalyana Karnataka region are commendable. Students in the region are, however, lagging behind in terms of research. The university should encourage students to take up more and more research. It should also incorporate foreign languages in its courses so that students from the region can get global exposure,” Mr. Prasad said. He was addressing a gathering at Sharnbasva University’s fourth foundation day celebrations at Doddappa Appa auditorium here on Thursday. “The purpose of the study should never be for just getting a lucrative job. It should be for the development of the region and the country. Teachers need to orient their students in that direction. The world is moving fast with advanced technologies and educational universities in the region should introduce newer courses to ensure that Kalyana Karnataka students did not lag behind,” he said. Secretary of Sharanabasaveshwar Vidya Vardhaka Sangha Basavaraj Deshmukh said that the university would focus on quality education by introducing newer courses and motivate students to take up more and more research to realise the dream of Dr. Sharanabasawappa Appa, head of the Sharanabasaveshwar Samsthan. Sharnbasva University’s Vice-Chancellor Niranjan Nisty congratulated the university students who were selected for jobs in prestigious companies of the country during campus selection. “It was research that helped the world fight the pandemic. Students should get involved in other extracurricular activities to make their lives more meaningful. Earning money is one part and wise investment of it is the other part that we need to focus on. Our study should help the country and the next generation,” he said. Sharnbasva University Registrar Anilkumar Bidve, Pro Vice-Chancellor V.D. Mytri, Registrar (Evaluation) N.S. Devarakal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encourage-students-to-take-up-quality-research-work/article35618836.ece
30 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Villagers take out 45-km protest march||Demanding the formation of Ratkal Gram Panchayat in Kalgi taluk as a Zilla Panchayat segment, hundreds of residents of Ratkal village on Wednesday took out a 45 km march and staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Thursday. Sri Siddaram Swami of Virakt Mutt and Revansiddha Shivacharya of Hiremath, Ratkal, the former members of the taluk and gram panchayats and members of various organisations took part in the march. Religious heads in a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner have demanded that the government form a new zilla panchayat segment with Ratkal as its headquarters and also accord revenue hobli tag for the village. The former taluk panchayat members Dattatreya Kulkarni and Sharnabasapa Mamshetty said that Ratkal village has suitable facilities and government land for establishing government offices. The village has a police station, primary health centre, government high school, five anganwadi centres, a veterinary hospital and residential hostels for Backward Classes. According to the 2011 census, the population of the village was 4,759, but now it has increased to more than 8,000. Arankal Gram Panchayat comprises only two wards with nine members, whereas Ratkal Gram Panchayat has four wards comprising 13 gram panchayat seats, the protestors added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-take-out-45-km-protest-march/article35618848.ece
30 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Make K.S. Eshwarappa Deputy Chief Minister’||Chairman of the Command Area Development Authority Sharanappa Talwar has demanded that the BJP national leadership give the post of Deputy Chief Minister to backward class leader and former Minister K.S. Eshwarappa. Mr. Talwar, addressing presspersons here on Thursday, said that the senior leaders should consider Mr. Eshwarappa’s contribution towards strengthening the party at the grassroots level. Back in 2010, Mr. Eshwarappa even quit his Ministerial post to take charge as State BJP president on the directions of the national leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-ks-eshwarappa-deputy-chief-minister/article35618834.ece
30 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. to seek Govt. approval for land for electronics park||Mangaluru City Corporation will write to the State government seeking its approval for acquiring 10 acres of land under the provision of the Transferable Development Rights (TDR) for setting up an electronics park in the city. The council of the corporation, which met here on Thursday, has taken a decision in the matter. Mayor Premananda Shetty told the council that the government will be urged to give approval under sub-section (28 J (ii)) of Section 14 B of Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act 1961. If the government gives its approval, then the corporation can issue a notification inviting expression of interest from those who are ready to part land under the provision of the TDR, he said. The Mayor said that the corporation placed an agenda following a letter to the civic body from Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty. The MLA in his April 16, 2021 letter said that Mangaluru has still not grown as a destination for IT. There is dearth of government land for setting up IT/electronics park in the city. Hence, those having private land can be convinced to part their land under the provision of TDR. If land is available, then it can be given to any government agency for developing it as an electronics/IT park. But Leader of the Opposition in the council A. C. Vinayraj questioned the way in which the Mayor gave approval to the agenda in advance anticipating the approval of the council. He said that there is some mischief in this move. He added that as per an earlier letter of the MLA there was a move to get 9.4 acres land belonging to Rohan Corporation of Rohan Monteiro near Bondel Junction. The council earlier had decided to constitute a committee to inspect the land and study whether it is suitable for setting up the park. The council had decided to get the land only if it is suitable. But neither the committee was formed nor the land was inspected, he said and added that the move appears to be to favour a person. Replying to it, the Mayor said that now the corporation is not seeking the approval of the government to get any particular piece of land under the provision of the TDR. If the government gives its approval, many others can also come forward to part with their land. Meanwhile, State president, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), Muneer Katipalla, in a statement on Thursday, opposed the move to get land for the park under the provision of TDR. “It is not the task of the city corporation. The KIADB can do it. There is some conspiracy behind the move of the city corporation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corpn-to-seek-govt-approval-for-land-for-electronics-park/article35619017.ece
30 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||68% of solid waste segregated, says Mayor||Mayor Premananda Shetty said on Thursday that 68% of the solid waste generated in the city is now being segregated at source even as the Opposition Congress said that garbage collection has not yet been streamlined. Speaking at a monthly meeting of the council here, held after a gap of three months due to COVID-19, the Mayor said that more and more people are now resorting to segregating waste at source. Segregation will pick up further in the coming days. Congress councillor Praveenchandra Alva said that Antony Waste Handling Cell Ltd., which is collecting and transporting solid waste for the civic body, is not collecting waste daily in some wards. “Many councillors are getting a number of complaints from people against the company workers not lifting waste daily from their doorsteps. We (councillors) have been forced to act as supervisors of the company while extending co-ordination,” Mr. Alva said. In some wards, he said, garbage is being collected once in four days. Even if people segregated waste, the company workers mixed it during transportation, Mr. Alva said. He said that the company is not picking up dry waste on Fridays. Hence, many people have been forced to leave dry waste by the roadside. Opposition Leader A.C. Vinayraj wanted to know whether the company has equipped all its vehicles with GPS equipment, as it is mandatory. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that of the 21 compactors that are supposed to be pressed into service, the company has put 17 into use. And, five of its 82 tippers are under maintenance. Additionally, the company has pressed into service nine tippers of which four are on standby. Three vehicles are collecting dry waste during the night. About 10 vehicles are collecting both wet and dry waste daily. The Commissioner said that as the seven-year contract of the company with the corporation will expire in January 2022, the civic body is now preparing a detailed project report on solid waste management to be adopted from next year.  ‘Detailed project report on solid waste management being prepared to be adopted from next year’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/68-of-solid-waste-segregated-says-mayor/article35619014.ece
30 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. to seek nod for naming Lady Hill Circle after Narayana Guru||The council of the Mangaluru City Corporation in its meeting on Thursday resolved to seek the approval of the government to name the Lady Hill Circle as Brahmashree Narayana Guru Circle. (Sudhir Shetty Kannur, whip in the council, said that Lady Hill Circle is popularly called so. But it has not been named officially so.) The council decided to write to the government in the matter. Earlier, the council, in its meeting on January 29, 2021, decided to name the circle after the social reformer [Narayana Guru]. An agenda tabled in the meeting said that following the decision of the council, the corporation issued a notification in two Kannada dailies on March 24, 2021 seeking objections, if any. It did receive any objections. The meeting resolved to urge the State government to take up the issue of including Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution with the Union government. It has decided to send a proposal to the State government. Mayor Premananda Shetty asked councillors to name two nominees to Area Sabhas to be constituted in the ward level, within a week. If councillors failed to name the nominees, the Commissioner of the corporation enjoys powers for nominating nominees, he said. Mangaluru Taluk Health Officer Sujay Bhandary told the meeting that there is scarcity in the supply of Covishield and Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corpn-to-seek-nod-for-naming-lady-hill-circle-after-narayana-guru/article35619018.ece
30 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||SVEEP training centre proposed||The Election Commission of India has proposed to establish a Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) museum and a capacity building centre in Mysuru for which a consultative committee meeting was held in the city on Thursday. The rationale for choosing Mysuru was to tap its tourist crowd given the city’s reputation as a destination for all seasons. Sanjiv Kumar, Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, who explained the concept said that illiteracy levels being still high it was imperative to reach out to the masses and create greater public awareness that every vote counts so that the voter turnout was higher. This calls for dissemination of information and education for which the museum and capacity building centre has been proposed. Mr. Sanjiv Kumar suggested a time-frame of August 15 by when a broad concept and detailed project report could be submitted to the authorities so that it could be taken forward. The capacity building centre and the exhibition should help communicate with the public and help make democracy more participative. However, he urged the stakeholders to justify as to why the museum should be established in Mysuru and draw from its history of the experiment with participatory governance and local representation even before the country got its independence from the British. Mr. Sanjiv Kumar said funds will not be a constraint for the project but the detailed project report should be clear on how it was going to be self-sustainable without entailing funding for maintenance and operational costs. Project report Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM), which is an NGO active in the field of development research public policy engagement initiative, has been assigned the task of developing a detailed project report in consultation with the stakeholders for development of the training centre and the museum which will be the first of its kind in India. ‘The idea is to establish a world-class vibrant museum and capacity building centre for propagating stronger democratic values and ethical electoral practices among the citizens of the country,” according to GRAAM. Consultations Basavaraj R. Shreshta, Executive Director, GRAAM, said the concept calls for extensive consultations with all stakeholders including elected representatives to elicit ideas. However, a broad outline of the concept and the way forward leading to DPR would be submitted by August 15, he added. Interaction This was followed by an interaction with stakeholders drawn from different sections of the society besides a brainstorming session on the ideas that were generated from the participants. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham said the Election Commission of India was a model institution for the world and it was a golden opportunity for Mysuru to provide a model exhibition and structure for such an institution. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy, Mysuru ZP CEO A.M. Yogeesh, Superintendent of Police R. Chetan and Additional DC Mallikarjunswamy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sveep-training-centre-proposed/article35619036.ece
30 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSOU’s silver jubilee fete: VC launches logo||The Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) on Thursday unveiled a logo for its silver jubilee celebrations. It has proposed to hold the 25th anniversary (1996-2021) throughout the year, conducting various academic events on the campus to mark the occasion. Vice-Chancellor S. Vidyashankar, who unveiled the logo, said a committee comprising eminent personalities from various fields, education experts, senior students, and senior media persons would be constituted within a week for planning the celebrations. All the departments in the University had been asked to hold year-long programmes such as seminars and workshops and a decision has been taken to establish the KSOU Employees’ Cooperative Society, he added. On the occasion, R. Santosh Naik, Special Officer, KSOU-2021 Silver Jubilee, gave an overview of the celebrations. KSOU, established in 1996, is the sole open university in the State. Recently, it got the exclusive right for offering open distance learning (ODL) courses in the State with the government asking the State universities to stop running the distance education courses. After its recognition was restored, it got approval for running 31 courses and is now awaiting approval for 12 more courses, including post-graduation in science subjects, from the University Grants Commission. 40 initiatives  On the occasion of its 25th year, the VC listed out 40 recent initiatives that go a long way in improving the KSOU’s belief of reaching the unreached, offering quality distance education. KSOU is also mulling over launching online courses even as admissions since last year had gone contactless. The university’s larger idea is to increase the gross enrolment ratio in higher education and therefore it plans to harness the online medium for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksous-silver-jubilee-fete-vc-launches-logo/article35619031.ece
30 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru out of Smart Cities’ ‘Cycles4Change Challenge’||Notwithstanding being recognised as a “cycling-friendly” city, Mysuru has failed to make a headway in the India Cycles4Change Challenge as it is not among the 11 cities that were shortlisted and eligible for the Stage 1 awards from the Centre under the Smart Cities Mission. Mysuru was one among the cities, including six Smart cities, in the State that took part in the initiative for establishing a safe and cycling-friendly city. Bengaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Mangaluru, Tumakuru, Davangere, Kalaburagi and Belagavi were the other cities listed in the challenge. Only Bengaluru in the State has made it to the shortlist that was announced recently and is now eligible for an aid of Rs. 1 crore for improving cycling infrastructure. Three cities in Gujarat and two from Maharashtra have made it to the shortlist. The 11 shortlisted cities include Bengaluru, Warangal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Kohima, Nagpur, New Town Kolkata, Pimpri Chinchwad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara. Marking the Mission’s 5th anniversary, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs launched the initiative in June last year and the cities registered for the challenge were supposed to take up quick cycling-friendly initiatives as a part of “COVID-19 safe” strategy. Out of 141 cities eligible for the Challenge, over 95 cities had registered. It was strongly believed that Mysuru would make it to the shortlist as the country’s first Public Bicycle Sharing System (PBSS) introduced here would be its biggest advantage,although it had to fulfil certain ‘challenging’ goals. Mysuru City Corporation had taken up the challenge that was run in two stages. The cities were asked to pilot initiatives such as pop-up cycle lanes, host public consultations, conduct surveys, and hold campaigns to promote cycling for helping develop a scale-up strategy. It was told during the launch that 11 cities would be shortlisted in October last year for Stage 2 but was later extended till May 2021 for the submission of proposals and pilots. It is unclear where the city went wrong and how it missed the bus as the MCC had earlier claimed that it conducted a survey to understand citizens’ perception of cycling. The survey was aimed at identifying barriers to cycling and correcting them with the appropriate designs. The MCC had also urged civil society organisations (CSOs), consultants, corporates and citizens to support Mysuru city in the Challenge. The MCC’s plans of developing cycling lanes did not materialise though wider roads and roads with tree canopy were identified for establishing cycle lanes and proposals in this regard had been sent to the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) seeking funds. As part of its cycling infrastructure improvement plan, the MCC had proposed to develop a cycling hoop from Manasagangotri campus to Ramaswamy Circle covering Kukkarahalli Road and Vishwamanava Double Road for promoting safe and friendlier cycling. This too did not materialise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-out-of-smart-cities-cycles4change-challenge/article35619033.ece
30 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Social media route for ideation||In a bid to elicit ideas and greater response to the concept of a SVEEP training centre and muset Mysuru Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM) will take to social media and target the youth community. GRAAM will start #democracycentremysuru on Facebook, Twitter and other channels and ensure that there was youth participation in the exercise. Feedback The feedback will be germane to preparing the DPR and entails identifying a location in and around Mysuru for the centre and the museum, the management model that should be suitable for the SVEEP museum and capacity building centre, whether it should be on PPP model where the ECI is the main stakeholder, the kind of exhibits that should be on display etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-media-route-for-ideation/article35619034.ece
30 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kerala COVID spike: Kodagu on alert as DC visits checkpost||In view of the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in Kerala, the Kodagu district administration has told the health authorities to tighten screening at the border checkposts. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Thursday visited the Karike checkpost bordering Kerala and inspected the measures taken for screening travellers entering the State. She told the officers in charge of the checkpost and screening teams to be on alert and ensure that the government guidelines were followed without any lack of attention in the wake of a spurt in cases in the neighbouring State. The number of people coming to Karnataka from Kerala has gone up after the State eased lockdown curbs. Kutta and Makutta are the checkposts bordering Kerala where health teams have been deployed for screening commuters as per the SOP. Restricted Travellers from Kerala cannot enter Karnataka either through Kutta or Makutta border checkposts if they don’t have an RT-PCR negative test report. They are allowed to enter the State if they produce a vaccination certificate. Kodagu had stepped up surveillance at the border checkposts after the detection of Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus in Kerala. The travellers are checked at the entry points from Kerala since the Delta Plus variant is seen as a potential threat and described as highly infectious. Kodagu’s positivity rate had worried the district administration and therefore the State government delayed the easing of lockdown curbs in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kerala-covid-spike-kodagu-on-alert-as-dc-visits-checkpost/article35618632.ece
30 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A slew of events mark International Tiger Day||A slew of events marked the International Tiger Day celebrations at Bandipur and Nagarahole, two of the country’s premier tiger reserves, on Thursday. Bandipur and Nagarahole have the highest number of tigers in the State followed by the BRT Tiger Sanctuary, Bhadra and Kali tiger reserves. But in terms of densities, Nagarahole had 11.82 tigers per 100 sq km in 2018. It had 135 tigers in 2020 while the tiger density reached almost 12 per 100 sq km. Similarly, Bandipur had 126 tigers in 2018 and had 7.7 tigers per 100 sq km while BRT had 49 tigers with a density of 4.96 tigers per 100 sq.km and Bhadra has 28 tigers with a density of 2.86 tigers per 100 sq km In the Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey released in July 2020, it transpired that Karnataka harboured high number of tigers at M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, Madikeri Wildlife Division, Madikeri Territorial Division, Virajpet Territorial Division, Koppa Wildlife Division, and Haliyal Forest Division which is part of Joida taluk of Uttara Karnataka district, among others. In Bandipur the authorities released Namma Bandipur, a promotional video of the national park, and a book titled ‘Birds of Bandipur.’ A cycle jatha entailing cycling from Melkamanahalli at the entry point of Bandipur to Gundlupet, S.Begur, Hediyala, Sargur, Handpost, Hunsur, Bilikere and Mysuru was flagged off. Seedballs were dispersed in Kundgere range by the local eco development committee while 300 bags of trash were removed from the Nugu backwaters to mark the occasion. Vijaykumar Gogoi, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), R.S. Natesh, Director, Bandipur, and Sanjay Gubbi, wildlife biologist, were among those present. At Nagarahole, Conservator of Forests Mahesh Kumar recalled the growth of tigers and the success story of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve over the years. Protected area He pointed out 200.57 sq km of buffer was declared as protected area in 2019, thus taking the total area of the tiger reserve to 843.93 sq km. While there were 72 tigers as per the 2014 estimations, the numbers increased to 125 tigers in 2018 census. The 2020 enumeration conducted at the park level indicated that there were 135 tigers, he added. There was a quiz contest for tourists who had come for safari at Antharsanthe wildlife zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-slew-of-events-mark-international-tiger-day/article35619038.ece
30 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Webinar||Columbia Asia Hospital Mysore (a unit of Manipal Hospitals) will organise a webinar on discectomy on Saturday at 11 a.m. The hospital authorities said that nearly 60% of the people in India suffer from low back pain at some point during their lifespan, and though most patients recover with minor treatment, some require surgical intervention. The hospital is conducting the webinar with the objective of addressing the issue of increasing back pain in the country and to create awareness on discectomy. There is no registration fee. Those interested may call 96200 30123 for registration for the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar/article35619040.ece
30 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protest continues||Scores of employees of AT & S India held a demonstration to mark the 150th day of protest against their termination from the company, near Nanjangud on Thursday. The union leaders described their termination as violation of labour laws and sought justice claiming they were on the company rolls for years. The All India United Trade Union Centre district general secretary Chandrashekar Meti said the employees were dismissed as they had sought legal recourse seeking regularisation of their services, adding that their demand for restoration of services was legal. Meanwhile, the management has refuted all charges and attributed the allegations against it to “politicised external union leaders and the vested interests’’. It justified the termination of non-permanent trainees on grounds of misconduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-continues/article35619032.ece
30 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Krishna floods destroy standing crops||Floods in the Krishna have destroyed several hundred acres of agricultural fields in Yadgir and Raichur districts. Standing crops in approximately 500 acres of land have been damaged in the floods in the two districts. On Thursday, officials of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited discharged 4.06 lakh cusecs water from Basavasagar Reservoir into the river course by 5 p.m. when 4.10 lakh cusecs was the inflow at reservoir. The water level in the reservoir stands at 489.61 m against a full reservoir level of 492.25 m, officials said. Several hundred acres of agricultural fields in many villages on the Krishna riverbank in Lingsugur, Raichur and Deodurg taluks and also Tintani, Shellagi, Mushtalli, Hemmadagi, Addodagi, Karnal, Chowdeshwarihal, Hemanur, Sugur, Bevinal, Aralahalli and Devapur villages in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district, where farmers have sown paddy, cotton and red gram, have been destroyed. Many of the pumpsets set up to lift water from the river to the fields are said to have been washed away in the flowing water. Bridges constructed in Gurjapur village in Raichur taluk and in Kollur-Huvinadagi are submerged in the river waters. The famous Chaya Bhagavathi temple is surrounded by waters and archaks are worshipping the goddess from outside the temple. A bridge, which connects the mainland to Neelakantarayanagaddi Island near Kakkera in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district, is submerged and people are forced to stay on the island. The district administration should conduct a survey on damaged crops and send an immediate report to the State government recommending compensation to farmers, State convenor of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Mallikarjun Satyampet told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-floods-destroy-standing-crops/article35618838.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nation’s pride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nations-pride/article35618631.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New look||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-look/article35618850.ece
30 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Couple lauded for role in rescue work||The Civil Defence Force (CDF) has come in for appreciation for its services in recovering the bodies of two persons who fell in the Kulamavu dam while fishing last Wednesday. Kulamavu residents Anish Kumar M.D. and his wife Smitha, members of the CDF, played a pivotal role in the search operations and in retrieving the bodies from deep waters inside the forest area. The kin of the missing persons first informed Smitha, an anganwadi teacher. She immediately informed the Kulamavu police station, Fire and Rescue Services, District Disaster Management Committee, and the Revenue Department, which helped in launching rescue operations without delay. The couple soon reached the spot and joined the rescue work that extended to the night. Anish Kumar also informed the difficulties in rescue works to Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine. Through the intervention of the Minister, the Navy’s boat at Kulamavu was deployed for the search operation. Scuba team Anish Kumar guided the scuba team through the forest to reach the spot. The team rescued those engaged in initial search after their country boats got stranded in the dam. He also guided the other rescue teams to reach the accident spot in the week-long search. They were also with the victims’ families after the bodies were retrieved and till the funeral. The couple had completed a district-level training programme of the CDF last year. Hailing from Mullakkanam near the forest area, they said the difficulties faced by victims in emergency situations prompted them to join the CDF. They said life jackets should be provided to those who go fishing in the reservoir waters. In 2020, the State government created the CDF under the Fire and Rescue Services to support rescue works in difficult terrain and in remote areas. The Director General of Fire and Rescue Services is the head of the CDF. The regional fire officer and the district-level fire officer coordinate the CDF in rescue operations. The government aims to provide training to 6,200 CDF volunteers at the 124 Fire and Rescue Services stations in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-lauded-for-role-in-rescue-work/article35618985.ece
30 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ambergris seizure: Forest dept. forms special team||The Forest Department has created a special team to probe the illegal trade of ambergris seized from a resort in Munnar on July 23. (Ambergris is a solid waxy substance secreted by sperm whales and is reportedly widely used in perfumes for long-lasting fragrance.) The 11-member team will be led by Munnar range officer Hareendrakumar. The forest officials and the Munnar Flying Squad seized over 5 kg of ambergris and arrested six persons in connection with the incident. Global connection The team will inquire the source of the seized material and whether the arrested have any connection with the illegal international trade of ambergris. According to Hareendrakumar, primary inquiry revealed that the accused had some connections outside the country. The special team would probe this in detail, the officer said. The seizure was made after a forest vigilance squad received a tip-off. Whales come under Schedule 2 of the Wildlife Protection Act and the trade of ambergris, considered a trophy connected to the animal, is illegal in the county. The seized ambergris is worth crores of rupees in the international market. Another instance Recently Forest Department officials had seized 19 kg of ambergris from Chettuva, near Thrissur.  Over 5 kg of ambergris seized from resort in Munnar and six persons arrested in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-by-forest-dept-team/article35618938.ece
30 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul seeks moratorium on repayment of crop loans||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, has urged the Central government to provide moratorium on repayment of short-term crop loans of farmers in the country till December 31, 2021, and waive all penal interest. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, Mr. Gandhi said that the farmers across the country were in an acute distress owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The majority of farmers in his constituency, Wayanad, were small and marginal farmers and they were depending on cash crops for their livelihood, Mr. Gandhi said. Many parts of the State were devastated by two consecutive years of flooding in 2018 and 2019. Just as the farmers were on their road to recovery, the pandemic struck, severely heightening the agrarian distress. Currently, farmers availed of short term crop loans at a concessional rate under the interest subvention scheme. However, factors including multiple lockdowns, disruptions in the supply chain, and limited market access had severely affected farm incomes. “Mounting debts coupled with future economic uncertainty has affected the ability of our farmers to repay the loan on time,” Mr. Gandhi said, adding that he had been receiving representations requesting for a moratorium on payment of short-term crop loans from individuals and organisations in his constituency. As crores of farmers across the country were similarly placed, a quick intervention by the government was the need of the hour, Mr. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-seeks-moratorium-on-repayment-of-crop-loans/article35618914.ece
30 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Cong. seeks Sivankutty’s resignation||District Congress Committee president Satheesan Pacheni on Thursday said that members of the Assembly who destroyed public property by indulging in violent behaviour in the House would face imprisonment tomorrow, if not today. He was inaugurating a dharna in front of the collectorate led by the District Congress Committee, demanding the resignation of Education Minister V. Sivankutty in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling that he should face trial in the Assembly violence case. DCC vice president V.V. Purushothaman presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-seeks-sivankuttys-resignation/article35618912.ece
30 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bus route rationalisation report to be ready by March||The long-pending proposal to rationalise bus routes in the Greater Kochi area has got a shot in the arm, with Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) taking a decision to ready a project report in this regard by March 2022. The bus route rationalisation plan dates back to early days of Kochi metro’s construction works, when New Delhi-based Urban Mass Transit Company Limited (UMTC) did an integrated public transport study and suggested halving of the 766 different routes that buses operated in. This was done foreseeing a marked shift in passenger patronage from buses to the Aluva-MG Road-Pettah Kochi metro. Studies by Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT University) and city-based think tank Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR) followed. They too recommended fast-tracking of the bus rerouting project, by operating in newer routes, in keeping with the city’s expansion towards the east and south, official sources said. All these studies shed light on a bulk of the 600-odd city and around 400 mofussil private buses operating along Banerjee Road, MG Road and Menaka, leaving much of the other areas with inadequate public transport buses. Buses of KSRTC too operated along these traditional routes, losing sight of fast-developing neighbourhoods eastward of the Edappally-Aroor NH bypass. Global initiative The decision by KMTA to ready a project report in this regard by March 2022 came in the wake of an inception meeting attended by among others Principal Secretary (Transport) K.R. Jyotilal and Mayor M. Anilkumar. French consultancy agency SYSTRA, which specialises in public transport and mobility solutions, would ready the project report as part of the global Mobilise Your City (MYC) programme which decarbonise transport to lessen the impact of climate change. The study will be funded by French development-assistance agency AFD. The coming months will see frequent stakeholder meetings, including with KSRTC and operators of private buses, while a survey will be carried out to determine the need for public transport in different routes. This will be followed by readying of tentative routes and timings, through which buses would operate. A final rerouting scheme will be readied on the basis of the feedback, sources said. Representatives of European Union (EU) also participated in the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-route-rationalisation-report-to-be-ready-by-march/article35618934.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ABCD programme to resume in August||After a gap of three months, the Animal Birth Control for Dogs (ABCD) programme will resume in Kochi. The programme, which began in 2015, came to a grinding halt after the lone veterinary surgeon left the job. When launched, the Kochi Corporation had engaged four veterinary surgeons. However, they left one after the other. Sonika Satish, the last veterinarian to leave, put in her papers in April this year. Since its inception six years ago, around 7,000 dogs were neutered and vaccinated, which was a significant achievement for a civic body, said Dr. Satish. The Corporation’s ABCD programme attains significance in the wake of reports of killing of street dogs in the neighbouring Thrikkakara municipality. The killing of dogs had invited protests from animal lovers. The issue took a new dimension with the Kerala High Court taking note of the developments and initiating legal action. For the ABCD programme, dogs are picked up by animal catchers engaged by the civic body and taken to the animal care centre set up at Brahmapuram. After surgery, the animals are kept in captivity for a few days for observation. Later, they are released in the area from where they were picked up, according to civic authorities. The drive had caught the attention of the city residents as it was launched at a time when complaints of stray dog attacks had increased in the city. Incidentally, the Supreme Court had appointed S. Siri Jagan, former judge of the Kerala High Court, to decide on awarding compensation to victims of street dog bites. Corporation health standing committee chairman T.K. Ashraf said the ABCD programme would continue in the city. It was disrupted for a few months as the doctors engaged by the civic body had left, he said. Currently, three veterinarians have come forward for the job. Their applications were processed and the interviews conducted. All the three will be appointed on contract basis. The programme would resume by August 2, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abcd-programme-to-resume-in-august/article35618943.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A lesson in giving during pandemic||An aided school at Udayamperoor in Ernakulam district has come to the aid of pandemic-hit students by voluntarily opting for a salary challenge. The 102 teaching and non-teaching staff of SNDP Higher Secondary School have mobilised Rs. 15 lakh for providing an assistance of Rs. 2,000 each to 200 students for the next four months. Each one of them contributed anywhere between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 25,000 to the cause, depending on their salaries. The aid for the first month has already been distributed. "We are planning to continue it further by roping in parents as well. We felt that it was the bounden duty of government employees to contribute to the badly affected sections of society," said E.G. Babu, school Principal. A committee has been formed for the project, with representations from the employees, management, and parents. House visits were conducted, based on which students from impoverished backgrounds and families badly hit by the pandemic were chosen. "More students are in need of help but we have to restrict it to 200 owing to our constraints. Many have come forward to support the programme and we are hopeful of extending it further and including more eligible students," said D. Saji, coordinator of the programme. Online education The school has already been providing smartphones for facilitating online education, besides distributing health assistance and food kits to the families of students. Headmistress N. P. Beena, PTA president R. Sreejith, management representative L. Santhosh, and teachers Ajesh K. P and T. Sarju are actively associated with the project. 3,250 schoolchildren Established in 1951, SNDP HSS at present has 3,250 students, the largest in the district, and was recognised by the State government as one of the best general education institutions in the State. It had also received the award for the second best PTA in schools in the State. "We also account for the most number of students appearing for SSLC and Plus Two exams in the district," said Mr. Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-lesson-in-giving-during-pandemic/article35618936.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||As COVID cases rise, domiciliary care centres being reopened in district||In view of the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, domiciliary care centres will be reopened in all local bodies, a meeting of elected representatives of people, health workers, and officials of local bodies with a high test positivity rate (TPR) convened by District Collector Jafar Malik has decided. District panchayat president Ullas Thomas gave instructions to monitor disease spread at the panchayat-level. Panchayat secretaries should review the activities, including those of ward-level vigilance committees, and submit reports to the deputy panchayat director. Micro-containment zones and clusters should be announced at the lower level and mobile COVID testing centres should be deployed in panchayats falling in the C (with a TPR of 10-15%) and D (with TPR above 15%) categories ‘Third wave on’ Meanwhile, Dr. Anitha, Ernakulam district surveillance unit cluster team leader and COVID nodal officer, said the third wave had already begun. She said there was a need to be more cautions as the third wave had begun even before the second one abated. “Men were more affected than women and fatality was more among those aged above 50 years,” she said at a webinar organised by the Field Outreach Bureau of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, NSS unit of Law College, Ernakulam, and health wing of the District Medical Office. Over 19,000 active cases The district on Thursday recorded 2,359 fresh cases of COVID-19 with a TPR of 13.42%, taking the total number of active patients in the district to 19,931. Five new patients are health workers. Payipra recorded 88 new cases followed by Thrikkakara 73, Vadakkekara 63, Thirpunithura 60, Edathala 55, Cheranalloor 54, Koovappady 53 and Manjapra 51. A total of 2,026 patients tested negative on Thursday. Fresh hospital admissions were 126. A fresh batch of 17,580 samples was sent for testing. A communication from the district PRD said Ernakulam had 2,420 vacant beds to treat COVID-19 patients. Among the 1,754 beds in the domiciliary care centres, 839 remained unoccupied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-covid-cases-rise-domiciliary-care-centres-being-reopened-in-district/article35618946.ece
30 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Priority for buses in green mobility corridors||Efforts will be made to accord priority to buses in the six green-mobility corridors that KMTA has envisaged, it is learnt. This is aimed at promoting public transport, in tune with the rationalisation of bus routes that has been envisaged under the Mobilise Your City programme. Generally, the right of way of buses is prioritised over that of private vehicles in such corridors. Steps will also have to be taken to encourage setting up of pedestrian underpasses at busy junctions in these corridors, so that all types of vehicles can move at constant speed, without putting the life of pedestrians at risk, officials said. The green mobility corridors that are planned include Kodungalloor-Eramalloor (52 km), Poothotta-Angamaly via Seaport-Airport Road (48 km), Thoppumpady-M.G. Road-Thammanam-Kakkanad (25 km), Aluva-Angamaly (15 km) and Goshree-Munambam stretches, with extension to Paravur (30 km). Bus priority corridors would also necessitate creation of dedicated bays at bus stops, so that buses parked in front do not hold up those from behind. In addition, routes and bus stops ought to be numbered, since it helps impart information to passengers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-for-buses-in-green-mobility-corridors/article35618933.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Church’s duty to protect families: KCBC||The Commission for Family of the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC) has said it is considered a great duty of the Church to protect families and human lives. Bishop Paul Antony Mullasserry, chairman of the commission, said in a press release here on Thursday that the vital to the survival and growth of societies and nations to protect families and human lives was steeped in the Christian vision and was vital to the survival and growth of societies and nations. The global Year of the Family was declared by Pope Francis on the basis of this vision, said the KCBC statement. As part of the Year of the Family, the Kerala Catholic Church had organised celebrations, and dioceses were implementing various programmes. The statement also said that the controversy over a pro-family programme announced by the Pala diocese was unnecessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/churchs-duty-to-protect-families-kcbc/article35618950.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Technical glitch delays sea trial of Water Metro ferry||A technical glitch in the propulsion system and allied components has delayed sea trials of the lead boat of the Water Metro service. But, officials exuded confidence that the issue would be resolved soon and the boat would be commissioned in the latter half of August. Individual systems of the first ferryboat that rolled out of the Cochin Shipyard were being extensively tested as part of the basin trials and experts were trying to resolve the glitch in the propulsion system, they said. In terms of technology, the ferryboats being built, 23 of them in the first phase, are the first of their kind in India and are powered by electricity. It will not be long before this is completed and the sea trials begin. This will be followed by the vessel commencing service on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route, where Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has readied a terminal at either end. Floating pontoons, from where commuters would board the ferries, were getting ready in Cherthala, they added. The ferry’s sea trial, which was scheduled to begin this week, may take a little longer. August 15 had been tentatively fixed as the date to commission the project. It may take a week or so more, given the prevailing situation. The wait would definitely be worth it since the interior of the AC ferries would resemble that of Kochi metro trains, said sources. Commuters could expect an entirely unique and world-class experience, they added. The commissioning deadlines were revised three to four times during the past two years, due to the pandemic situation, labour shortage and delay in sourcing components from abroad. The government had earlier this month fixed Rs. 20 as the minimum fare per person, for which one could travel up to 3 km. Commuters will have to pay Rs. 4 per additional km. Thiruvananthapuram-based NATPAC will conduct a two-year-long study on the sustainability and safety aspects of the Water Metro system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technical-glitch-delays-sea-trial-of-lead-ferry/article35618940.ece
30 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Discharge petitions to decide the fate of six LDF leaders’ political career||The political career of six prominent LDF leaders, including Minister V. Sivankutty, hangs on the outcome of two discharge petitions to be considered by the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Court, Thiruvananthapuram, shortly. The magistrate, while considering the discharge petitions seeking to absolve them from a criminal case booked in connection with the Assembly ruckus, will ascertain whether there are enough material on record to frame charges against them. It was the Supreme Court order upholding the CJM’s decision not to allow withdrawal of prosecution that put the ball back in the CJM court. While considering the discharge petitions, the CJM will examine the material collected by investigation officers and also the statements of the witnesses in the case. If a strong case is made out against the accused, the court will frame charges and the accused will have to face trial. Offences and penalty Once the discharge petitions are rejected, the legislators will be tried for the offences of trespass (Section 447 of the Indian Penal Code, which comes with a fine of Rs. 500 and simple imprisonment up to three years), causing mischief (Section 427, two years imprisonment with fine or both), and mischief causing damage to public property (Section 3 (1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 imprisonment up to five years and a fine amount equal to the value of the damage caused to the public property.) The legislators can go in for a revision petition to the High Court and the Supreme Court against the decision of the CJM in the discharge petition. After framing charges, the court will read out the case made out against the accused. The accused can deny the charges or plead guilty, judicial sources said. The Supreme Court’s rejection of the State government’s appeal need not cast a shadow on the proceedings of the CJM as the trial court is expected to go into the merit of the case independently. The judicial officer shall apply his mind freely and independently, judicial sources pointed out. The State-appointed prosecutor will have to appear before the CJM in the discharge petition too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discharge-petitions-to-decide-the-fate-of-six-ldf-leaders-political-career/article35618955.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||6.40 lakh farmers involved in vegetable production for Onam||More than 6.40 lakh farmers will be involved in the production of about 15,000 tonnes of vegetables and fruits for the Onam season in Ernakulam district, according to an estimate by the Agriculture Department. Sources in the department said about 1,000 hectares had already been brought under cultivation and the extent of land under crops would increase as the rains relented. The vegetables being cultivated for the season include cucumber, snake gourd, pumpkin, tomato, ladies’ fingers, ridge gourd, green chilli, vegetable cowpea, and brinjal. The department, aiming at self-sufficiency in vegetables production, had been engaged in making seeds available to small farmers, including those engaged in backyard and terrace farming, said a senior official. There was great demand for seeds being supplied through various agricultural offices in panchayats, municipalities and corporations, added the official. The intensive effort to produce sufficient vegetables for the Onam season is part of the 100-day mission announced by the State government. Among the farmers engaged in the mission are those who have small holdings as well as those who have taken land on lease for cultivation. Around two million seedlings and four lakh packets of seeds will be distributed in the district as part of the campaign. Of these, 1.3 million seedlings and three lakh packets of seeds have so far been distributed. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department has constituted eight clusters for production of vegetables and fruits for the season under various blocks. The total expected production of vegetables in the district during the current year was likely to be 50,000 tonnes, said Anitha Kumari, Deputy Director of Agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/640-lakh-farmers-involved-in-vegetable-production-for-onam/article35618932.ece
30 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Writer Thomas Joseph dead||Novelist and short story writer Thomas Joseph, 66, passed away in Aluva on Thursday afternoon. He was ailing and under treatment for about three years when he died at a private hospital. The funeral will be held on Friday in Kalamassery. He is survived by his wife and two children. The late Mr. Joseph won the Kerala Sahitya Academy Award in 2013 for his work "Marichavar Cinema Kaanukayanu". He won the SBT Literary Award as well as the KA Kodungalloor Memorial Prize. He was born in Eloor, near Kalamassery. His friends, including other writers, had helped fund his treatment by selling his books as he was under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writer-thomas-joseph-dead/article35618915.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 100 Chellanam families evince interest in rehabilitation project||More than 100 families in the coastal village of Chellanam, suffering from relentless sea erosion and flooding of homes, have expressed interest in being rehabilitated under the ‘Punargeham’ programme announced by the State government nearly two years ago. Fisheries Department sources said more than 200 families in Ernakulam district had expressed interest in being rehabilitated and relocated in the wake of severe sea incursion. Enquiries from Chellanam, one of the most affected areas, stood around 150, said sources. The Punargeham programme involves relocating families living within 50 metres of the high tide line (HTL) along Kerala coast. The Fisheries Department has sent out a call to owners of land measuring 50 cents, not falling within the Coastal Regulation Zone, for the erection of housing complexes. Department sources said the land would be acquired by the government for constructing the housing complex that would accommodate the families requiring relocation. The owners of land have been asked to contact the Fisheries Department by August 13 with all documents. Department sources said that only those willing to be rehabilitated would be accommodated under the project and that no one would be forced to relocate. ‘Bid to trick people’ A spokesman for Chellanam Janakiya Vedhi, a forum demanding measures to protect the coastal village, described the Punargeham programme as an attempt to hoodwink the people. While the government was offering massive incentives to landowners who might have to cede land for the semi-high speed rail corridor, coastal residents were being given very little, he said. Former finance minister Thomas Isaaac had said in his budget speech in January 2021 that a total of 13,018 houses had been built in the coastal areas over the previous five years and that 7,500 houses would be built at an expense of Rs. 300 crore under the LIFE Mission in 2021-22. The aim of the Punargeham programme was to rehabilitate 2,500 coastal families at a cost of about Rs. 250 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-100-chellanam-families-evince-interest-in-rehabilitation-project/article35618944.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four arrested on charge of possessing banned drugs||Four youths were arrested from a lodge near Infopark on Thursday on charge of possessing banned MDMA and ganja, following a tip-off received on Yodhav, an app launched by the Kerala Police to prevent drug peddling. In lodges The joint operation involving the Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force of the City Police and the Infopark Police was held on the basis of the tip off that drug peddling was becoming rampant in lodges. Those arrested are Mohammed Fayas, 22, and Nabin, 21, from Malappuram, Joji Thankachan, 22, of Rajakkad, and Shahid Rahman, 24, of Kannur. Infopark staff They allegedly procured the drugs for sale among Infopark employees. The police are on the lookout for a Thrissur native who reportedly supplied the drugs. Informing police  Information regarding drugs peddling or usage may be sent to 99959 66666 through video or audio message or to the number of the Narcotics ACP - 94979 90065. The identity of informants will be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-arrested-on-charge-of-possessing-banned-drugs/article35618941.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Liquor seized: youth held||A special squad of the RPF nabbed a youth on the charge of illegally transporting 32 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), at the Ernakulam Junction railway station on Thursday. Jharkhand native Suvan Kumar, 25, said that the liquor was brought from Goa for sale in Kerala in Netravati Express to fetch a high profit. The RPF special squad led by assistant sub inspector Ramesh nabbed him following enhanced security measures in trains and railway stations in view of reintroduction of more passenger trains, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-nabbed-with-32-bottles-of-liquor/article35618948.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Centre yet to decide on funding metro extension||The Centre has not taken a final decision on extending financial assistance for Kochi Metro’s Kakkanad (Infopark) extension, Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs, Kaushal Kishore, said on Thursday. He was answering a question by Adoor Prakash, MP, on the current status of the Kakkanad extension (which is Kochi Metro’s phase 2) and also extensions of metro-rail projects proposed in other States. Urban transport, which is an integral part of urban development, is a State subject. Respective State governments are responsible for initiating, developing and funding urban transport infra, including metro-rail projects. The Centre considers financial assistance for metro rail proposals on the basis of (the metro's) extant policy, feasibility and availability of resources, the Minister said in his reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-yet-to-decide-on-funding-metro-extension/article35618949.ece
30 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Centre told to respond on petrol price||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Central government and the chairman, Goods and Service Tax Council, New Delhi, to file a statement in response to a plea for reducing the price of petroleum products. The court passed the directive on a writ petition filed by P.K. Joseph, president, Kerala Catholic Federation, and Davis Thuluvath, Thrissur, seeking a directive to the Centre and State governments to take steps to stop the frequent increase in the prices of petroleum products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-told-to-respond-on-petrol-price/article35618953.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Fake lawyer’ Sessy Xavier seeks bail||Sessy Xavier, who had allegedly been practising as a lawyer for two years without completing her law studies in Alappuzha, has approached the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a criminal case registered against her. The police had registered a case based on a complaint by the Alappuzha Bar Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-lawyer-sessy-xavier-seeks-bail/article35618954.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PM-JAY launched in Lakshadweep||Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel on Thursday launched the PM-JAY health insurance scheme for the islanders. The scheme would cover 12,320 beneficiary families of the Union Territory, according to a press release. The scheme offers annual healthcare benefit of up to Rs. 5 lakh for each family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-jay-launched-in-lakshadweep/article35618956.ece
30 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sakthikulangara to be a cosy business centre||Sakthikulangara, one of Kollam’s twin harbours, will soon turn into a bustling business centre with a contemporary design. Along with the new rescue wharf, a 27,000 sq ft plaza that includes a disaster management centre, fisheries museum and air-conditioned fish market are expected to give the harbour a suave makeover. The project is being implemented by the Harbour Engineering Department using the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) allocated by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). “It will be Kerala’s first of its kind facility attached to a harbour. The rescue wharf will be connected to a shelter equipped to provide refuge to families evacuated during calamities. The rescue shelter is multi-purpose and apart from accommodating evacuees, it can be used to conduct community events and other functions,” said a senior official. Other features The three-storey structure also integrates a handful of other features, including an amphitheatre, terrace seating, food court and a well-defined market space. A string of stalls in varying sizes will be built for retailers and the amphitheatre wall will act as the peripheral boundary in the C-shaped building. “Unlike conventional markets, this will offer vibrant public spaces just like any other urban hangout. The first two floors will be for retail sales of fresh fish, dried fish, value-added products and so on while the auctions will be held at a different hall. We went for an outdoor amphitheatre instead of an indoor hall and added elements like terraces and balconies to improve visitors’ experience. Unlike mundane marketplaces, this will come out as a lively community space,” says N.S. Abhayakumar, design architect for the project. An office for disaster management, which will function as a centre for coordinating relief activities during emergencies, is also part of the building. Neendakara too Along with Sakthikulangara, the second harbour at Neendakara too will be refurbished as part of the project. While the wharf will be renovated, geobags will be laid to tackle sedimentation. A new finger jetty, foot bridge, approach road, compound wall, entrance gate, toilet block, boat repair yard and net mending shed are among the new amenities. “Despite being the largest fish landing centre in the State, adequate icing facility is not available at the Neendakara and Sakthikulangara. A 120-tonne ice plant will soon start functioning there,” adds the official. Thangassery and Azheekkal are the other harbours that will be renovated as part of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sakthikulangara-to-be-a-cosy-business-centre/article35618987.ece
30 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers 1,517 fresh cases||The district reported 1,517 new cases of COVID-19 and 889 recoveries on Thursday. While 1,514 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include an NRI and two health workers. At present the district has 33,219 persons under observation. A total of 1,694 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday. 1,000 cases in Kottayam Fresh cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,000 persons testing positive on the day. Of the fresh cases, 975 persons, including three health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 10.56%. With 95 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Vazhoor, which recorded 70 cases. As many as 1,148 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 6,660. Meanwhile, 34,623 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 568 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 568 persons tested positive on the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases is yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.8%. With 43 cases, Pallickal reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 27 cases. The disease claimed four more lives in the district. With 279 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 5,281 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-registers-1517-fresh-cases/article35618991.ece
30 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||West Kallada panchayat to issue COVID medical cards||The West Kallada grama panchayat will issue COVID-19 medical cards as part of its efforts to contain the pandemic. The cards will be first issued to merchants, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme(MGNREGS) workers and those regularly going out of the panchayat for work. Vaccination details and COVID-19 test results will be included in the card. “At present our panchayat has only 60 positive cases and the test positivity rate is very low. The date of the last COVID-19 test will be recorded in the card and if the person is vaccinated, the card will have those details too. Carrying the card issued by the panchayat will make movement easier for the residents,” said C. Unnikrishnan, president. While sections like shop employees and autorickshaw drivers will be issued the card in the initial phase, all residents of the panchayat will be covered eventually. “The card will be very useful since strict enforcement measures are in place at many parts,” he added. Testing camps Meanwhile, the panchayat started its phase two mega testing camps on Thursday. Considering the possibility of a third wave, it will also open an oxygen parlour facility for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/west-kallada-panchayat-to-issue-covid-medical-cards/article35618988.ece
30 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Meet for lake conservation on Aug. 10||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission will convene a high-level meeting on August 10 to take steps to protect Ashtamudi Lake from pollution. A decision in this regard was taken by commission member V.K. Beenakumari after visiting the stretch of the lake near the Kollam KSRTC bus stand on Thursday. The commission has also instructed the officials concerned to clean the canal that routes plastic waste to the lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-for-lake-conservation-on-aug-10/article35618989.ece
30 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Alappuzha-Changanassery water taxi from August 2||Taking into consideration the regulations on the usually busy Alappuzha-Changanassery road, the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) is gearing to tap the traffic potential along the route. According to officials, a catamaran diesel-powered craft that has a capacity to carry 10 passengers is slated to commence taxi operations along the route from August 2. This is in addition to a host of feeder services connecting Changanassery with Nedumudy, a major stopover en route to Alappuzha. Rs. 1,500 an hour According to Shaji V. Nair, Director, SWTD, people can hire the taxi from Changanassery for Rs. 1,500 an hour. The taxi, which has a maximum speed of 19 knots per hour, can reach Alappuzha by a maximum of 1.15 hours. “Considering the widespread presence of country boats on the route and houses on the banks, the vessel may not be able to operate at full throttle at several points. Similarly, the water level along the stretch remains too high owing to the monsoon while the portion that passes underneath the KC bridge, near Changanassery, is too narrow for a smooth cruise,” said Mr. Nair. Tourism potential The service, which runs along the scenic backwater routes of central Kerala and gives the passengers a chance to see the life in the backwater villages up close, is expected to boost the tourist traffic in the long run. The ferry services between Changanassery and Alappuzha was of great demand till a couple of decades ago. The development of roads across Kuttanad combined with a boom in vehicular traffic affected the operational profitability of these services overtime. Passenger boats Meanwhile, the SWTD has decided to increase the number of passenger boats along the route, besides operating feeder service to Nedumudy throughout the day. Another water taxi is slated to join its fleet later next month. Officials said the department had restored 46 out of the 54 services, including the Alappuzha-Kottayam and Kumarakom and Muhamma services. The remaining services, including Pulimkunnu and Kavalam in Alappuzha and the chain services to Varappuzha and Vyttila-Kakkanad sectors in Ernakulam, are slated to resume by August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-changanassery-water-taxi-from-august-2/article35618992.ece
30 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CAP begins for MG University courses||Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, has opened online registrations for the Common Admission Process (CAP) for admissions to the first-year integrated programmes offered by colleges affiliated to it. According to officials, the entire admission process will be done online in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and the restrictions in place. Applicants should upload a digital copy of their testimonials along with the applications. Classes from Sept. 27 The last date to submit applications is August 13 and classes for the first-year students are scheduled to begin on September 27. The registration fee for students in the SC/ST category will be Rs. 375 and for others, it will be Rs. 750. The registration process should be carried out through the website cap.mgu.ac.in. For admissions to seats in the management or community quota, applications should be submitted through the CAP system while its number should be furnished along with a separate application to the colleges concerned. Applicants from Lakshadweep should also apply through the CAP system. Candidates applying under differently abled, sports, and cultural quota categories should also furnish online applications. The verification of documents and publishing of provisional rank list will be done centrally by the university. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas inaugurated the registration programme on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cap-begins-for-mg-university-courses/article35618993.ece
30 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||31 persons test positive at Ponkunnam jail||At least 31 persons, including five officials, at the Special sub-jail in Ponkunnam have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Official sources said the infected inmates and officers had been shifted to isolation units. While the staff are serving isolation at their respective homes, the infected inmates have been allotted separate cells. The patients have only mild symptoms, they added.  The infections came to light during a mass RT-PCR test drive carried out after one of the inmates tested positive for the virus a few days ago. A preliminary investigation by the prison officials suggested that the virus could have reached the jail through stationary or vegetables bought for the kitchen. The prison currently has 51 inmates and 16 staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/31-persons-test-positive-at-ponkunnam-jail/article35618994.ece
30 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode city’s stormwater projects likely to get a boost||Many of the city’s stormwater management projects are expected to get a boost with the completion of the proposed dredging work, recently approved by the Ministry of Water Resources, covering nearly five-kilometre stretch of the Kallayi river. The Irrigation Department will carry out the dredging works. The department will submit a revised estimate for obtaining speedy technical sanction for the project. For many years, various local action committees have been waiting for the project, which was considered the best option to meet the increasing stormwater management challenges. Officials with the Town Planning Department hope that the dredging work will increase the flow of the river and its capacity to carry stormwater during rainy seasons. An official with the Irrigation Department said the proposal for dredging between Kaduppini and Kothi stretch was submitted several years ago to the government for approval. “One of the main issues was the discarding of dredged silt from the area. Citing environmental issues, dumping it deep inside the sea had been opposed by many people,” he pointed out. Based on the latest plan, dredged sediments will be converted as raw material for the production of building materials including bricks and sand. The other left out materials will be used for land-filling requirements in the city. Fund allotted To carry out the work, the city corporation has already given administrative sanction for Rs. 7.50 crore. The remaining fund, if required, will be allotted later. Following a directive from Minister for Water resources Roshy Augustine, the Superintending Engineer of the Irrigation Department will supervise the work. Officials with the city corporation said there was also a meeting recently to discuss the project details in the presence of Public Works Minister Mohamed Riyas, Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, and corporation officials. Ahead of that, a team of people’s representatives led by Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip had met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan with a list of demands, including approval for a major stormwater management project. It was in 2018 that a small dredging work was completed near the Kothi estuary side to clear a huge deposit of silt which even interrupted the movement of fishing boats through the area. The cost of the work was then about Rs. 7 crore. According to local fish workers, the work was executed after waiting for more than eight years. Several boats had been damaged after hitting the pile of silt near the estuary, they said. Members of the Kallayi River Protection Committee said the removal of excess silt was the basic requirement to conserve the river and retain its natural flow. Water flow in Canolly canal, which is directly connected to all major stormwater management projects, could be regained only by completing the proposed dredging work in the river, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-citys-stormwater-projects-likely-to-get-a-boost/article35618929.ece
30 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) crackdown on local leaders over Kuttiyadi protests continues||In the latest crackdown by party leadership, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M] has initiated disciplinary action against local leaders in Kuttiyadi in connection with the open protests held ahead of the Assembly polls. Three members of the local committee and a branch secretary were expelled while five members were suspended. The action was taken against local leaders belonging to the Kuttiyadi west branch as well as the Vadayam local committee. Sources said that some of the local leaders were demoted to lower rungs of the party and while some others were admonished for spearheading the protests. Previously, the CPI(M) district leadership had disbanded the Kuttiyadi local committee and constituted an ad hoc committee to replace the dismissed body. Then the party had demoted two members of the Kunnummal area committee. In March, the party had faced unprecedented protests for two days from local cadres in Kuttiyadi against handing over the Assembly seat to the Kerala Congress (M) under the seat-sharing pact in the Left Democratic Front. Some of them had put posters and banners in support of incumbent legislator K.P. Kunhammed Kutty. Later, the party State leadership nominated Mr. Kutty, party district secretariat member and former president, to fight from the Kuttiyadi segment. This was after the pre-election protests compelled the Kerala Congress(M) to withdraw its candidate. Earlier, the district leadership had recommended action against Mr. Kutty by relegating him from the district secretariat to the district committee. However, CPI(M) district secretary P. Mohanan denied such an action though the State secretariat had to endorse the recommendation. Mr. Kutty wrested the seat defeating IUML legislator Parakkal Abdulla by a margin of 333 votes. Many party leaders believe that if Mr. Kutty had not been fielded from Kuttiyadi, the discontent would have spilled over to Nadapuram, Vadakara and Perambra Assembly segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-crackdown-on-local-leaders-over-kuttiyadi-protests-continues/article35618917.ece
30 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kelappaji Park waiting for a facelift||For a new visitor, it may be hard to believe that the poorly kept garden next to the English Church in the city was once a beautiful park. The Kelappaji Park that serves as a traffic island at the English Church Junction and the adjacent ‘English Church Park’, as it is called these days, are victims of mismanagement and neglect. “The corporation has renovated all the parks in the city over the past few years. Only this one is in such a dilapidated state, thanks to the private agency that had taken up its maintenance,” said P. Kishenchand, former councillor of the Kozhikode Corporation. The parks used to be one entity earlier before it was cut by a road connecting the Wayanad Road and the Kannur Road. The small triangular strip with a statue of freedom fighter K. Kelappan came to be known as Kelappaji Park and the other larger strip was called the English Church park. They were handed over to an advertisement company from Ernakulam almost ten years ago for maintenance. “Despite opposition, the then council had handed over the park to the company for seven years, when three years was considered the mandate at the time,” said Mr. Kishenchand. The company could set up advertisements in the park without paying any fee to the corporation while in return it was supposed to maintain the park, create a fountain, make seating arrangements, install television, and employ a watchman. The corporation would pay electricity bills. However, the agency failed to adhere to the contract and the park soon turned into a mass of bushes. Another agency’s attempt to set up a butterfly park there was allegedly thwarted by the first one. “We had requested several times to hand the park over to us. Local people or merchant bodies would have maintained it without incurring any charges to the corporation. But the offer was always declined,” said Mr. Kishenchand. Recently, the upkeep of the park was entrusted with another company, selected through a tender process, for three years. But the new agency too failed to maintain it, and blamed the pandemic for it. “Both the companies have been using the space for advertising, but failed in their duties towards the park,” said Alphonsa Mathew, councillor of the Nadakkavu ward who recently brought the issue to the attention of the corporation council. Even though the council decided to inquire into the matter, no action was taken, she said. “The park holds a special place in the hearts of locals. Many non-governmental organisations and residents’ associations have come forward expressing their willingness to maintain the park,” said Ms. Mathew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kelappaji-park-waiting-for-a-facelift/article35618908.ece
30 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Training for teachers to detect learning disabilities in children||The Department of Psychology at the University of Calicut is offering training for teachers to detect learning disabilities in children. According to a release, it is a joint initiative of the Community Disability Management and Rehabilitation Programme (CDMRP) and the UNESCO chair at the university, and the Education Department. The training will have modules to equip teachers to understand the attention deficit among students, their lack of ability to detect letters or understanding letters in a wrong way, naughtiness, and hearing or visual impairment. It will also help teachers deal with the psychological issues being faced by children. Practical lessons too will be included in the module along with theory classes. The teachers will be trained to enable them to understand their students’ problems and suggest solutions. Forty teachers from Kozhikode district will be trained in the first phase. CDMRP Director K. Manikandan said that discussions had been held with the Deputy Director of Education and the classes would begin in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-teachers-to-detect-learning-disabilities-in-children/article35618911.ece
30 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Contract carriage operators struggle to overcome crisis||The delay in reopening the tourism sector following the pandemic outbreak has paralysed the business of hundreds of contract carriage operators in Kozhikode district. For over two years, they have been finding it hard to mobilise funds for vehicle maintenance, tax liabilities and repayment of bank loans. Operators in the sector say they are even finding it hard to sell off their vehicles. Owners of big luxury buses and other customised four-wheel vehicles are equally in crisis with the falling number of booking and the looming uncertainty, they add. “In the past, school excursions were an assured source of income for many local entrepreneurs in the sector. Since the pandemic outbreak, it was given up by school managements. Same is the case with all local tours usually organised by families, organisations and residents’ forums,” says K. Babu, a tourist bus operator in the city. He says the cancellation of pilgrimages is another major blow to the sector. One of the main complaints raised by operators in the sector was the “poor consideration” by the State government. Like private bus operators, they also had demanded the waiver of luxury tax and vehicle tax. Moratorium for vehicle loans was the another demand as many were in debt after the purchase of new vehicles. “The upcoming One India One Tax norm for tourist vehicles is the only hope for entrepreneurs in the State. Now, we are forced to pay separate tax for each State during the service, which doubles the financial burden during this crisis time,” says Abdul Nazar, district president of the Kerala Luxury Bus Operators and Owners Association. According to Mr. Nazar, only two out of the 30 contract carriage buses are now operating daily services to Bengaluru from Kozhikode. “Only very few passengers book bus tickets for inter-State travel now. In the whole northern Kerala region, fewer than 10 contract carriages now operate daily service to cities in Karnataka,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contract-carriage-operators-struggle-to-overcome-crisis/article35618922.ece
30 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||2,619 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in Kozhikode||A total of 2,619 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Thursday. Of them, 2,597 were due to local transmission of the infection and the source of 13 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of locally acquired infections at 534, Koyilandy 92, Kunnamangalam 78, Kakkodi 74, Mukkom 66, Chathamangalam and Thiruvambady 57 each, Omassery 53, Maniyoor 52, and Changaroth 50. As many as 18,208 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 14.59%. With 1,653 people recovering from the infection, active caseload from the district stands at 22,478. Meanwhile, mega COVID-19 testing camps will be held in local bodies which fall in ‘C’ and ‘D’ categories where the test positivity rate is between 10% and 15% and above 15%, respectively, in the coming four days. According to District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, 23,600 samples will be collected a day. People with symptoms and those who may have interacted with them should make use of this opportunity. The camps will be held on Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday. The aim is to double the number of tests, Mr. Reddy said. Koyilandy and Koduvally municipalities and 29 grama panchayats fall in ‘D’ category where a triple lockdown is in force. Kozhikode Corporation, Vadakara, Payyoli, Ramanattukara, Feroke, and Mukkom municipalities and 28 grama panchayats are in ‘C’ category where a lockdown is in force. Over a lakh persons were tested in the camps held in the district in the past few days. They are being held in containment zones, and wards, clusters and colonies with a large number of infected persons. Anyone seeking treatment in hospital with symptoms would be subjected to the test. Mr. Reddy has directed private hospitals and clinics to collect data about people seeking treatment for fever and inform the nearest primary health centre. Pharmacies too should pass on details about those buying medicines for fever. Antibiotics should not be sold without medical prescription. Secretaries of local bodies have been asked to issue orders for the purpose.  People with symptoms and those who may have interacted with them should make use of mega camps N. Tej Lohit Reddy District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2619-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-kozhikode/article35618924.ece
30 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Training parents to deal with perils of online learning||It’s been over a year since online learning became the new normal in schools, which, along with the social changes brought about by the pandemic, have had a serious impact on students. The Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) is now training parents to deal with the perils of digital education. The parent empowerment campaign, titled ‘Makkalkkoppam’ and launched initially in Kozhikode district earlier this month, is being expanded across the State from next month. Parishad functionaries said here on Thursday that 60,000 parents from Kozhikode had so far been trained ever since the campaign kick-started on July 31. A study conducted by the Parishad had found that students were under pressure following the launch of online classes as they had to simultaneously deal with tuition classes and other assignments as well. Over a period of time, most of them had become disinclined towards learning. Since the students were deprived of the school atmosphere that often help them survive the stress, their condition deteriorated. Apart from this, the situation at home too was not very comforting as there were parents who had to face job loss, and decline in income. The inability to venture out and have a social life too had an impact. The workload of most mothers rapidly went up. Many parents were also unable to help students cover their online assignments. All these affected children. Differently abled children and those who have learning disabilities were pushed to the corner, the study revealed. As a results, at least some children were branded lazy and naughty and pulled up by parents. Behavioural changes such as anger, fear, and indiscipline were seen in some others because of sleeping and waking up late, lack of or excess sleep, and day-time sleep. Information on COVID in the media scared many. Reading declined and many children became addicted to mobile phones and video games. This had an adverse impact on their eye sight. Changing food habits too had an impact on their health, the study pointed out. K.T. Radhakrishnan, central executive committee member, KSSP, said that 60 resource persons led classes for parents in schools with the study notes prepared by experts from the Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences and the Department of Psychiatry at the Government Medical College Hospital. As many as 625 schools in Kozhikode had been covered so far. The district-level closing ceremony would be held on July 31 and the State-level launch on August 4 in Thiruvananthapuram, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-parents-to-deal-with-perils-of-online-learning/article35618918.ece
30 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Retired teacher couple found dead at Meppayur||An elderly couple was found dead inside a firewood shed near their house at Meppayur in Kozhikode district on Thursday. The police identified the deceased as K.K. Balakrishnan, 72, and his wife Kunhimatha, 67. Both of them were retired teachers. The Meppayur police registered a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The bodies were shifted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. During the inquest, a note indicating it as a case of suicide was also recovered from the spot, they said. The couple was staying alone after their retirement from two separate local schools. They were reportedly depressed over the ill-health of one of their sons for many years. The incident came as a shocker for many of their students and villagers. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling support by contacting any of the following numbers of Thanal, a centre for befriending persons instituted by the Indian Medical Association, Kozhikode. Ph: 049527600. Whatsapp: 7902281306.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/retired-teacher-couple-found-dead-at-meppayur/article35618916.ece
30 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Rediscovering forgotten history of Mazagon||Mazagon has an overarching influence on Mumbai despite elite suburbs such as Byculla and Malabar Hill emerging over the years. Now, Captain Ramesh Babu, a former Project Director of the National Institute for Research and Development in Defence Shipbuilding, Kozhikode, has brought out a book on the forgotten history of Mazagon. Titled My Own Mazagon , the book attempts to discover for the general reader the history of the island that once upon a time had its own identity, and were inhabited by Kolis, Bhandaris and other natives. “Mazagon goes beyond the era when it grew mangoes for the Mughals. Under the Portuguese and subsequently falling into the hands of the British, Mazagon retained its geographical identity for two more centuries with its fort, dock, churches, and gunpowder factory,” Capt. Babu, who is retiring on July 31, after an engineering career in Indian Navy and Mazagon Docks for four decades, says. He says that it was from Mazagon that Eliza, the muse of a romantic novelist eloped, and steamers sailed to sell cotton and opium. “It is in Mazagon that a hanging garden was built, and an East Indian Gaothan came up. It is here that Christian missionaries set up churches and schools, and an unlikely nawab built a mosque and a tank. It is also here that Aga Khan, Rattanbai Jinnah, and Meenakumari were laid to rest,” he says. Despite Mazagon losing its importance after it merged into the single entity of Bombay, Capt. Babu says, many Englishmen and Indian businessmen constructed their bungalows in these verdant estates along with places of worship, schools, hotels, and other institutions. “They connected Mazagon to the rest of the Urbs Prima in Indis (the first city of India) with tramways and railways and extensively reclaimed the waterfront to expand the dock and harbour to berth and build many ships,” he says. Mazagon also opened the place to multiple communities, making it the most cosmopolitan part of Mumbai. “Kolis, East Indians, Bohras, Sunnis, Shias, Sindhis, Marwaris, Marathas, Parsis, Jains, South Indians, Chinese and even Baha'is live here in their little pockets, in complete harmony with each other. The book is my parting gift to Mumbai,” Capt. Babu, notes. My own Mazagon will be jointly released by Vice Admiral R. Hari Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding in Chief, Western Naval Command, Vice Admiral Narayan Prasad, (Retd.), CMD Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and Govind Tekale who was Capt. Babu’s teacher at Sainik School, Kazhakoottam in the 1970s. After serving in Kozhikode for five years, Capt. Babu published Calicut Heritage Trails at the Kerala Literature Festival in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rediscovering-forgotten-history-of-mazagon/article35618910.ece
30 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Third KV being established at Ulliyeri||A third Kendriya Vidyalaya School will soon start functioning from temporary premises at Ulliyeri in Kozhikode soon. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan informed M.K. Raghavan, MP, that instructions would be issued to officials for the purpose. Land for the school had been identified earlier. Mr. Raghavan told the Minister that the district administration had completed the formalities. However, since it would take some time to start the classes in a new building, the MP urged Mr. Pradhan to take steps to begin classes from a temporary building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/third-kv-being-established-at-ulliyeri/article35618923.ece
30 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police warn money lending firms||The city police have warned of stringent legal action against money lending firms and financial institutions sending personnel to threaten the family members of the defaulters for clearing the dues. In a press release on Thursday, District Police Chief A.V. George said such agents were found targetting even women and children to press for repayment. “Those who come across such incidents should immediately report it to the nearest police station. The WhatsApp number of the Cyber Cell (9497976009) will also be available for filing complaints,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-warn-money-lending-firms/article35618927.ece
30 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||BJP alleges UDF-LDF nexus in bank fraud||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national executive council member Sobha Surendran has alleged that the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) were “cooperating” with each other in cooperative bank frauds in the State. She said that the nexus between the two fronts had destroyed the cooperative sector in the State. “The Opposition is taking a soft stance on the cooperative bank fraud for obvious reasons. If the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank fraud is brought to light, then the AR Nagar Service Cooperative Bank fraud will also be exposed. Therefore, the LDF and the UDF are cooperating with each other in cooperative bank frauds,” said Ms. Surendran. She was speaking after inaugurating a dharna organised by the BJP in front of the AR Nagar Service Cooperative Bank at AR Nagar near Kondotty on Thursday. “Expertise in bank frauds has become a qualification for becoming a Cooperation Minister,” she said. BJP Vengara constituency president V.N. Jayakrishnan presided over the function. BJP district secretary P. Subramanian, Mahila Morcha district president Deepa Puzhakkal, and BJP district media cell convener Madathil Ravi spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-alleges-udf-ldf-nexus-in-bank-fraud/article35618926.ece
30 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||INL district unit to support Wahab faction||A meeting of the Indian National League (INL) district council held here on Thursday decided to support the party’s State committee headed by president A.P. Abdul Wahab and general secretary Nasar Koya Thangal. State secretariat member Basheer Baderi inaugurated the meeting. District president O.M. Jabbar Haji presided. State vice president C.H. Mustafa delivered the keynote address. Indian National League district general secretary O.K. Thangal welcomed the gathering. P.K.S. Mujeeb proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inl-district-unit-to-support-wahab-faction/article35618919.ece
30 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Many hurt in chicken feed plant explosion||Several people, including Fire and Rescue Services personnel, were injured in a blast at a chicken waste treatment plant at Thiruvizhamkunnu, Ambalappara, near Mannarkkad on Thursday evening. The blast followed a fire that engulfed the factory functioning at a desolate area during a trial run around 5 p.m. The factory, manufacturing chicken feed by processing chicken waste, was yet to be inaugurated. It was undergoing trial runs when the accident took place.  A group led by a Fire and Rescue team from Mannarkkad was trying to douse the fire when the factory’s oil tank exploded with a massive sound. Many suffered burns in the blast. 30 injured Police said nearly 30 persons suffered burns in the explosion. The injury of three firemen was serious, according to sources. Those injured were rushed to hospitals at Mannarkkad and Perinthalmanna. They included local workers Parakkottil Shameer, Kunhippa, Mubarak and Alavikkutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-hurt-in-chicken-feed-plant-explosion/article35619080.ece
30 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Funds for Palakkad pit line to get priority||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav has assured Palakkad Lok Sabha member V.K. Sreekandan that priority would be given for sanctioning funds for the proposed pit line at Palakkad Town Railway Station. Although the Railway Board had given the green signal for the pit line last year, the project did not take off because of paucity of funds. Mr. Sreekandan met the Railway Minister on Thursday and convinced him of the importance of setting up the pit line here. “The Minister is aware of the significance of the pit line in Palakkad. It will help Railways start several new trains. The Minister has assured that he would give top priority for this development project,” said Mr. Sreekandan. The Railway Board had sanctioned the pit line by including it in a Rs. 19-crore umbrella work meant to improve traffic facilities. The work on a pit line project at Mangaluru has begun, though it was sanctioned along with the Palakkad pit line. “The pit line in Palakkad will give a boost to Railway’s development in Kerala,” said Mr. Sreekandan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/funds-for-palakkad-pit-line-to-get-priority/article35619151.ece
30 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad INL to support Devarkovil||The Indian National League (INL) district committee reiterated its support to the faction led by Minister of Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil. INL district president Ashraf Ali Vallappuzha said here on Thursday that State president A.P. Abdul Wahab and six others were trying to expel Mr. Devarkovil from the Cabinet. He said Mr. Wahab had walked out of the INL State secretariat meeting he convened at Kochi because he feared that there would be action against those who tried to defeat Mr. Devarkovil in the Assembly election. No split in party “Mr. Wahab and his followers were trying to get the party ousted from the Left Democratic Front,” said Mr. Ashraf Ali. He denied the allegations that the party had split.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-inl-to-support-devarkovil/article35619078.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Biodiversity awards announced||The Peelicode grama panchayat, Kasaragod, and the Kurumathur grama panchayat, Kannur, have shared the award for the best biodiversity management committee instituted by the Kerala State Biodiversity Board for 2019- 20. The Vellinezhy grama panchayat, Palakkad, won the second prize and the Kinanur- Karinthalam panchayat, Kasaragod, bagged the third prize in the category. The first prize carrying a cash award of Rs. 1,00,000 will be shared by the two winners while the second and third prize winners get Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 25,000 respectively. Best conservationists V.Mohammed Koya, Kozhikode, and Praseedkumar, Sulthan Bathery, share the award for the best biodiversity conservationist. Thomas P.J., Thiruvambady, and Vinod E.R, Thrissur, together won the award for conservation of flora while Pradeepkumar S. and Vishnu V.S., Kottayam, bagged the award for conservation of fauna. The awards in these categories comprise a purse of Rs. 50,000 each. Ravikumar Kani, Thiruvananthapuram, and Saleem P.M, Kalpetta, share the award for conservation of traditional knowledge. St.Mary’s GHS, Kanjirappally, and GHSS, Karuvarakund, together won the award for the best biodiversity-related activities among schools and the College of Applied Science, Chelakkara, and Payyannur College were selected in the college category. The coastal police station, Neendakara, was adjudged the best institution in the government category and Apollo Tyres in the private sector while Green Habitat, Pavaratty, was selected the NGO with the best performance in biodiversity conservation. The awards in the categories carry a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biodiversity-awards-announced/article35618913.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RTC to launch Grama Vandi for connectivity to rural areas||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will launch a ‘Grama Vandi’ project to facilitate bus services to rural areas that are still unconnected, Minister for Transport Antony Raju has said. In his reply to the discussion on demand for grants for transport in the revised budget for the current financial year, Mr. Raju said following talks with the Minister for Local Self-government it had been decided that the burden for the services would be shared so that services could be expanded to more areas. The KSRTC, he said, was ready to ply as many buses as needed on routes decided by local bodies. Staff salary, maintenance cost, tax, and insurance would be borne by the KSRTC. Local bodies requiring Grama Vandi services need only pay fuel expenses. He expressed gratitude to Eldose P. Kunnapillil, MLA, for suggesting the name Grama Vandi. The KSRTC along with the Fisheries Department would launch a free Samudra bus service in August for the benefit of fisherwomen travelling daily to sell fish. Regular city circular services using low-floor buses would be launched for easy travel to offices, other institutions, and hospitals in cities. In the first phase, seven such circular services would start in Thiruvananthapuram city on August 17, Chingam 1, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-to-launch-grama-vandi-for-connectivity-to-rural-areas/article35618952.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to launch inspection system for industries today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch the Kerala Centralised Inspection System (K-CIS) for Industries on Friday. The Industries Minister will preside over the function which will be held in virtual mode. Date advanced The centralised system was to have become operational on August 1, but the launch has been advanced by two days. The K-CIS portal has been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIS), and the system is meant to improve ease of doing business and ensure transparency in the inspections carried out by government departments, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said here on Thursday. In a nutshell, K-CIS integrates and centralises inspections carried out by five different departments/agencies: the Departments of Factories and Boilers, Labour, Legal Metrology and Local Self Government plus the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. Three types of inspections will be carried out through K-CIS: Inspections prior to the operationalisation of an industry, periodic inspections, and inspections taken out on the basis of complaints. The web portal will finalise the inspection schedule. Industries will be classified into low, medium and high risk for the purpose of inspections. Inspections based on complaints from the public will be conducted solely on the basis of approvals from the department head. The inspecting officials also will be selected by the portal.  Different officers It will be ensured that the same officer does not conduct inspections in an establishment twice in a row. The industry will be alerted via SMS and e-mail about impending inspections. Once an inspection is carried out, the report will be published on the K-CIS portal within 48 hours. Both the entrepreneur and the departments concerned will be able to access the report online. Complaints against an industry lodged by the public via the portal will be transferred to the departments concerned. Details of previous inspections also will be available on the portal. More departments and agencies including the Fire and Rescue Services and the Ground Water Department will be integrated into K-CIS in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-inspection-system-for-industries-today/article35619091.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP to turn the heat on Minister||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday, separately, asked the State government to brace itself for a season of street protests if General Education Minister V. Sivankutty continued in office. Both the Opposition parties said the Minister “who had run riot” in the Assembly in 2015 had lost the moral right to be in the government after the Supreme Court overturned the State government’s “dubious” decision to withdraw the criminal case registered against him and other LDF leaders in connection with the act of vandalism. March turns violent The parties said Mr. Sivankutty’s “despicable conduct” in the House remained vivid in public memory. The Minister was a flawed model for students and should quit, they averred. The protest against Mr. Sivankutty in the House spilled over to the street, with the police firing water jets to disperse a Kerala Student’s Union (KSU) march that turned violent near the Assembly gate. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, who inaugurated the protest, said the LDF government would pay a heavy price for protecting Mr. Sivankutty. The Minister’s action as a legislator in 2015 was indefensible, he said. Congress workers also marched to District Collectorates in the State to press their demand for Mr. Sivankutty’s resignation. Congress leader V. M. Sudheeran demanded a public apology from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He asked the ruling front to reimburse the substantial legal fee drawn from the public exchequer to defend the LDF leaders in vain and against sound advice. The BJP also marched to the government Secretariat, demanding Mr. Sivankutty’s resignation. BJP State general secretary P. Sudheer said the CPI(M) had cited parliamentary privilege to cover up for Mr. Sivankutty’s “criminal act” in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-bjp-to-turn-the-heat-on-minister/article35618961.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases remain high, graph appears to hit another plateau||The COVID-19 case graph, which began ascending two weeks ago, seems to be hitting another plateau, with the State reporting between 15,000-20,000 cases daily for over a week in a row. The epidemic curve in the second wave, after hitting the peak in May second week, had been on a protracted plateau in the post-lockdown phase with the State reporting around 10,000-12,000 cases daily. It is from this phase that the case graph has now started to rise. While an increase in disease transmission was expected in the post-lockdown phase, it is crucial that it is contained at this phase so that it does not signal the beginning of a third wave Kerala has reported 22,064 cases on Thursday, when 1,63,098 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State has increased testing for the past three days, with an average of 1.5 lakh samples being tested daily. The test positivity rate (TPR) normally goes down when the number of tests are increased. But on Thursday, the TPR went up to 13.53%, indicating that disease transmission is indeed rising. Active case pool The State’s active case pool has been climbing steadily and rose to 1,54,820, with 16,649 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 16,585, with 128 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, added to the official list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,809. Though daily hospitalisation has been climbing, there has been no substantial increase in ICU or ventilator occupancy. With the recovery rate remaining steady, total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID has remained more or less steady around 25,000 since weeks. However, this figure needs close watch as it has begun to climb and now stands at 27,480. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients, in both public and private hospitals increased to 1,936. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 704. The cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began now stands at 33,49,365 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 3,679 cases, Thrissur, 2,752, Kozhikode 2,619, Ernakulam 2,359, Palakkad 2,034, Kollam 1,517, Kannur 1,275, Thiruvananthapuram 1,222, Kottayam 1,000, Alappuzha 991, Kasaragod 929, Wayanad 693, Pathanamthitta 568 and Idukki 426.  The State has increased testing for the past three days, with an average of 1.5 lakh samples being tested daily||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-remain-high-graph-appears-to-hit-another-plateau/article35618969.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Women’s panel seeks return of jewellery in dowry case||The Kerala Women’s Commission has decided to intervene to seek the return of gold jewellery given to a woman at the the time of her marriage and child support to her two children. Jagadamma, a resident of Marayamuttom here, had in her complaint to the commission alleged that her daughter had been killed in the name of dowry. She wanted the commission to help her get child support for her daughter’s minor sons. At a sitting held here on Thursday, the commission decided to provide legal help to Jagadamma, a widow, and bear its expenses. Ms. Jagadamma had sought the commission’s help in protecting her grandchildren citing financial and physical difficulties. She had alleged that Ani of Kulathoor who had allegedly killed her daughter in September 2019 was out on bail. Her daughter had been given 70 sovereigns of gold at the time of the marriage. However, at the time of the post-mortem examinations, doctors had handed over 20 sovereigns of gold worn by her daughter to Ani, Ms. Jagadamma said in the complaint. The sitting was attended by commission members M.S. Thara, Shiji Sivaji, and E.M. Radha and director V.U. Kuriakose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-seeks-return-of-jewellery-in-dowry-case/article35619140.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Advice of Law dept. not sought in issuing order, says Rajeeve||The Law Department’s opinion was not sought while issuing the October 24, 2020 order pertaining to cutting of trees on assigned land, Minister for Industries and Law P. Rajeeve has said. But the department’s opinion had been taken for drafting the order cancelling the October 24, 2020 order issued by the Principal Secretary, Revenue, Mr. Rajeeve told the Assembly on Thursday replying to questions on the tree-felling case. The Law Department had given its opinion that the March 11, 2020 circular issued by the Principal Secretary, Revenue, as well as the October 24 order did not stand legal scrutiny and should be cancelled, he said. Advice not necessary Mr. Rajeeve explained that the Law Department’s advice need not be sought when issuing a government order based on an Act. In this case also, it was not sought, which was not wrong.  Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan demanded to know how Revenue Minister K. Rajan could defend the October 24 order in the Assembly when the Law Department had advised that it and the March 11 circular did not stand legal scrutiny. Mr. Satheesan further alleged that the Revenue Department’s decision not to seek the Law Department’s opinion before issuing the order could have been deliberate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/advice-of-law-dept-not-sought-in-issuing-order-says-rajeeve/article35618964.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,222 new cases in capital, 1,013 recover||The capital district recorded 1,222 COVID-19 cases and 1,013 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 11,048 on Thursday. The test positivity rate rose marginally to 9.1% when 13,378 people were subjected to tests. Among the fresh cases, 1,113 cases have been attributed to local transmission, while the source of infection is unknown in 108 cases. One health worker has also tested positive. As many as 32,771 people have been placed under quarantine in the district. The district death toll stood at 3,232 with 10 more recent deaths being attributed to COVID-19. The case fatality ratio was 0.98, the highest in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1222-new-cases-in-capital-1013-recover/article35619143.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Complex surgery done on police horse||Arazaan, a member of the Mounted Police unit in Thiruvananthapuram, underwent a successful surgery to remove a nasal tumour that obstructing breathing few days ago. The fifteen-year old male thoroughbred horse had been ailing from the presence of the benign growth which weighed 1.2 kg. First-of-its-kind The surgery was the first-of-its-kind to be conducted in the nasal cavity of a horse in the State with remote assistance from the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), Pookode. The procedure, conducted by a team of nine veterinarians including Mounted Police Unit assistant director L.J. Lowrance, lasted for an hour. The surgery took place after being approved by City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay. The unit functions under the Thiruvananthapuram City Police. Arazaan, which has been in police service for nearly 10 years after being brought from Mumbai, has been recuperating from the surgery. The surgeons included KVASU professor and head of surgery P.T. Dinesh, assistant professors S. Sooryadas and N.S. Jinesh Kumar, Kudappanakunnu Multispeciality Veterinary Hospital veterinary surgeon Anoop Rajamony and Zoo senior veterinary surgeon Jacob Alexander.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complex-surgery-done-on-police-horse/article35619089.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MOODLE digital training system launched in CET||Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) kick-started the Higher Education Department’s ambitious ‘Let us go Digital’ digital enablement campaign by commencing preparatory steps to implement the MOODLE-based learning management system (LMS) in the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram (CET) on Thursday. Marking the launch of a training programme for all of CET’s 315 faculty members, KSHEC vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal said MOODLE, being a community-developed free and open source software, provides a host of facilities that could make the teaching-learning process more effective. He added that the ongoing efforts to extend the system all across will receive impetus with CET, the leading engineering college in the State that is known to teach over 450 courses simultaneously, becoming part of the initiative. The college management has planned the five-day long training programme in a manner that does not affect regular academic activities. All teachers, including the Principal, will take part in training sessions held from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. College principal Jiji C.V. presided over the inaugural session. KSHEC member Rajan Varughese, MOODLE core committee members Sumesh Divakaran and Santhosh H.K. were also present. The training programmes are being conducted with technical support by Digital University Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moodle-digital-training-system-launched-in-cet/article35619141.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Girl found hanging||In a suspected suicide case, an 18-year-old girl was found hanging in her house in Kallara on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Varsha of Thachonam. The Kadakkal police, which has registered a case of unnatural death, was told by her relatives that the girl was disappointed on having failed in a subject in the Plus Two examinations. Varsha was a student of the Government HSS in Kummil. (Suicide prevention helpline – DISHA: 1056, 0471 - 2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-found-hanging/article35619145.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Moratorium on loan repayment sought||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday sought more cooperation from banks for effectively overcoming the pandemic-induced economic downturn. Addressing the State Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC) here, he urged the panel to press the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for an unconditional moratorium on loan repayment till December 31, 2021. In June, the State government had requested Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to declare the moratorium to help out the unorganised sector and institutions which are in deep crisis. Banks should bring the matter to the attention of the RBI, Mr. Vijayan said on Thursday. The Centre has expanded its Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for small businesses, announced under Atmanirbhar Bharat, to Rs. 4.5 lakh crore. Banks should give maximum publicity to it and ensure that the trading community benefits from this scheme. Mr. Vijayan urged the banks to ensure maximum coverage for farmers, dairy farmers and fishers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM KISAN). Agricultural loans should also be disbursed to individuals who take land on lease for farming, he said. The Chief Minister encouraged banks to provide liberal assistance to agricultural production groups that are being formed under the State Government’s 100-day programme. Homeless Further, he sought the banks’ cooperation for the revival of the tourism and cashew sectors. Banks should also take care to ensure that people who face recovery procedures under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act (SARFAESI Act) are not left homeless, the Chief Minister said. Apart from SLBC representatives, Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal, Chief Secretary V. P. Joy and Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) R. K. Singh were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moratorium-on-loan-repayment-sought/article35619090.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five more Zika cases confirmed||The number of people infected with Zika virus infections went up to to 61 with five more cases being confirmed on Thursday. The cases were detected in residents of Neyyattinkara, Pettah, Nemom, Vellayambalam and another Thiruvananthapuram native who worked in Ernakulam, according to a statement issued by the Health Department. The results were confirmed through tests conducted at the Public Health Laboratory, the Virology Lab at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital and the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha. While there were currently seven live infection cases, none of those affected were hospitalised. There were also no pregnant women among the infected group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-more-zika-cases-in-capital/article35618937.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Award for Sashi Kumar||Senior journalist Sashi Kumar has been selected for the first Television Lifetime Achievement Award instituted by the State government. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 2 lakh, citation and a statuette, Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian said. Mr. Sashi Kumar has won the award for providing a secular and progressive direction to visual media in the State and helping to lay the foundation for a serious television culture. The founder of Asianet, the country's first regional satellite television channel, he is currently chairman of Asian College of Journalism. He was selected for the award by a jury headed by poet K. Satchidanandan and consisting of journalists, including Venkitesh Ramakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-sashi-kumar/article35618966.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two held for burglary bid||The Chirayinkeezhu police on Thursday arrested two people who were allegedly caught red-handed during an attempt to break open an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) a day ago. The duo, identified as Vineesh, 28, of Manacaud, and Pramod, 22, of Muttathara, were purportedly caught in an inebriated state, during their burglary bid at the India1 white-label ATM at Sarkara junction around 5.30 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-burglary-bid/article35619144.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Uyare to help students prepare for SAY||The Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell under the higher secondary wing of the General Education Department has drawn up a project ‘Uyare’ to support 13% of the students who did not become eligible for higher education in the Plus Two examinations this year. The project will help prepare them for the Save-a-Year (SAY) examinations to begin on August 11. From applying for the examinations to topic-wise classes in various subjects through Zoom virtual platform from August 3 to 9, help will be provided to students under Uyare, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uyare-to-help-students-prepare-for-say/article35619088.ece
30 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Drinking water scheme for 10 panchayats||The State government has announced a scheme for addressing the drinking water shortage in hilly regions, the coast, and backward panchayats of the State. Under the State plan for 2021-22, the government will provide rainwater tanks and recharge wells as part of this initiative, the Water Resources Department said on Thursday. In all, 1,945 families in 10 selected grama panchayats will benefit from this scheme. Rainwater tanks with a capacity of 10,000 litres will be provided for 945 families in the Punkunnu, Kamakshi, Mariyapuram, Koruthode and Irattayar panchayats. The open well recharging scheme will benefit 1,000 families in the grama panchayats of Mavelikkara ,Thamarakkulam, Udumbannur, Edamulakkal, Velliyamattam and Alakkode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drinking-water-scheme-for-10-panchayats/article35618996.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KAT extends PSC rank list||The Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) has extended the validity of the PSC last-grade rank list till September 29. The decision has come as a reprieve for agitating job aspirants on the PSC rank list due to expire on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kat-extends-psc-rank-list/article35618962.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCT college opens BTech admissions||Sree Chitra Thirunal (SCT) College of Engineering at Pappanamcode in the capital has invited applications for admissions to its BTech programme under the NRI quota for the academic year 2021-22. Applications must be submitted through the college websitewww.sctce.ac.inwithin August 8. For details, visit the website or contact 9495565772.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sct-college-opens-btech-admissions/article35618963.ece
30 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||2,752 more test positive in Thrissur||There is no let-up in COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district. Triple lockdown has been imposed in 46 local bodies, including three municipalities, for one week. As the local bodies were categorised on the basis of test positivity rate, more local bodies were placed in D category. Triple lockdown was imposed at Kodungallur, Wadakkanchery, and Chalakudy municipalities and 43 gram panchayats, where the TPR is more than 15%. Only 31 local bodies were in the D category last week. Thrissur Corporation, which was in B category last week, is in C category this week. Punnayur panchayat recorded the highest TPR of 33.33%. The TPR of Thrissur Corporation is 11.90%. Divisions 27, 45, 6, 10, 14, 17, 18, and 22 in the corporation are micro-containment zones. Curbs imposed As Thrissur Corporation falls in C category, the police have restricted entry of private buses to the Swaraj Round. Shops selling essential goods will be allowed to open in the corporation limit. Restrictions have been imposed at all 55 divisions in the corporation. Many divisions are micro-containment zones too. In all, 2,752 positive cases were reported in the district on Thursday. The TPR is 15.96%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2752-more-test-positive-in-thrissur/article35619082.ece
30 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Probe on into benami deals||The investigation team is looking into the benami deals of the accused in the Karuvannur Service Cooperative bank loan scam. This is to find out property details of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-benami-deals/article35618959.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cracking the whip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cracking-the-whip/article35618921.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Line of separation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/line-of-separation/article35618931.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Work in progress||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-in-progress/article35619084.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest against Minister||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-minister/article35619086.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking cover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-cover/article35619147.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking justice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-justice/article35619149.ece
30 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘sells’ vehicle after her death||The Regional Transport Office (RTO) authorities were in a shock when they came across documents that suggested that a woman, who had passed away one and a half years ago, had sold her vehicle and transferred the ownership to a person from Proddatur on July 24 (last Saturday). The woman died on November 26, 2019. The documents suggested that the vehicle was up for sale by a finance company since September 13, 2019 and the new registration certificate (RC) was generated on July 14. The finance company had issued a letter of permission and recommended the transfer of ownership. According to the officials, all such transactions can be done only with the original owner putting his or her thumb impression as the vehicle registration certificates are linked with the Aadhaar card from which the biometric information is obtained. However, the records suggest that the transfer of ownership of the vehicle was done by the woman herself on July 24. Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad told The Hindu that the transfer of ownership or sale of vehicle can be done only by the legal heirs by producing the death certificate of the original owner, legal heir certificate, and a No Objection Certificate (NoC) from the financier. As per the law, the vehicle is transferred in the name of the legal heir, who then can transfer the ownership to the new buyer. Probe under way “All these transactions can happen only with the biometric information of the owner, whose Aadhaar card is linked to the registration certificate. We tried to find out the details of the previous owner. However, it was not found immediately in our online records. We will investigate further to ascertain how the vehicle transfer transaction was done and who from the RTA approved it,” Mr. Sivaram Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-sells-vehicle-after-her-death/article35619049.ece
30 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm laws will push farmers into penury, says filmmaker||Film actor and producer R. Narayana Murthy has demanded that the Central government repeal the three ‘controversial’ farm laws brought into force recently, saying that the new legislation are against the interests of the farming community and and the national food security. At a press conference here on Thursday, Mr. Narayana Murthy announed that his latest venture ‘Rythe Raju’ would be released on August 15. Referring to the farm laws, Mr. Narayana Murthy said protecting marketyards and mandis was a duty of the government as it would protect the farmers’ interest by ensuring them remunerative prices for their produce. Swaminathan report He lamented that the NDA government had ‘failed in keeping its word on implementation of the recommendation given by Dr. M.S. Swaminathan. Mr. Narayana Murthy is known for films such as ‘Ardharatri Swaatantryam’, ‘Adavi Diviteelu’, ‘Laal Salaam’, ‘Dandora’, ‘Erra Sainyam’, ‘Cheemala Dandu’, ‘Dalam’, ‘Cheekati Suryudu’. ‘Rythe Raju’ is about the travails of the farming community which is suffering due to lack of governmental support in ensuring Minimum Support Price for farm produces or purchasing produces on time to stop the fleecing by traders and middlemen, he said. “These three farm laws will push the farming community into penury and turn the small landholders into farm labourers with large extents of lands falling in the hands of corporate companies,” Mr. Narayana Murthy said. OTT platforms Referring to cinema, he said watching a movie in a theater is the sole entertainment for the majority of Indians and it is the cheapest form available right now. “The cinema hall should be opened with stringent COVID-19 guidelines as 80% of the Indian population cannot afford the subscibe to over-the-top (OTT) platforms,” he said. The parallel cinema needs to reach to audience and theaters provide a good platform for them, he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-farm-laws-will-push-farmers-into-penury-says-narayana-murthy/article35619051.ece
30 July 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||B.Y. Vijayendra not to be Karnataka Deputy CM||B.Y. Vijayendra, son of the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and who was reportedly being groomed as his successor,may have to wait longer for his rehabilitation. The party does not want to be seen as offering a bargain for Mr. Yediyurappa’s exit, especially since it is sensitive to the charge of dynastic politics. While the father-son duo reportedly lobbied for him to be made a Deputy Chief Minister in the new Cabinet, that is not on the table now, party sources said. “The party’s central leadership has only assured Mr. Yediyurappa that they will take care of his son’s political future, and haven’t promised anything specific. He is presently vice-president of the State unit of the party, in which capacity he will continue to function for now,” a senior party functionary said. Mr. Vijayendraaspired to be general secretary of the State unit in 2020, but was snubbed and made one of the 10 vice-presidents. Sources close to Mr. Vijayendra said he was keen on entering the legislature and had been toying with the idea of contesting the upcoming Hangal bypoll, a seat that has fallen vacant following the death of senior party leaderC.M. Udasi. However, the bypolls are not expected beforeDecember. The Legislative Council route is also likely closed till the year-end, when elections will be held to 25 seats from local body constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/by-vijayendra-not-to-be-karnataka-deputy-cm/article35618540.ece
30 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha One-Stop Centre opened||A Disha One-Stop Centre, with facilities like a central administrative unit, medical examination, DVcell, etc., was inaugurated in Guntur on Thursday. Minister for Women and Child Welfare Taneti Vanitha and Minister for Home and Disaster Management M. Sucharitha inaugurated the centre on the premises of Mahila Pranganam here. The Ministers said that such one-stop centres would be set up across the State and they would have all facilities so that women in distress could be provided relief. Principal Secretary, A.R. Anuradha, District Collector Vivek Yadav, Director, Women and Child Welfare, Kruttika Shukla, Joint Collector, Development, P. Prasanthi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-one-stop-centre-opened/article35619186.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana opposes A.P.’s water drawal from PRP without board’s consent||Telangana government has opposed the commencement of water drawal from Srisailam reservoir by Andhra Pradesh to the systems based on Pothireddypadu Head Regulator and Handri-Neeva to take the Krishna water outside the basin without the consent of even the three-member committee of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). In a letter addressed to the Chairman of KRMB on Wednesday, Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Telangana Irrigation Department C. Muralidhar pointed out that the A.P. has resorted to release of water from Pothireddypadu (PRP) and Handri-Neeva pump house at Malyal from July 25 itself as seen from the Reservoir Storage Monitoring System (RSMS) data on July 26. On the same day (July 26), the river board had communicated A.P.’s letter seeking its (board’s) permission to utilise water from Srisailam Right Bank power house to Telangana. However, Telangana has not received any requisition from KRMB for releases from PRP Head Regulator. “AP is conveniently trying to seek the board’s consent although it has already started diverting water from Srisailam,” Mr. Muralidhar said. The Telangana ENC wrote to the river board Chairman that AP shall be informed allowing power generation at its Right Bank power house by drawing water from the power sluice and restrain it from drawing water through PRP and other systems without consent of the three-member panel of the board. Reiterating Telangana’s view that Srisailam is basically a hydro-electric project for generating power to meet the irrigation requirements of Nagarjunasagar and Krishna Delta. Keeping in view the inflow pattern, power generation may be resorted to the extent possible to derive maximum benefits, the ENC said adding that Telangana has been generating power at Srisailam for the past few weeks to meet the drinking water requirements of Hyderabad and irrigation requirements of Nagarjunasagar project (NSP). The ENC requested the KRMB Chairman to consider concerns of Telangana, including the facts that KWDT-I had made en-bloc allocation to erstwhile A.P. and a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court had also clarified that the allocations made by KWDT-I were not project-specific. However, KWDT-II, under adjudication, is making project-wise allocation to A.P. and Telangana. Ad hoc arrangement As an ad hoc arrangement in June 2016, it was agreed to share 811 tmc ft assured water in 512:299 tmc ft proportion by the A.P. and Telangana without any prejudice to claims of the States before any fora. In 2017, it was modified as 66:34 ratio for AP:TS excluding minor irrigation utilisation, evaporation losses and Pattiseema diversion for that year. “Now, Telangana is agreeable to share Krishna water in the 50:50 ratio from 2021-22 water year till KWDT-II decision as Telangana is suffering large distress due to insufficient water,” Mr. Muralidhar wrote.  TS view on Krishna water sharing  On the pretext of supplying 15 tmc ft water to Chennai for drinking needs, A.P. is diverting huge quantity of water to outside the basin without any regard to in-basin needs National Commission for Integrated Water Resources Development report says transfer of water to outside basin is suggested only after meeting all in-basin needs Telangana has been continuously addressing KRMB and MoJS to restrain A.P. from diverting Krishna water to outside the basin Telangana Chief Minister strongly opposed diversion of water outside the basin at the second Apex Council meet held in October 2020 Telangana wants KRMB not to permit any water diversion from Srisailam to outside the basin till the in-basin needs are met completely Allow maximum power generation at Srisailam Left Bank, Nagarjunsagar and Pulichintala power houses to allow Telangana meet its power exigencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-opposes-aps-water-drawal-from-prp-without-boards-consent/article35618887.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy discharge of flood continues at Srisailam||A heavy discharge of flood through the spillway is continuing at Srisailam with the reservoir getting heavy inflow from Almatti-Narayanpur-Jurala projects and some supplementation from Tungabhadra dam. The discharge of flood, which was commenced on Wednesday evening with the engineers lifting two crest gates for 10 feet height each to discharge 53,500 cusecs from the spillway, was increased to 1.93 lakh cusecs by lifting five more gates after 6 a.m. After 7 a.m. three more gates were lifted taking the total to 10 to further increase the flood dishcarge to over 2.76 lakh cusecs. As the water storage in the reservoir approached 211 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft, the authorities lifted the 10 spillway gates by another 5 feet each, taking the vent height to 15 feet, to take the discharge to 3.76 lakh cusecs, with a steady flood of over 4.5 lakh cusecs kept reaching Srisailam dam. In addition to the spillway discharge, another 55,000 cusecs to 65,000 cusecs water was also being let into the river course with power generation in the right and left bank power houses. At 8 p.m., water storage in Srisailam was 211.5 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft with level at 884.3 feet against full reservoir level of 885 ft. Inflow into the dam was 4.73 lakh cusecs. Similarly, the storage of Nagarjunasagar reached 207 tmc ft against its capacity of 312 tmc ft and the level 548.7 ft against FRL of 590 ft. The TS-Genco has also resumed hydel generation form Thursday morning discharging up to 28,000 cusecs of water to the river course. Hydel generation by TS-Genco was also on at Pulichintala. In the upstream, Almatti dam was getting 4.34 lakh cusecs flood and discharging 4 lakh cusecs. At Narayanpur it was 4.1 lakh cusecs and 4.07 lakh cusecs and at Jurala it was 4.52 lakh cusecs and 4.68 lakh cusecs, respectively. The discharge of flood is forecast to continue further as the inflow at Hipparagi Barrage in the upstream of Almatti is likely to remain at 3.7 lakh cusecs on Friday too. In the Godavari Basin, only Yellampally Barrage was getting inflow of about 13,600 cusecs, while Sriramsagar, Singur, Lower Manair, Kaddam, Mid Manair and Nizamsagar were getting inflows in the range of 370 cusecs to 8,590 cusecs. At Medigadda Barrage, the inflow was over 1.01 lakh cusecs and outflow was 74,600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-discharge-of-flood-continues-at-srisailam/article35618902.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||City surgeon 1st Indian to be part of ISHLT panel||City-based heart and lung transplant surgeon Dr. Sandeep Attawar has become the first Indian physician to be part of a committee under the International Society for Heart & Lung Transplantation, which sets transplant guidelines for the medical fraternity around the world. Dr. Attawar is the head of KIMS Heart & Lung Transplant Institute and had performed around 290 transplants till Wednesday, including 15 COVID ones. A new set of patient guidelines and new indicators for lung transplants are agreed upon every seven years which becomes the standard protocol. The committee has just released the new set of guidelines for selection of lung transplant candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-surgeon-1st-indian-to-be-part-of-ishlt-panel/article35618864.ece
30 July 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muttil tree-felling case accused remanded||The Sulthan Bathery Judicial First Class Magistrate’s Court on Thursday remanded the three key accused and driver in the Muttil tree-felling case in judicial custody for 14 days. Magistrate Anand Parathara remanded Roji Augustine (47) of Moongananiyil at Vazhavatta and his brothers Jose Kutty Augustine (37) and Anto Augustine (32) as well as driver Vineesh (30) in connection with the felling of endangered rosewood trees on revenue pattaya land in Muttil South village by misinterpreting a government order. The court premises witnessed dramatic scenes when the accused were produced around 10 a.m. The accused demanded the court to grant permission to attend the funeral of their mother, who died on Tuesday, without police protection. The accused even entered into an altercation with the police outside the court raising their demand. In subjail But the court denied their demand and sent them to the subjail at Mananthavady after COVID-19 tests. Roji Augustine and Anto Augustine told the media that the police had misled the court. They said the police even denied permission to attend the funeral of their mother and it was a violation of human rights. The State government on Wednesday informed the Kerala High Court that the accused were arrested while the court was considering a plea of the accused to restrain the police from arresting them till the funeral of their mother was over. They had been charged under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muttil-tree-felling-case-accused-remanded/article35618548.ece
30 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC grants relief from arrest to ex-DGP||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the CBI not to arrest till August 2 former Gujarat DGP R.B. Sreekumar, one of the accused in the espionage case related to hatching a conspiracy to frame former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan. Justice K. Haripal passed the order on an anticipatory bail petition moved by Mr. Sreekumar. The court also ordered that the petition be tagged with other anticipatory bail petitions filed by two former Kerala Police officers and a former IB official, which had been posted for hearing on August 2. The Gujarat High Court had earlier ordered the CBI not to arrest him till July 29 on a petition filed by the former top cop seeking temporary transit bail until he obtained anticipatory bail from the court concerned in Kerala. Opposing the bail petition, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S.V. Raju, appearing for the CBI, argued that the case was a serious matter involving national security. The false case was foisted on the two leading scientists at the behest of the ISI. The CBI strongly believed that Pakistan was involved in the case. It was done to derail the ISRO's programme to develop a cryogenic engine. The scientists were arrested, humiliated and tortured and not allowed to carry out the works on the programme, he argued. The Supreme Court-appointed committee found that the petitioner was responsible for cooking up false charges against the former ISRO scientists. He was part of the conspiracy to derail the ISRO programme. If the petitioner was granted bail, it would drastically affect the investigation, he argued. Senior Counsel for the petitioner S. Sreekumar submitted that the petitioner, who was working as Deputy Director, Intelligence Bureau, Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau (SIB) at Thiruvananthapuram at that time, had not interrogated Mr. Narayanan. Nor there was any allegation by Mr. Narayanan that the petitioner had harassed him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-grants-relief-from-arrest-to-ex-dgp/article35618545.ece
30 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||River boards will put an end to riparian rows between A.P., Telangana: Veerraju||The gazette notifying the jurisdictions of the Godavari and the Krishna river management boards is a big step taken by the Centre to put an end to the riparian conflicts between A.P. and Telangana and make best use of the available resources, BJP Sate president Somu Veerraju has said. Efforts allegedly made by Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao to rake up a controversy over the sharing of Krishna waters with the lower riparian State for gaining mileage in the ensuing byelection to the Huzurabad Assembly seat would not work, Mr. Veerraju told the media here after a meeting of the zonal functionaries on Thursday. “The pact between the two States on sharing of river waters is a closed chapter. There is no scope for reopening it now,” he said while referring to the upper riparian State claiming more share in the Krishna waters. Mr. Veerraju said the ongoing Veligonda project, which was designed to draw Krishna waters from the foreshore of the Srisailam reservoir, was not included in the gazette due to a typographical error in the Reorganisation Act. “Myself and Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu have taken up the issue with the Union Water Resources Ministry, and the issue will be sorted out amicably,” he said. Mr. Veerraju said the Centre was committed to completing the Polavaram project on a war-footing. “An announcement from the Centre in this regard can be expected soon,” he added. A meeting would be conducted in Visakhapatnam on August 1 to discuss ways to make best use of the available water resources in the State, he said. Mr. Veerraju, who completed one year as State president, said the party would step up its agitation against the “inept” YSRCP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/river-boards-will-put-an-end-to-riparian-rows-between-ap-telangana-veerraju/article35619066.ece
30 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||8 held for bank fraud||The Prakasam police on Thursday arrested eight persons, including the manager of the Vetapalem Cooperative Urban Bank Limited and secretary Sriram Srinivasa Rao on charge of misappropriating Rs. 22.69 crore of bank funds at Vetapalem, near Chirala, in Prakasam district. A probe conducted by the police revealed that the prime accused in the case , Srinivasa Rao, with the knowledge of the bank's president, vice-president and directors had allegedly misappropriated the money deposited by the bank customers and invested it in LIC bonds, shares, farm lands, housing plots and gold ornaments. Freezing account Efforts were on to freeze the accounts of the accused in various banks and safe deposit lockers in the name of the accused and their relatives. As per law, their assets would be seized and steps taken to protect the interests of the depositors, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg told the media here on Thursday. Others arrested in this connection were bank president Valiveti Nageswararao, vice-president Vallampatla Ramalinga swamy and directors Chillamkuri Anjaneya Gupta, Koduri Rajendra Prasad, Nune Mohan Krishna, Kolisetty Venkata Satyanarayana and Rayavarapu Srinivasarao, the SP said. As per the account register, she said, the bank had 1,930 fixed deposit accounts, 138 recurring deposit accounts and 850 saving deposit accounts and 1,737 share holders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-held-for-bank-fraud-in-prakasam/article35618592.ece
30 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. sees five COVID deaths||Five more people succumbed to coronavirus infection in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Thursday. With this, the toll number of deaths in the region rose to 1,946 as three patients in Prakasam district and two more in Nellore district died. The virus has claimed 993 lives in Prakasam district and another 953 in Nellore so far, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The number of recoveries was slightly more when compared to single-day tally, which was up by 22 in the region when compared to the previous day. As many as 442 persons including 200 in Prakasam district contracted the infection in the last 24 hours, while 454 patients including 215 patients in Nellore district recovered during the period. The number of active cases stood at 5,466.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-five-more-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35619052.ece
30 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Minister slams Devineni Uma’s arrest||Former Minister for Health and TDP in-charge of Rajam Assembly constituency (SC-Reserved) Kondru Muralimohan on Thursday alleged that the State government was misusing the SC and ST Prevention of Atrocities Act-1989 to harass and arrest Opposition leaders in the State. Addressing a press conference in Rajam of Srikakulam district, Mr. Muralimohan condemened the arrest of former Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao under this Act. “The police department should not misuse the Acts aimed at protecting the real victims from downtrodden sections. It should not become a weapon to harass Opposition leaders. Senior police officials should not forget that the State government might change once in every five years but rules and regulations continue in the administrative set up. They should not be the puppets in the hands of ruling party leaders," said Mr.Muralimohan. He alleged that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government had failed in meeting the expectations of the people and skyrocketing of prices had deteriorated the living conditions of the people further in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-minister-slams-devineni-umas-arrest/article35619106.ece
30 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. pushed State into financial crisis: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Tekkali convener Hanumanthu Udaybhaskar on Thursday alleged that the YSR Congress Party government had pushed the State into a deep financial crisis for it lacked administrative skills and a vision for development. He alleged that employees of many government departments were unable to get their salaries in the first week of every month. He extended support to the protest launched by the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) over the issues pertaining to teachers and employees. “The State government is presenting a wrong interpretation of the New Education Policy which is aimed at ensuring the overall development of students, said Mr. Udaybhaskar. He assured to bring the issues being faced by the teachers to the notice of the government and strive for restoration of the old pension scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-pushed-state-into-financial-crisis-bjp/article35619109.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s Ayurvedic retreats innovate to stay open||After two lockdowns, tourism in Kerala is cautiously opening with Karkkadakam (July-August), the last month of the Malayalam calendar. Considered to be an ideal time of the year for Ayurveda treatments, the State is usually bustling with wellness tourism at this time, as domestic and international travellers arrive in droves, staying for a month or more. But COVID-19 has changed everything. For the second consecutive year, the Ayurveda centres need to find creative ways to stay afloat. ‘Monsoon treatment’ This year, instead of Karkkadakam packages, the accent is on ‘monsoon treatment’. Hefty discounts are being offered for a treatment regime comprising sukha chikitsa (preventive therapy), rejuvenation sessions with panchakarma treatment and medicated diets. Some centres began offering packages from June onwards, the beginning of the South-West monsoon in the State. Somatheeram, an award winning property in Kovalam, for instance now offers a 30% discount on all monsoon packages. The current rate for a 14-day package per head is Rs. 8,400 per day, inclusive of accommodation, treatment, Ayurveda diet, yoga and meditation and transport. In an attempt to cater to a quickly-changing world, post-COVID rehab is being promoted at many places along with monsoon packages. “We have been giving online consultation from last year. Now we have patients coming in seeking relief from post-COVID symptoms,” says Dr. Ani Sambath, medical superintendent and senior physician, AyurVAID, Kochi, which has multiple monsoon packages of three, five, seven, 14 and 21 days, with 15% discount. Kerala Tourism’s records state that there are more than 90 accredited Ayurveda centres in the State. This is in addition to 20-odd venues, including medical colleges and institutions such as Kottakkal and Vaidyaratnam that have been giving treatment for years. “Tourism and Ayurveda go hand in hand. Ayurveda contributes nearly 70% to Kerala Tourism’s total foreign exchange,” says Sajeev Kurup V, president of Ayurveda Promotion Society and general secretary, Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry.  As lockdowns ease, foreign guests are arriving on medical visas from countries which have air bubble pacts with India. In March, over 60 visited. However, travel bans and restrictions to and from India, especially after the second wave of the pandemic, reduced tourist arrivals. “There is just 10% of business happening now. In the last few months we had patients from Russia, United States, Germany, Ukraine, France and Italy who came on medical visas, but in small numbers. Earlier, 99% of our clientele comprised foreign guests,” says Baby Mathew, president, Kerala Travel Mart (KTM) Society and managing director of Somatheeram Group of Companies. KTM, which holds India’s largest B2B meet in the tourism sector, held a virtual summit in March this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-ayurvedic-retreats-innovate-to-stay-open/article35618550.ece
30 July 2021||Thiruvanathapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala detects over 22,000 more cases||Fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu rose marginally to 1,859 on Thursday, taking the tally to 25,55,664. As the State saw an increase by a little over 100 cases when compared with Wednesday, it was a handful of districts, including Chennai, that accounted for the rise. The State recorded 28 deaths, taking the toll to 34,023. The sudden rise in daily tally comes weeks after fresh infections started to dip during the last week of May. Cases went up marginally in the range of 10 to 30 in some districts. In Chennai, 181 people tested positive, when compared with 164 the previous day. There were 188 cases in Coimbatore. In Erode, the cases shot up to 166, from 140 on Wednesday, while Thanjavur had 102 cases after its daily tally dipped to 78 the previous day. In Tiruchi, fresh cases rose from 55 to 70. A total of 1,57,074 samples were tested. In Karnataka, a day after COVID-19 fatalities fell below 20 – the first time in over three months – deaths again shot up to 35 on Thursday. Two districts, Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada, reported nine and eight deaths respectively. For the last one month, the State reported zero deaths in over a dozen districts, bringing down the seven-day average Case Fatality Rate (CFR) from 3.01% on June 29 to 1.79% on July 29. However, Haveri, Bidar, Ramanagaram, Raichur, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Dharwad and Kolar continued to have a high seven-day average CFR. Bagalkot had a current average CFR of 11.11%. Karnataka on Thursday reported 2,052 new cases, and 35 deaths. The TPR for the day touched 1.37%. Another 1,48,861 tests were conducted, including 1,19,459 RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh reported 20 deaths and 2,107 new infections on Thursday. The daily death toll was the highest in the past nine days, rising gradually for the third time in a row. The daily TPR of 78,784 tests was 2.67%. Krishna district reported six deaths in the past day, the highest, Chittoor and Prakasam four each, and Anantapur, East Godavari, Kadapa, Nellore, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari one each. Chittoor reported 392 new infections, East Godavari (316), Krishna (303), Nellore (242), Prakasam (200), Guntur (193) and Visakhapatnam (163). Rural cases in Telangana In Telangana, rural districts had a higher number of cases. Of the 623 infections on Thursday, 68 were from Karimnagar, 70 from Greater Hyderabad, 67 from Warangal Urban, 51 from Khammam, and 43 from Pedapalli. Three more patients died. In a continuation of the recent trend, Kerala reported 22,064 cases on Thursday, running 1,63,098 tests.  The cumulative case fatality stood at 16,585, with 128 recent deaths added to the official list.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-detects-over-22000-more-cases/article35618554.ece
30 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD releases Rs. 25 cr. for Garuda Varadhi flyover||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Thursday released the second instalment of Rs. 25 crore for the Garuda Varadhi project proposed in Tirupati. TTD Executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy issued an order pertaining to the release of funds after a high-level meeting with the Tirupati Municipal Corporation (MCT) officials. Municipal Commissioner P.S. Girisha said that the construction of the flyover from APSRTC bus stand to Nandi Circle was nearing completion and it would be ready by the end of August. With the release of the second instalment, the TTD’s contribution to the project has gone up to Rs. 50 crore. Smart City General Manager Chandramouli, Superintendent Engineer (MCT) Mohan, TTD FACAO Balaji and Chief Engineer Nageswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-releases-rs-25-cr-for-garuda-varadhi-flyover/article35619053.ece
30 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVIMS to offer cashless treatment to patients||The Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), the super speciality hospital being run by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), will soon be offering cashless treatment to all patients covered under health insurance schemes, on a par with corporate hospitals. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, who reviewed the hospital’s performance with SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma and other senior officials on Thursday, announced that a new block would be allocated at the hospital exclusively for the patients covered under YSR Aarogyasri scheme. The officials of the Information Technology wing have been instructed to speed up the HR and hospital management applications and the engineering officials were also told to complete all civil works on a war-footing. “The applications meant for online dispatch of all medical tests and scanning reports such as X Ray and MRI on Radiology Imaging System need to be improvised,” Mr. Reddy said. SVIMS Superintendent R. Ram, TTD Chief Engineer Nageswara Rao, Financial Advisor O. Balaji, Chief Accounts Officer Ravi Prasad and IT head Sesha Reddy and SVIMS IT Manager Bhavana were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svims-to-offer-cashless-treatment-to-patients/article35619054.ece
30 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vengamma made Director of SVIMS for third time||Bhuma Vengamma has been appointed the Director and Vice-Chancellor of Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS University) for three years. This is the third time that she has occupied the post at the TTD-run super specialty hospital and has served seven and a half years at the helm so far. The SVIMS, a State COID-19 hospital, reached out to patients during the first wave of the pandemic and also became the referral hospital for patients from across Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore and Anantapur districts. A neurologist for three decades, Dr. Vengamma was instrumental in launching the department at the SVIMS in 1993. It was during her tenure that Sri Padmavathi Medical College for Women, the country’s second all-women medical college, was set up in 2014 and shot to prominence. Dr. Vengamma, as the president of Indian Epilepsy Association’s Tirupati chapter, has been conducting free monthly epilepsy camps for the patients from poor financial background since 1999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vengamma-becomes-director-of-svims-for-third-time/article35619048.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s show time for movie buffs||After downing the shutters for nearly three months, the exhibitors in the State have decided to screen films from Friday. However, only 10% of the theatres in the State are likely to screen movies. The movie that was last screened in the theatres was the Pawan Kalyan-starrer ‘Vakeel Saab’. The theatre owners had voluntarily downed the shutters after the film was made available on Amazon Prime. According to information, the exhibitors want to test the waters in view of the prevailing pandemic. They are apprehensive that the theatre owners may not be able to cope with the expenditure if the turnout is poor. Cap on occupancy Besides, the government has put a cap of 50% on occupancy. Again, as the curfew hours are still in vogue, there is no possibility of second show. So, the exhibitors have to meet the expenses with the revenue generated through three shows in a day. The exhibitors say that there are not many big-budget films that can pull the movie buffs to the theatres. About five medium budget movies are being released in the near future. ‘Ishq’ and ‘Timmarusu’ are among the few movies that will be screened from Friday. The others include, ‘Narasimhapuram’, ‘Thrayam’, and ‘Parigedutu - Parigedutu’. “A few exhibitors want to wait until the State government takes a decision on the ticket price. At present, the rates are as low as Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 in the ‘C’ class areas. The industry has been representing the government to consider a hike in the rates,” says T. Sai Prasad, Vijayawada Exhibitors’ Association secretary. There are about 1,100 theatres in the State, 60 in Vijayawada alone. But due to COVID-19, there was a steep fall in the occupancy, which forced the exhibitors to stop the shows. Viability blues The theatre owners had to down the shutters as the collections were far less than the amount they had to spend on maintenance, salaries, taxes, and adhering to the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-show-time-for-movie-buffs/article35619075.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily toll highest in past nine days||The State reported 20 deaths and 2,107 new COVID infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The death toll increased to 13,332 and the cumulative tally reached 19,62,049. The daily death toll was highest in the past nine days and the daily tally has gradually increased for the third time in a row. The recovery rate remains at 98.24% while the number of recoveries slightly increased to  19,27,438, including 1,807 recoveries in the past day. The number of active cases was 21,279. The daily positivity rate of the 78,784 tests in the past day was 2.67% while the overall positivity rate of 2.44 crore samples tested was 8.04%. No respite Krishna district reported six deaths in the past day. It was the highest single-day toll among the districts. Chittoor and Prakasam reported four new deaths while Anantapur, East Godavari, Kadapa, Nellore, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one new death each. Four districts reported no new death. Chittoor reported 392 new infections in the past day. It was followed by East Godavari (316), Krishna (303), Nellore (242), Prakasam (200), Guntur (193) and Visakhapatnam (163). Six districts reported less than a hundred new infections. They include West Godavari (69), Anantapur (61), Kadapa (58), Srikakulam (44), Kurnool (38), Vizianagaram (28). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,76,677), Chittoor (2,30,399), West Godavari (1,69,434), Guntur (1,67,705), Anantapur (1,56,174), Visakhapatnam (1,52,263), Nellore (1,33,911), Prakasam (1,29,184), Kurnool (1,23,162), Srikakulam (1,20,501), Kadapa (1,10,083), Krishna (1,08,272) and Vizianagaram (81,389).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-toll-highest-in-past-nine-days/article35619059.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRDO developing oxygen cylinders to meet COVID needs: Chairman||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) hit the headlines two months ago when the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved anti-COVID oral drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), developed by it. Having transferred many technologies to the industry sector in general and healthcare in particular during the pandemic, the DRDO has now geared up to supply small oxygen cylinders to the patients in the event of the third wave of coronavirus pandemic, apart from manufacturing 2-DG drug in a massive way. Speaking to The Hindu , DRDO G. Satheesh Reddy says that the DRDO contributed 350 technologies to the industry during the last one year. Of this, 190 were related to the COVID-19, while the rest were related to defence sector. Defence laboratories were opened for conducting tests, he says. “Now, the DRDO is developing technologies to produce small oxygen cylinders in a massive way. Likewise, the technology for setting up of small wings at hospitals, supply of 2-DG medicine are being worked out. The medicine would be manufactured through pharma companies,” says Dr. Satheesh Reddy. The DRDO chief recalls that the experiments on the 2-DG began in 2001-02. Then the idea was to develop a therapeutic drug for radiation related effects. The technology was transferred to the Dr. Reddy’s Labs around 2004. They have conducted a lot of trials since then, says Mr. Satheesh Reddy “We thought that it would work for COVID-19 too. So we experimented and it proved that it was working very effectively against the coronavirus affected cells. Then, we went ahead,” he explains. Dr. Satheesh Reddy says that the DRDO is working on clothing for low temperature environment for soldiers posted at higher altitudes. Exports policy Snow shoes, crevasse detection technologies, room heating elements, food heating, anti-frosting, anti-radiation creams are being developed for the soldiers, he says. Referring to defence exports, Dr. Satheesh Reddy says lots of things have been simplified and new policies are being formulated to promote exports. “Some work has been done. Some clearances are yet to be given,” he says while answering a question on the status of Missile Test Launch Facility at Nagayalanka. “The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has approached us regarding the anti-drone system developed by the DRDO which is being used by the Tata, L&T and other clients. The TTD is buying the system,” says Dr. Satheesh Reddy, who was in the city to attend some programmes. Earlier in the day, he inspected the ongoing works at the Missile Test Launch Facility at Nagayalanka in Krishna district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drdo-developing-oxygen-cylinders-to-meet-covid-needs-chairman/article35618588.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AI tools helped State check power purchase costs: official||Power Finance Corporation former CMD Rajeev Sharma has appreciated the sustained efforts of the State Energy Department in procuring cost-effective power through exchanges, which benefit the consumers and saves public money. In a communication to Energy Secretary N. Srikant, Mr. Sharma said the measures taken by the Government of Andhra Pradesh were widely acclaimed and that its initiatives were worthy of emulation by other States. Addressing a meeting in this connection with AP-Transco Joint Managing Director K. Venkateswara Rao, CMDs of DISCOMs, H. Haranatha Rao, J. Padma Janardhana Reddy and K. Santosha Rao and AP-Transco Director (Grid & Transmission) K. Praveen Kumar and Director (Finance) K. Muthupandian on purchasing cost-effective power, on Thursday, Mr. Srikant said the utilities were able to control the electricity procurement costs by using artificial intelligence and machine learning and that purchases from the open market accounted for 80% of the overall cost of power sector. He observed that advanced technologies were also helpful in making an accurate prediction of the demand for power. Officials of the AP Power Coordination Committee said cost-effective power purchases in financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21 resulted in a saving of Rs. 2,342 crore. In the first quarter of 2021-22, Rs. 95 crore was saved. On an average, the power utilities saved Rs. 1 crore per day for three months. These savings are estimated as per the actual cost of procurement from the market and other short term sources against the weighted average variable cost of approved sources which were not available on a day-ahead basis or were substituted in lieu of cheaper market power availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ai-tools-helped-state-check-power-purchase-costs-official/article35619188.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister releases book on rivers and streams in State||Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar on Thursday released a book titled ‘ 1142 Nadulu, Vagulu-Vankalu ’ written by A. Varaprasada Rao, Director of the Groundwater Department. Mr. Kumar said the book contained comprehensive information about the known major rivers and many rivers, rivulets, etc. unheard of, which could be used in conservation efforts and for utilising them for irrigation and drinking water needs. He observed that a citizen of Andhra Pradesh might at best know the names of 40 to 50 rivers, but the book authored by Mr. Rao threw light on the abundance and phenomenal variety of rivers which the State was endowed with. The Minister asserted that it was a great reference source for a whole lot of stakeholders. ‘Painstaking effort’ Mr. Rao said the natural streams of water flowing through the State were divided into 13 types on the basis of their length and a host of other parameters and that Andhra Pradesh has 40 river basins. He hoped that his painstaking effort in collecting data from various sources and compiling it as a book would help governments and the public in doing their bit for saving the precious sources of water. International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage honorary vice-president K. Yella Reddy, Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Department Engineer-in-Chief (administration) R. Satish Kumar and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-releases-book-on-rivers-and-streams-in-state/article35618591.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA opposes order to install oxygen plants in pvt. hospitals||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has opposed the GO 57 issued by the State government recently making it mandatory for hospitals in the State to install captive oxygen plants and keep sufficient oxygen cylinders. The government stated that the hospital registration would be cancelled if the instructions in the GO were not followed. The Andhra Pradesh Private Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association (APNA), Andhra Pradesh Speciality Hospitals Association (ASHA), and the Aarogyasri Network Hospitals Association of Andhra Pradesh (ANHAAP) have extended their support and solidarity with the IMA in this regard. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, IMA president-elect C. Srinivas Raju said the GO was “unnecessary, illogical and impractical”. The IMA was bewildered with the GO. The government had taken an arbitrary decision without taking major stakeholders such as private doctors and private hospitals represented by the IMA, APNA, ASHA and (ANHAAP). The government should call a State-level advisory committee to meet and take necessary decisions, he said. ANHAAP president B.Narendra Reddy expressed the view that the government should have brought only COVID hospitals under the purview of the GO 57. Instead, all private hospitals were asked to install PSA oxygen plants or maintain liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tanks. It would be burdensome for the hospitals. Ninety percent of the hospitals in the State were single doctor-run hospitals or family physician hospitals. Such hospitals would face a problem if the burden of creating infrastructure were to be taken into consideration, he said. APNA general secretary P. Srinivas, IMA general secretary G. Nanda Kishore and finance secretary M. Subhash Chandra Bose spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-opposes-order-to-install-oxygen-plants-in-pvt-hospitals/article35618595.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on tigers released||Chief Minister Y. S, Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday released a coffee table book on tiger population in the State. He also released a poster on conservation of tigers, coinciding with International Tigers Day. The book contains the photographs of 63 tigers that were found in the Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) in the State. Officials of the Forest Department explained to the Chief Minister the steps being taken to conserve tigers in the State. There were 47 tigers as per tiger census in 2018. The officials found that the tiger population has increased to 67 when the tiger images have been captured in camera traps during 2020-21. The footprints of tigers were found from Nallamala to Seshachalam forests. There was evidence that tigers were moving in Kadapa and Chittoor districts, the officials said. Mr. Jagan asked them to take steps to conserve the tigers effectively. The Chief Minister agreed to a proposal to buy vehicles for the officials and employees working in the tiger reserve. Forests and Environment Minister Balineni Srinivas Reddy, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests N. Prateep Kumar, Forests and Environment Secretary Vijay Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-tigers-released/article35619072.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||V-C of Odisha CU Ramabrahmam dead||I. Ramabrahmam, Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Odisha, Koraput, died on Wednesday. He was suffering from lung cancer and post COVID-19 infections. Prof. Ramabrahmam passed away while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Hyderabad, where he was admitted on July 12, a university release said. University in-charge Vice-Chancellor S.K. Palita said the demise of Prof. Ramabrahmam had come as a rude shock to the students and staff members. “During his short tenure, he had brought in reforms in the administration and the examination system,” Prof. Palita said. Born in Eluru, he was an alumni of St. Anthony’s High School and Mrs. A.V.N. College in Visakhapatnam, Osmania University, and University of Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/v-c-of-odisha-cu-ramabrahmam-dead/article35619061.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Lok Adalat to be held on September 11||A National Lok Adalat will be held under the aegis of A.P. State Legal Services Authority (APSLSA) patron-in-chief and High Court (HC) Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, APSLSA Executive Chairman and High Court Judge Justice Joymalya Bagchi and AP High Court Legal Services Committee Chairman and High Court judge Justice A.V. Sesha Sai on September 11 throughout the State, according to a press release by APSLSA member secretary Chinnamsetty Raju. The Lok Adalat will settle pending compoundable criminal cases, cheque bounce cases, cases under the Motor Vehicle Act and labour and all civil cases. The awards passed by the Lok Adalat are final and court fees paid are refundable if such cases are settled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-lok-adalat-to-be-held-on-september-11/article35618589.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SFI stages dharna against exorbitant school fees||Activists of the Students Federation of India (SFI) staged a dharna in front of a private school here on Thursday demanding that the State government take steps to control fees being collected by private educational institutions in the State. SFI Krishna district secretary M. Someswara Rao alleged that private schools were collecting huge amounts as fee from the parents even before the commencement of academic year. A few institutions had doubled the fee compared to last year. The government was requested to look into the exorbitant fees being collected by corporate schools, he said. The quality of food being supplied under Jagananna Goru Mmudda needs to be improved. The activists urged the government to supply fine quality rice under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sfi-dharna-against-exorbitant-school-fees/article35618593.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor participates in NEP -2020 celebration||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Thursday participated in a programme “Celebrating one year of National Education Policy 2020’ chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in virtual mode from Raj Bhavan. Addressing the Governors, Chief Ministers and State Education Ministers who participated in the programme, Mr. Modi said implementation of the NEP-2020 had become a part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ celebrating 75 years of India’s Independence, as it played a major role in fulfilling aspirations of the youth of the country and in building a new India. Secretary to the Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena, Chairman of AP State Council of Higher Education Prof. K. Hemachandra Reddy and Commissioner of Collegiate Education Pola Bhaskar, also attended the programme organised by the Ministry of Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-participates-in-nep-2020-celebration/article35618596.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central, State officials discuss implementation of GST Acts||Senior officials of the Revenue Department of Andhra Pradesh, led by its Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bharagava, and Central and State GST officials discussed the strategy to be adopted for effective implementation of the GST Acts, at the State Tax Chief Commissionerate here on Thursday. The participants stressed the need for close coordination between the Centre and the State tax departments in sharing the data on outward and inward supplies as well as the returns furnished by the taxpayers every month. They insisted that information collected through market intelligence should be collated and shared. Besides, orders passed by the officers of the Central and State government departments on contentious issues had to be shared seamlessly so that the officers could present strong arguments in courts if the taxpayers take legal recourse.  Principal Chief Commissioner (Customs & Excise, Visakhapatnam Zone) P. Naresh, Chief Commissioner of State Tax Peeyush Kumar, Principal Commissioner at Central Board of Indirect Taxes (Guntur/Vizag Commissionerate) S. Faheem Ahmed, Special Commissioner of State Taxes Sadhu Narasimha Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-state-officials-discuss-implementation-of-gst-acts/article35619190.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karbonn mobiles team meets CM||A delegation of United Telelinks-Neolyncs Private Limited, the makers of Karbonn mobile phones, led by chairman Sudhir Kumar Hasija and Neolyncs chairman Reuven Shaibel met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office here on Thursday. Mr. Hasija said the company had drawn up plans to invest Rs. 2,150 crore in State for manufacturing mobile phones and electronic items such as set-top boxes, telecom products, chargers, IT hardware and laptop and desktop computers and on creating social infrastructure, and that it would provide direct employment to 6,000 people and indirect employment to up to 20,000. The company would be setting up units in the EMC in Tirupati and Kopparthy in Kadapa district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karbonn-mobiles-team-meets-cm/article35619062.ece
30 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP govt. paid more towards fee reimbursement’||TDP MLC P. Ashok Babu on Thursday alleged that the State government was wasting crores of rupees of public money on advertisements relating to the fee reimbursement scheme. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was betraying the poor families and students by issuing colourful advertisements. “The government is paying far less to the students when compared with the TDP government,” Mr. Ashok claimed. The government was reimbursing fee to just 10.97 lakh students, whereas the TDP government had extended the benefit to 16 lakh during 2018-19, he said. ‘Limited coverage’ Moreover, the State government was reimbursing fee to only the BPL students under the convener quota, benefiting only 30% of the families, he said. “The government is releasing Rs. 40,000 towards fee reimbursement to engineering students in four instalments of Rs. 10,000 each. The delay and uncertainty in the release of funds is putting the students to inconvenience,” Mr. Ashok said, and adding that the TDP government had extended the benefit to all the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-govt-paid-more-towards-fee-reimbursement/article35619073.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC gets nod to notify 1,180 posts||The government has given permission to the AP Public Service Commission to issue notifications for 1,180 vacant posts following orders on amendment to Rule 22 of AP State and Subordinate Service Rules regarding EBC reservation. The posts include Medical Officer (Unani) – 26, Medical Officer (Homoeo) – 53, Medical Officer (Ayurveda) – 72, lecturer in homoeo – 24, and lecturer in Dr. NRS GAC – 3, all in Ayush Department, Junior Assistant-cum-Computer Assistant in Revenue Department (670), Assistant Engineer in Engineering Sub-Service (190), Executive Officer Grade-III in Endowment Department (60), Horticulture Officer (39), Telugu reporter in Legislature Secretariat (5), DPRO in I&PR Department (4), English reporter in Legislature Secretariat (10), Junior Lecturer, APREI Society (10), Degree College lecturer, APREI Society (05) and Assistant Conservator of Forests in AP Forest Service (9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-gets-nod-to-notify-1180-posts/article35619076.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police pay surprise visits to secretariats||Senior police officials on Thursday inspected Ward and Village Secretariats across the State. Following the orders of Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, senior police officials, including Superintendents of Police, Deputy Superintendents of Police and others, made surprise visits to the secretariats in their respective police districts. According to a release by the office of DGP, they inquired with the Mahila Police in the Secretariats and also inquired about the qualification of other secretaries working with them.  Welfare schemes The police officials inquired about the welfare schemes being provided to the people under the respective secretariats. The police said that all the help regarding police services for women in view of cybercrimes, anti-social activities and others would be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-pay-surprise-visits-to-secretariats/article35619187.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers stage protest||In response to a call given by the leaders of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF), teachers across the State staged dharnas at the taluk offices demanding immediate steps to resolve their pending issues. They demanded repeal of the new Contributory Pension Scheme, implementation of the 11th Pay Revision Commission,among other issues. Federation president K. Bhanu Murthy participated in a protest staged in Srikakulam, while general secretary P. Panduranga Varaprasada Rao joined the protesting teachers at Repalleand Avanigadda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-stage-protest/article35619189.ece
30 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) floor leader ends fast||CPI(M) floor leader Boya Satya Babu, who was on hunger strike in protest against new tax regime, broke his fast on Thursday evening.  Mr. Satya Babu was shifted to a hospital late on Wednesday. He broke it in the evening after Left parties and TDP corporators extended support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-floor-leader-ends-fast/article35619193.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP privatisation a strategic decision, says P.V.N. Madhav||The Union government has taken a strategic decision to divest its stake in the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and 25 other PSUs across the country, according to BJP State general secretary and MLC P.V.N. Madhav. “Disinvestment is the order of the day, not only in India but across the globe,” Mr. Madhav said while addressing the media conference here on Thursday. The interests of the VSP employees would be taken care of, and efforts would be made to protect the rights of the displaced persons, he added, and accused the YSRCP of misleading the VSP employees. Stating that Somu Veerraju had completed one year as State party president, Mr. Madhav said several struggles had been waged against the “lopsided policies of the State government” during the period. He predicted that the BJP-Jana Sena combine would grow into a formidable force in the State in the future. BJP State vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju said the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) was not in a position to pay the bills of contractors. He ridiculed the State government for offering to buy the VSP if it was put up for sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-privatisation-a-strategic-decision-says-pvn-madhav/article35619203.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New plan will benefit real estate developers: CPI(M)||The Greater Visakha City Committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has described the Master Plan - 2041 of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) as a ‘real estate plan’ that aims to convert agricultural land into non-agricultural land in order to benefit developers. The party further alleged that the master plan would snatch away the dreams of the middle- and lower classes of ever owning a house. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao and city secretariat member R.K.S.V. Kumar alleged that the proposed master plan would result in real estate agents exerting pressure on farmers to sell their agricultural lands at nominal rates and convert them into real estate ventures. The farmers would be deprived of their lands and migrate to the city to work as migrant labourers, they claimed. The CPI(M) City Committee opposed the VMRDA Master Plan – 2041 and sought that a new draft reflecting the ground realities be prepared with decentralisation as the focal point. The draft was translated into Telugu only four days ago and the 45 days’ time given for ‘objections’ and ‘suggestions’ was too short. They alleged that the State government had reduced the process of inviting suggestions and objections to a ritual by deliberately avoiding extensive discussions on the master plan as its main objective was to make profits. They said that there were 35 agricultural mandals under VMRDA and 41% of the people in these mandals were workers. The agricultural lands in these mandals would be converted into farm houses, golf and race course and amusement parks. The lands would be in the possession of a few individuals. The farmers, who lose their lands, would migrate to the city in search of work and the population of the city would increase further. The draft states that the proposal was to provide basic infrastructure at a cost of Rs. 1.40 lakh crore. This is nothing but jugglery of figures to deceive the people. They said that the BRTS roads, taken up 12 years ago, and the project to bring 400 MGD of Godavari water to the city, remain incomplete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-plan-will-benefit-real-estate-developers-cpim/article35619201.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business plan contest by GITAM||GITAM Deemed to be University, in association with the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) is organising a business plan contest-2021 in the month of August, to encourage innovative ideas. This was informed to reporters by GITAM Institute of Management Social Incubation & Entrepreneurship Director Dr. Vijayabhaskar here on Thursday. He said that the ideas for the contest are being invited in key thrust areas like new product development, technology-based ideas, artificial intelligence, big data analytics, cybersecurity, Internet of Things (IOT) and rural innovations and digital marketing, he added. The best ideas will be selected and prizes given for the top three. The first prize has a cash award of Rs. 5,000, the second prize Rs. 3.000 and third prize Rs. 2,000. The winning business plans will also be recommended to the MSME PMAC (Project Monitoring & Advisory Committee) for the grant-in-aid support to a maximum of Rs. 15 lakh. Once the prototype is successful, the MSME will be providing Rs. 1 crore as seed capital to support the the startup. The idea should solve real-time problems and bring benefits to society and should also have the potential to scale up, he said. The last date for receiving a complete application is August 18. For more details, contact 9030583456 or 90422 37316 or mail the details toic_gim@gitam.edu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/business-plan-contest-by-gitam/article35619200.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will file counter against Centre’s affidavit on VSP: Lakshminarayana||Former CBI Joint Director and political activist V.V. Lakshminarayana has said that a counter will be filed against the Centre’s affidavit on the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), in the AP High Court on August 2. The affidavit was in response to the PIL filed by Mr. Lakshminarayana on the VSP privatisation issue. Reacting to the remarks reportedly made by the Centre in its affidavit that the PIL was a part of the petitioner’s political agenda, Mr. Lakshminarayana said on Thursday that “there is no rule that a politician cannot file a PIL.” “Moreover, the Supreme Court has stated that any PIL will be admitted if there is an element of public interest and public good in it, irrespective of the petitioner’s background,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Lakshminarayana said the Union government had not addressed certain key points in the petition. “The VSP has all the trappings of becoming a major steel hub. It is worthwhile to consider the alternatives before selling it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-file-counter-against-centres-affidavit-on-vsp-lakshminarayana/article35619064.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains extended||Services of some special trains have been extended for the convenience of the public, the Railways said in a statement on Thursday. The 02449 Shalimar-Secunderabad weekly special, leaving Shalimar on Wednesday, will be extended from August 4 to September 29. The 02450 Secunderabad-Shalimar weekly special, leaving Shalimar on Fridays will be extended from August 6 to October 1, while 08637 Hatia-Bangalore Cantt. weekly special leaving Hatia on Saturdays will be extended from August 7 to September 25. The 08638 Bangalore Cantt-Hatia weekly special leaving Bangalore Cantt on Tuesdays will be extended from August 10 to September 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-extended/article35619107.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City’s resident welfare associations condemn hike in property tax||Members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Associations (VARWA) & Greater Visakha Residential Colony Association's Federation (Nivas) have jointly organised a roundtable meet on the property tax hike by the State government, here on Thursday. Representatives from VARWA, Nivas, Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS), Vizagapatnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI), from Madhurawada, Gopalapatnam, Auto Nagar and 23 various localities from the city attended the meet. ‘Severe burden on citizens’ All the members unanimously opposed the new tax changes and opined that this would lead to a severe burden on citizens. At the meeting, the associations also decided to continue their agitations like padayatras, signature campaign and social media campaign until the government withdraws its proposal, and also decided to challenge the order in court. During the meeting, the members adopted a resolution opposing the decision. They opined that it was inhumane on the corporation’s part to hike taxes at a time when people were already under severe financial burden caused by the COVID pandemic. “We pay property tax only for the creation of facilities like garbage collection, sewage treatment, drinking water supply, and road maintenance. It is unfair to charge extra,” they stated. The members also demanded that the GVMC understand the plight of the poor, middle-class and small business community, and roll back the proposed tax hike. VARWA vice-president T. Kameswara Rao, Nivas general secretary P. Narayana Murty, VARWA general secretary B.B. Ganesh, APFERWAS president Uday Shirname, and VCCI secretary Ravi Godey were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citys-resident-welfare-associations-condemn-hike-in-property-tax/article35619196.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DIG, SP inspect Sachivalayams||Deputy Inspector General (Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao along with Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao inspected several Sachivalayams at Sabbavaram, Rebaka in Anakapalle (Rural) and other places in Anakapalle Town police station limits in the district here on Thursday. During the inspection, Mr. Ranga Rao and Mr. Krishna Rao checked the records of the Sachivalayam and enquired about the services being offered to the public. They also learnt about the functioning of Mahila Police in the Sachivalayam region. They suggested them to bridge the gap between the government and the people and create awareness on anti-social activities, cybercrimes, and women safety. The DIG and SP also enquired with the administrative secretaries over the departments in the Sachivalayams, the staff, their qualifications and the role played by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dig-sp-inspect-sachivalayams/article35619197.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||96,403 students getting aid under ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’ in district||The Jagananna Vidya Deevena scheme of the State government is financially aiding 96,403 students in the district, Collector A. Mallikarjuna said on Thursday. In the second instalment under the scheme, a sum of Rs. 59.96 crore was deposited in the accounts of mothers of the 96,403 students in the district by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Collector took part in a video conference with the Chief Minister who launched the programme from Tadepalli. After the programme, the Collector said that the State government would bear the cost of education for every poor student. He urged students to utilise the welfare schemes. Nearly 11 lakh students from the State are being benefited with this scheme, he said. Along with Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, he handed over the cheques to the mothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/96403-students-getting-aid-under-jagananna-vidya-deevena-in-district/article35619199.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FDNA decries Centre’s remarks on employees||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has condemned the statements of the Centre that it has the right to terminate the services of employees and that the Constitution does not provide for reservations on a permanent basis. In a statement here on Thursday, FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma said that the Centre’s counter filed in the High Court, on a PIL filed by former Joint Director of CBI V.V. Lakshminarayana, smacks of arrogance. The FDNA general secretary noted that PSUs were established with the taxes paid by the people and the government has no right to sell them. He said it was shameful on the part of the Modi government, which has not established a single PSU, but was bent on selling off existing ones. He warned that the BJP government would be taught a lesson by the people and recalled that VSP was achieved after opposing a ‘more obstinate government’ in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fdna-decries-centres-remarks-on-employees/article35619204.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster against human trafficking released||A poster, brought out by Bala Vikas Foundation (BVF), as part of its initiative to campaign against human trafficking, was released by D.V.R. Murthy, Head of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Andhra University, on the eve of World Day Against Trafficking in Persons, on Thursday. Prof. Murthy said that human trafficking was a heinous crime and called for its all-round condemnation. He felt it could be curbed if Acts related to it were implemented in true letter and spirit. The United Nations should play an important role in it as it is a global issue, he said. Narava Prakasa Rao, founder secretary of BVF, said that women and children were the worst sufferers of human trafficking. . The posters would be be pasted on the notice board of various departments, colleges and schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poster-against-human-trafficking-released/article35619210.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP protests against VMRDA’s master plan||A dharna was organised by the TDP demanding extension of time by at least three months for filing of objections to the draft master plan of the VMRDA, on Thursday. Former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao, former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy, MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao, and TDP general secretary Pasarla Prasad participated in the protest. Later, a memorandum was submitted to the VMRDA Commissioner seeking display of extracts of the Master Plan-2041 and the Draft Perspective Plan-2051 at each mandal and ward in the respective zonal offices as well as at the tahsildar and panchayat offices. The other demands include: display of omissions and additions of changes in mode of roads and its width by mentioning clearly the reason for changes and names of the related persons and hard copies to be displayed at tahsildar and panchayat offices, the address and timings of the redressal forum/appellate authority in case of any grievances in the master plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-protests-against-vmrdas-master-plan/article35619209.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel workers stage dharna at VSP office||Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Samithi has demanded that the Centre revoke its decision on the strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The committee staged a dharna at the administrative office of VSP on Thursday in protest against the remarks of the Centre that there was no going back on the decision. Samithi leaders said that former CBI Joint Director V.V. Lakshminarayana had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Andhra Pradesh High Court against the decision of the Centre on the strategic sale of VSP. The Centre, in its counter in the court, made irresponsible statements that incensed VSP employees, who were already agitated by its decision, they said.They said that protests would be held in Delhi on August 2 and 3. Committee leaders J. Ayodhyaram, Mantri Rajasekhar, D. Adinarayana, Y.T. Das, Gandham Venkata Rao, K. Satyanarayana Rao, Murali Raju and Y. Mastanappa participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-workers-stage-dharna-at-vsp-office/article35619213.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-Vizag, NCGG ink pact for academic research||Officials from the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) and the National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG), an autonomous institute under the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) of the Government of India, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for conducting joint academic programmes, exchange of faculty, collaboration in conducting research and consulting, and areas of mutual interest. Additional Secretary of DARPG and Director General (NCGG), V. Srinivas, and Director of IIM-V, M. Chandrasekhar, exchanged the MoU in the presence of Prof. Poonam Singh of the NCGG and IIM-V faculty. Mr. Srinivas emphasised on the role of academic institutions in building robust governance and public management models. Amit Chakrabarti and Neena Pandey from IIM-V and Poonam Singh from NCGG spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-vizag-ncgg-ink-pact-for-academic-research/article35619216.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GPL ‘sets a record’ in discharge of bauxite||The Gangavaram Port on Thursday reportedly set a national record by discharging 1,25,380 tonnes of bauxite within 24 hours using the mechanical unloading system. The cargo was discharged from m.v. Berge Apo, carrying 1,65,598 tonnes of bauxite for Vedanta Limited. As per a release, this was the fastest bauxite discharge in India and also, possibly, in the world. The port also recorded another milestone in iron ore loading target by changing its loading pattern. GPL also achieved the highest loading in difficult grade of iron ore fines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gpl-sets-a-record-in-discharge-of-bauxite/article35619077.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU announces exam schedule||Examinations for the Degree first semester will be held from August 18, Andhra University officials announced on Thursday. Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy held a meeting with principals of various AU-affiliated colleges at Senate Hall in the AU campus here on Thursday. Mr/ Prasad Reddy said that the decision was taken after holding discussions with all the principals. He also added that second semester and fourth semester examinations will be held from September 2. “The first semester examinations will conclude by the end of the month. It has also been decided to start the second semester classes from September 1,” the VC said. The VC also instructed the principals and other officials of the varsity to ensure the results are declared within 10 days of the completion of the exam. The VC also enquired about ongoing online classes of various colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-announces-exam-schedule/article35619198.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL opens new stockyard in Guwahati||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited opened a new stockyard in Guwahati to make Vizag steel products easily accessible to the north-east region of India. The new stockyard is located in a locality called Pandu, on the premises of Inland Waterways Authority of India in Guwahati. D.K. Mohanty, Director (Commercial) and CMD (additional charge) said that this will help RINL contribute to the priority agenda of the Union Government to develop the north-east sector. The first consignment was handed over to its customer Larsen & Toubro ECC Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-opens-new-stockyard-in-guwahati/article35619108.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD officials call on Sarada Peetham seers||Representatives of Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams (TTD) met Visakha Sarada Peetham seers Swamy Swaroopanandendra and Swamy Swatmanandendra, who are presently in Rishikesh as part of their Chaturmasya Deeksha. The TTD officials handed over ‘Srivari’ prasadam to the seers. Chief priest Srinivasa Deekshitulu and Joint Executive Officer Dharma Reddy were among those who called on the seers. Later, the seers held discussions with the TTD officials on a wide range of issues, according to a statement issued by the Peetham here on Thursday. Swamy Swaroopanandendra suggested that the ‘parayanadarula’ posts in TTD should be filled under the ‘Veda Parayana’ scheme for the benefit of students, who had completed Vedic studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-officials-call-on-sarada-peetham-seers/article35619211.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID toll rises to 1,050||The district saw 163 COVID cases on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 1,772. Meanwhile, 152 persons who were suffering from COVID-19 tested negative on Thursday. The death toll rose to 1,050 after one more person succumbed to the virus. The last 50 COVID-19 deaths were reported in a span of 31 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-toll-rises-to-1050/article35619214.ece
30 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar held to mark Global Tiger Day||On the occasion of Global Tiger Day – 2021, officials from Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, Visakhapatnam conducted a State-level webinar with hte coordination of the Andhra Pradesh Forest Department on the theme of ‘Tiger Conservation’, here on Thursday. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Forest Forces) N. Prateep Kumar made his opening remarks. Director, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, Dr. Dhanunjay Mohan, Conservator of Forest & Field Director Project Tiger Circle, Srisailam, Y. Srinivas Reddy, and DFO, Markapur, G. Vignesh Appavu shared their views on how to conserve tigers in Andhra Pradesh. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria had presented a video on ex-situ conservation of tigers at IGZP. Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Rahul Pandey also spoke. Around 2,500 participants took part in quiz competition from various parts of the country, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-held-to-mark-global-tiger-day/article35619215.ece
30 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. keen on tapping maritime potential’||The government is keen on developing the Bhavanapadu port by 2024 as it has the potential to spur economic activity in the north coastal region and provide employment to many, A.P. Maritime Board chairman K. Venkata Reddy has said. DPR ready “The officials have already prepared the detailed project report (DPR) for the project coming up at an estimated cost of Rs. 3,670 crore in Santabommali mandal of Srikakulam district. The tender process too has begun,” Mr. Venkata Reddy told The Hindu . “After kick-starting the process for the construction of the Ramayapatnam port in Prakasam district and the Machilipatnam port in Krishna district, the government has turned its attention to the Bhavanapadu port as it is going to be the lifeline for the North Andhra region,” said Mr. Venkata Reddy. Stating that the eight new fishing harbours would give the required impetus to maritime trade in the State and provide livelihood to thousands of fishermen in the State, Mr. Venkat Reddy said, “The State’s 975-km-long coastline can be utilised to the optimum. Fishermen migrating to Gujarat, Maharashtra and other places in search of livelihood will soon lead a happy life in their native districts.” “The government has begun the process for construction of fishing harbours at Juvvaladinne (Nellore), Nizampet (Guntur), Uppada (East Godavari), and Machilipatnam (Krishna). The tender process will begin soon for the projects at Kottapatnam (Prakasam), Biyyaputippa (West Godavari), Pudimadaka (Visakhapatnam), and Budagatlapalem (Srikakulam),” he said. “The ports and fishing harbours will lead to development of all the coastal districts. The government’s initiative will attract huge investments and industries to the State. Andhra Pradesh will progress on a par with Gujarat in maritime trade soon,” Mr. Venkata Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-on-tapping-maritime-potential/article35619068.ece
30 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handloom exhibition evokes good response||Artisans from different parts of the country displayed their products at the Sri Kalabharati Cheneta Hastakala Pradarsana, a handloom exhibition, held on the premises of the Lions Club, in Vizianagaram. The exhibition that began on July 18 has been receiving a good response, the organisers said. With the drop in coronavirus infection and relaxation from curfew norms, customers are thronging the exhibition that will continue till August 8. “With the auspicious Sravana Masam is around the corner, women are buying saris. The exhibition has a good collection from Kashmir, Venkatagiri, Uppada, Chirala and other places. The response for Jewelry, handicraft items, toys has also been good as they are being sold at discounted prices. The brisk business will certainly instill confidence among the artisans who have been enduring financial problems amid the pandemic,” said Kalabharathi exhibition president R. Prasada Rao. “We have a wide range of products to choose from. Moreover, the exhibition will help many artisans,” said Deepthi, a school teacher, who visited the exhibition on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handloom-exhibition-evokes-good-response/article35619110.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Education alone empowers people, says Chief Minister||Drawing a comparison with the BRICS nations on the enrolment of students for higher studies, he said it was 51.8% in Brazil, 83.4% in Russia, and 83.4% in China. “But in India, only 27% of the students are pursuing higher education and 73% are not joining college,” he added. “It is hard to eliminate poverty if children don’t pursue higher studies,” he observed. He said the schemes such as Amma Vodi, Gorumudda, Vidya Kanuka, and Vasati Deevena would ensure that no family ran into debts for the sake of providing education to the children. The government had spent Rs. 26,677 crore on education alone, he added. “Previously, money used to be paid directly to the colleges. But from this year, it’s being credited to the mothers’ accounts as they can have better supervision on the college facilities and students’ well-being, which in turn will improve the colleges’ accountability,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Helpline ‘Should there be any problem with the college management, or with Vidya Deevena, the beneficiaries are advised to call toll-free number 1902,” he added. The third and fourth tranche would be released in December this year and in February next. Ministers A. Suresh, P. Viswaroop, Ch. Venugopala Krishna, and K. Venkateswara Rao, Principal Secretary (Higher Education) K. Satish Chandra, Principal Secretary (BC Welfare) G. Anantha Ramu, and APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-alone-empowers-people-says-chief-minister/article35619070.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Everyday heroes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/everyday-heroes/article35619112.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Everyday heroes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/everyday-heroes/article35619192.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky fun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-fun/article35619195.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Millets turn panacea for diabetics||The word ‘millets’ has become synonymous with healthy food. Recently, it has been found that this food option reduces the risk of Type-2 Diabetes. A group of researchers, who conducted a study led by the Smart Food Initiative at ICRISAT, explored the effect of millets on diabetes and concluded that the percentages of drop in blood glucose levels after consumption of this food remained for a long time. The study shows that people with diabetes who consumed millets as part of their daily diet saw their blood glucose levels drop 12-15% (fasting and post-meal), and blood glucose levels went from diabetic to pre-diabetes levels. The HbA1c (blood glucose bound to haemoglobin) levels lowered on average 17% for pre-diabetic individuals, and the levels went from pre-diabetic to normal status. The study titled “A Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Potential of Millets for Managing and Reducing the Risk of Developing Diabetes Mellitus” was published in the ‘Frontiers in Nutrition’ on Wednesday. It was conducted by researchers from India, Japan, Malawi and United Kingdom. The systemic review included regression analysis to find the effect of millets in managing diabetes. As per the information from the published study, the authors have collected 80 studies on the effect of millets on various outcomes in non-diabetic, pre-diabetic and diabetic subjects. Of them, 65 were eligible for a meta-analysis involving about 1,000 human subjects. The systemic review was conducted from October 2017 to February 2021. The researches have found that millets have a low average Glycemic Index (GI) of 52.7, about 30% lower GI than milled rice and refined wheat, and about 14-37 GI points lower compared to maize. Glycemic Index is a scale that gives an idea about the pace at which a food raises the blood sugar levels. It concluded that even after boiling, baking and steaming, millets had lower GI than rice, wheat and maize. But how long do people have to consume millets to see the results? Lead author of the study and a senior nutrition scientist at ICRISAT Dr. S. Anitha said that a specific time period cannot be mentioned to see the results. “Millets should be part of our staple. The results will not last if people go back to junk food, and refined foods,” she suggested. Director of National Institute of Nutrition Dr. Hemalatha R. said that diabetes contributed to a very high disease burden from 1990-2016 in India. “Diabetes-related health expenditure was over USD 7 million,” she said. “The global health crisis of under nutrition and over nutrition coexisting is a sign that our food systems need fixing. Greater diversity both on-farm and on-plate is the key to transforming food systems. On-farm diversity is a risk mitigating strategy for farmers in the face of climate change while on-plate diversity helps counter lifestyle diseases like diabetes. Millets are part of the solution to mitigate the challenges associated with malnutrition, human health, natural resource degradation, and climate change. Trans-disciplinary research involving multiple stakeholders is required to create resilient, sustainable and nutritious food systems,” said Director General ICRISAT Dr. Jacqueline Hughes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/millets-turn-panacea-for-diabetics/article35618862.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Construction of secretariat complex gathers momentum||Work on construction of the new integrated Secretariat complex is progressing at a brisk pace after a lull of close to three months due to second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. Works pertaining to basement of the massive complex have been completed so far and works on ground floor, standing about 15ft above the base are nearing completion. The officials concerned are supervising works relating to laying of slabs for the first floor. The integrated Secretariat has been planned with lower ground, ground and 11 floors with built up area of 64,989 square metres (around seven lakh sq.ft) spread over close to three acre land. The total cost of the project, awarded to Shapoorji and Pallonji Group, was estimated at Rs. 616 crore after incorporating provisions for state-of-the-art facilities. Work on the project commenced after the government completed all the formalities and handed over the possession of the land to the construction major in November last year. A deadline of one year was fixed for the completion of the project and the integrated complex completed in all respects should be handed over to the government in the third week of November, according to the agreement signed by the R&B department. After some brisk activity initially, the project work however came to a grinding halt due to the incidence of second wave of the COVID-19 as several workers engaged in the work site were affected with the virus. “We have ensured that the 1,000+ workers and staff deployed on duties are vaccinated. Currently over 1,000 workers are working every day as against the less than 200 during the COVID-19 second wave,” a senior official told The Hindu . Officials are however not sure whether the complex will be completed within the deadline stipulated and are expecting that completion of the integrated complex in all respects is likely to take more time. The machinery component involved in the construction is limited and a majority of works like brick work, shuttering and plastering would involve manual component. A twenty-day cycle should be followed for taking up works on each floor henceforth. “It (completion of new complex) is likely to extend to next year,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secretariat-construction-picks-up-pace/article35618891.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR for more jobs to locals in new units||Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao has urged entrepreneurs establishing new industrial units in Telangana to consider providing jobs to more local youth as such a move made the investors eligible for additional incentives from the State government. “The State government is committed to ensuring additional incentives if you provide employment opportunities to the local youth,” he said, inaugurating a new plant of solar PV cells and module manufacturing firm Premier Energies in E-City, near here, on Thursday. Set with an investment of Rs. 483 crore, the firm’s new manufacturing unit has a capacity to produce 750 MW solar cell and 750 MW solar module. Noting that 700 direct jobs were provided by the new plant and many of the employees with whom he interacted hail from different parts of the State, he said the firm is planning next to invest Rs. 1,200 crore for creating 2GW capacity manufacturing facilities. The proposed facilities would create job opportunities for 2,000 people. “Majority of this employment should go to the locals,” the Minister said, adding on its part the government is laying emphasis also on skill development of youth. In tune with its approach, a skill development centre will be inaugurated in the area on August 5. He also urged the educated, local youth to equip themselves with skills that made job ready. The government will recommend them for jobs to the companies, he said. Highlighting how Telangana government, through its policies to improve the ease of doing business, has been successful in attracting around Rs. 2.20 lakh crore investments in the last six years, Mr. Rao 80% of the projects have been operationalised thereby also creating jobs for lakhs of people. Renewable energy was a priority sector for Telangana and the State was second, among all States, in terms of solar energy production. Founder and Chairman of Premier Energies Surender Pal Singh thanked the State government for supporting the company in in this journey. “They believed in our vision and encouraged us to grow,” he said. Managing Director Chiranjeev Saluja said “the future of power industry in India is going to be driven by renewable energy, primarily dominated by solar energy. With the expanded capacity, we aim to work towards India’s commitment to addressing climate change”. The new unit will produce MCCE textured multi-crystalline cells and modules, Mono PERC cells and modules as well as 19.2% efficiency polycrystalline cells and modules. Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy was among those who addressed the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-for-more-jobs-to-locals-in-new-units/article35618876.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OTP leads to drop in online property tax payments||Online payments of property tax have dropped drastically for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reportedly after a new feature has been introduced in the software to secure the authenticity. Payments using credit/debit cards and digital wallet platforms through online have come down after the portal was updated to seek phone number of the assessee, sources have informed. To know the amount of the bill, the property tax payer will have to enter his/her phone number, upon which he or she will get a one-time password (OTP) to the mobile number. The amount will be displayed only if the OTP is entered. However, there is no OTP for payment of the bill, though phone number and email are to be entered there too. While officials are claiming it as a measure for enhanced security, it is learnt that the decision is a knee-jerk reaction to a few reports in media about long pending property tax bills of the Chief Minister’s camp office Pragathi Bhavan in Begumpet. Officials were said to have been miffed with the unauthorised access to the details of Pragathi Bhavan’s property tax with mere Property Tax Identification Number (PTIN), and to introduce more checks, features to seek phone number and send OTP have been introduced into the software, sources say. However, inexplicably, online payments have reportedly come down after introduction of the feature. Officials say, that the daily collection through various online modes has dropped from the usual Rs. 40 lakh to about Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh. The overall figures of payment, however, remain encouraging, with GHMC garnering about Rs. 2 crore revenue per day through property tax. Sources attribute the fall in online revenue to software glitches, as several assessees are unable to get the OTPs on mobile phones. This year, up to Wednesday, Rs. 669 crore has been collected by way of property tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/otp-leads-to-drop-in-online-property-tax-payments/article35618884.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PJTSAU releases 11 new seed varieties of six crops||Eleven new varieties of seed – five in paddy crop, two in jowar and one each in redgram, greengram, soybean and gingelly – developed by the scientists of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) are likely to become available to the farming community of Telangana and elsewhere soon, Vice-Chancellor of the university V. Praveen Rao has stated. The new varieties, most of them being various pest-resistant and high-yielding, have been approved by the State Variety Release Committee (SVRC) or the 3rd State Sub-Committee on Crop Standard and Release of Varieties last week. They would now be sent to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties or CVRC. After going through a process at CVRC., they would be notified and published in the Indian Gazette. Mass production of the new seed varieties by seed producing agencies, besides the university, would begin after the gazette notification and would be made available to farmers for cultivation, the Vice-Chancellor explained here on Thursday. Higher yields Along with the 11 varieties approved by the SVRC now, the university had released 47 varieties of various crops since formation of Telangana, Mr. Praveen Rao said emphasising the need to efficient water management for achieving higher yields and optimum utilisation of the increasing irrigation facilities. The youngest agricultural university in the country, PJTSAU, had earned a good reputation in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and about 30 students of the university are bagging junior research fellowships (JRFs) every year, the V-C, Director (Research) R. Jagadeeshwar and Director of Seed Research of Technology Centre (SRTC) T. Pradeep stated, explained the progress made by the university. Further, the university is also scaling up its technology by entering into agreements with International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), International Crops Research Institute for the Semi Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) and adopting robotics, artificial intelligence, drone and other technologies. Mr. Praveen Rao stated that PJTSAU is the first university in the country to get Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) approval for using drones in crop research. Stating that there was no approval to private agricultural colleges in Telangana, the PJTSAU V-C made it clear that in case any private university starts any course in agriculture, they have to follow ICAR guidelines. Fee structure for agricultural courses is lowest in Telangana in the country. The university is also launching an agri-hub for imparting training on entrepreneurship skills among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pjtsau-releases-11-new-seed-varieties-of-six-crops/article35619137.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postpone ‘Dalit Bandhu’ scheme, FGG writes to CEC||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has sent a representation to Chief Election Commissioner of India requesting to direct the Telangana government to postpone the ‘Dalit Bandhu’ programme in Huzurabad Assembly constituency till the byelection is over. In a communication to the CEC, a copy of which was released to the media on Wednesday, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said while the welfare schemes were welcome, the timing of the announcement of directly transferring Rs. 10 lakh to the Dalit families in view of the critical bypoll which could potentially be have an impact in the next Assembly elections, is questionable. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has openly acknowledged the cash disbursement scheme was being introduced for electoral gains. In this context the EC despite the code of conduct not coming into effect as the date of the byelection has not yet been announced, has the bounden duty to conduct elections in a free and fair manner. Introducing a large number of welfare schemes just before an election amounts to influencing voters with taxpayers money. The CM has already announced the scheme to 10,000 families in Huzurabad spending Rs. 1,000 crore and had also invited 430 people to his official residence-cum-camp office recently where other schemes like issuance of pattedar passbooks within 10 days, taking profiles of Dalit families, ration cards, distribution of sheep and construction of houses were also announced. Mr. Reddy said while the schemes are good, the intention in promising these before the byelection is apparent. The Chief Minister has also stated that 100 Dalit families in every Assembly constituency are to be given Rs. 10 lakh cash and it will cost about Rs. 1,190 crore for the scheme to be implemented in the entire State. The government with meagre resources cannot implement the in the entire State, the FGG secretary asserted and also sought to point out that thus far no guidelines for implementing the scheme in selection of beneficiaries and the purpose for which the amount is to be spent has yet to be worked out.  Chief Minister has acknowledged that the scheme is for electoral gains. Forum for Good Governance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postpone-dalit-bandhu-scheme-fgg-urges-cec/article35618896.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 500 crore budget release order issued for Dalit Bandhu||The Telangana government on Thursday issued an order for release of Rs. 500 crore for Dalit Bandhu programme to be launched in Huzurabad next month. The budget release order was specifically issued for the first two quarters, ending September, of this financial year to climax with the byelection to Huzurabad Assembly constituency. The order was in the backdrop of government already allocating Rs. 1,200 crore in this year’s budget for the Chief Minister’s Dalit Empowerment Programme. A senior official said the money was released to the SC Development Department for implementation of a routine budgeted programme at Rs. 250 crore each for two quarters. The programme envisaged a direct benefit transfer of Rs. 10 lakh without any bank linkage as investment support for starting businesses. As a pilot project in Huzurabad, it was conceived to benefit 20,000 beneficiaries over a period of time which would cost Rs. 2,000 crore. SC quota Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao recently announced that reservations will be provided to SCs in allotment of licensed businesses like rice mills, fertilizer, liquor and medical shops as part of dovetailing them with the programme. The programme was largely appreciated by all parties though demands for its implementation on the scale at Huzurabad in all constituencies of the State cropped up subsequently. Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka also demanded uniform implementation across the State. An NGO Forum for Good Governance went to the extent of writing to the Chief Election Commissioner seeking its intervention to postpone the programme until the end of byelection because it was aimed to lure voters. The Chief Minister had on Monday invited 450 people of SC communities from villages in Huzurabad to explain to them how he hoped to bring light in their lives through the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-500-crore-budget-release-order-issued-for-dalit-bandhu/article35618897.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Yuvraj Singh foundation donates 120 beds to Nizamabad hospital||The Government Medical College and General Hospital in Nizamabad has been equipped with 120 Critical Care Unit (CCU) beds by the ‘YouWeCan’ Foundation run by cricketer Yuvraj Singh. The city was chosen precisely to reach out to rural areas of the district. Shabnam Singh, Yuvraj Singh’s mother and chairperson of the foundation, said that Nizamabad was chosen after a comprehensive need assessment in Telangana. “We realised that Hyderabad had received a lot of support while Nizamabad needed support because GMC Nizamabad serves several rural districts in the region,” she said. 1,000 beds planned The foundation has installed over 400 critical care beds across India till now and is in the process of installing an additional 300 critical care beds while the objective is to install over 1,000 critical care beds. These will be mostly in tier-2 and tier-3 cities after assessing the cases till date and the current bed capacity of the hospitals. She said that with the financial support from Accenture, the foundation was able to provide a variety of medical equipment such as BiPAP machines, ICU ventilators, patient monitors, crash carts and oxygen cylinders to the Nizamabad hospital. The facility was inaugurated virtually by Yuvraj Singh in the presence of Home Minister Mohd. Mahmood Ali, delegates from Accenture and the hospital. Mr. Yuvraj Singh said that after witnessing the unprecedented crisis and loss of life all around as well as going through a personal loss, he felt the need to step up his support to healthcare providers and frontline workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yuvraj-singh-foundation-donates-120-beds-to-nizamabad-hospital/article35618869.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC imposes costs on GHMC Commissioner, PS||Telangana High Court on Thursday imposed costs of Rs. 10,000 each on GHMC Commissioner and Principal Secretary of Medical and Health for the inordinate delay in filing counter affidavits in two separate matters. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the costs should be deposited in the accounts of the advocates welfare fund. HMT Nagar Welfare Society, represented by G. Kishan, filed a PIL petition in 2011 questioning the laying of road within Full Tank Level of Nacharam Peddacheruvu. The authorities decided to remove the walkers path and lay a road there. When the matter came up for hearing, the GHMC counsel sought time to file counter affidavit. In another matter, four persons filed a writ petition in 2019 questioning amendment of the service rules of AP Medical Education. Taking a serious note of the officials not filing the counter affidavits, the bench imposed costs on them. September 9 is next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-imposes-costs-on-ghmc-commissioner-ps/article35618873.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Gold nanoparticle-based kit can detect dominant Hepatitis genotypes’||The recently discovered gold nanoparticle-based diagnostic kit for early-stage detection of Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection has been augmented with technology to differentiate HCV 1 & 3 genotypes without the time consuming and expensive Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain reaction (RT-PCR), said researchers from BITS Pilani, Hyderabad campus, and Bioviz Technologies, following a collaboration with Deccan College of Medical Sciences, on Tuesday. HCV is a lethal virus causing liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma if left undiagnosed and/or untreated. It has 8 genotypes, among which genotype 1 (46.2%) and 3 (30.1%) are the most prevalent worldwide. In India, the HCV genotype 1 is more than 24% and genotype 3 is more than 54%, said Prof. Jayati Ray Dutta of BITS Pilani. Determination of the corresponding genotype is often required to ascertain the precise medication and the treatment duration. The commonly used RT-PCR test is used for this and to circumvent this, researchers from the three institutes have come together to diagnose the most prevalent genotypes 1 and 3 using a nanotechnology-based strategy. It can be easily adopted even by the rural health sector as it would not require highly-skilled personnel and sophisticated infrastructure. About 79 clinical samples have been analysed with the new kit and it has shown a lower detection limit of 100 IU/ml with 100% sensitivity and selectivity, said a press release. “Our test takes just an hour unlike the 4-6 hours typically required for the RT-qPCR test,” claimed Prof. Datta. The research team comprises Almas Shamaila Mohammed, Aniket Balapure, Prof. Aleem Ahmed Khan, Dr. Mahammad Nanne Khaja and Prof. Ramakrishnan Ganesan. Findings have been published in the latest edition of the journal ‘Analyst’ - DOI: 10.1039/d1an00590a; Royal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gold-nanoparticle-based-kit-can-detect-dominant-hepatitis-genotypes/article35618860.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR DG lauds labs for role in fighting COVID||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) Director General Shekhar Mande on Thursday commended the contributions of various labs across the country in the fight against COVID. He said that these contributions have been “diverse in setting up COVID surveillance strategies, affordable diagnostics, drugs and therapeutics development, hospital-assistive device development, and building supply chain and logistics”. Addressing the staff and students of the three CSIR institutes here – National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), he congratulated their contributions and mentioned the praise CSIR-IICT received from policy-makers for developing an adjuvant for Covaxin, making it a totally indigenously-built effective vaccine. He specifically mentioned how CSIR-National Aerospace Laboratory used its expertise of building next generation flights to build ventilators during the pandemic. They collaborated with CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology to understand how lungs and ventilators function. “Together, they built the first non-invasive ventilator in record time and is now widely used. No one group, one individual can take credit for contributions in fighting COVID as the entire credit goes to CSIR as an organisation,” remarked Dr. Mande and pointed out that the institutional leadership went out of the way to ensure labs functioned every single day during this fight. CSIR has been “uniquely placed” in terms of its mandate spanning from being strategic with pre-decided end points to others that perform blue-sky research and create quality human resources for future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-dg-lauds-labs-for-role-in-fighting-covid/article35618867.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fraudulent calls: power consumers cautioned||Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL or Southern Discom) has cautioned its consumers against falling prey to fraudulent phone calls and messages in the name of power bill dues. In a statement issued on Thursday, Chairman and Managing Director of TSSPDCL G. Raghuma Reddy said it had come to their notice that some unscrupulous elements were sending fraudulent messages and making phone calls to electricity consumers in the guise of pending bills. They were threatening to disconnect power supply overnight if the ‘due’ amount was not cleared instantly. After collecting details of banks accounts, credit and debit cards of power consumers the miscreants were withdrawing the money illegally from the consumers’ accounts. Mr. Reddy clarified that Discom would not sent any website link through sms. He explained that the Discom would only send the details of bills issued, payment made and about possible power supply interruptions to its consumers. Consumers could access information on bills and arrears on its websitewww.tssouthernpower.comor TSSPDCL mobile app. They could also register complaints online or contacting the section officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fraudulent-calls-power-consumers-cautioned/article35618872.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple arrested for rape, murder of woman||A man who allegedly raped a 35-year-old woman and murdered her with the help of his live-in partner at Ankiralagutta in Sangareddy district was arrested by the Dundigal police on Wednesday. Their arrest was announced by DCP Balanagar P.V. Padmaja here on Thursday afternoon. According to the officer, Kuruva Swamy (30) and his partner Masanamolla Narsamma (30) kidnapped the victim from Dundigal and took her to Ankiralagutta where the former sexually assaulted her, before they brutally murdered and robbed valuables from the victim. The couple were addicted to alcohol and other vices. Since they were unable to earn money as earlier while working at sand addas, the couple fell into financial crises and defaulted on vehicle EMIs. So, they targeted women found alone near toddy shops in the area, lured them with money and work, took them to secluded spots and robbed them of their jewellery. Ms. Padmaja said that they were involved in four notorious offences at Dundigal, Shankarpally of Cyberabad and Jinnaram and Ameenpur in Sangareddy. Couple found dead A man killed his alleged girlfriend before ending his life in a star hotel room at Madhapur here on Thursday evening. The victims are Santoshi (25) and Ramulu (25), both residents of Bommarasipet in Vikarabad district. According to the police, Ramulu slit his girlfriend’s throat with a knife and hanged himself from a ceiling fan.  [Roshini suicide prevention helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-woman/article35618879.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalits being taken for ride: Praveen Kumar||Former police officer R.S. Praveen Kumar on Thursday alleged that TRS government was attempting to deceive dalits in the name of ‘Dalit Bandhu’ scheme. Touring different villages in Karimnagar district, the former top cop said injustice was being meted out to bahujans in all sectors for the past years in the present government. While Telangana was achieved with the sacrifices of hundreds of martyrs, rulers were confining themselves to throwing baits at people during elections or by-elections. He appealed to people to be cautious about the ‘Dalit Bandhu’ scheme, observing that its scheme’s soul purpose was to take dalits for a ride in the name of extending financial benefits and empowerment. Mr. Praveen Kumar interacted with agricultural labourers at Mannempally village of Thimmapur. He inquired about their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalits-being-taken-for-ride-praveen-kumar/article35618895.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP leaders welcome quota for medical seats||Telangana unit of the BJP, led by national OBC morcha president K. Laxman, party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar and others on Thursday welcomed and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for announcing quota for the BCs and economically weaker sections in dental and medical undergraduate streams from this year onwards. Mr. Laxman informed that 27% quota for the BCs and 10% for the poor were discussed in the OBC morcha national executive meeting and presented before the Prime Minister by Union Minister Bhupendra Yadav and this was immediately accepted and acted upon. This move will pave the way for 4,000 seats in MBBS, MD, BDS & MDS for students from the BCs and 1,500 seats for the students hailing from the poorer sections, he added. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the historic decision would open the doors of higher education to the socially and economically backward sections by helping them to have better employment opportunities ahead. In this context, he was critical of the TRS government for not initiating quota for the economically poor yet and assured that the saffron party would stand by the poor among the general category to fight for the provision to be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-welcome-quota-for-medical-seats/article35619139.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam meets Gadkari for four-laning of roads||Congress Member of Parliament (MP) N. Uttam Kumar Reddy met Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari and urged him for extension of a two-lane road to four-lane road in several places on National Highway 167 from Jadcherla to Kodad. Mr. Reddy said the Central government has already sanctioned Rs. 1,100 crores for the NH 167 from |Jadcherla to Kodad through Kalvakurthy, Mallepally, Halia, Nidamanoor, Miryalaguda, Huzurnagar and Chilukur. Out of this Rs. 222 crores has been sanctioned for Miryalaguda - Neredcherla - Huzurnagar - Chilukr - Kodad road. The Nalgonda MP urged the Minister to sanction additional works for the four-laning of this particular road instead of the present two lane in the limits of Mukundapuram village, Neredcharla municipality, Appannapeta village, Seetharamapuram village and Chilkuru town. This is important given the heavy traffic on the road and also to reduce burden on the towns and the village stretches where the highway passes through, he said. Mr. Reddy also requested the Minister to sanction Rs. 140.80 crore for widening and strengthening of several roads in Kodad, Huzurnagar, Nagarjunasagar, Suryapet, Devarakonda and Miryalguda constituencies in Nalgonda parliamentary segment. He said the Minister responded positively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-meets-gadkari-for-four-laning-of-roads/article35618899.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FTCCI, Afghan chamber to collaborate||The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) has entered into an agreement of cooperation with the Afghanistan Chamber of Commerce and Investment (ACCI). FTCCI said this in a release on a seminar on promotion of business between Afghanistan and Telangana it had organised on Thursday. Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Consul General of Afghanistan Muhammad Suleman Kakar and ACCI CEO Shafiqullah Atayee besides FTCCI leaders led by president K.Bhasker Reddy participated. Mr. Ranjan hoped the FTCCI and ACCI partnership will play a key role in building bilateral trade and investment. The government will be happy to facilitate any aspect of this partnership, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ftcci-afghan-chamber-to-collaborate/article35618877.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Electric delivery vehicles for e-commerce||AO EV Tech has entered the last mile delivery industry by offering services, software and a specially-designed electric delivery vehicle all bundled into one integrated solution called the DAO ZOR EV Integrated fleet Partner Programme. The DAO ZOR 405 is the first-of-its-kind specially-designed electric vehicle for delivery business across the country. The programme provides specially-designed vehicles for e-commerce delivery, which can hold up to 225 kg of payload weight with a special side stand that holds the weight. These EVs can cover a daily average of 100 km on a single charge. DAO’s IOT protects the vehicle asset with remote vehicle disabling and tracking capabilities and additional skills. Additional services include training and enabling city migrants with the right soft skills, providing accommodation and health care support, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/electric-delivery-vehicles-for-e-commerce/article35618865.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power staff oppose electricity bill||Power employees and engineers held a State-level meet opposing the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021 here on Thursday and in support of one-day strike/work boycott on August 10 demanding withdrawal of the bill aimed at privatising the distribution sector. Speakers at the meeting, who included the functionaries of various associations of electricity employees and engineers, alleged that the Centre is planning to pass the bill in the ongoing session of Parliament. They stated that apart from privatising the distribution sector, the bill is against the interests of the consumers and employees with the possibility of increased energy charges and lack of job security. The speakers contended that the move to de-license power distribution is no way to ensure efficient and cost-effective electricity supply to the citizens. The objective of choice to consumers would not be fulfilled until the reforms are designed scrupulously taking into account the ground realities, they observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-staff-oppose-electricity-bill/article35618893.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress seeks white paper||Senior Congress leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajnarasimha has demanded a white paper on the money spent and the motors installed at Annaram pump house under the Kaleshwaram project as there were reports of leakages due to bursting of pipes. In a letter to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Mr. Rajanarsimha said the pipeline of the Annaram Pump House for lifting water to the barrage have been badly damaged as per the media reports. This is due to the poor quality of work by the contractors and lack of monitoring by the officials concerned. Before laying the pipelines several factors are taken into account like their capacity, velocity of water and layers in the ground at that particular place, he said. Moreover, the engineers also take into the account the streams in the place where the pipelines pass but nothing of such quality checkings were not carried out going by the situation there, he said adding that the pipes were protruding from the ground due to the poor quality of the material and construction. The government needs to give clarification on these issues and a white paper should be released to clarify the doubts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-seeks-white-paper/article35618900.ece
30 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EV start-up extends warranty||Pioneering Electric Vehicle Start-up PURE EV, incubated by IIT-Hyderabad, is now offering a new ‘warranty extension’ policy with retrospective benefit for existing customers covering key power-train components like battery, motor, and controller for all its current models on Wednesday. Four models available over 100 touch points across the country have been launched with plans to expand further in future. The company’s products are designed and manufactured in Hyderabad and it has a current manufacturing capacity of 60,000 vehicles per year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ev-start-up-extends-warranty/article35618866.ece
30 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Waste management at IITH campus||The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH) is making every possible move to make its campus greener and cleaner. From banning the usage of paper cups, single-use plastic water bottles, replacing RO water purifiers with UV water purifiers, taking up door-to-door waste collection and bio-digestor to growing more than 15,000 trees in last two years, it has significantly reduced IITH’s carbon footprint. “The culture of a clean campus will not only make IITH a better place to live, but when students leave the campus, this culture will develop wherever they go,” said Prof B S Murty, Director, IITH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waste-management-at-iith-campus/article35619134.ece
30 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Chinnagundavelli residents oppose land acquisition||Demanding that the government not acquire additional land in the village, the farmers and residents of Chinnagundavelli held dharna before the Collectorate on Thursday. They have alleged that the authorities are coming to village with cheques and forcing them to accept. “Whom should we approach when officials are coming to the village and forcing us to accept the cheques? Stop the forcible land acquisition immediately,” demanded the villagers, adding that they oppose open canal through the village. The police arrested and later released them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chinnagundavelli-residents-oppose-land-acquisition/article35619136.ece
30 July 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||Yadagirigutta sub-registrar in ACB net||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Thursday arrested sub-registrar of Yadagirigutta, Devanand, and a document writer -- Prabhakar, after catching them red-handedly while accepting money. It was learnt that the official demanded bribe for a favour involving approvals for a venture, and the document writer was the carrier. Rs. 20, 000 cash was recovered from the scene and the duo were arrested and sent to court for further proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yadagirigutta-sub-registrar-in-acb-net/article35618889.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||I get bored if I have to play similar characters||Actor Satya Dev has been in the thick of the action. His Telugu film Thimmarusu , a legal thriller directed by Sharan Koppisetty, is ready for theatrical release. He will be making his entry into Hindi cinema with Ram Sethu co-starring Akshay Kumar. A handful of projects are in progress. “I quit my job [in the IT sector] to pursue cinema full time. I am happy to do what I am passionate about; I think I am sane when I am on film sets,” says the actor, taking time out for this interview on a day off, amid attending to his 16-month-old son. Those who’ve been following his journey since his debut in Mr Perfect (2011) might be aware that he juggled his IT career and cinema till 2016 and later began to focus solely on cinema. This is Satya Dev’s 10th year in cinema and over the years, he has earned the tag of being a versatile actor. In 2020, he got to explore the darker side with medical thriller web series Locked ; on the contrary, he played the sensitive man next door in Uma Maheshwara Ugra Roopasya ( UMUR ), the remake of the Malayalam film Maheshinte Prathikaram . We also saw him in the Netflix anthology film Pitta Kathalu and the music single ‘Daare Ledha’, a tribute for frontline warriors of COVID-19: Satya discloses that he consciously looks for stories and characters that aren’t repetitive. “I get bored if I have to play similar characters. The day I feel I am going to the sets merely to narrate a few lines, I might quit cinema. We play different roles in life — as a son, father, husband, friend… The only place where I don’t feel I am acting is in front of the camera. I like stories that allow me to experiment.” Varied platter In the offing are projects that cut across genres. Skylab , co-produced by Nithya Menen, is an entertainer pegged on the disintegration of the Skylab space station in 1979; Gurthunda Seethakalam , a remake of the Kannada film Love Mocktail , is a full-fledged romance drama; Godse will have him team up again with Bluffmaster director Gopi Ganesh. Also lined up is an untitled Telugu film to be presented by Koratala Siva and directed by VV Gopala Krishna. In Thimmarusu , he plays a lawyer named Ramachandra who fights for what he feels is right. A remake of Kannada film Birbal (2019), the title refers to Timmarusu who served as the prime minister to emperor Krishnadevaraya and was known for his sharp acumen. The film’s promo song has Satya letting his hair down for a fun outing. “Those who know me well keep telling me that I am a fun person in real life but appear serious on screen. This song breaks that pattern. The vibe on set was friendly. Sharan is a cool-headed director who believes that magic lies in simplicity. Appu Prabhakar, who shot UMUR, is the cinematographer for this film as well.” Broach the topic of him starring in three remakes ( UMUR, Thimmarusu and Gurthunda Seethakalam ) within a short time, and the actor says he has decided not to take up any more remakes for a while: “I turned down a few other remake offers because, irrespective of the effort I put, there will be comparisons. When I did UMUR, I wasn’t trying to compete with Fahadh Faasil. I wanted to do my own thing.” Blurring boundaries Talking about his Hindi debut project, Satya says he’s eager to work in different languages: “I auditioned for the role after I got a call from the casting director of Ram Setu, and got selected. I am looking forward to beginning work. A decade from now, I would love to be part of cinema in different languages. Regional and language boundaries are blurring.” With Season 2 of Locked , which is in its preliminary stages, he hopes they will be able to meet expectations: “ Locked was a slow burn series and became one of the most viewed shows on Aha; the response has been overwhelming.” Satya’s entry into the digital space happened with Gods of Dharmapuri (2019) on Zee5. As more web series offers came his way, Satya reiterates that he was careful and chose Locked , an unconventional story. Satya Dev prefers to work on a project from a start-to-finish schedule so that he can devote all his attention to a character and if needed, sport new looks. He says there was a time when people believed what was shown in cinema to be real. New-age filmmakers today are keen to make cinema reflect reality: “I like to do my research to bring authenticity. I like to meet people from different walks of life and observe them. This subconsciously helps when I have to portray specific characters.”  The only place where I don’t feel I am acting is in front of the camera. I like stories that allow me to experiment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-get-bored-if-i-have-to-play-similar-characters/article35618871.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP walks out over resolution against new Delhi Police chief||The debate in the Delhi Assembly over the adoption of a resolution against the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as city Police Commissioner saw a bitter exchange between AAP and BJP legislators. The Opposition MLAs staged a walkout and were allowed to return after the resumption of proceedings post-lunch. The entire BJP legislature party, led by Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, strongly protested against the resolution. Mr. Bidhuri said the accusations against the appointment of the new Police Commissioner were baseless and did not violate any judgment of the Supreme Court. “The appointment is within all the parameters laid down in government rules and in the coming days Delhi will witness the law and order situation improving tremendously, including crackdown on corruption and criminals,” Mr. Bidhuri said. Mr. Asthana, Mr. Bidhuri said, had served the nation with “full vigor and determination” and was instrumental in exposing the Bihar fodder scam, Godhra conspiracy, Purulia bomb explosions of 2008 and the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. ‘SC clean chit’ “Those who are levelling allegations against Mr. Asthana should know that he has been given a clean chit by the Supreme Court,” he said. “What is shocking is that instead of discussing the problems and issues faced by the people of Delhi, the AAP government is trying to divert attention from its failure by raising such frivolous issues,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. BJP MLA from Rohini, Vijender Gupta, termed AAP “a despotic dispensation” fearful of people’s voices after Opposition MLAs, including him were marshalled out of the House for raising “issues cornering the government”. Prior to the MLAs being marshalled out, Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel told the Opposition legislators he was “anguished” at the fact that the powers and the rights of the Delhi Assembly had been snatched away by the Centre in reference to the MHA’s notification on the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, which gives the Lieutenant-Governor more teeth in matters related to the administration of the city. Honour for Bahuguna Later, the House unanimously passed a resolution to confer the Bharat Ratna posthumously upon environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna. “I am delighted that the entire House and all parties are unanimously passing this resolution. I hope the Central government will pay heed to the demand of the country and honour Shri Bahuguna,” Mr. Kejriwal said.  Those who are levelling allegations against [Rakesh] Asthana should know that he has been given a clean chit by the SC Ramvir Singh Bidhuri Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-walks-out-over-resolution-against-new-delhi-police-chief/article35618757.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Woman dead, daughter injured as roof of shanty collapses due to rains in Delhi||A 40-year-old woman died and her daughter was injured after the roof of their shanty collapsed due to heavy rains in south-east Delhi’s Govindpuri on Thursday, officials said. The officers said Pooja (24), who got trapped under the debris suffered minor injuries, while her mother, Urmila was pulled out in an unconscious state and rushed to hospital. She was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-dead-daughter-injured-as-roof-of-shanty-collapses-due-to-rains-in-delhi/article35618756.ece
30 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Bahadurgarh industry body seeks removal of blockade at Tikri border||A Bahadurgarh industry body, representing around 9,000 units, has sought the intervention of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal into encroachment on both sides of the national highway passing through the city by agitating farmers. They said it has led to financial loss and hardships. They also demanded to remove the blockade at Tikri border. In a memorandum to the Chief Minister, the Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) said that the agitating farmers had encroached upon the national highway passing through the city on both sides, made permanent structures and parked their vehicles hindering the movement of vehicles to and from the industries in the area. The BCCI said the peripheral roads were in a pathetic condition and led to frequent breakdown of vehicles. “With the ongoing heavy rain in this area, we are not getting access even through dirt roads passing through villages,” stated the memorandum. The encroachment on the highway had made it difficult for the emergency vehicles, such as ambulances and fire tenders, to pass through the road. The industry body said the foreign and domestic visitors too, were not keen to visit their plants due to the chaos, causing a huge loss of business opportunities. Senior BCCI vice-president Narinder Chhikara said they had also written to PM Narendra Modi earlier this month seeking his intervention in the matter.  Foreign and domestic visitors are not keen to visit plants due to the chaos, causing us a huge loss of business opportunities Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bahadurgarh-industry-body-seeks-removal-of-blockade-at-tikri-border/article35618753.ece
30 July 2021||Mumbai,||Centre’s relief package for 2020: Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the relief package of Rs. 701 crore announced by the Central government has no relation whatsoever with the ongoing flood, but amounts to the 2020 relief package. “Maharashtra faced natural calamity in 2020 as well. The State had then demanded Rs. 3,700 from the Centre. The relief package of Rs. 700 crore announced by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar belongs to that demand,” Mr. Pawar told reporters on Thursday. He said Agriculture Minister Dadaji Bhuse has already given an explanation regarding the aid announced and the State has not received any assistance from the Centre regarding the ongoing flood situation in which 200 people died.  “Loss assessment is under way and soon a comprehensive report will be sent to the Centre. However, the Centre can sanction a financial package without the assessment report as it did for Gujarat by sanctioning Rs. 1,000 crore.” Mr. Pawar also slammed Union Minister Narayan Rane who used derogatory terms against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray saying everyone should keep political and personal differences aside during natural calamities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centres-relief-package-for-2020-pawar/article35618763.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||51 fresh infections, no deaths reported; 554 active cases in city||The Capital reported 51 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,36,144, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday There was no death reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,049. A total of 67,368 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.08%. Of the total cases, 14,10,541 people have recovered and there are only 554 active cases. More vaccinations The number of daily COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the city was slightly up on Thursday, as per government data. A total of 57,752 doses of vaccine were administered in the city on Wednesday, compared to 37,825 doses on Tuesday, as per another bulletin. But it is still less than half of vaccinations done on many days earlier this month. The number of daily vaccinations is expected to pick up as people who are 18 and above, who started getting their first dose from May 1, have become eligible for the second dose from this week. The vaccine stock on Thursday morning would last for four days and there were 6,09,610 doses of Covishield vaccine and 2,17,030 doses of Covaxin, as per the data. Till now, 98,37,195 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/51-fresh-infections-no-deaths-reported-554-active-cases-in-city/article35618761.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. protests outside Assembly against ‘govt. mismanagement’||On the first day of the two-day monsoon session of the Delhi Assembly, the Congress protested outside the House against the mismanagement of COVID-19 in the Capital, price rise, water shortage, waterlogging and other issues pertaining to transport and pollution. The party questioned AAP government’s silence on the Pegasus spyware issue and the alleged snooping on people from the four pillars of democracy. Dispersed by police Delhi Congress workers along with State party chief Ch. Anil Kumar attempted to surround the Delhi Vidhan Sabha when the session started and were stopped by the police who had to use water cannons to disperse the protesters. Speaking at the protest, Mr. Kumar said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s incompetence was exposed during the pandemic as thousands of deaths could have been avoided had the Delhi government taken necessary precautions. He said that Mr. Kejriwal was blaming everybody except himself for the COVID-19 fiasco in the Capital. ‘Hollow promises’ The Delhi Congress said that Mr. Kejriwal has been touring other States making many hollow promises, including free power and water, even though Delhiites were thirsting for potable drinking water, and frequent power cuts have made life miserable in the city. “The depleted DTC bus fleet has made bus journey a nightmare in the Capital, and the Delhi government has committed huge corruption in the purchase and maintenance contract for 1,000 new DTC buses,” Mr. Kumar alleged. The Congress said that people have been ravaged by the pandemic but the Delhi government had not taken any step to provide them relief by reducing VAT on petroleum products that has had a cascading effect on other essential commodities. It also alleged that free ration was reluctantly given at the fag end of the COVID-19 lockdown, only when the party raised the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-protests-against-govt-mismanagement/article35618759.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks govts. to reply on COVID-19 relief plea||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to respond to the grievances raised by two minor siblings seeking implementation of scheme for compensation to families and children who have lost their sole breadwinner to COVID-19. Justice Rekha Palli granted three weeks’ time to the authorities to submit their affidavits while posting the case for further hearing on August 26. “Respondents pray for time to seek instructions on whether grievances of the petitioners can be addressed expeditiously. Respondents also granted three weeks’ time to file counter,” the court said. Existing policy Delhi government’s counsel said there was a policy in existence for families who have lost their bread earners to COVID-19. Advocate Bharat Malhotra for the minor siblings said that the plea was urgent in nature and a scheme under the name of Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana had already been launched by the Delhi government. The court was hearing a petition by the minor children of a 41-year-old man who died due to COVID-19. The children’s father was admitted to Jaipur Golden Hospital on April 18. He died on April 24 due to lack of oxygen supply as he was allegedly provided very minimal support of oxygen due to the shortage, the plea said. The petition sought direction to the authorities to expeditiously implement the schemes of grant of compensation which have been proposed for the victims’ families on account of death caused due to lack of oxygen supply or death due to COVID-19 and further release the amount expeditiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-asks-govts-to-reply-on-covid-19-relief-plea/article35618749.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||CHRI allowed to utilise funds to pay salaries||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), whose registration has been temporarily suspended for alleged violations of foreign contribution law, to utilise a portion of its funds in the Central government’s custody for payment of salaries to employees. Justice Rekha Palli said that Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative made out a prima facie case to “utilise the amount lying in custody to the extent of 25% to meet expenses pertaining to salaries of employees and other personnel engaged in projects undertaken before passing of the impugned order [of suspension]”. The court’s order came despite Central government standing counsel Anil Soni’s request for more time to decide the CHRI’s request as the authority concerned was awaiting the report of the field agency. “How are these people going to be paid? I don’t want to give you time,” Justice Palli said adding, “Keeping in view COVID-19, the employees are finding it hard to meet ends...” “In my view, the decision whether the petitioner can be permitted to use portion of foreign contribution in possession cannot depend on the field agency. It can at best be a material to take further appropriate action on the suspension order,” the court said, while posting the matter for October 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chri-allowed-to-utilise-funds-to-pay-salaries/article35618748.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Coordinate to provide relief to orphans’||Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Thursday directed officials of District Child Protection units to work closely with the Revenue Department to provide financial assistance to children who were orphaned due to the pandemic, authorities said. On May 18, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that every child who has lost both parents to COVID-19 will be provided free education and given Rs. 2,500 per month till the age of 25. On July 6, the Chief Minister announced ‘Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna’, under which Rs. 50,000 will be given as a one-time compensation to all families who lost someone to COVID-19. This is in addition to the scheme for the orphaned children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/coordinate-to-provide-relief-to-orphans/article35618751.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 inter-State arms traffickers held, weapons seized||In two separate operations, a team of Special Cell has arrested an inter-State firearms traffickers and recovered 25 pistols and 75 live cartridges from their possession, said a senior police officer on Thursday. The arrested accused have been identified as Suraj Parmar, Ravi Kumar and Pradeep Kunar. Suraj is from Madhya Pradesh while other two were from Uttar Pradesh, the police said. DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwah said that acting on a tip-off, a police team led by Inspector Shiv Kumar conducted two operations and arrested the accused and recovered weapons. I-Day alert Keeping in mind the upcoming Independence Day celebrations, all units of the Special Cell have been put on high alert. He added that several gangs are indulging in supply of illegal weapons to criminals in Delhi-NCR and neighbouring areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3-inter-state-arms-traffickers-held-weapons/article35618752.ece
30 July 2021||Pune,||‘BJP cannot contemplate alliance with MNS’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will never contemplate an alliance with the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) unless the latter discarded its practices of regional chauvinism and softened its antagonism towards ‘outsiders’ from other States, said former Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. “The BJP and the MNS’ thoughts are very different… be it the question of north Indians, or the MNS’ discriminatory practices on the basis of language, the BJP cannot think of an alliance unless the MNS discards these practices. While we welcome the fact that the MNS has latched on to Hindutva on late, there scan be no question of any alliance if there is not an ‘inclusive’ Hindutva in practice,” clarified Mr. Fadnavis, who was touring rain-ravaged Sangli district. In response, Mr. Thackeray, who is in Pune, said that his stance has always been “very clear” from the very beginning and that if outsiders did not act in an overbearing manner towards Maharashtra’s citizens, his party would not bother them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-cannot-contemplate-alliance-with-mns/article35618764.ece
30 July 2021||Pune,||Govt. mulls allowing those fully vaccinated to use local trains||The Maharashtra government was mulling opening up local train services to people who had taken both doses of a COVID-19 vaccine, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. However, Mr. Tope said that any decision on the proposal, which was currently under discussion, would only be taken by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The State government is also planning to ease COVID-19 restrictions in 25 districts where the case positivity rate and fatalities are low. Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported robust recoveries on Thursday, with 11,124 patients being discharged against 7,242 new COVID-19 cases as the State’s active case tally dipped to 78,562. As many as 190 deaths pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,32,335 with the case fatality rate climbing to 2.1%. Mumbai reported 341 new cases to take its total tally to 7,34,112 while the active count dipped to 6,921. Thirteen fatalities took the city’s death toll to 15,873.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-mulls-allowing-those-fully-vaccinated-to-use-local-trains/article35618762.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||China accuses U.S. of ‘meddling’ in its affairs||China on Thursday accused the U.S. of “meddling” in its “internal affairs” after Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with a representative of the Dalai Lama in New Delhi during his visit on Wednesday. Mr. Blinken had met with the Director of the Bureau of the Dalai Lama in Delhi, Ngodup Dongchung, on Wednesday morning. He separately also met with a group of civil society representatives, which included Geshe Dorji Damdul, Director of Tibet House in New Delhi. Asked by Chinese media to comment on the meeting, the Foreign Ministry in Beijing on Thursday hit out at the U.S., saying “Tibetan affairs are purely China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference.” “China firmly opposes any form of contact between foreign officials and the Dalai Lama,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “Any form of contact between the U.S. side and the Dalai clique is a violation of the U.S. commitment to acknowledging Tibet being part of China, to not supporting 'Tibetan Independence', and to not supporting attempts to separate China. The U.S; side should honour its commitment, stop meddling in China’s internal affairs under the pretext of Tibetan affairs, and offer no support to the 'Tibetan independence' forces to engage in anti-China separatist activities. China will take all necessary measures to defend its own interests.” The Foreign Ministry earlier this month surprised observers when it did not issue any response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s telephone call with the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday, which marked the first time Mr. Modi had publicly confirmed speaking with the Tibetan spiritual leader since 2014. Among the differences between China and the U.S. is the question of the Dalai Lama’s succession, which the Tibetan leader said he would address when he turns 90. The Biden administration said earlier this year it was of the view the Chinese government “should have no role in the succession process of the Dalai Lama”. The Tibet Policy Support Act passed by the U.S. Senate in December 2020, and backed by the then Trump administration, said Washington would oppose any moves by Beijing to interfere in the succession or identification of Tibetan Buddhist lamas including the Dalai Lama. Beijing, however, in May issued a white paper affirming that the ruling Communist Party and the government in Beijing would approve the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and other Living Buddhas, saying a procedure of “drawing lots from the golden urn” would be followed and “the selected candidate would be subject to approval by the central government of China”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-accuses-us-of-meddling-in-its-affairs/article35618290.ece
30 July 2021||Ankara,||Turkey courts Biden with offer to protect Kabul airport||Turkey is offering to protect Kabul’s strategic airport after the U.S. forces leave, in what experts view as a high-risk bid to improve Ankara’s strained ties with Washington. Keeping the air hub safe from advancing Taliban forces became a major issue after U.S. President Joe Biden called an end to Washington’s 20-year involvement by ordering all troops out of Afghanistan by the end of next month. Hamid Karzai International Airport offers the safest route for Embassy staff and humanitarian aid to reach the war-torn country. Its fall could leave Afghanistan largely cut off from the world. Ankara’s surprise proposal gave Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan a chance to build a rapport with Mr. Biden during their first meeting at a NATO summit in June. The offer meets two of the Turkish leader’s objectives: warm chilly ties with Western allies and avert an influx of refugees by keeping aid routes open. “Turkey has a vested interest in Afghanistan’s stability,” said Magdalena Kirchner, Afghanistan director at German foundation Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Turkish officials play down the diplomatic aspects of the mission and stress the importance of relieving the suffering in Afghanistan. “Our objective is to make sure Afghanistan is not closed to the outside world, that it is not isolated,” a Turkish diplomatic source said. The United Nations this month said 18 million people — or half the Afghan population — needed assistance, while half of all children under the age of five suffered from acute malnutrition. U.S. sanctions While Washington still views Turkey as an important ally in a volatile part of the world, relations have been bedevilled by disputes, including Ankara’s acquisition of a Russian missile defence system. U.S. sanctioned Ankara for the purchase last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-courts-biden-with-offer-to-protect-kabul-airport/article35618297.ece
30 July 2021||Baghdad,||Two rockets fired near U.S. Embassy in Baghdad||At least two rockets hit Baghdad’s fortified Green Zone early on Thursday but caused no casualties, Iraqi security sources said. One senior Iraqi security official said the rockets were launched from a mainly Shia neighbourhood in eastern Baghdad and initial investigations indicate the rockets were targeting the U.S. Embassy, but fell short. One rocket landed in a parking lot inside the Green Zone and a second one hit a nearby empty area. Thursday’s attack comes two days after U.S. President Joe Biden and Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi sealed an agreement on Monday formally ending the U.S. combat mission in Iraq by the end of 2021. Prime Minister Kadhimi has been facing increasing pressure from Iran-aligned parties and paramilitary groups who oppose the U.S. military role in the country. U.S. diplomats and troops in Iraq and Syria were targeted in three rocket and drone attacks earlier this month, including one in which at least 14 rockets hit an Iraqi air base hosting U.S. forces. Two U.S. service members were wounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-rockets-fired-near-us-embassy-in-baghdad/article35618298.ece
30 July 2021||Jerusalem,||Palestinian shot dead in clashes with Israeli troops in West Bank||Israeli troops shot and killed a 20-year-old Palestinian man, Palestinian health officials said, during clashes that erupted in the occupied West Bank following the funeral of a Palestinian boy killed by Army fire the previous day. The Palestinian Health Ministry said the man, identified as Shaukat Awad, was shot in the head and abdomen during Thursday’s unrest in Beit Ummar, a town near Hebron. Palestinian protesters hurled stones at Israeli troops after the funeral of Mohammed al-Alami, 12, who residents say was killed by Army fire while riding in a car with his father on Wednesday. The Israeli military confirmed that it had used live fire against the crowd. Earlier, the Israeli military said it launched an investigation into deadly shooting of the boy. A military statement said that senior commanding officers and military police — who investigate suspected misconduct by troops — were also looking into the incident. It said soldiers fired at a car that failed to stop at a checkpoint after they fired warning shots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinian-shot-dead-in-clashes-with-israeli-troops-in-west-bank/article35618573.ece
30 July 2021||Tunis,||Tunisia’s President Saied launches graft crackdown||Tunisia’s President Kais Saied accused 460 businessmen of embezzlement as he launched a crackdown on corruption, days after grabbing power in what his opponents have dubbed a “coup”. Mr. Saied, who suspended parliament for 30 days and seized all executive powers on Sunday, slammed the “bad economic choices” made in recent years, during a meeting with a leader of the employers’ federation UTICA. In his comments late on Wednesday, the president singled out for criticism “those who plunder public money”. Mr. Saied accused 460 businessmen of owing 13.5 billion dinars ($4.9 billion) to the state, citing the findings of a commission of inquiry into graft under former dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. “This money must be returned to the Tunisian people,” he said, adding that he intends to offer the businessmen “judicial arbitration”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tunisias-president-saied-launches-graft-crackdown/article35618293.ece
30 July 2021||Yerevan,||Armenia to seek Russian military deployment||Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan said on Thursday he would request the deployment of Russian border guards along his country’s frontier with Azerbaijan to prevent further escalation after new clashes. Last year Armenia and Azerbaijan fought a six-week war over the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The conflict claimed some 6,500 lives and ended with a Russian-brokered ceasefire that saw Armenia cede territories it had controlled for decades. In recent months tensions have been running high over the two countries’ shared border. On Wednesday, three Armenian soldiers were killed in fresh border clashes with Azerbaijani forces, in some of the heaviest fighting between the Caucasus rivals since last year’s war. Addressing a Cabinet meeting on Thursday, Mr. Pashinyan said he wanted to ask Moscow for more help. “I think it makes sense to consider the question of stationing outposts of Russian border guards along the entire stretch of the Armenian-Azerbaijani border,” he said. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Pashinyan’s planned proposal. “Contacts with Yerevan are continuing, I have nothing more to say,” Dmitry Peskov told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/armenia-to-seek-russian-military-deployment/article35618294.ece
30 July 2021||Washington,||Taliban surge poses existential crisis: report||The Afghan government faces an “existential crisis” after the Taliban doubled their attacks following the February 2020 U.S. deal with the insurgents, a report said on Thursday. The report said Taliban attacks surged from 6,700 in the three months up to the Doha agreement to 13,242 in the September-November 2020 period. Attacks have stayed above 10,000 in each subsequent three-month period, according to the report by the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR). The report makes clear that the Doha agreement, instead of propelling Taliban-Kabul talks, unleashed an offensive that caught government forces unprepared. Over January-March of 2020, there were only 510 civilian deaths and 709 casualties, the report said. After that the numbers surged, hitting 1,058 deaths and 1,959 injured in the third quarter that year. The latest data, for April and May this year, showed 705 civilian deaths and 1,330 casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-surge-poses-existential-crisis-report/article35618295.ece
30 July 2021||Islamabad,||‘Pakistan is not the Taliban’s spokesperson’||The Pakistan government is not a spokesperson for the Taliban and Islamabad cannot be held responsible for the actions of the insurgent group in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of soldiers from the U.S. and its allies, Prime Minister Imran Khan has said. In his comments to Afghan media representatives that were aired on Thursday, Mr. Khan also said that Pakistan will have good relations with whoever the Afghans choose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-is-not-the-talibans-spokesperson/article35618291.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Are the Taliban returning to Kabul?||After 20 years of fighting, the U.S. is set to end its military operations in Afghanistan by August 31. Since May 1, when U.S. troops started withdrawing from Afghanistan, the Taliban have made rapid territorial gains in the country. They have taken control of dozens of northern districts and several of the country’s key border crossings, mounting pressure on the Ashraf Ghani government. In a conversation moderated by Stanly Johny , Jayant Prasad and Avinash Paliwal discuss the Afghan situation, India’s options, and the prospects for a peaceful settlement. Edited excerpts: The American media reported that there is an intelligence conclusion that Kabul could fall within six months once the U.S. troops are out. Do you think that’s happening? Jayant Prasad:That’s perhaps somewhat exaggerated. The Taliban have made gains. What is remarkable is that they have made gains in the north and the west. They have taken border posts along Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan, and two main border posts with Pakistan. But to say that the Taliban will occupy Kabul before long is perhaps an overstretch. The Afghan Army has begun to react and reorganise. The Afghan Defence Ministry has a new chief, Bismillah Khan. So, priorities will change. Instead of stretching all over the place, they will concentrate on the border crossings, because these are also the customs collecting points. And they will also concentrate on the main trunk routes and the major cities. I don’t think the Taliban will make great progress in occupying major cities. The Taliban have taken large tracts of rural areas and are now poised outside the cities. But they will remain thus till the beginning of September, when all the foreign forces pull out. September, October and November will be the big test for Afghanistan. If the government can hold off the Taliban during that period, then anything can happen next year, because then the Taliban will know that taking over Afghanistan is not as easy as it might have appeared some time ago. If they realise that, then the peace process may have a better chance next year. How did Afghanistan come to this point? Can we say that the U.S. could have negotiated a better deal with the Taliban that would have also addressed the question of political settlement between the insurgents and the government, or did it just want to exit Afghanistan? Avinash Paliwal:There are two aspects to the possibilities that could have existed between the U.S. and the Taliban when they began talking in Doha a few years ago. One is the war, the way it has been executed, and the effect of that execution on any potential negotiation. The Americans and the larger security umbrella provided by the West were not fighting a comprehensive, well-thought-out, long-term campaign to support the current state in a fundamental way. This debate about whether they were there for counterterrorism purposes or nation-building was never resolved. The West was essentially torn in what it actually wanted. That had a structural impact on how it went ahead with the dialogue with the Taliban and what it could have potentially reaped out of that. This takes me to the second point of the negotiations itself. There were two moments in the past when the Americans were serious about talking to the Taliban directly. One was sometime around 2012 during the term of the government of President Hamid Karzai in Kabul. That was perhaps a little premature because they had given a deadline by which they wanted to leave. So, the talks when they began or when they were supposed to begin in 2012 really put off the Kabul government in a political sense, and there was a lot of pushback by President Karzai that you cannot enter into a direct communication with the Taliban because that would fundamentally undermine the political experiment in Afghanistan that had begun at the end of 2001. During the next round of conversations beginning 2017-18, under U.S. President [Donald] Trump, the ground shifted domestically within America. The Americans did not want to continue fighting and losing soldiers and resources in Afghanistan, given the strategic priorities that they had with an assertive China in the horizon. There was also a clear sense that given how they actually fought this war — aimlessly perhaps — they could not have bargained better than a withdrawal agreement. This was not a deal in which they were settling the fate of Afghanistan. The Americans made sure that they would extricate themselves without further losses and in the process, legitimise the Afghan Taliban diplomatically for the world to deal with. The outcome has been that the Taliban are being assertive. They have been using the talks with the Afghan government in Doha as a tactic to assert themselves, buy time and continue pressing for their legitimacy the world over. If there was any appetite for a political solution among the Taliban, I think we would have seen the importance of that, but unfortunately, we haven’t. Ambassador, how do you look at the recent developments from an Indian point of view? What does India want in Afghanistan? And what can it do to achieve those objectives? JP:What India wants in Afghanistan is very simple. Our short-term strategic objective will be served fully if the Afghans have a government that stands on its own feet in terms of decision-making — who it can be friends with, cooperate with, and so on. All these years, we were faced with incessant experimentation by Afghanistan’s military allies. They were not just the U.S. and NATO, but also other countries friendly with the U.S. When I left in 2010, there were members of 44 armed forces in Afghanistan. Even if the coalition that supports the Afghan authorities today falls to half that number, that is enough to sustain an independent Afghan government. I don’t think we were looking for an Afghanistan inimical to Pakistan. Rather, we would welcome good relations. But Afghans, at least in my time, and I hope in the future as well, will refuse to be subservient to anybody. I had a little bit of hope when a high-level Afghan team went to Doha to talk to the Taliban delegation led by Mullah Baradar. But Abdullah Abdullah, who led the Afghan side, came to Delhi and said that nothing had changed with the Taliban. They are playing for time. And they are playing a game of ‘good cop, bad cop’. Mullah Baradar and Suhail Shaheen, the spokesperson of the Taliban in Doha, keep talking about peace. If they want peace, they should stop killing Afghans, whether they are from the armed forces or civilians. The message from the field commanders and the military commanders of the Taliban is completely to the contrary. This is disquieting for India. We’ll have to be dexterous and support those Afghan communities which are willing to fight for their rights, an Afghan Constitution, Afghan sovereignty and independence, and Afghan republicanism, which is all there in the present Constitution. Dr. Paliwal, you have argued that India should hold talks with the Taliban. Why should the Taliban engage with India? AP:When I say India should engage with the Taliban, the idea is not to give in to the Taliban’s demands or give up on India’s existing allies in Afghanistan; it is that India must have channels with Taliban representatives, whether they are in Doha or elsewhere in Afghanistan, to make sure that in any eventuality of a Taliban takeover, either in Kabul or different parts of the country, India’s interests are not harmed. And this is keeping in perspective the fact that a stronger Taliban is not necessarily going to be subservient to the Inter-Services Intelligence. This is something that needs to be appreciated as a long-term phenomenon. This is in the space of principal-agent relationships, where the principal is Pakistan and the agent, the Taliban. Political interests and strategies don’t always align. There is considerable discontent within the Taliban about its relationship with Pakistan. That’s what I mean when I say that India must have a channel open to at least be aware of what the thinking is within the Taliban. Second, the Taliban have always been interested in talking to India. Between 1996, when the Taliban came to power, and December 1999, when the IC-814 hijacking incident happened, there have been multiple signals by the Taliban leadership to India and other countries to engage with them. At that point, their sole desire was to be officially recognised by the rest of the world. They had official support only from three countries — Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Pakistan — and they wanted a wider set of relationships in the international fora. That calculus remains till today. From a regional perspective, the Taliban are very clear that they do not want to get in between the India-Pakistan crossfire, and I think that’s the message that they have tried to send. The question is whether they can sustain that kind of an outreach given the dependence on Pakistan. In the light of Pakistan’s clear messaging that it would not want Indian presence to be as sizeable as it had been, that’s a test for the Taliban. And that’s something that we need to see whether they can pull off, if they come to power. There is no clear sign in practice that it will happen. This is concerning. But there are constituencies within the Taliban who would want to have a stable relationship with India even if powerful factions, especially the Haqqani network and its allies such as Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba, will not let that happen. So, it’s not just a dilemma for India whether or not to talk to the Taliban; it’s a more acute dilemma for the Taliban to decide whether to talk to India and to what extent. Suppose the Afghan government holds on to its position and serious talks begin, what kind of a political settlement is possible? JP:There are serious discussions between the Taliban and the Afghan government. Despite the breakdown in Doha, they are continuing to talk to each other. But whether these talks will be productive or not, we don’t know. The Taliban are playing for time. They postponed the discussions on the future make-up of the Afghan state, that of the Constitution — of how Islamic it would be, because Afghanistan is an Islamic Republic. What the people in Afghanistan don’t want right now is for it to become an Islamic Emirate. So, the other fundamental contradiction is that the Taliban, in the best of times, will not accept democratic elections easily. But if they were to accept it, then the Afghans would be ready to compromise on the Constitution, I guess. Because it would mean the end of four decades of fighting and every Afghan wants peace and stability. So, the problem is, just as I feel that Pakistan is very important to a future settlement in Afghanistan, it’s very difficult to imagine that it would change course, especially when it thinks that the Taliban is winning. Dr. Paliwal, what are your views on how to end the conflict in Afghanistan? AP:I just hope that the Kabul government is able to bring about some political coherence within the coming weeks. There is clear intent being demonstrated by Kabul in terms of standing up to Pakistan, in terms of not letting the low morale of the Afghan national security forces bog them down. They have been making progress on the ground but they’re also fractured from within. If there is a stalemate in the next four to six months, I hope both sides and Pakistan realise that it is time to figure out a political solution because the pain that will be inflicted by violence in Afghanistan will not just hurt Afghanistan but be detrimental to Pakistan’s social, economic and political health.  India’s short-term strategic objective will be served fully if the Afghans have a government that stands on its own feet in terms of decision-making. Jayant Prasad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/are-the-taliban-returning-to-kabul/article35618289.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The wings of Pegasus, the epoch of cyberweapons||A raging controversy across the world on the misuse of Pegasus spyware — a great deal of which is mired in facts, suppositions, false trails, allegations and counter-allegations, but nevertheless contains more than a kernel of truth — has reignited a debate on the role of cyber weapons. From an occasional and sporadic instance of a cyberattack previously, cyberattacks on institutions such as banks and on critical infrastructure have proliferated to an alarming extent, signalling the emergence of the cyber weapon epoch. The Pegasus spyware is by no means the ultimate cyberweapon. It has, however, compelled nations to emerge from their deep slumber about the threat posed by such new age weapons, even though it has been quite a few decades since the world saw the advent of cyberweapons, albeit more primitive than those in vogue today. An evolution One of the earliest instances of this kind occurred in the 1990s when Yahya Abd-al-Latif Ayyash, who served as the chief bomb maker for Hamas, was assassinated by Israel’s domestic Intelligence Agency, Shin Bet, using a doctored phone containing explosives, when he responded to a call from an unknown person. Many daring exploits of the past, which took months of effort, and the utilisation of large numbers of people and resources to achieve, are, in the cyber era, possible with far less effort and resources; the destruction of the Vemork power station (in Norway) during the Second World War which took months of planning, and the extensive resources of the Allied Powers (and involved loss of lives), for instance, could be achieved in 2019 with a fraction of this effort. In 2019, Norsk Hydro, aluminium and energy producer, became the victim of a cyberattack which was accomplished remotely and anonymously, and in the shortest possible time, but with the same telling effort. What is noteworthy is that while all of these rate as among the many dramatic transformations brought about by cyber technologies since the turn of the century, what merits contemplation is that while Moore’s Law democratised access to computing, and the Internet opened a whole new avenue for communication, all this is coming at a price. Privacy has been eroded and the Internet — true to its origins in Cold War strategy — has become a powerful weapon in the hands of those seeking to exploit its various facets. Now, a preferred weapon Cyber is often touted as the fifth dimension of warfare — in addition to land, sea, air and space. However, it needs to be understood that cyber, as the domain of military and national security, also co-exists with cyber as a domain of everyday life. It is the same domain. The war is no longer out there. It is now directly inside one’s drawing room, with cyberweapons becoming the weapon of choice. Israelis, though not the cyber pioneers, today dominate the cyber domain along with the Chinese, Russians, Koreans and, of course, the Americans. Already by the first decade of the 21st century, cyberspace had graduated from being merely the new domain of warfare, into becoming fundamentally a civilian space. From its very inception, cyberweapons ranked as special weapons, not unlike nuclear devices of earlier times. Following the joint U.S.-Israeli effort in unleashing the Stuxnet Worm in 2010 — which helped disable several hundred centrifuges at the Iranian nuclear facility in Natanz — it became still more apparent that mankind had indeed unleashed a new weapon, and had in a sense crossed the Rubicon. The linkage between sabotage and intrusive surveillance is but a short step. There are many stories in circulation of the employment of the Pegasus spyware well before the present controversy, for in 2019, WhatsApp had sued NSO over allegations that several hundreds of its users were the targets of the Pegasus spyware. The Israeli company’s claim that the spyware is sold only to governments and official agencies is, however, unproven. Israel, for its part, identifies Pegasus as a cyberweapon, and claims that its exports are controlled. Work in progress The Pegasus spyware it is stated can copy messages that are sent or received, ‘harvest photos and record calls, secretly film through the phone’s camera, or activate the microphone to record conversations. It can potentially pinpoint where you are, where you have been, and whom you have met. Once installed on a phone, the spyware can harvest more or less any information or extract any file’. Ongoing efforts by the NSO Group, the makers of Pegasus, are devoted to making the spyware difficult to detect. An earlier version of Pegasus, identified as far back as 2016, infected phones mainly through ‘spearphishing’. Since then, its capabilities have vastly increased, and it currently employs ‘zero click’ attacks, which do not require any interaction on the part of the phone owner. It is used to exploit certain ‘zero day’ vulnerabilities found in operating systems — about which the manufacturers themselves are unaware. Where ‘spearphishing’ or a ‘zero click’ attack cannot succeed, the Pegasus spyware can be installed over a wireless trans-receiver located near a target. Essentially, the Pegasus virus seeks what are termed as ‘root privileges’ — that enable communication with its controllers through an anonymised network of Internet addresses and servers and transit data. A brief survey of the more damaging cyberattacks during the past decade-and-a-half with or without the Pegasus spyware can be revealing. Beginning with the 2007 devastating cyberattack on Estonia’s critical infrastructure, this was followed by the Stuxnet worm attack a few years later on Iran’s nuclear facility. The Shamoon virus attack on Saudi Aramco occurred in 2012. Thereafter, followed the 2016 cyberattack on Ukraine’s State power grid; the 2017 Ransomware attack (NotPetya) which affected machines in as many as 64 countries; a Wannacry attack the same year on the United Kingdom’s National Health Service; and the series of attacks this year on Ireland’s Health Care System and in the United States such as ‘SolarWinds’, the cyber attack on Colonial Pipeline and JBS, etc. Grave threat With cyberweapons becoming the weapon of choice not only during a conflict but even during peacetime, matters have reached a tipping point. Cyberweapons carry untold capacity to distort systems and structures — civilian or military — and, most importantly, interfere with democratic processes, aggravate domestic divisions and, above all, unleash forces over which established institutions or even governments have little control. The Pegasus spyware is all this and more. For the present, it is hiding behind a cloak of anonymity, and the unwillingness of those to whom it has been sold to to acknowledge its misuse, but the reprieve is likely to be only temporary. Cyber methods which undermine capabilities can remain anonymous only for some, but not for all time. For the present, it may remain unrecognisable, but this will be only for a limited period. Meanwhile, we must be prepared for, and guard against, a new epoch of cyber threats, employing newer, state-of-the-art cyberweapons, which will further intensify cyber insecurity across the board. As more and more devices are connected to networks, the cyber threat is only bound to intensify, both in the short and the medium term. What is especially terrifying is that instruments of everyday use can be infected or infiltrated without any direct involvement of the target. The possibilities for misuse are immense and involve far graver consequences to an individual, an establishment, or the nation. It is not difficult to envisage that from wholesale espionage, this would become something far more sinister such as sabotage. Need for analysis Dealing with the cyber threat, hence, deserves careful analysis and assessment. Plunging headlong into so-called solutions which have little rationale or depth is hardly the answer to critical threats posed by sophisticated spyware such as Pegasus. Dealing with ‘zero day’ vulnerabilities require far more thought and introspection than merely creating special firewalls or special phones that are ‘detached’ from the Internet. What is needed is a deeper understanding of not only cyber technologies, but also recognising the mindsets of those who employ spyware of the Pegasus variety, and those at the helm of companies such as the NSO. Short-term remedies are unlikely to achieve desired results. With the advent of cyber weapons such as Pegasus, technology which is perceived as a friend could well become a matter of despair. At the pace at which cyber technology is evolving, erecting proper defences will prove difficult. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is often seen as a kind of panacea for many of the current problems and ills, but all advances in technology tend to be a double-edged sword. If truth be told, AI could in turn make all information warfare — including cyber related — almost impossible to detect, deflect or prevent, at least at the current stage of development of AI tools. Meanwhile, easy access to newer cyber espionage tools will add to the existing chaos. All this suggests that security in the era of ever-expanding cyberweapons could become an ever-receding horizon. M.K. Narayanan, a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal, is currently Executive Chairman of CyQureX Pvt. Ltd., a U.K.-U.S.A. cyber security joint venture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-wings-of-pegasus-the-epoch-of-cyberweapons/article35618280.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The long road to winning the battle against trafficking||July 30 is United Nations World Day against Trafficking in Persons (https://bit.ly/3iaMdpN and https://bit.ly/2VkP6uV). It is also a time to reflect on India’s human trafficking crisis. Between April 2020 and June 2021, an estimated 9,000 children have been rescued after being trafficked for labour, according to a child rights non-governmental organisation (NGO). In other words, 21 children have been trafficked every day over nearly 15 months. The Childline India helpline received 44 lakh distress calls over 10 months. Over a year, 2,000 children have arrived at its shelter homes and 800 rescued from hazardous working conditions. Increased vulnerability The media frequently publishes individual stories of trafficking. Children as young as 12 are trafficked across States to work in factories in appalling conditions, where owners are turning to cheap labour to recoup their losses from the novel coronavirus pandemic. In November 2020, four children, between 12 and 16 years, died after being trafficked for labour from Bihar to Rajasthan; some of them had injuries from beatings. Child marriages are also rampant — over 10,000 cases were tracked between April and August 2020. In Madhya Pradesh, about 391 child marriages were stopped in April-May 2021, while in Odisha, 726 child marriages were prevented between January-May 2021. A child rights NGO, working with the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights has highlighted the problem of rampant child labour. In a certain stretch within the national capital, at least 120 children can be seen working. The factors causing increased vulnerability are identifiable. Its report states: “The [corona] virus has resulted in loss of income and economic crisis, causing families’ reduced capacity to care for children in the long-term. It has also caused, in some instances, loss of parental care due to death, illness or separation, thereby placing children at heightened risk for violence, neglect or exploitation.” These factors are compounded by an erosion of some of the checks against child labour and child marriage provided by law, as well as the scrutiny of schools and society. The increase in Internet access in current times has also led to cyber-trafficking. An August 2020 report by a member of a child rights group in India notes that popular social media platforms and free messaging apps are often used to contact young people. Often, the trafficker or middleman lures the person to a place under the pretext of offering him employment. Once removed from their locality, they face challenges of limited resources, unfamiliarity with the area and perhaps the local language. Threats of violence from the trafficker, and, importantly, the absence of any identifiable authority to approach other than the police — who are often seen as threats themselves — make it nearly impossible for trafficked persons to report the incident. A recent report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime on the effects of the pandemic on trafficking echoes these findings. It says, traffickers are taking advantage of the loss of livelihoods and the increasing amount of time spent online to entrap victims, including by advertising false jobs on social media. In addition, there is an increased demand for child sexual exploitation material online due to lockdowns. Scant data, other gaps The Government admitted in Parliament as recently as March 2021 that it does not maintain any national-level data specific to cyber trafficking cases. The efficacy of certain schemes launched by the Ministry of Home Affairs to improve investigation and prosecution of cyber crimes remains to be seen (https://bit.ly/3iajGR6). India is still classified by the U.S. Department of State as a Tier-2 country in its report on global human trafficking (https://bit.ly/3zKBfgA). This means that the Government does not fully meet the minimum standards under U.S. and international law for eliminating trafficking, but is making significant efforts to comply. The lack of implementation is illustrated by the state of the Anti-Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs). AHTUs are specialised district task forces comprising police and government officials. In 2010, it was envisioned that 330 AHTUs would be set up (https://bit.ly/3rEwouF). RTI responses in August 2020 showed that about 225 AHTUs had been set up, but only on paper. If properly staffed and funded, AHTUs could provide crucial ground-level data on the methods and patterns of traffickers, which in turn can strengthen community-based awareness and vigilance activities. Global practices such as in Nigeria, Africa, should be encouraged in India, in consonance with a larger framework to protect women and children by incentivising education and creating safe employment opportunities. Draft Bill, judicial issues With focus now shifting to the new draft anti-trafficking Bill (https://bit.ly/3rEEzqP), the point to be highlighted is that there is no shortage of anti-trafficking policy in India. Where the system is found lacking is in the implementation of the laws. Significant discussion is required on the provisions of the Bill, particularly with respect to bringing in the National Investigation Agency and increasing the punishment for offences, including the death penalty as an option in some cases. It is not proven that more stringent laws, particularly the death penalty, have any greater deterrent effect on crime. The draft Bill also provides for AHTUs/committees at the national, State and district levels, but as noted, their effective functioning cannot be taken for granted. Legislating without the political will to implement and monitor effectiveness is futile. Special attention must also be paid to the challenges prosecutors and judges face in trafficking cases. There were 140 acquittals and only 38 convictions in 2019, according to government data. This points to a failure of investigation and cannot be solved by the draft Bill’s provision that accused traffickers must be presumed guilty unless they can prove the contrary. Further, trials can drag on for years, with victims sometimes withdrawing their complaints after being intimidated by traffickers. Proper case management must be introduced to give meaning to the “fast track” courts. Other problems include the low number of beneficiaries of monetary compensation and the lack of consistent access to psychological counselling. Parts of the draft Bill recognise the importance of rehabilitation, but implementation is key. Most victims of trafficking are from low-income communities for whom the novel coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns have caused long-term financial distress. With schools continuing to be closed in much of India and no definite end to the pandemic in sight, it cannot be assumed that incidents of trafficking will decline with a return to “normalcy”. That apart, the failure of existing institutional mechanisms to foresee the present crisis should spur the Government and other stakeholders to take preventive action now. July 30 should be the beginning of the end of human trafficking in India. Justice Madan B. Lokur, a former judge of the Supreme Court of India, is presently a judge of the Supreme Court of Fiji. Shruti Narayan is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-long-road-to-winning-the-battle-against-trafficking/article35618283.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||In the interest of the public||In Registrar General v. State of Meghalaya, the Meghalaya High Court ruled that the State government’s order requiring shopkeepers, local taxi drivers and others to get the COVID-19 vaccines before they resume economic activities is violative of the right to privacy, life, personal liberty, and livelihood. In response to the court’s order, the State government released a new order stating that the requirement of vaccination was merely directory and not mandatory. The case raises important questions of how the government can overcome widespread vaccine hesitancy and bring the pandemic to an end. Court’s reasoning The court reasoned that forcing people to vaccinate themselves vitiates the “very fundamental purpose of the welfare attached to it”. It ruled that the government’s order intrudes upon one’s right to privacy and personal liberty as it deprives the individual of their bodily autonomy and bodily integrity, even though the intrusion is of minority intensity. It ruled that the government’s order affects an individual’s right “significantly” more than affecting the general public. It found that the government’s order is not maintainable in law as there is no legal mandate for mandatory vaccination. It relied on the Central government’s frequently asked questions, which specify that COVID-19 vaccination is voluntary. The court concluded that the State, rather than adopting coercive steps, must persuade the people to get themselves inoculated. Compulsory vaccination has often been deployed in India and abroad. The Vaccination Act, 1880, allowed the government to mandate smallpox vaccination among children in select areas. Similarly, several State laws, which set up municipal corporations and councils, empower local authorities to enforce compulsory vaccination schemes. Contrary to the High Court’s opinion, compulsory vaccination has passed the muster of judicial review in several national and international courts abroad. In a recent judgment in Vavřička and Others v. Czech Republic , the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) said that the compulsory COVID-19 vaccination scheme is consistent with the right to privacy and religion. The ECtHR cites case laws in France, Hungary, Italy, the U.K., among others to show that several constitutional courts have validated compulsory vaccination and ruled that it has an overriding public interest. Right to life and privacy The main bone of contention is that compulsory vaccination violates bodily integrity and takes away decisional autonomy from people, thereby violating their right to life and privacy. It is a well-established principle that no right is absolute; rather rights are subject to reasonable restrictions. According to the order in Justice Puttaswamy v. Union of India , a restriction on privacy can be justified if it passes a three-prong test. First, the restriction must be provided in the law. State governments have the authority to mandate vaccines under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which allows them to prescribe regulations to prevent the spread of an epidemic disease. Second, the restriction must have a legitimate aim. Compulsory vaccination pursues the legitimate aim of protecting the public from COVID-19. Third, the restriction must be proportional to the object pursued. With more than four lakh reported deaths and a looming third wave, the current scenario counts as a pressing social need. Violations of rights from mandatory administration of a vaccine cannot be termed so grave so as to override the health rationale underlying the government’s order. Nevertheless, the government could provide appropriate accommodation for persons based on genuine medical reasons. Even if the court felt that the consequences of non-compliance with the order (i.e., non-resumption of economic activities) was excessive, the government could have been ordered to replace it with less stringent consequences, such as a moderate fine. Shubham Janghu is a practising lawyer in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-the-interest-of-the-public/article35618285.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccinating the young||As India’s vaccination drive chugs along with sporadic bursts of frenetic inoculation, there are possibilities of administering vaccines to children soon — as early as next month. At present, two Indian vaccines may be eligible for administration to children. Zydus Cadilla’s ZycoV-D, a three-dose plasmid DNA vaccine, with a 66.6% efficacy in phase-3 trials, has also been tested in adolescents (12-18 years), data for which has been submitted to the regulator. The company has also requested permission to test in children over five. Covaxin’s Bharat Biotech is also testing the vaccine in a cohort of children below 12. Though none of these studies has been completed, the expectations are that these vaccines may be ready by September. Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine has been authorised in those above 12 and Moderna’s too may be similarly approved in the U.S. Both companies are reportedly in discussions with the Indian government. Young children are at the least risk of hospitalisation and death from COVID-19 but are capable of being infection carriers and putting older caregivers at risk. This undergirds the difficult decision by governments to continue with school closures that has brought forth unprecedented challenges such as denying many Indian children access to quality education. From the global experience so far, the broad principle is that if an effective vaccine is available, it must be administered irrespective of age. However, it is also true that the vaccines are far more effective at protecting from disease than infection. Because children and adults respond to the virus differently, it still remains to be seen whether vaccinating children as a pre-requisite to opening schools actually brings down overall rates of infection. Countries that have vaccinated those above 12 and have fully opened up are also those boasting high rates of adult vaccination. In India, only around 10% of all adults have been fully vaccinated. India already has a challenging target of fully inoculating all adults — 94.4 crore — by the end of the year. A key constraint has been Covaxin; its manufacturer has been unable to ramp up monthly production to its stated nearly six crore doses. Put together, this implies that if the aim of universal vaccination is to protect from disease, then the thrust must be on prioritising adults over children. Government and independent experts have advised that schools can open in a staggered fashion. This again underlines that reopening should not be contingent on vaccination alone. There is also the worry that prioritising vaccines for children would mean diverting already limited stocks. Rather than blindly emulate the West, India must decide on what policy works best for its entire population, including children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccinating-the-young/article35618275.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Shared values||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s day-visit to Delhi this week was heavy on discussions and understandably light on deliverables. The visit, the third by a senior U.S. official of the Biden administration, was meant to prepare the way for more substantive meetings in Washington later this year, including the U.S.-India “2+2” of Foreign and Defence Ministers, the Quad summit of its leaders, and a bilateral meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joseph Biden. Public statements by Mr. Blinken and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, and readouts, indicate that most of their conversations are focused on Quad cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, Afghanistan, and in discussing the state of democracy and rights. On the Quad, they showed full convergence. On Afghanistan, Mr. Jaishankar said that there were “more convergences than divergences” on the common positions that there is no military solution to conflict, and that neither country would recognise a Taliban regime that takes Kabul by force. However, the divergences are more troubling for India, given that the fallout of the U.S. withdrawal will mean a less secure region. The U.S. continues to engage the Taliban in talks for a power-sharing arrangement, despite the Taliban leadership’s refusal to enforce a ceasefire, and stop attacks against civilians in areas they take over. The militia is also trying to squeeze trade and financial supply chains to the Afghanistan government. Perhaps the greatest worry for India is the U.S.’s refusal to hold Pakistan to account for having given shelter to the Taliban, as this will only embolden Islamabad if the Taliban advance in Afghanistan. New Delhi tiptoed around the U.S.’s announcement of a new “Quad” with Uzbekistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan on connectivity, but this is another cause for worry. On the subject of democratic freedoms, both sides maintained there were “shared values”. However, Mr. Blinken began his meetings with a “civil society roundtable” wherein internal Indian issues such as minority rights, religious freedoms and curbs on the media and dissent were discussed, making it clear that these were important areas for the Democrat administration. In his rebuttal to a question about the “backslide” in India’s democracy, Mr. Jaishankar had a three-pronged response, reiterating that the same standards apply for the U.S. and India, that policies that have come in for international criticism such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the Article 370 amendment, and anti-conversion laws were part of the Modi government’s attempt to “right historical wrongs”, and that freedoms cannot be equated with “lack of governance”. Despite the attempt from both sides to paper over the cracks, this is an issue that they will grapple with in the future even as they build upon the strong “Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership” that the world’s oldest and most populous democracies continue to share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/shared-values/article35618276.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. rejects Thant’s suggestion||The Pakistan Government has rejected a proposal made by the United Nations Secretary-General, U Thant, that the East Bengal problem be referred to the Security Council for a solution [Islamabad, July 29]. U Thant had made the proposal to Pakistan’s President, Gen. Yahya Khan, as the escalation of tensions between Pakistan and India is threatening the security of the sub-continent, and could lead to a great power confrontation. He thinks the question of East Bengal refugees in India, the border clashes and the whole range of problems in that region merit the consideration of the Security Council. In saying “no” to U Thant, Pakistan has pointed out that the Secretary-General’s other proposal — the posting of U.N. observers on both sides of the East Bengal border to encourage the return of the refugees — is an adequate solution. India has, however, turned down this suggestion. According to Indian sources here, the posting of U.N. observers sidesteps the major issue of a political settlement in East Bengal that would satisy all sections of its population and enable all categories of refugees to return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-rejects-thants-suggestion/article35618284.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||High fiscal borrowings won’t crowd out private sector: CEA||Concerns about high government borrowings crowding out the private sector’s fund-raising efforts were misplaced and not based on evidence, Chief Economic Advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian asserted on Thursday reacting to comments made by a member of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). “It’s a very tempting argument to make but the data does not support it,” he said. On the contrary, the government’s increased capital spending would impart a ‘crowding-in effect’ spurring more investment, Dr. Subramanian contended. Earlier, addressing an Assocham event on the productive use of financial resources, SEBI whole-time member G. Mahalingam stressed that bond markets had an important role in supporting the economy’s rebound at a time when banks were ‘overburdened from the overhang of non-performing assets’. “No doubt, a good part of the bond market gets crowded out by the government issuances of close to about Rs. 14-15 lakh crore,” asserted Mr. Mahalingam. “That crowds out all the corporate bond market, no doubt about it all,” he added. “The flaw with this argument is that it relies on the pool of savings being static,” the CEA responded. “There is now evidence that savings are pro-cyclical with growth. When you have a pool that is growing and the government takes a rupee out today for capital expenditure, and thereby push growth and increase savings, the pro-cyclical behaviour of savings kicks in. So this is the crowding-in effect of infrastructure, especially government-led, capital spending,” Dr. Subramanian observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-fiscal-borrowings-wont-crowd-out-private-sector-cea/article35618264.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Upturn V-shaped but small firms, urban poor hit harder’||Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian acknowledged on Thursday that some parts of the economy may be witnessing a K-shaped recovery, as smaller firms and urban poor had been hit harder by the pandemic, but stressed that India’s overall economic rebound remains V-shaped. Also, retail inflation would slip below 6% this month or in August, but would remain rangebound at 5%-6% in the near future, he said, adding that India’s growth would pick up to 8% after stabilising at 6.5%-7% over the coming years. “There has been a V-shaped recovery in the last year,” Dr. Subramanian said at FICCI’s capital markets conference. “Yes, when you start unpacking across sectors, large and listed firms have done really well and deleveraged and their bottom lines are improved. “But some of the smaller firms are impacted more. Similarly, people at the bottom of the pyramid, especially the urban poor have been impacted more,” he added. “Some commentators may say therefore, this is a K-shaped recovery. But that is more at the sectoral level… at the macro level, there has been a V-shaped recovery.” The CEA also projected that a third COVID-19 wave, if it occurred, may be of a low intensity with a much lower economic impact as India would get closer to herd immunity, based on the government’s target to vaccinate the entire adult population by December. “Inflation should be rangebound going forward, despite the rise in commodity prices. It’s likely to be between 5% and 6% but certainly within the [RBI’s] tolerance range,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/upturn-v-shaped-but-small-firms-urban-poor-hit-harder/article35618266.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Kia tops poll for dealer satisfaction with OEMs’||A Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) survey has found that dealers of Kia India are the most satisfied in their dealings with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), among various mass-market four-wheeler makers. The survey, conducted in association with PremonAsia, sought responses from about 2,000 dealers on OEM-dealer relationships across factors such as viability and policy, product, marketing, sales, aftersales, and training. The survey highlighted that business viability remained a highly critical aspect where automobile manufacturers needed to exhibit greater sensitivity. In the four-wheeler mass-market segment, Kia India (879 points), was followed by MG Motor and Toyota Kirloskar Motor with 778 points each, Renault (767), Tata Motors (729), Hyundai (711), Maruti Suzuki (699), Mahindra (687), Ford (669) and Honda Cars (562). In the luxury segment, Mercedes-Benz and BMW dealers were most satisfied (707 points each) followed by Audi (649 points).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kia-tops-poll-for-dealer-satisfaction-with-oems/article35618268.ece
30 July 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS Motor earmarks Rs. 1,000 crore for EVs||TVS Motor (TVSM) has lined up several new products during the current fiscal in the mid to premium segment, said CMD Venu Srinivasan. “This is the the gap that needs to be filled, and will also lead to the volume growth,” Mr. Srinivasan told shareholders. Electric vehicle (EV) adoption in India is being accelerated with significant policy interventions and rising fuel costs, he said. TVSM was aggressively ramping up to establish a dominant presence in EV segment by earmarking Rs. 1,000 crore to manufacture two and three wheelers ranging from 5 kW to 25 kW under a separate vertical, he said. Joint MD Sudarshan Venu said that EVs were going to be “very important for the future and TVSM is really investing behind.” The company has returned to black by posting a standalone net profit of Rs. 53 crore for Q1 of FY22 against a net loss Rs. 139 crore in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-earmarks-rs-1000-crore-for-evs/article35618272.ece
30 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Festivals, weddings to bolster gold sales: WGC||Indian gold demand is likely to recover in the second half of 2021 from 35% below the pre-pandemic five-year average in the first half, as festivals and weddings are likely to boost retail purchases in the fourth quarter, the World Gold Council (WGC) said on Thursday. Higher demand from the world’s second-biggest gold consumer could support global prices that have corrected almost 4% so far in 2021, although a rise in imports of the precious metal would widen India’s trade deficit and weigh on the rupee. “Consumer demand is trying to make a recovery. It will spike once normalcy is restored on the COVID-19 front,” P.R. Somasundaram, regional CEO of WGC’s Indian operations, told Reuters. Demand for gold during the April-June quarter rose 19.2% in India to 76.1 tonne, according to the council’s estimates. In value terms, demand increased 23% to Rs. 32,810 crore while total jewellery demand increased 25% to 55.1 tonne. In value terms, total demand for jewellery rose 29% to Rs. 23,750 crore. (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra in Mumbai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/festivals-weddings-to-bolster-gold-sales-wgc/article35618261.ece
30 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Laurus Labs Q1 net rises 41% to Rs. 242 cr.||Drugmaker Laurus Labs consolidated net profit rose almost 41% to Rs. 241.61 crore for the quarter ended June. On a sequential basis, however, the net profit declined by 19%. The year-on-year increase in net profit came on a more than 30% increase in revenue from operations at Rs. 1,278.50 crore. In the March quarter, the company had reported Rs. 1,411.93 crore in revenue from operations. Sustained strong momentum across all business segments, particularly FDF and Synthesis was behind the growth in revenue, it said.  Shares on Thursday closed 2.29% lower at Rs. 604.65 apiece on the BSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/laurus-labs-q1-net-rises-41-to-rs-242-cr/article35618256.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||TechM Q1 net jumps 39% to Rs. 1,353 crore||Tech Mahindra on Thursday posted a 39% increase in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 1,353.2 crore for the quarter ended June 30. Revenue from operations rose almost 12% to Rs. 10,197.6 crore. “We continue to build on our profitability journey and have reported highest-ever quarterly revenue and profit after tax this quarter,” said Milind Kulkarni, CFO, adding that delivery excellence would be the cornerstone of improving the company’s operational and financial metrics as it looks to capitalise on the incremental digital spends over the course of the year.  The company said its total headcount stood at 1,26,263 at the end of the quarter, up by 5,209 on a sequential basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/techm-q1-net-jumps-39-to-rs-1353-crore/article35618269.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cognizant net rises 42%; firm raises outlook||Cognizant reported a 41.8% rise in June quarter net income to $512 million (about Rs. 3,801.7 crore), and said it expected to hire about one lakh people this year as the firm looks to arrest high attrition rates. The company also raised revenue growth guidance for 2021 to 10.2-11.2% on the back of strong booking momentum. It had previously guided for 7-9% growth. Revenue rose 14.6% to $4.6 billion. Cognizant also expects to onboard about 30,000 new graduates in 2021. It plans to make 45,000 offers to freshers in India — where headcount is 2 lakh — for 2022 onboarding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cognizant-net-rises-42-firm-raises-outlook/article35618270.ece
30 July 2021||Chennai,||TAFE introduces special tractors in AP||TAFE Ltd. introduced Massey Ferguson 244 DI puddling special tractors in the 44 hp range for paddy cultivation. The tractor comes in two variants viz. MF 244 DI PM that excels in dry land or shallow puddling and the MF 244 PD for deep-mud puddling, it said. These tractors have been exclusively introduced in Andhra Pradesh, the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tafe-introduces-special-tractors-in-ap/article35618255.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,||FDA approves Biocon’s insulin Semglee as first interchangeable biosimilar product in the US||Biocon Biologics and Viatris Inc said the U.S. (FDA) had approved Semglee®, a long-acting insulin injection, as the first interchangeable biosimilar product for the treatment of diabetes. This would allow pharmacy level substitution and better affordability and access to Semglee, a biosimilar product, said executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fda-approves-biocons-insulin-semglee-as-first-interchangeable-biosimilar-product-in-the-us/article35618258.ece
30 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Tata Sons to acquire 43.3% stake in Tejas Networks for Rs 1,850 cr||Tata Sons subsidiary Panatone Finvest Ltd. has signed a definitive agreement to acquire a 43.3% stake in Bengaluru-based telecom equipment firm, Tejas Networks, for Rs. 1,850 crore. The agreement includes a preferential allotment of 1.94 crore equity shares at a price of Rs. 258 per share aggregating to Rs. 500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-sons-to-acquire-433-stake-in-tejas-networks-for-rs-1850-cr/article35618259.ece
30 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Windlas Biotech unveils IPO||The initial public offering (IPO) of Windlas Biotech Ltd., a maker of pharma formulations, will open on August 4. The price band has been fixed at Rs. 448 to Rs. 460 per equity share of the face value of Rs. 5. Bids can be made for a minimum of 30 shares and in multiples of 30 shares thereafter. The IPO comprises fresh issue of up to Rs. 165 crore and an offer for sale of up to 5,142,067 shares by selling investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/windlas-biotech-unveils-ipo/article35618262.ece
30 July 2021||Tokyo,||Mary Kom makes a dramatic exit from Olympics||A smiling M.C. Mary Kom raised her hand in celebration at the end of her 51kg pre-quarterfinal bout against Ingrit Valencia. It was only later, while skimming through social media, did Mary finally realise that her Tokyo 2020 Olympic journey was over. The referee had declared her Colombian opponent the winner in a 3-2 split verdict. The six-time World champion and 2012 London Olympics bronze medallist was left shellshocked. The 38-year-old, who won her last two rounds, seemed to have done enough to keep her Olympics dream alive, but the judges thought otherwise. Mary was upset with the verdict later. She told journalists that she had no inkling about her loss. “The decision was very unfortunate. I thought it was a clear win for me. I came out and gave an interview and didn’t realise the decision had gone against me. I thought I would come back with a medal, but I don’t know what went wrong. We can’t appeal as the organisers don’t have a provision this time. I still can’t believe I have lost the bout,” said an emotionally distraught Mary. Valencia took Mary by surprise, darting at her as soon as the bell rang and took the fight to the Indian in the opening round. Mary took time to gauge her opponent’s tactics, while Valencia was on the attack right from the start. The Colombian won the round 4-1. Mary came back strongly and threw some ferocious punches to pocket the second round. And despite winning the third, the final decision did not go in her favour. Advancing with ease Satish Kumar won his bout to advance to the +91kg quarterfinals. The first Indian super heavyweight boxer to qualify for the Olympics, Satish gave a good account of himself to beat Pan American bronze medallist Ricardo Brown 4-1. After the Indian took the first round 5-0, the Canada-based Brown stepped up his attack. Satish, despite getting medical attention for a cut above his left eye, battled with determination and won the second 4-1. Satish continued to elude Brown’s grasp and delivered some fine counters in the third. The 32-year-old Indian set up a clash with top seed and World champion Bakhodir Jalolov of Uzbekistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-makes-a-dramatic-exit-from-olympics/article35618564.ece
30 July 2021||Tokyo,||Dressel takes sprint crown in Games record time||US superstar Caeleb Dressel flew faster than Kyle Chalmers to add the Olympic 100m freestyle crown to his two world titles on Thursday, as China’s women sparked a huge upset with a new world record to win the 4x200m relay. Dressel missed out on the sprint medals at Rio in 2016, but has since exploded, winning an incredible 13 titles over the past two World Championships to be an imposing force. Digging deep He was in front at the turn in Tokyo but had to dig deep to hold off a storming Chalmers and hit the wall in a new Olympic record time of 47.02s. The Australian took silver in 47.08s ahead of Russia’s Kliment Kolesnikov in 47.44s.   Meanwhile, in a major shock, neither the United States nor Australia won the women’s 4x200m relay for the first time since the event was added to the Olympic programme in 1996. Instead, China’s Yang Junxuan, Zhang Yufei, Li Bingjie and Tang Muhan dominated, leading all the way to clock an incredible 7:40.33 ahead of the United States (7:40.73) and Australia (7:41.29). All three teams were under the previous world time of 7:41.50 set by Australia in 2019. Li held off a charging Katie Ledecky over the final leg to clinch the title. Zac Stubblety-Cook became the first Australian to win the Olympic 200m breaststroke crown in 64 years. Arno Kamminga went out hard but was overpowered by Stubblety-Cook in the final 50m, touching in a new Olympic record time of 2:06.38s ahead of the Dutch ace and Finland’s Matti Mattsson. Earlier, China’s Zhang was untouchable in the women’s 200m butterfly, blasting to gold in the third fastest time ever, adding to the silver she won over 100m. The 23-year-old hit the wall in a new Olympic record time of 2:03.86s. Finke’s feat The men’s 800 freestyle was making its Olympic debut this year and American Robert Finke became the first winner, overhauling Italy’s Gregorio Paltrinieri over the dying stages to post 7:41.87s. Ukrainian Mykhailo Romanchuk took bronze. Sajan Prakash out Sajan Prakash, meanwhile, failed to qualify for the men's 100m butterfly. He finished second in Heat 2 clocking 53.45s just 0.06s behind the winner. Sajan was 46th overall out of 55 swimmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dressel-takes-sprint-crown-in-games-record-time/article35618611.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bromell eyes Bolt’s throne, Fraser-Pryce history||The planet may have struggled with COVID-19 for the last couple of years but surprisingly, many of the world’s leading athletes are on their best legs. Athletics at the Tokyo Olympics begins on Friday and there will be plenty to look forward to. All eyes will be on American Trayvon Bromell as he looks set to take over the throne left vacant by Jamaican legend Usain Bolt who won the men’s 100m gold at the last three Olympics. The 26-year-old Bromell recently clocked 9.77s, the seventh fastest time in history, and he has won 15 of his last 16 races. Jamaica’s Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce — the second fastest in history with her recent 10.63s — will be looking to become the first woman to win the 100m at three Olympics. Stiff challenge Her last came nine years ago in London and the 34-year-old could face a stiff challenge from compatriots Elaine Thompson-Herah and Shericka Jackson. Early last month, Dutchwoman Sifan Hassan shattered the 10,000m women’s world record by a massive 10s at Hengelo. That lasted just two days as Ethiopia’s Letesenbet Gidey produced another sensational run on the same track in the Netherlands. Sifan, World champion in 1500 and 10,000m, has been entered in three events including the 5000m and will have to do a smart juggling act. Gidey will be running only the 10,000m despite being the World record holder in 5000m too.  Sweden’s Armand Duplantis is likely to be in a world of his own after taking the pole vault record to a new high (6.18, indoors) in June and the scene could be the same in men’s shot put, where world record holder Ryan Crouser has been unbeaten since the 2019 Doha Worlds, and javelin throw where German Johannes Vetter has produced a series of 90m-plus throws this season. India will be watching the javelin closely and will be hoping that Neeraj Chopra brings its first-ever athletics medal in the Olympics.  Fraser-Pryce will look to become the first woman to win the 100m at three Olympics India will hope Neeraj Chopra (javelin) brings its first-ever athletics medal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bromell-eyes-bolts-throne-fraser-pryce-history/article35618606.ece
30 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Hasaranga spins a web around the Indian batsmen as Sri Lanka wins series 2-1||India's young batsmen stood exposed in the face of some spirited bowling and fielding by Sri Lanka, which restricted its Asian neighbour to 81 for eight in 20 overs before overhauling the target with seven wickets remaining and 33 balls to spare in the third and final T20I here on Thursday. The win gave the hosts a 2-1 victory in the series. Leg-spinner Wanindu Hasaranga (four for nine) made the Indians dance to his tune on his 24th birthday, while Akila Danajaya too troubled the Indians and gave away just 11 in his four overs. Skipper Dasun Shanaka returned with figures of two for 20 in his four-over spell. Only three Indians managed double digits, with No. 7 Kuldeep Yadav’s 23 being the highest score. Such was the dominance of the home bowlers that India hit only four boundaries in 20 overs. Pacer Dushmantha Chameera hit the deck hard to get one to fly, which Shikhar Dhawan (0) could not connect properly, just managing an edge that was taken in slips. Devdutt Padikkal, who looked in good touch, and Ruturaj Gaikwad, played some fluent shots before the hosts suddenly turned the heat on the Indians. And the Indians slid from there. India captain Shikhar Dhawan revealed that there was an option of not playing the T20I series after losing nine players to COVID-19, but the team management chose to continue despite having only five specialist batsmen. “It was a difficult situation for us, but as a team, we decided to stay and play the series,” said Dhawan at the post-match presentation ceremony. “Both teams played in great spirit and that’s a beautiful feeling. The Sri Lanka captain and players wanted to know about the process I follow. So I told them and I hope they enjoyed listening to it.” “The wicket was slow and our spinners bowled really well,” said Hasaranga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hasaranga-spins-a-web-around-the-indian-batsmen-as-lanka-wins-series/article35618559.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Atanu’s Oh! moment in Tokyo||World No. 9 Atanu Das held his nerve to stun former Olympic champion Jinhyek Oh of South Korea and advance to the third round of the men’s individual event on Thursday. After getting past Chinese Taipei’s Yu-Cheng Deng 6-4 (27-26, 27-28, 28-26, 27-28, 28-26) in the first round, the Indian eliminated third seed and London Olympics gold medallist Oh 6-5 (25-26, 27-27, 27-27, 27-22, 28-28, 10-9) in a nerve-wracking shoot-off in the second round. Interestingly, Atanu had beaten the Korean heavyweight 6-5 through a shoot-off to pocket the bronze in the Asian championships in Bangkok in November 2019. After a below-par performance in the men’s team event, the 29-year-old Atanu — egged on by his wife and ace archer Deepika Kumari from the stands — shot consistently good scores to keep Oh, 10 years elder to him, under pressure, and notch up a morale-boosting win. Atanu, who lost the first set after scoring two 8s, staged a strong comeback to strike six consecutive 9s in the next two sets and shared the spoils. Trailing 2-4, Atanu needed to win the fourth set to stay in the contest. With Oh shooting a 7, Atanu seized the opportunity to score a perfect 10 and levelled the scores. Both recorded identical series of 10, 9 and 9 in the fifth set to take the contest into a tie-breaker. In the shoot-off, Oh shot a 9 while Atanu fired a 10 to script a memorable win. The Indian will take on Takaharu Furukawa of Japan on Saturday. Earlier, Atanu had won a match of fluctuating fortunes against Yu-Cheng. The Indian took the first and third sets, while the Chinese Taipei archer won the second and fourth. Atanu shot 10, 9 and 9 in the decider, and Yu-Cheng 10, 9 and 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atanus-oh-moment-in-tokyo/article35618567.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Sindhu cruises past Blichfeldt||P.V. Sindhu, looking ready for tougher opposition, got past a tricky rival in Mia Blichfeldt 21-15, 21-13 for a place in the quarterfinals of the Olympics badminton competition on Thursday. On Friday, Sindhu plays fourth-seeded home favourite Akane Yamaguchi, who defeated 12th-seeded Korean Kim Gaeun 21-17, 21-18. Sindhu’s fifth victory over the Danish rival in six encounters was also her easiest in terms of points conceded. Sindhu dropped the first two points but never trailed thereafter. Barring a brief period during the first game when she let Mia rally from 6-13 to close the gap to 15-16, Sindhu stayed in control. In fact, the decisive swing in the contest came when Sindhu won the last five points of the first game and the first five points of the second. The 10-point streak underlined Sindhu’s resolve and severely dented Mia’s hopes of recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-cruises-past-blichfeldt/article35618568.ece
30 July 2021||TOKYO,||Biles’ withdrawal thrust the spotlight on mental well-being||Silence prevailed in the arena after Simone Biles’ uncharacteristically substandard vault attempt at the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday. The announcer at the Ariake Gymnastics Centre introduced the next athlete and talked about the four other events that were going on, but everyone’s eyes trailed Biles’ every move. She stepped off the mat and left the floor with a coach. Reporters scrambled for updates. One suggested she had sprained her ankle, while another said he heard it was a mental issue. And a video doing the rounds on social media showed Biles mouthing the words “I can’t get up there.” The USA Gymnastics then put out a statement on Twitter that said Biles had withdrawn from the competition due to a “medical issue” and her run in the mixed final was over. But Biles remained by her teammates and played the role of a coach and even broke into a little dance with Jordan Chiles on an instrumental version of Ed Sheeran’s mega-hit song Shape of You. The injury evidentially was not physical. The USA returned with a silver medal and Biles, a strong advocate of prioritising mental health, revealed that she was “struggling with some issues.” She subsequently pulled out of the women’s all-around event on Wednesday despite what was at stake — an opportunity to win six gold medals in Tokyo and become the most successful woman Olympian since Soviet gymnast Larisa Latynina’s nine gold medals between 1956 and 1964. Similar occasion Tennis star Naomi Osaka had made a similar statement three months ago when she refused to go through with media requirements at the French Open citing mental health reasons. Biles’s withdrawal thrust the spotlight on the importance of mental well-being. No one could have imagined this would happen at the Olympics. Biles, the ultimate showstopper, had stopped the show all right, but not on expected lines. “I want to focus on my well-being. There is more to life than just gymnastics. It’s very unfortunate that it has to happen at this stage, I wanted the Olympics to go better. It’s the Olympic Games, it’s so big, but at the end of the day we wanna walk out of here not be dragged out of here on a stretcher,” she said on Tuesday. “We’re not just athletes but humans... We have to focus on that, even if it means taking a back seat from whatever sports we’re doing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/biles-withdrawal-thrust-the-spotlight-on-mental-well-being/article35618600.ece
30 July 2021||TOKYO,||India seals quarterfinal berth||The Indian men’s hockey team secured its spot in the quarterfinals of the Tokyo Olympics with a 3-1 win over defending champion Argentina in a Pool A game at the Oi Hockey stadium on Thursday. The side, stung by the Australia in its second game, has bounced back with two wins on the trot and will take on host Japan in its last group game on Friday. Fresh from a 3-0 win over Spain, Graham Reid’s team played with gusto and looked composed throughout. The transition from attack to defence was seamless, with Amit Rohidas acting as a bridge between the two ends of the pitch. India nearly went ahead in the 25th minute as Nilakanta Sharma’s defence-splitting pass found a diving Simranjeet Singh, but the latter’s attempt went wide. India goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh, untested for most part, made his first save in the 27th minute, a sharp block to his left. Manpreet’s men began to find some success in the circle only after the 40th minute — winning seven penalty corners in quick succession. The opening goal came off the third penalty corner when Varun Kumar sounded the boards (43rd). Argentina struck back in the 48th through Maico Casella, who found the target off the side’s first penalty corner. India was rewarded for its relentless aggression as Vivek Sagar Prasad turned in Dilpreet Singh’s cross in the 58th. A minute later, Harmanpreet fired home a drag flick to seal the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-books-quarterfinal-berth/article35618571.ece
30 July 2021||Chennai,||Warriors prevail over Tamizhans||A superb spell from medium-pacer M. Poiyamozhi (3/25) set up a comfortable seven-wicket win for Ruby Trichy Warriors against iDream Tiruppur Tamizhans in the Tamil Nadu Premier League match here at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Thursday. Electing to field first, Warriors bowlers made good use of helpful conditions to restrict Tamizhans to just 110/8. Double blow The Warrirors’ chase did not get off well, with left-arm spinner S. Mohan Prasath dismissing the openers cheaply. However, Nidhish Rajgopal (47 n.o., 45b, 4x4, 1x6) steadied the ship as he played a composed innings without taking many risks. Tamizhans bowlers did well to keep up the pressure till the 10th over, with Warriors managing only 46/3. But Adithya Ganesh (43 n.o., 35b, 4x4, 1x6), who walked in at No. 5, quickly turned things around for Warriors for the second time this tournament. He started rotating the strike smartly before finding the boundaries, taking the aerial route to clear the infield with some clean hitting. Adithya and Nidhish added 73 runs for the unbroken fourth-wicket stand to help Warrirors notch their third win of the season. Earlier, the Tamizhans batting struggle started from the top, with opener S. Siddharth struggling during his 11-ball ordeal without scoring. At the other end, S. Dinesh managed to find four boundaries quickly to give some momentum in the PowerPlay. However, in the sixth over, Poiyamozhi struck twice in as many balls to dismiss Tushar Raheja and Maan Bafna to reduce Tamizhans to 33/3. Then, runs dried up with some tight bowling from medium-pacer Antony Dhas (1/10). Wrong move Tamizhans’ strategy also did not make sense with bowler Aswin Crist coming in at No. 5 on a pitch that was two-paced with good bounce. It also missed out on a trick when skipper M. Mohammed, known for his big hits, did not come until the fall of the sixth wicket with just five overs left. Later, it was his 19 off 21 that helped his side get past 100 but, it was never going to be enough.  The scores:   iDream Tiruppur Tamizhans 110/8 in 20 overs (S. Dinesh 26, M. Poiyamozhi 3/25, P. Saravana Kumar 2/31) lost to Ruby Trichy Warriors 111/3 in 17.5 overs (Nidhish Rajgopal 47 n.o., Adithya Ganesh 43 n.o., S. Mohan Prasath 2/26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warriors-prevail-over-tamizhans/article35618654.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Expected a lot after first day, it didn’t happen’||The disappointment of the first week of the Olympics is bound to carry over to the second week and put more pressure on athletes in Tokyo, feels Anju Bobby George. “Definitely, that will be there, we can’t help it. We expected a lot, a first-day medal at the Olympics (by weightlifter Mirabai Chanu) means a lot and we expected more. But that did not happen,” said Anju, the country’s lone World championship medallist, in a chat with The Hindu on Thursday. All in the mind “It’s all in the mind so we’ll have to decide. May be it’s a one-second thing. The moment you think, I’m not able to do it, everything is gone, everything goes upside down. The pressure is like that at the top level.” She also felt that it’s now time for athletes to take charge of their career instead of depending too much on the national federation. “Normally in other countries, they get competitions through their manager. They go steadily from small competitions to higher-level meets. Plan differently “But Indian athletes always look to the AFI, SAI or the ministry and complain that they are not being sent abroad, that they don’t have competitions. “You have to do that through professional managers and plan well in advance. We have to decide which competition we are aiming for and through that how we need to peak and where we need to travel. It is our decision. “Here in India we always keep blaming the system.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/expected-a-lot-after-first-day-it-didnt-happen/article35618980.ece
30 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Sandeep Warrier finally gets his India colours||It has been a long, agonising wait for Sandeep Warrier. It finally came to an end on Thursday night: he is now an India cricketer. Thirty may not exactly be the right age for a pace bowler to make his international debut. But surely it is better late than never. And there were times when Warrier wondered whether all his hard work had been in vain. Ever since making his First Class debut nine years ago, he has been talked of as a bowler with great potential. He has played for the India-A teams and in the IPL too, but when it came to the national duty, he didn’t even make the squad. Even on this tour of Sri Lanka, for which many of the senior players were not available, Warrier wasn’t part of the squad. He was selected as a net bowler. Luck smiles But for once, lady luck smiled on him. He could make it to the Indian XI for the third T20I against Sri Lanka at Colombo following an injury to Navdeep Saini. Warrier has deserved his good fortune. It is a just reward for his exceptional skills as a swing bowler capable of long spells and his perseverance. Those skills were on full display in Kerala’s Ranji Trophy match against Jharkhand at Perinthalmanna in late 2012. After his sensational spell (6/44 in the second innings) helped Kerala score an innings win with a day and a half to spare, the visiting team’s coach Tarak Sinha had told this correspondent how impressed he was with the 21-year-old’s performance, which he called one of the best he had seen in domestic cricket for years. Sinha, who has coached 12 international cricketers including Manoj Prabhakar and Rishabh Pant, had said: “India needs some young pace bowlers and I feel Sandeep could be one.” Finally, he has become one, albeit not when quite young”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-warrier-finally-gets-his-india-colours/article35618982.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Savitha is champion||Tamil Nadu’s B. Savitha Shri defeated Delhi’s Vantika Agarwal in the Armageddon game to become the National junior girls’ online chess champion on Thursday. On a day of dramatic development, the All India Chess Federation’s Fairplay Panel suspected the ‘winner’ Maharashtra’s Prachiti Chandratreya of using unfair means during the 11-round competition that concluded on Wednesday. As a result, the playoff rounds were held to decide the first four places, instead of the originally planned second to fifth places. At the end of six rounds of playoffs, Savitha and Vantika were tied at 3.5 points, followed by K, Priyanka and Arpita Mukherjee at two each. Meanwhile, following the playoffs to decide second to fifth places in the open section of the National online event, Abhijeet Gupta (four points), A.R. Harikrishnanan (three), Sayantan Das and Sidhant Mohapatra (two each) finished in that order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/savitha-is-champion/article35618723.ece
30 July 2021||TOKYO,||Bencic, Vondrousova make the women’s final||Switzerland’s Belinda Bencic set up a final against Naomi Osaka’s conqueror Marketa Vondrousova with a marathon victory over Kazakh Elena Rybakina in the women’s singles semifinals on Thursday. Bencic, who also reached the women’s doubles final with Viktorija Golubic, had to dig deep to edge out Rybakina 7-6(2), 4-6, 6-3. Vondrousova, the 2019 French Open runner-up, stands in her way on Saturday after thrashing Elina Svitolina 6-3, 6-1. In the men’s section, Novak Djokovic maintained his Golden Slam bid by thumping Japanese hope Kei Nishikori to reach the semifinals, while Daniil Medvedev was dumped out by Pablo Carreno Busta. Djokovic, who has won three Majors this year, brushed aside Nishikori 6-2, 6-0. The 34-year-old Serb, whose won a bronze medal in 2008, will face German Alexander Zverev in the last four on Friday after the fourth seed’s 6-4, 6-1 win over Jeremy Chardy. Spaniard Carreno Busta set up a semifinal with Russian Karen Khachanov, by beating an out-of-sorts Medvedev 6-2, 7-6(5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bencic-vondrousova-make-the-womens-final/article35618612.ece
30 July 2021||Segovia (Spain),||Kadhe in semifinals||Arjun Kadhe and Goncalo Oliveira defeated John Echeverria and Alejandro Mendonza 6-1, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the €66,640 Challenger here.  Other results: €66,640 Challenger, Segovia: Doubles ( pre-quarterfinals): J.C. Aragone (USA) & Nicolas Barrientos (Col) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 2-1 (retd.)   $52,080 Challenger, Lexington, USA: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Christian Harrison & Dennis Novikov (USA) bt Vijay Sundar Prashanth & Ramkumar Ramanathan 4-6, 6-3, [10-5].   $15,000 ITF, Monastir, Tunisia: Men, doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Mattia Bellucci & Erik Crepaldi (Ita) bt Rimpei Kawakami (Jpn) & Siddhant Banthia 6-2, 6-4. Women, first round: Mariana Drazic (Cro) bt Humera Baharmus 6-3, 1-0 (retd.); Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Valerie Quiceno (Col) & Humera bt Beatrice Laura Pirtac (Irl) & Vineetha Mummadi 6-3, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadhe-in-semifinals/article35618615.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Duda ends Vidit’s run||Vidit Gujrathi’s gallant campaign in the chess World Cup ended after Poland’s Jan-Krzysztof Duda inflicted a 50-move defeat in the second game of their quarterfinal clash on Thursday. Vidit, playing black, sacrificed a knight for three pawns but could not make any headway. The game appeared to be heading for a draw until Vidit erred in judgement by advancing his rook on the 34th move. Duda seized his chance and tightened the grip. The queens returned on the board but Duda held the upper hand to complete a 1.5-0.5 triumph when Vidit, facing checkmate, resigned. He next plays World champion Magnus Carlsen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/duda-ends-vidits-run/article35618602.ece
30 July 2021||Tokyo,||With the worst behind her, Dutee is ‘relaxed now’||Dutee Chand has been India’s fastest woman runner for the better part of the last five years. But when she returned to the track in November 2020, she ran the 100m in 20 seconds. “I was so worried! I thought “ aise kaise ho gaya (laughs) (how could this happen?).” For context, her personal best is 11.22s. The 25-year-old — India’s only sprinter at the Games —– will be in action in the 100m heats on Friday and will be competing against global superstars like Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, Olympic champion Elaine Thompson-Herah and Dina Asher-Smith. Glaring gulf The gulf in timings, however, is glaring — Fraser-Pryce recently became the second-fastest woman in history by running the 100m in 10.63 seconds, while Elaine and Dina have personal bests of 10.70 and 10.83s, respectively. The athlete from Chaka Gopalpur in Odisha, though, is unfazed. “My preparations have gone well, and I’m fully geared up. It’s time to race,” she said.  The lack of training had left her lighter by six kgs and resulted in a severe dip in muscle mass. “I looked fit, but I had actually lost my muscle mass. My haemoglobin, Vitamin D and Calcium levels were very low. I had to change my diet and eat more food and supplements.” Dutee was in a race against time to punch her ticket to Tokyo and was unable to meet the qualification mark set at 11.15s. She returned to competition at the Indian Grand Prix 1 in February with an 11.51s run. She then registered 11.44s and 11.58s at the Indian Grand Prix 2 and Federation Cup respectively. The timings were not remotely close to the qualification mark. “I needed to prepare my body to run in less than 11.2s. The Athletics Federation of India had warned that if my performance was not good then I won't be able to make it to the Olympics. It was a very stressful period. I had to better my timing to make it to the Olympics and I was running out of events!” She came within a whisker of securing an automatic qualification at the Indian Grand Prix 4 in June but fell short by 0.02s. However, that run — a new national record — was enough to help her qualify by virtue of her world ranking. “I reduced my timing, and it helped my rankings and sealed my berth at the Olympics. I am a lot more relaxed now,” she said.  My preparations have gone well, and I’m fully geared up. It’s time to race||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/with-the-worst-behind-her-dutee-is-relaxed-now/article35618608.ece
30 July 2021||TOKYO,||‘I thought I had won’||Mary Kom’s Olympics campaign turned from joy to despair during a candid conversation with coach Chhote Lal Yadav. The 2012 London Olympics bronze medallist thought that she had won her bout against Colombia’s Ingrit Valencia, but was taken aback when told that she had lost 2-3 in a split verdict. The six-time World champion had, in fact, lifted her hand when the result was announced loud and clear: ‘in the red corner, Valencia.’ But Mary, somehow, did not hear it. She left the ring with a big smile. “Inside the ring also, I thought they had declared me the winner. I came out and gave interviews, thinking I had won. I did not realise I had lost. They took me for doping (check) and then also I did not realise it. Chhote was with me and he told me “Mary, you are a winner. Don’t worry.” “I said, what do you mean? I was only winning, no? and he told me that she (Valencia) had won 3-2,” said Mary, three hours after her initial interaction with the media. The boxer from Manipur said she intended to go on despite the heartbreak. “I have been fighting for 20 years. I’m a mother, I have four kids and have been fighting continuously and achieving much. I will play till I am 40,” she said. The official age guidelines of the boxing federation will not allow her to participate in the next Olympics. The current age cap is set at 40 and Mary will be 41 by the time the 2024 Games are held in Paris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/split-decision-is-just-a-name-says-mary/article35618556.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Straka leads, Lahiri T8||Anirban Lahiri had a fine beginning to his second Olympic Games campaign as he shot a three-under 68 to be tied eighth with three others at the Kasumigaseki Country Club in Tokyo on Thursday. In contrast, teammate Udayan Mane occupied the last spot in the 60-player field following a 76. Austria’s Sepp Straka was the surprise leader with a card of eight-under 63 — a shot ahead of Thailand’s Jazz Janewattanaond. “It was good. I think I started off a little dodgy the first few holes, couldn’t get my rhythm going early. But then I settled down nicely,” said Lahiri, 57th at 2016 Rio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/straka-leads-lahiri-t8/article35618569.ece
30 July 2021||BENGALURU:,||Hat-trick by Prem||Prem’s hat-trick helped Agniputra FC defeat Subhodaya FC 4-0 in the KSFA-BDFA- C division football league on Thursday.  The results: Balaharka FC 3 (V. Reddy 4, 36, M. Suhas 53) bt Francis Xavier FC 0; Legendary De Sporting FC 1 (Nirmal Kumar 23) bt Garden City FC 0; Agniputra FC 4 (Prem 33, 49, 54, Ramesh Kumar 26) bt Subhodaya FC. 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hat-trick-by-prem/article35618601.ece
30 July 2021||Bridgetown,||First T20I abandoned||Persistent rain forced the abandonment of the first T20 International of a four-match series between the West Indies and Pakistan as a no-result at Kensington Oval here on Wednesday. After steady rain delayed the start of play by almost three hours and reduced the match to nine overs-per-side, West Indies totalled 85 for five batting first. Captain Kieron Pollard top-scored with an unbeaten 22 while seamer Hasan Ali led the bowling effort for the visitors with two for 11 off two overs. However, rain returned just as the home side's innings was coming to an end and the umpires announced abandonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-t20i-abandoned/article35618603.ece
30 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Dhananjaya guides Lanka home||A depleted Indian team, playing with only five batsmen, could not defend a modest target of 133 despite a valiant effort as Sri Lanka kept the three-match series alive with a four-wicket win in the second T20I on Wednesday. Dhananjaya de Silva (40 not out) anchored a tricky chase as the hosts won with two balls to spare after India scored 132 for five. Opener Minod Bhanuka (36, 31b, 4x4) also shone.  The scores: India 132/5 in 20 overs lost to Sri Lanka 133/6 in 19.4 overs (Minod Bhanuka 36, Dhananjaya de Silva 40 n.o., Kuldeep Yadav 2/30).    Sri Lanka 99 for five  Sri Lanka was 99 for five in 16 overs with Dhananjaya (22) and Ramesh Mendis (1) batting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhananjaya-guides-lanka-home/article35618555.ece
30 July 2021||Chennai:,||One-time payment for cricketers, groundsman||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) has instituted a one-time payment of Rs. 5 lakh to four former cricketers and a groundsman. In a statement, TNCA said, the payment is for former cricketers, match officials and groundsmen who have done yeomen service to cricket in general and to the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association in particular. It is aimed to provide this benefit to those who have not got the one time benefit from the BCCI. The one-time benefit will be paid out of the surplus earned from the Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) each year. Cricketers K.R. Rajagopal, Najam Hussain, S.V.S. Mani, R. Prabhakar and groundsman K. Parthasarathy will be awarded this year. It will be handed over by N. Srinivasan, former president of the TNCA and BCCI, during the course of this year's TNPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/one-time-payment-for-cricketers-groundsman/article35618652.ece
30 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Vinay Kumar roped in as MI talent scout||R. Vinay Kumar, former international and a domestic stalwart, has joined as a Talent Scout for Mumbai Indians, the most successful Indian Premier League franchise. “I am honoured for this opportunity to associate with Mumbai Indians again. Mumbai Indians strive for excellence in every aspect of the game, and scouting talents is undoubtedly their key strength,” said Vinay in a statement issued by the frachise on Thursday. “It’s a new chapter and personally, I reckon it as an opportunity for me to give back to cricket.”  Vinay, who announced his retirement from competitive cricket in February 2021, was a part of Mumbai Indians’ triumphant IPL campaigns in 2015 and 2017. He is the second induction into MI’s widespread talent-scouting wing, with former India stumper Parthiv Patel having joined ranks earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinay-kumar-roped-in-as-mi-talent-scout/article35618604.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Got him!||TNPL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/got-him/article35618767.ece
30 July 2021||ANANTAPUR:,||ADCA selections||Anantapur District Cricket Association (ADCA) will organise the senior district team selections on August 1 at Anantapur Sports Academy (RDT, Sports Centre). Interested can attend with RTPCR negative report and vaccination certificate. Players should report to selection panel members S. Krishna Mohan, D. Suresh, G. Ravindranath Rao and P. Siri Niranjan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adca-selections/article35619046.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||USA’s Sunisa Lee wins Olympic all-around gold as Biles cheers her on||Sunisa Lee became the fifth straight American gymnast to claim the Olympic title in the women’s all-around. The 18-year-old edged Rebeca Andrade of Brazil in an entertaining final as defending champion Simone Biles watched from the stands. Russian Angelina Melnikova earned bronze two days after leading ROC to gold in the team final.     China’s Chen Meng defeated compatriot Sun Yingsha to win the women’s singles table tennis title at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday, as the country reasserted its supremacy in the sport. Chen won 9-11, 11-6, 11-4, 5-11, 11-4, 11-9 to grab her first Games gold. Chinese women have won every Olympic gold medal in singles.   Two-time World pole vault champion, and 2016 Rio bronze medallist, Sam Kendricks was ruled out of the Games on Thursday after testing positive for coronavirus. Argentine pole vaulter German Chiaraviglio also revealed he had tested positive and would not take part in the Games.     Japanese judokas Aaron Wolf (men’s 100kg) and Shori Hamada (women’s 78 kilogram) swept both golds available on Thursday at the budokan (martial arts hall). The host has so far won eight golds, one silver and one bronze from the first 12 weight classes.   Ricky Rubio scored 26 points as World champion Spain defeated Argentina 81-71 to join Slovenia in qualifying for the quarterfinals of men’s basketball on Thursday. Earlier, NBA star Luka Doncic scored 25 points as Slovenia comfortably beat Japan 116-81.   Australia’s Jessica Fox has made Olympic history at the Tokyo Games as the first gold medallist in women’s canoe slalom. It is one of the 18 new events introduced to the Olympics this year in a push for gender equity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usas-sunisa-lee-wins-olympic-all-around-gold-as-biles-cheers-her-on/article35618614.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 07:46 IST,||Sudoku — July 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-30-2021/article35619317.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Searching for answers||Amidst all the Glorious Purpose that is Disney’s Loki , is the grinning Alligator Loki. Director Kate Herron, laughs saying, “I have always wondered about his story.” Speaking from London over a video call, she says, “It is a tightrope — give people enough evidence that he could be a Loki, but also enough that he could just be an alligator, that they put horns on. I have been so intrigued by who Alligator could be. Hopefully it will be answered in the future.” While Herron is not directing Season Two, she has said she is eager to watch the show as a fan. Insisting she is definitely willing to speculate on the direction the show would take Herron says, “I hope all my speculations are wrong. That has been the fun of Season One. People thought they were getting one story but got something very different.” With Loki telling Sylvie in episode 3, Lamentis, that he is into princes and princesses, he confirms his bisexuality and becomes MCU’s first queer character. “I felt it was important to acknowledge his bisexuality. It opens the door for more stories.” Loki and Sylvie, who is Lady Loki, share a kiss which has also led to a great deal of speculation. Is it self-love, next-level narcissism or Loki being in touch with his feminine self? “I always read it as self-love,” the Sex Education director comments. “They are not exactly the same being, because they are from different timelines. They are the same person but from different realities. For Sylvie, the kiss is goodbye. She does care about him, but she has to do the mission. For Loki, it is pure love.” Working with Tom Hiddleston, who plays Loki and was also one of the executive producers, was incredible, Herron says. “The main thing that comes across is that Tom really cares. He has been playing this character for 10 years. Every day he came to set, you know he is bringing his A game. He is bringing all this passion and excitement, so it called the rest of us to match that.”  Lokiis presently streaming on Disney+ Hotstar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/searching-for-answers/article35618970.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Straight from the heart||They represent two of India’s most progressive voices. Actors who are not afraid to use their celebrity status to influence a socio-political change or speak out against the establishment. Along the way, Siddharth and Parvathy Thiruvothu have established themselves as two of the finest actors in the industry today. Predominantly working in the South over the years, a collaboration between the duo was always on the cards. It is a surprise that it has taken this long. However, a quick conversation with them as they act alongside in Netflix’s upcoming anthology Navarasa , reveals an assurance we see them together in a full-fledged feature in the near future. Directed by Rathindran R Prasad, Siddharth, also the producer of this segment, and Parvathy will be seen in Inmai , exploring the emotion of bhaya (fear). Excerpts from an interview: Before coming on board for the anthology, what were your impressions of each other and has it changed now?  Parvathy: My earliest memory of Siddharth was watching him in Boys along with my classmates, and completely falling for him during the ‘Ale Ale’ song. Then, of course, I got into the film industry and all my balloons about it being a big, beautiful paradise burst. I kept bumping into Siddharth at awards functions, and was really impressed by his performance, charm and the fact that he is so opinionated. Rang De Basanti happened in the meantime, and I fangirled over him more, and people kept telling me I should work with him. Earlier, I had an experience with a star, a really good actor as well, that did not pan out well. So when the opportunity to work on Navarasa with Siddharth came, I wondered if he would live upto my incredible expectations of him. But guess what...the man’s the real deal! He blew me away with his presence and he is a fantastic actor, conversationalist and now, a friend.  Siddharth: I had seen Parvathy’s great acting work earlier. I knew she is a feminist who speaks her mind, which is something I relate to a lot. As an actor, I enjoy the preparation and rehearsals that happen before shoot, and Parvathy was really involved with Rathindran and me in all these discussions. The amount of detail that has gone into the making of this half-hour film speaks a lot about us as professionals. I particularly love the way Parvathy is on a film set. It felt like working with a thespian; someone who knows the rhythm and process of making films, and someone who respects everyone on the set equally. Why did you pick fear as your rasa ?  Parvathy: I was both excited and nervous as I had never internalised fear for my characters. In my previous films, the arc of my characters follows a conflict-resolution. My understanding of fear, in fact, is a little different from what we normally perceive. I don’t think it is fully negative. I’m a huge fan of horror films — from mind-bending thrillers to the gory, bloody stuff. I believe Inmai belongs to the former, it will get deeper into the skin of the people and mess with them.  Siddarth: It is a psychological thriller piece, yes. When we picked the rasas , I actually told them I didn’t want shringara (love) or bhaya (fear), but I ended up doing the latter. These are the two most manipulative rasas . But I do believe that by the time you finish watching Inmai , you will understand why we picked this emotion, and why fear is the main thing that drives this film. Which other segment in Navarasa are you most excited about and why?  Parvathy: I am definitely intrigued by all of them, but I really want to see how bheebhalsa (disgust) has panned out and been represented in the anthology. I can’t get my mind around how that rasa can be saturated into a story and events.  Siddarth: Raudra (anger) is something I am rooting for, as it is Arvind Swami’s directorial debut, and he is a fantastic thinker both on and off the set. Not only is he a dear friend, but his film also has some spectacular technical talent. Siddharth, as someone who has worked with both Mani Ratnam and Jayendra, was this a reunion of sorts? I always say that Jayendra sir is my mentor and Mani Ratnam sir is my guru . When Navarasa came my way, I understood it would be a tough job for everyone, but it would be the toughest for me since it is very difficult to get compliments from both these gentlemen. It was a homecoming for me! I always count my achievements based on where I came from 20 years ago. So this is indeed a special project. Navarasa will stream on Netflix from August 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/straight-from-the-heart/article35618971.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Dancing Rose and the special moves||It is 16-odd mins into Sarpatta Parambarai that we see Dancing Rose for the first time. A man with a peculiar gait and a lone curl plastered on his forehead, he is unmissable. Many minutes later, he catapults into the boxing ring with multiple flips and cartwheels to face Kabilan (played by Arya) and we instantly know we are in for a treat. Dancing Rose, oozing with confidence, grooves through the ring, teases his opponent, breaks into a wave and steals the show. What ensues after is being hailed as the best fight sequence in the recently-released Amazon Prime sports drama directed by Pa Ranjith, as the hashtag #DancingRose trends on Twitter. Some even wanted a standalone movie on Dancing Rose. But who is this artiste? Chennai-based actor and theatre practitioner Shabeer Kallarakkal chuckles through the interview; he is still taking it all in. It has been overwhelming, he adds. Shabeer made his debut as the lead with Nerungi Vaa Muthamidathe (2014) and has since been seen in supporting characters in movies such as Adanga Maru , Petta and Teddy . He has also been active in theatre since 2009. Shabeer never sat down, even once, while filming the much-talked about boxing sequence between Dancing Rose and Kabilan. He recalls, “All that you see in the ring was what happened that day during the shoot... it wasn’t rehearsed. Of course, the boxing skills were something I learned but the style wasn’t rehearsed. I knew I had to be Dancing Rose and it worked! Maybe now if I do it again, it might be a different version.” It is the character that essentially translated to his physicality, he adds. “This character is surging with confidence. He has never lost a bout, he is retired... he is in that space. And, when he comes back, it is to just chill,” laughs the actor, who has been learning kaaladi kuthu varasai, a mix of silambam , kickboxing and muay thai. Pa Ranjith was particular about each of the actors’ boxing styles, giving them a reference point. Arya’s Kabilan was modelled after Muhammad Ali and Vembuli (played by John Kokken) was an ode to Mike Tyson. Dancing Rose was inspired from UK-based boxer Naseem Hameed, known for his fluidic movements that almost mimic a dance form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dancing-rose-and-the-special-moves/article35618972.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A voice for the voiceless||The Tails of Boo-Boo & Cuddly Poo, a documentary on community cats and dogs, is laced with humour, style, colour and loads of the ‘aww’ factor. Shot by filmmaker Salil Jason Fernandez — who has worked on Khauff (2015) and The Mole (2008) — and Vandana Sethhi, founder of Water Communications and Earth Films, the film features actors Shraddha Kapoor, Jim Sarbh, Amrita Puri and Samir Kochhar, VJ Maria Goretti, musician Anushka Manchanda, musician-actor Shibani Dandekar, comedians Cyrus Broacha and Atul Khatri, hairstylist Sapna Bhavnani, author Shaheen Bhatt, and influencer Scherezade Shroff. They come together to give the world a message: ‘adopt, not shop’. Through the film, the makers want to show the plight of community animals with a focus on cruelty, abandonment, rescue and love. Salil Jason says it is a documentary that deals with animal cruelty. He explains, “We have made sure to make it appealing...I wanted to make a documentary that is stylish without losing the real essence for which the movie was conceptualised.” Shot entirely during the lockdown, the documentary involved 30 organisations including World For All (WFA), In Defense of Animals (IDA), Youth Organisation in Defense of Animals (YODA), Welfare of Stray Dogs (WSD), Bombay Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (BSPCA) and Thane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (TSPCA). Actor Jim Sarbh says, “My life changed when Mimi walked into it; she’s been my reason for sanity during the lockdown. I think everyone should adopt an animal, give them love and a home, for the love you get back is manifold.” Having worked for many years with rescue organisations Salil says,“We would like to think ours is a first-of-its-kind documentary narrative with a unique approach that blends non-fiction with elements of fiction. The universal message of the documentary is about embracing these dogs and cats.” A collaborative message The documentary is currently travelling the international film festival circuit and is likely to appeal to millennials. “Millennials are different. Their thought process is influenced in a positive way with a lot of good content they get to see on social media. It is not always about taking a stray animal home. If that is not possible, feed them, educate the society about tolerance and sterilisation,” says Vandana Sethhi. Says Shraddha Kapoor, “I loved being part of the documentary and hope this brings awareness to the plight of community animals, especially since the monsoons are ongoing. Shylo is such an integral part of my life and I can’t imagine my life without him. I would want everyone to have that happiness.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-voice-for-the-voiceless/article35618973.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A legless thief?||Samesh was brushing his teeth in the courtyard when his father called him. “Quick! I need you to see this!” yelled Papa. “Coming!” replied Samesh, as he plonked his toothbrush into the stand, and splashed some water on his face. Behind him, Dadaji sprang up from the cot and, lifting up his walking stick, followed Samesh outside. “What’s the matter, Papa?” asked Samesh, seeing his father crouched on his knees, his face few inches off the ground. “I can’t find seven chickens,” exclaimed Papa, plucking at his beard, his eyebrows creased. “Why are you searching in the mud?” gasped Dadaji. They’re chickens, not worms!” Papa didn’t like being rebuked before Samesh, but he had bigger problems on his mind than to protest. “Look!” Papa pointed to a trail made in the mud. Samesh’s eyes widened. “No legs!” he gasped. A lump formed in his throat and his eyes grew wider and wider, as he followed the trail that led to the backyard of their house and disappeared into a small pond. Running back to his father and grandfather, Samesh asked, “Do we have crocodiles in our pond?” “Nonsense!” snapped Dadaji, prodding the trail with his walking stick. “This isn’t a trail left by a crocodile.” “You’re destroying the evidence,” grunted Samesh. “I need to look at this closer if I’m to find the legless thief!” “All right...all right...” Dadaji turned around and trotted off. “I hope our little detective can catch the thief before all our chickens disappear.” Unsolved case “Not coming to school today, Samesh?” called Binita, his classmate, who was on her way to school and noticed Samesh standing in front of the pond, scratching his head. He was not dressed for school. “I have a case to solve,” replied Samesh. “Do you see this?” He pointed to the prints in the soft mud. “What do you think this is?” “That trail in the mud?” she twirled her braid, and rolled her eyes contemplatively. “It’s as if a log has been dragged.” “Log!” squawked Samesh. “Logs don’t steal chickens!” Then he told her about the case. “Someone who doesn’t have legs,” explained Samesh. “See, these aren’t footprints. Just one long trail.” Hanging her school bag on the branch of a mahua tree nearby, Binita bent over and looked closely. “Why don’t we set a trap for the thief?” she suggested. “And catch this legless chicken thief once and for all!” “Good idea,” agreed Samesh. “But what will we use as bait?” “That’s easy!” exclaimed Binita, plucking her school bag off the branch. “A chicken. My Baba has a trap from the days he used to be a hunter. After school, I’ll come and show you how it’s used.”  To be continued...   “I hope our little detective can catch the thief before all our chickens disappear.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-legless-thief/article35619262.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The Castle in the House Night watch||Story so far:Shalu knows she’ll lose her brother once he gets his phone back. Can she do anything to stop this?  The noise burst on Amma the minute she opened the door. She hurried to the playroom and found the children there. “What happened?” she asked. Both burst into speech, eager to tell her. They had come home to find that someone had broken the castle. “But who did it?” Amma asked, quite bewildered. “Ghosts!” “Nonsense,” Amma snapped. “Ghosts don’t sneak into houses to destroy children’s toys!” “Then who broke the castle?” Samit demanded. “It was in the playroom all night and today it’s broken. The only person who can creep into a locked house is...” “Nitin?” Amma guessed. “Ghosts!” Samit corrected her. But Amma would not accept that. “The castle must have fallen over and broken,” she suggested. Papa agreed with her. To catch a ghost Later, out of hearing of their parents, he told Shalu, “I don’t care what they say. A ghost did this and we are going to catch it! We’ll sit up tonight and watch for it.” Shalu stared in astonishment at her brother. How were they going to catch a ghost? She could not concentrate on her homework because her mind kept replaying the astonishing plan Samit had made. She was certain she would never be able to fall asleep. To her surprise, she did manage to drop off. When Samit shook her awake, she was confused. Why was her brother waking her up in the middle of the night? Then he hissed, “Come on, we have a ghost to catch!” and she was suddenly awake. They sat in the dark playroom, saying nothing. A faint light came in through the window, showing them the outlines of the tiny walls of the castle. Samit had worked furiously at it all evening. At that time, Shalu had thought it was because he was angry. But now he whispered, “Now we’ll know when the ghost comes to destroy our castle!” Shalu felt a thrill of pleasure to hear Samit say “our castle!” But what would happen once the castle was built? Would Samit remember all the fun he had had with her? He would probably go back to spending hours on his phone. For a minute she was sad. Then she remembered that she was awake in the middle of the night, hiding out in the playroom, waiting to catch a ghost. And the best part was that she was with Samit! “What an adventure!” she breathed and Samit nodded. They settled down to catch the ghost who had destroyed their lovely castle.  To be continued...   I don’t care what they say. A ghost did this and we are going to catch it!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-castle-in-the-house-night-watch/article35619232.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Eye of the tiger||Uncle Dash was coming to dinner and our excitement knew no bounds. He was a great one for stories that took us on thrilling and terrifying adventures. After dinner, he told us of his early days as an assistant manager in an estate in the Nilgiris. “It’s not like what you see today. Big houses, tarred roads and street lights. Those days, it was just a mud road that ran through thick, shola forests. If there was a full moon, the pathway would be lit up; otherwise, it was just you and your senses. This was one of the reasons people did not like to walk around at night.” “What was the other reason?” asked my brother. A smile played on Uncle Dash’s lips. “The eyes!” “Eyes?” we echoed. He whispered, “Yes. Eyes.” He sighed deeply and continued. It was during the days of the Raj. A senior manager, McAllister, was visiting the estate and asked his assistant manager, Aindreas to “make the necessary arrangements” meaning, organise a hunt. As luck would have it, there had been reports of a man-eater in the area. The day of the inspection arrived. Aindreas and McAllister were busy with estate work all day. The sun was setting when they got home. McAllister was now ready to go on his ‘shikar’. Aindreas summoned the guide and porters. It was dark when they set out. The guide followed the scents and markings and whatever else. Quietly, without making a sound, they walked n single file. In the silence of the night, they could hear the forest breathe. A twig snapped; they jumped. So taut were their nerves. An hour later, the guide raised his hand, calling a halt. They were in a dense part of the forest now and the foliage prevented even moonlight from coming through. They were to take cover and wait, as the man-eater would come by soon. The guide and porters melted into the darkness. Aindreas climbed a tree and made himself comfortable. He did not know where McAllister hid. Bagged it Aindreas must have dozed off for he was woken up by a low growl, quickly followed by grunting noises, rustling of leaves and a gunshot. In the silence that followed he heard a voice say, “By Jove! I’ve done it!” He scrambled down and the guide and porters appeared. They lit torches and, to their utter amazement, they found themselves looking down at the carcass of a fine specimen of tiger. McAllister insisted the carcass be placed in his room to ensure the safety of his trophy. He was taking the skin back with him, after having it cured and treated. The next morning, Aindreas was at breakfast, when he heard heavy breathing. He turned around to see McAllister creeping up to the dining table. He noticed that McAllister’s eyes had a strange gleam and seemed discoloured. The man ate his breakfast with noisy relish, slurped his tea, and even rubbed his nose on the back of his hand. Finally, he smacked his lips and, with a low growl, got up. Aindreas was puzzled. All through the day, McAllister leapt around, smacked his lips, rolled his eyes and grunted. Aindreas was worried and nervous. In the night Heading back in the evening, he sensed an underlying excitement in McAllister. He hastened his steps and, when he reached the bungalow, excused himself and locked himself in his room. He couldn’t take any more of McAllister. When his bearer, Ramu called him for dinner, he made his excuses and send a note of apology to McAllister. In bed, he tried to read a book but the day’s events filled his mind. He tossed and turned and every little sound startled him. He sighed and turned off the light. It was a still night. Not a leaf stirred. Suddenly, an owl hooted nearby and a shrill scream pierced the darkness. Aindreas jumped out of bed, grabbed his gun and ran out. He heard another scream. He ran towards the voice almost colliding with Ramu. “Run sir, run!” shouted Ramu. Aindreas stood, mesmerised at the sight of two glowing, amber eyes approaching them. Ramu tugged his hand and dragged him off. They got into the house, bolted the door and then peered through the window. The yellow eyes were close now and, as it came into the circle of the porch light, they saw… McAllister. He was on all fours, growling and sniffing the night air. McAllister did not appear the next morning. His bed had not been slept in. The tiger carcass had disappeared. The next day, Ramu told Aindreas that the estate supervisor was missing. They found shreds of his clothing at the periphery of the forest. The following day, Aindreas heard that a tea plucker had disappeared. Reports of more missing people trickled in. People did not step out after sunset. For, if they did, they said, the glowing amber eyes would get them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/eye-of-the-tiger/article35619241.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s all in the shape||The story so far:Megnath learns the secrets behind Lord Vishnu’s weapons.  While Megnath is mastering rocket technology, Hanuman is still a playful, curious kid. One day, he sees Ravana’s Pushpaka Vimana being flown by Kumbhakarna. He runs to his father, Kesari.  Hanuman: Dad, did you see that? A monster in the Pushpaka Vimana cockpit.  Kesari: That’s Ravana’s brother, Kumbhakarna.  Hanuman: But I hear that he’s always asleep.  Kesari: Well, he performed penances to please Brahma. But a scared Indra requested Saraswati to help. So, instead of asking of Nirdevatam (annihilation of devas), due to Saraswati’s spell, he asked for Nidravatam (sleep).  Hanuman: That isn’t fair!  Kesari: Sometimes, to win over evil, the gods have to intervene in such ways.  Hanuman: I don’t agree. Anyway, I want to know how the Pushpaka Vimana carries such a heavy load.  Kesari: First, you need to understand how an aircraft flies. Talk to your friend Nala. Aah! here he is. Nala, your friend wants to know how an aircraft carries a heavy load and still manages to fly.  Nala: Very simple, uncle. It is to do with: high-speed low-pressure, low-speed high-pressure.  Hanuman: Simple? I do not understand.  Nala: In Kali Yuga, they call it Bernoulli’s Principle . According to this, every aeroplane that flies in the troposphere uses pressure difference to generate lift. Being heavy or light doesn’t matter; if you are able create this pressure difference with a proper aerodynamic shape, you can generate lift.  Hanuman: This is also too technical. I still don’t get it.  Nala: Let me simplify it. 1. Take a hair dryer, aim it towards the ceiling and turn it on. It produces a vertical stream of air. 2. Now place a ping-pong ball directly over the nozzle, in the stream of air. The ball will appear to be floating in the air. Why? Here is another example. 1.Inflate two balloons and tie each end with a 30 cm-long string. 2.Tape the loose end of the two strings to the underside of a table, a window or to a door frame, such that the balloons dangle upside down. They should be around 5cm apart. 3.Take a straw and blow forcefully between the balloons. Can you see what happens? The balloons will come together when you blow between them instead of moving away. This is because pressure between the balloons reduces due to high speed of air. And the relatively higher pressure around them push the balloons closer.  Hanuman: But an aeroplane is different from a ball or balloon.  Nala: Both these examples use spherical or oval objects. For aircrafts, we use a shape called Aerofoil.  Hanuman: What?  Nala: It is like an inverted fish with a curvy top and a flat bottom. Look at birds’ wings, or the wings of an aeroplane. The aerofoil shape forces air to move faster over the top. When speed increases, the pressure decreases, according to Bernoulli’s Principle. In the flat bottom part, the speed of air molecules is slower so pressure is higher. So the shape increases the lift for the aeroplane owing to the higher pressure at the bottom.  Hanuman: Now I get it! The aerodynamic shape is responsible for flight, and that mainly works on pressure difference.  Nala: Yes. Now, that’s enough science for today. Come, let’s practise with our gada (mace) .   The author is founder and CEO, Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   The aerodynamic shape is responsible for flight, and that mainly works on pressure difference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/its-all-in-the-shape/article35619267.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Living the dream||We’ve had a few funny incidents here. Hari (Srihari Nataraj) and I wanted a photo on the first day. Everyone here is among the top athletes in the world but the masks make it tough to identify them. We asked one of the girls at the pool if she could take a photo of us. She took some nice pictures and even gave us ideas on how to pose. Then when she took off her mask, we realised that she was Yulia Efimova!  (Efimova is a six-time world champion who won two silvers at the 2016 Rio Games.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/living-the-dream/article35619278.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Fruit salad||ACROSS  1. ____ fruit: shares its name with a mythical beast (6) 4. ____apple, also known as ananas (4) 5. Also known as chikoo (6) 6. Encloses peas (3) 7. Raisins, dates, prunes are ___ fruits (3) 8. Goes on top of the cake (6) 10. ____melon: Green outside, red inside (5) 13. Skin of a fruit (4) 14. Alphonso is a variety of this fruit (5) 15. This primate loves bananas (3)  DOWN  1. Honey___: a type of melon (3) 2. Grows in clusters on a vine (5) 3. Fruits are great in a ____-calorie diet (4) 4. The name of this fruit is also its colour (5) 5. ____berry: juicy red fruit with seeds outside (5) 6. The colour of jamun fruit (6) 8. Central part of an apple, contains seeds (4) 9. The colour of lemon (6) 11. A sharp zesty taste (4) 12. Fruit pulp preserve to spread on bread (3) 13. Small seed in a fruit (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/fruit-salad/article35619244.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||What is silverfish? Where does it come from?  The namecomes from the shiny silver scales that cover the body of this wingless insect, which is also shaped like a fish. The female lays tiny, white eggs that are one millimetre long in small nooks, cracks, or crannies. Depending on the environmental conditions of the place the eggs are laid in, they may hatch within a few weeks or take some months. Silverfish are usually found in damp areas with high humidity like basements, bathrooms, and drawers of cupboards that haven’t been opened for a long time.    What wasthe first video game?  In October1958, physicist William Higinbotham created what is thought to be the first video game — a simple tennis game similar to the 1970s Pong. But the true video game was invented only in 1967, when Ralph H. Baer, an engineer, created the first prototype of what would go on to become the Magnavox Odyssey, the first video game console in the world. Baer is, in fact, often known as the “Father of Video Games”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article35619227.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article35619223.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article35619258.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||All about adavus||For a beginner, adavus are the most boring part of Bharatanatyam. The drudgery of repetition can have a robotic effect. Leela Samson’s ‘Aesthetics in the Adavu’ for the Indian Performing Arts Convention Australia 2021, earlier known as Dance India Asia Pacific, broke these stereotypes to throw new light on the humble adavu. IPAC 21, a digital version of the 10th annual festival, was curated by Aravinth Kumarasamy, artistic director, Apsaras Arts, Singapore, in collaboration with Monash University and Academy of Indian Music, Australia, along with creative collaborator, Aalaap. Leela may reflect her alma mater, Kalakshetra, in the precision of her nritta, but her session drew on her experience in engaging with adavus, making it a practical, learning session. Besides, she is the creator of Spanda Dance Company, whose calling card is perfect nritta. Deconstructions Leela’s primary concern is posture. Referring to the importance of mandalas (standing postures), Leela demonstrated the aayata (aramandi) and a perfect natyarambe (natyarambam), the defining postures in Bharatanatyam. Of course, good posture is not enough. Flawless execution requires ‘deconstruction’ of adavus step by step, where you study each component and analyse how it can be refined. There can be no shortcuts as individual abilities differ. “No adavu comes on its own,” said Leela. “And no step in a korvai can be ignored.” We may not finish a step because of the speed of the korvai or because of the demands of the next step. Breaking it up bit by bit will help understand how best a step can be executed within the constraints, perhaps choosing to bend deeper instead of turning too much to the back, as in the theermana adavu, ‘Kitathaka tharikitathom’. Leela and Bhavajan Kumar demonstrated a few adavus, with real-time analysis of the body position, torso, arm and head positions through each movement. You need a mirror or a volunteer to record your jathis. It is not easy and requires patience. “You need to work on that line again and again until you come to an optimal position. Like a wave repeatedly crashing on the beach,” said Leela. They took up a Nattadavu, a ‘Thaa thai thai tha’ adavu, a brahmari, pirouette, a ‘Tha thai tham’ adavu, and the theermana adavus. Little details such as keeping the stretched leg closer to the body for a neater Ekapada brahmari, and the old-world charm of the Swastika mandala in ‘tha thai tham’ were discussed. “Bani is of no consequence, there is beauty everywhere,” said Leela. The involvement of the torso and the regulation of breath are additional criteria for good nritta. It calls for a strong core, as you need to use the trunk to move the arms. Practising adavus without the arm movement to isolate the trunk was a good suggestion. Though all suggestions sounded like common sense, how common is it? For example, did you realise that the practice of moving in front during a jathi was to finish it more effectively? The little things Leela went beyond her brief to speak on aesthetics in performance. Quoting from Abhinaya Darpana , Leela spoke of stage cleanliness, stage arrangements, and curtains, factors that dancers may or may not be able to control. Then the choice of repertoire, which should be varied in music, laya and mood. She decried the practice of using bad quality pre-recorded music from the Internet, urging dancers to at least use simple home recordings. The dancer suggested giving thought to an appropriate colour palette and costume design for a good stage presence, something mentioned also in the Natya Shastra . “The body is the brush you paint with,” she said, asking dance students to look after their body and emotions. The concept of aesthetics changes when it is a digital space. Make-up does not have to be heavy nor expressions overdone. Worthy suggestions all, which dancers would do well to implement at least some.  The Chennai-based writer focuses on classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/all-about-adavus/article35618515.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Young brigade from the west||Despite being headless (there has been no chairman or governing committee for over 16 months), Sangeet Natak Akademi recently held a four-day Young Musicians Festival, featuring artistes from the western part of the country. It was a pleasure to see a showcase of fine talents. Opening proceedings with a presentation of the rare raag Dhani, Aarti Thakur Kundalkar of the Kirana gharana impressed with her confidence. It was interesting to note she is a music teacher too, as was Manas Kumar on the violin, who played next. Manas is a well-known musician from Mumbai, and his Jhinjhoti was, expectedly, without blemish. The third singer, Sachin Arjun Teli, from Goa exhibited his impeccable training with the rendition of raag Kedara. The next performer was sitarist Mehtab Ali Niazi of the vocal Bhendi Bazar gharana; he is now also learning from veteran vocalist Pt. Sajan Mishra. With online concerts that are recorded earlier, the organisers cannot always ensure adherence to the time theory of raags; Mehtab presented the early evening Shudha Kalyan, which ideally should have been heard after raag Dhani. Mehtab wowed with smooth strokes, refined rendering and tayyari ; interestingly, he ended with a dhrut jhala played in Ek taal (usually instrumentalists shift to Teen taal in the dhrut laya as they are more rehearsed in it). The final performance was Ajinkya Joshi’s tabla solo. A disciple of Pt. Suresh Talwalkar, he displayed power and dexterity. Competent renditions The second day started with Goa’s Sonik Velingkar on the flute playing raag Marwa. Trained in the Maihar tradition of Pt. Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Sonik also teaches music in Goa. Rutuja Lad, currently a disciple of Jaipur gharana exponent Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, sang raag Nand. Imdadkhani gharana sitarist Shakir Khan presented raag Sham Kalyan with his usual flourish. Rajkot-based young vocalist Kauser Haji, again a disciple of vidushi Ashwini Bhide, presented Raga Jog with competence; one looks forward to hearing her more often. The concluding recital was by Goa’s Dattaraj Surlekar on the harmonium playing Rageshwari. The third day had Mumbai-based Hrishikesh Mazumdar playing a soulful raag Puriya on the flute. There were also two vocalists — Jui Dhaygude Pande, learning from Arun Dravid of Jaipur gharana, and Mughda Gaonkar, disciple of Mewati gharana’s Pt. Sanjeev Abhyankar. The highlights were the sarod recital by the talented Abhishek Borkar of the Maihar gharana, who played Hemant, a raag created by the gharana’s founder Ustad Allaudin Khan; and Solapur’s Hrishikesh Survase’s tabla solo. He played in Jhaptaal, his crisp strokes, accompanied by both harmonium and flute, adding a pleasant element of novelty. The concluding day started with Solapur’s Gorakhnath Jadhav playing the sundari, an instrument that is a smaller version of the shehnai, invented by the Jadhav family around 90 years ago. Both instruments are slowly becoming confined to auspicious occasions only, so the inclusion in this festival was welcome. The dazzling young vocalist Mohammed Aman from Jaipur sang raag Bihag. The controlled speed, intricacy and weight of his dhrut taans enthralled. His beautifully honed baritone exhibits a good degree of riyaaz , which augurs well for his future. The inclusion of S. Jayanth from Chennai on the flute in the Carnatic tradition was unexpected, but definitely welcome. The Gwalior gharana vocalist Sanika Goregaonkar creditably expanded the limited raag Malgunji. Picking the best Rampur Sahaswan gharana doyen Ustad Nissar Hussain Khan’s grandson Ghulam Niyaz Khan presented the final concert in raag Yaman. His singing had the stamp of the gharana. With short 30-40 minute slots, the artistes had to choose their songs carefully. This too is a much-needed attribute in a performer. Suhyog Kundalkar, Tejovrush Joshi, Milind Kulkarni, Swapnil Bhise were some of the high calibre accompanists, which added to the overall enjoyment of the concerts. However, one felt it was not fair to present relative novices immediately after seasoned artistes. The tradition of presenting senior artistes towards the end is a more practical arrangement. Additionally, one could not help but notice that given the time constraint, all the instrumentalists chose to present a truncated auchar rather than full aalap and went straight to the composition. While in the flute, harmonium and violin, this is understandable, as these instruments follow the vocal tradition and don’t have a specific baaj, with the sitar and sarod, it’s the traditional presentation format that showcases this important aspect. Sadly, this seems to be the trend now. SNA needs to be credited for carefully selecting young artistes who are not heard often, in addition to rising stars, and also for including different musical styles. One looks forward to festivals of young artistes from the North, South and East too.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindusthani music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/young-brigade-from-the-west/article35618522.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The sound of the 70s||The day of Sarpatta Parambarai ’s release, Santhosh Narayanan received calls from people saying that they never realised that the movie had a background score running throughout. “That, to any technician, is the biggest compliment,” says Santhosh Narayanan, seated in his home studio in Chennai. “A film should absorb you so much that all you can see is the performance of the artiste — not the music, not the way the camera is moving, not the artwork used.”  Sarpatta Parambarai is Santhosh’s fourth movie of 2021, after Parris Jayaraj , Jagame Thanthiram and Karnan , and he has four more yet to be released. “Three of them were delivered to me in one week, so it helped that all of them were completely different universes,” he says, explaining how the first step is always to figure out the “sound palette” of the film. For Sarpatta , it was all about staying authentic to the 70s sound. Instead of echoing film music from that era, which he thought would sound too derivative, he focussed on choosing instruments specific to that time. “The instruments then used skin, which nowadays is being replaced by fibre. So I met veteran gaana musicians such as Rev Ravi and Gana Bala, who still had access to those instruments,” says Santhosh. If the gaana music was ambient and soulful in Karnan , it had to be rousing in Sarpatta , and for this, he tried for the first time to mix Tamil folk and brass instruments. “ Black Panther was an influence for me; it showed me how African instruments could be so seamlessly fused with a big orchestra,” he says. Musical mix But the main anthem of the movie, ‘Neeye Oli’, appears only in the end-credits scenes. Santhosh roped in Canadian Tamil rappers Shan Vincent De Paul and Navz for it. “I first noticed Shan rapping to the beats of a mridangam at a music festival in 2020, and was blown away,” he says. The two reconnected after Santhosh’s daughter Dhee and rapper Arivu released the massive hit, ‘Enjoy Enjaami’, under A.R. Rahman’s platform Maajja, of which Shan too is a part. ‘Neeye Oli’ is the third song under the platform. Says Shan, “Santhosh told me about Kabilan’s (played by Arya) story of perseverance and how the character had to restart his career. And I felt like that has been my story too, in terms of the trajectory my music career has followed. I have had to reset a bunch of times.” Commercial success came late to Shan, well into his 30s. He started out as part of different rap groups, then as part of a duo, before going solo in 2016. Shan’s music now is often about bridging cultural worlds with Tamil identity at its core. In his recent rap ‘Savage’, he collaborates with Usha Jey, a Bharatanatyam dancer. Working with such fresh voices has been a defining part of Santhosh’s career, and he promises that he will continue to do so. “Over the past few years, I’ve been thinking that I need to keep my independent voice as an artiste. You aren’t in business every second of your life, though you are still creating,” he says. Before Santhosh’s first movie, Attakathi , in 2012 — incidentally also with Pa Ranjith — he was in a band called La Pongal, with Sean Roldan and Pradeep Kumar, who have gone on to become formidable composers. Santhosh says he is looking forward to posting some of the band’s unreleased work from their 10 years in cinema. “There’s also one album that I found on an old hard drive. It never saw the light of the day, but I want to release it on my YouTube channel at some point.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-sound-of-the-70s/article35618507.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Torchbearer of the Rajamanickam Pillai style||“To send light into the darkness of men’s hearts – such is the duty of the artist,” said renowned German composer Robert Schumann. Sikkil R. Bhaskaran was such an artiste . Born on May 4, 1936 into a family traditionally involved in music, he passed away on July 20. It was his maternal grandfather Sikkil Ramaswami Pillai who initiated him into the world of music. Bhaskaran’s first guru was Tiruvarur Subbaiyer. He then trained under Mayavaram Govindaraja Pillai and had his advanced training under the doyen Kumbakonam Rajamanickam Pillai, living in his gurukul . Accompanying stalwarts Bhaskaran’s first public performance was at the age of 15 and then there was no looking back. He accompanied stalwarts from three generations, beginning with Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagvathar, and flute Mali. He played on All India Radio, Chennai, for 18 years. He was an executive committee member of the Tiruvaiyaru Tyaga Brahma festival for two decades. Two concerts among the many that Bhaskaran has performed are worth mentioning. One was in 2004, when he was accompanying the then young vocalist T.V. Ramprasad. “Veteran Sikkil Bhaskaran excelled in subtle phrasings in the alapanas and gave solid support to the rising vidwan,” wrote K. Sundararajan in The Hindu . In another review of a 2001 concert by Sanjay Subrahmanyan, the same critic wrote: “Whether in alapana or swaras, he hit the target perfectly. Sankarabharanam, Kedaragowla, Bilahari and Anandabhairavi sparkled.” Sikkil Bhaskaran was the recipient of several awards including the Pappa Venkataramayya award from the Madras Music Academy and Violin Isai Chelvam award from Chennai Mutthamizh Peravai. He was the asthana vidwan of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam. Apart from his musical skills, his pleasing manners made him a popular accompanist. He enjoyed encouraging young artistes. Bhaskaran and Thanjavur Upendran accompanied young Mandolin Shrinivas for many years. In fact, Bhaskaran is said to have guided him on the nuances of niraval and swaraprasthara. A traditionalist, he was a torchbearer of the Kumbakonam Rajamanickam Pillai style, whose music had the grace and refinement of his guru. Commanding a huge repertoire, his raga essays were brilliantly structured. His demise is a loss to the world of Carnatic music.  The Chennai-based writer   specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/torchbearer-of-the-rajamanickam-pillai-style/article35618512.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Special Navarasa event||Natanakairali celebrates Koodiyattam exponent Venu G’s 60th Navarasa Sadhana workshop with a series of special programmes. The event ‘Navarasa Vajra Mudra’, dedicated to Karthika Thirunal Balarama Varma, Maharaja of Travancore, will be hosted on Zoom on August 1, 6.30 p.m. With an introduction by Venu, the event’s inaugural lecture will be delivered by Anuradha Kapur, former director, National School of Drama, New Delhi. The evening programme includes lectures by dancer Sreelatha Vinod, choreographer Emma Jaster, and theatre director Shebana Coelho, plus special performances by Archana Bhat, Janane Sethunarayanan and Reddi Lakshmi. For links and details, email abhinayakairali@gmail.com by August 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/special-navarasa-event/article35618527.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Research initiative for performing arts||Shreya Nagarajan Singh, founder, SNS Arts Development Consultancy, and Priya Murle, senior Bharatanatyam dancer, have jointly created ‘Parivartan,’ an initiative for the performing arts. Conceived and led by Shreya, it aims to stimulate research between the arts and allied fields like engineering, technology, architecture, science, mathematics and medicine. ‘Parivartan’ is also a platform that creates innovative ways to make arts more accessible and relevant for scholars and practitioners. Those interested can apply for the Parivartan grant 2021-22 before August 8. For more information, call +917358777797 or email parivartan.research@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/research-initiative-for-performing-arts/article35618529.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Pallavi Darbar’s four-day virtual series||Pallavi Darbar, a special series by Carnatica and Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha, will be conducted from July 30 to August 2 in hybrid format. The events, on July 30 and August 2, are open to a limited audience at Narada Gana Sabha Mini Hall. On July 30, there will be a concert by Palghat Ramprasad at 6 p.m., followed by K. Gayatri Prasanna at 7.30 p.m. ‘Pallavi Katha’, a discourse by B. Suchitra, will be at 9.15 p.m. The four-day line-up includes other concerts by eminent musicians as well as interactive sessions and a pallavi contest. The programme can be seen on the Facebook pages of IMPL2020 and Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha; as well as on IMPL’s YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/pallavi-darbars-four-day-virtual-series/article35618528.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Hybrid concert||Madhuradhwani will conduct a series of hybrid concerts at Arkay Convention Center. Open to a limited audience, the concerts can be caught on the Center’s Facebook page and YouTube channel. July 31, 6.15 p.m. Madhuradhwani and Anma Jothi will present Aswath Narayanan in concert, accompanied by Vittal Rangan (violin), Delhi Sairam (mridangam), and S. Krishna (ghatam). August 1 and 2, 5 p.m A three-hour concert by Navaneetha Krishnan (vocal) and Sruti Sagar (flute). August 5, 6.15 p.m. A discourse by Prof. M. Vaidyalingan on Silapadikaram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/hybrid-concert/article35618532.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Online veena and vocal concerts||Two online concerts by well-known musicians will be hosted by Naada Inbam this weekend on its parivadinimusic YouTube channel. July 30, 6.15 p.m.: Veena duet by veteran musician R.S. Jayalakshmi and C. Charulatha. The duo will be accompanied by J. Vaidhyanathan (mridangam) and S. Karthick (ghatam). July 31, 6.15 p.m.: Aishwarya Shankar (vocal) will be supported by R.K. Shriram Kumar (violin), Arunprakash (mridangam), and Guruprasad (ghatam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/online-veena-and-vocal-concerts/article35618525.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Constable, aide held for killing man, dumping body in canal||A police constable and his accomplice were arrested for allegedly beating a 28-year-old man to death after a verbal altercation in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar a month ago. The accused dumped his body in a canal in Uttar Pradesh. New Ashok Nagar Station House Officer has been suspended for delay in registering an FIR, said DCP (East) Priyanka Kashyap. The police said they have arrested constable Monu Sirohi, who was posted in Pandav Nagar police station and his accomplice Harish, a resident of Laxmi Nagar. The duo has been accused of kidnapping and murder. The victim — Ajeet Kumar from New Kundli — was a vegetable vendor, an officer said. Ms. Kashyap said a missing report of the victim was registered on June 13. A case of abduction under Sections 365 and 34 of the IPC was registered on July 27. The accused were arrested on Wednesday. Ajeet goes missing The victim’s relative, who didn’t wish to be identified, said Ajeet went missing on June 4. They started looking for him and thought he must have gone to a relative’s house. However, after not being able to locate him for days, they reported the matter to the police on June 13. “The investigating officer had told us that he would come and look into the CCTV footage of the area. But, he did not come. We continued to visit the police station and they kept ignoring us,” he said. The victim’s family said a video of the incident was recorded by a local. In the video, four persons can be seen thrashing two men. One of them managed to flee the spot. “We had also given the video to the police, but no action was taken,” he said. The accused were later identified as constable Monu, Vikas, Vineet and Harish. The victims were Ajeet and his friend Atul. On June 15, the family told the police that they suspect that Ajeet was abducted and killed. However, again, no action was taken. When the video reached senior officers, an FIR was registered under Section 365 and 34 of the IPC and it was found that Monu was absconding. He was arrested from Bulandshahr, sources said. During interrogation, he disclosed that on the night of the incident, he — in civil dress — was in his car with his three friends when they got involved in a fight with two passers-by — Ajeet and Atul. Both sides drunk Both sides were drunk at the time of the incident. The constable allegedly thrashed Ajeet to death, put his body in the car and dumped it in a waterbody in Uttar Pradesh. The police said sections of murder and criminal conspiracy, including other relevant sections, have been registered against the accused.  A video of the incident was recorded by a local. We had also given the video to the police, but no action was taken Victim’s relative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constable-aide-held-for-killing-man-dumping-body-in-canal/article35618740.ece
30 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Gurdwara panel steps down after row over CM’s visit||All members of the managing committee of the Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand have resigned amid allegations of violation of Sikh maryada (code of conduct) during Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s recent visit to the gurdwara. The Chief Minister had visited the gurdwara, earlier this week, where a programme to welcome him was organised by the managing committee. During the event a dance performance by children was held and the recitation of the ‘gurbani’ was also reportedly interrupted. Following the allegation, a three-member committee of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) — the body responsible for the management of Gurdwaras — was sent to investigate the incident to the Gurdwara Nanakmata on the directions of Akal Takht, the highest Sikh temporal seat. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The committee investigated the whole matter and recorded the statements of the management. As per the demand of the Sangat (congregation), the present management committee of Gurdwara Nanakmata Sahib has resigned,” said Ms. Kaur. She said, after the resignation by the incumbent management committee, a five-member executive committee has been constituted by the SGPC, which includes Jarnail Singh, Sukhdeep Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Jasbir Singh and Amarjeet Singh, to look after the management of Gurdwara Nanakmata Sahib till further orders. Ms. Kaur added that the enquiry team sent by the SGPC would soon submit its report to the Akal Takht and further action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurdwara-panel-steps-down-after-row-over-cms-visit/article35618737.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nurse arrested for thrashing 2-month-old boy in hospital||A nurse has been arrested on Thursday for allegedly thrashing a two-month-old boy in a hospital in Shahdara’s Vivek Vihar, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the accused has been identified as Somayya (24). During inquiry, it was revealed that she used to get drunk during the job. It is suspected that she was drunk on the night of the incident, police said. The victim’s father — Sabeeb (28) from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras — told the police that his wife delivered twins in May but one of their sons, Ahaan, fell sick on July 16. He then took Ahaan to a local hospital where the doctors asked him to take the baby to Delhi for better treatment. He then got his son admitted to Care New Born & Child Hospital in Vivek Vihar on July 18. The complainant said he was visiting the hospital daily. But on July 24, he received a call from the hospital that his son got injured. Mr. Sabeeb immediately reached the hospital and found that Ahsan’s hand was fractured and his face was swollen. ‘Hand fractured’ Mr. Sabeeb alleged that the doctor refused to tell how the incident happened and also threatened him with dire consequences if he approached the police. The complainant said he managed to watch the CCTV footage of the room where his son was admitted. CCTV footage In the footage, a nurse can be seen thrashing his son at around 4 a.m. on July 24, he alleged. Mr. Sabeeb then approached the police on July 27. An FIR was registered under Sections 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant Sections of Juvenile Justice Act on Wednesday night. Further investigation is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nurse-arrested-for-thrashing-2-month-old-boy-in-hospital/article35618747.ece
30 July 2021||July 30 2021 00:00 IST,||High Court seeks police response on bail petition by Tahir Hussain||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked Delhi Police to respond to a bail application by former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in a case arising out of the city’s north-east riots. Justice Mukta Gupta directed that the bail application be listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna, who is hearing bail applications moved by Mr. Hussain in other riots cases. Senior Advocate Mohit Mathur, appearing for Mr. Hussain, said apart from the FIR in question in the present case, other FIRs have also been registered against the accused by police station Dayalpur. Mr. Mathur urged that this bail application be also tagged along with the pleas already pending before Justice Khanna. The present FIR pertains to the alleged commission of offences of rioting and destruction of public property by Mr. Hussain in Dayalpur. The other two cases pertain to the injuries suffered by two people on account of a riotous mob pelting stones, throwing petrol bombs and firing gunshots from the terrace of Mr. Hussain’s house and allege commission of offences of attempt to murder and rioting, and violation of Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/high-court-seeks-police-response-on-bail-petition-by-tahir-hussain/article35618738.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital gets heavy rain||The Capital received heavy rain in several areas on Thursday with the Safdarjung — the official weather station of the city — recording 72 mm rainfall during the day. Most affected areas Waterlogging and traffic jams were reported from across the city, specially from areas in south Delhi. The maximum temperature settled at 27.6 degrees Celsius, which was seven degrees below normal and the minimum temperature 24 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal. Rain is likely to continue in the city with the IMD forecasting a “generally cloudy sky with moderate rain” on Friday with the maximum and minimum temperature hovering around 32 and 25 degrees Celsius. The IMD has forecast cloudy weather with light to moderate showers for the next four days in the Capital. Temperatures are also likely to be kept in check with the maximum hovering around 30 degrees Celsius. A bulletin issued by the IMD for the region said: “Current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab and Haryana till July 30 and reduction thereafter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-gets-heavy-rain/article35618744.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT dismisses petition against felling of trees for redevelopment project||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed a plea moved against the felling of trees — related to the redevelopment project of the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) colonies in the Capital. The green panel observed that the Delhi High Court had held that the project was an integral part of the GPRA redevelopment project. Noting that the petitioner had filed another plea on the same matter, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said a second petitioner on the same subject was not maintainable. The green panel also stated that while the High Court had dealt with the project in Nauroji Nagar, the said project was an integral part of the GPRA redevelopment project and was governed by the same considerations. “It is thus clear that the Tribunal has already taken the view that the matter having been dealt with by the Delhi High Court, any further order of the Tribunal will be in conflict with the same and is not permissible,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-dismisses-petition-against-felling-of-trees-for-redevelopment-project/article35618746.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Biker dies in road accident||A 19-year-old youth died after his bike collided with a bus in Dwarka, the police said on Thursday. The police said they received a PCR call on Wednesday at 10.30 p.m. regarding an accident on Samaspur Road. On reaching the spot, they found the bike and the bus but were informed that the injured was shifted to Rao Tula Ram Hospital. The victim — Rahul from Mitraun village — was declared brought dead. The police said the bus was in its lane when the bike collided with it. The bus driver is on the run. A case has been registered on charges of causing death by negligence and rash driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/biker-dies-in-road-accident/article35618741.ece
30 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Punjab govt. move on PPAs an eyewash’||Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Tuesday termed Congress government’s decision of ordering Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to cancel or revisit all the one-sided Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with private companies an ‘eyewash’ to fool people of State ahead of the Assembly poll. “If by writing a letter to the PSPCL, the power deals for Punjab could be cancelled or reviewed, then where the Congressmen were sleeping for the past four-and-a-half-years,” asked Mr. Cheema at a press conference here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-move-on-ppas-an-eyewash/article35618734.ece
30 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Widow to get pension benefits after 11 years||The Orissa High Court has directed the State government to pay post-retirement benefits to the widow of a teacher 11 years after his death. Prafulla Chandra Mohanty, who retired as a primary school teacher in Odisha’s Cuttack district in 1986, had moved court against the non-consideration of higher scale to which he was entitled, before his superannuation. Though he won the case in the High Court in 2004, the Odisha government went in appeal in the Supreme Court in 2008. As the court battle drew on, Mohanty died in 2010. The apex court dismissed the Special Leave Petition in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/widow-to-get-pension-benefits-after-11-years/article35618735.ece
30 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five held for molesting women in Hauz Khas||Five persons have been arrested for allegedly molesting a 30-year-old woman and her friends in south-west Delhi’s Hauz Khas village, the police said on Thursday. The incident took place on July 18 and a case was registered on July 21, they said. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused have been identified as Dinesh Ram from U.P., Ashish Shivhare, Vikas Shivhare, Naveen Shivhare, and Ankit Shivhare — all residents of Chattarpur in Madhya Pradesh. The incident happened when the accused were returning after visiting Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu and Kashmir. Their train to M.P. from Delhi was at 4 a.m. on July 19. Since they had time, the accused went to Hauz Khas village. The woman alleged that the accused passed lewd comments at them when they were waiting for a cab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-held-for-molesting-women-in-hauz-khas/article35618742.ece
30 July 2021||New Delhi,||Exorbitant fee: DoE to take over school administration||The Directorate of Education (DoE) on Thursday said it will take over the management of Bal Bharti School, Rohini, after getting a go-ahead from the Lieutenant-Governor. It said the Delhi government had issued orders several times to the school to withdraw the arbitrarily increased fees, but the school management did not to comply with the orders. It said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had approved the proposal of the DoE to take over the management of Bal Bharti School and the file sent to the L-G has been approved. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia assured parents that the Kejriwal government will not allow schools to increase fees arbitrarily. The DoE said it had conducted an in-depth inspection of the financial statements of Bal Bharti School and came to the conclusion that there is no need for the management to increase the fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/exorbitant-fee-doe-to-take-over-school-administration/article35618745.ece
