10-07-2020||Today's||Why Vikas Dubey killing marks a watershed in history of encounters||Much of the commentary surrounding the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey conflates two separate issues. The first is the whole business of encounters, in which policemen kill suspects in custody and then pretend that they were shot while being apprehended or while escaping.The second is the killing of Dubey and what it tells us about the state of law and order in India, the brazen nature of custodial deaths in today’s India and the nexus between politicians and gangsters.Of the two issues, the problem of so-called encounter killings has already been much discussed. No person who believes in the principles of the Indian Constitution can support murder by policemen. The Constitution provides for due process and protects the right of the citizen to be regarded as innocent till proven guilty.The problem is that the vast majority of middle class Indians, even if they don’t actively support encounters, are willing to turn a blind eye. Among politicians, bureaucrats and policemen, the proportion of those who strongly support encounters is even higher.The argument that used to be offered for the popularity of encounters focussed on the inadequacy of the legal system. Cases take years to come to trial. In the interim gangsters are given bail and resume their criminal activities. Even Dawood Ibrahim, it is often pointed out, was out on bail when he fled the country for Dubai.Moreover, most cases rely on witnesses. In India, the police lack the resources to protect witnesses so by the time the case comes to trial, the witnesses have been intimidated into changing their testimony. In many countries this would be seen as an argument for reforming the judicial system, or building more courts and speeding up trials. In India, however, this is seen as an argument for bypassing the judicial system entirely and letting policemen play judge, jury and executioner.As far back as the late 1960s, encounters were used to finish off the Naxalite movement. In the 1980s they were used during the Punjab insurgency. And it is now taken for granted that if there is an insurgency against the Indian state, the judicial system will be replaced by a policeman’s gun.The use of encounters in normal policing used to be controversial but it has gradually been accepted as a matter of course. In the 1980s the Mumbai police killed gangsters at will to free the city from the grip of the underworld. In many cities, police officers are earmarked for execution duties and even romanticised in popular media.In recent years public support for these killings has grown, partly as a result of encouragement on social media and on news TV. Anyone who raises doubts about the execution of a gangster is attacked for being on the side of the bad guys or for failing to support ‘our men in uniform’.The danger with this let’s-just-kill-them-all hysteria is that the police now have carte blanche in many states to kill who they like, when they like and how they like.If there is a case that arouses public anger, they don’t really need to find the culprit. It is easy enough to round up some random suspect and then declare that he was “killed while trying to escape”.Those of us who have questioned this pro-encounter frenzy have tried to point out that even those who regard encounters as pragmatic and expedient must worry about the effect they have on the police and therefore on law and order in general.The killing of Vikas Dubey in police custody vindicates every doubt and every reservation that has been expressed about our willingness to turn the police into executioners.From what the police themselves have told the media, Dubey was a gangster with political links and patronage and had ties to the police department. These ties allowed him to flourish for years and to ignore the many cases (for such offences as murder) that were registered against him.In early July, a police party that went to arrest him was ambushed and eight policemen lost their lives. The UP police said then that Dubey had been tipped off by one of its men.In the week that followed, the UP Police seemed strangely unable to apprehend him. Various Dubey associates were caught and killed (on grounds of “trying to escape from custody” etc.) Eventually, Dubey was arrested in Ujjain on Thursday. There is still some doubt about whether he was apprehended by the Madhya Pradesh police or whether he arranged to give himself up in a very public place to ensure that he was not shot “while trying to evade capture.”During the arrest process, he was eager to establish his identity, shouting his name out so that every bystander (many of whom were filming the arrest on their mobile phones) knew that he had been taken alive.Till that point, it had been widely speculated that the UP police would kill him because he knew far too much about the policemen he paid off and the politicians who had kept him in business.But once he was captured alive and on camera, that became difficult to do.Or did it?Because the UP police killed him anyway.They shot him while transporting him from Ujjain to Kanpur, offering the usual story that he had been shot while trying to escape.Journalists have pointed out many holes in the police version. The police claimed that the car Dubey was in had overturned. In fact, video footage shows that Dubey was in another car. More tellingly, there were journalists following the police convoy. They were stopped before the “encounter” so that they could not see what actually happened. One group of journalists had to hand over their car keys to the police after they were stopped.Besides, why would Dubey, who had gone to such lengths to ensure that he was taken alive in a public place, suddenly change his mind and attempt an escape thus providing the UP police with the perfect opportunity to kill him?None of this makes much sense. But what makes the least sense is this: how brazen do the UP police have to be to go ahead and kill a man who everyone said they would bump off?Their cock and bull story about the circumstances of the shooting is so weak that it suggests that they didn’t even bother to make up a convincing explanation. They were going to shut him up and didn’t care what anyone would say.We have now reached the situation that the legitimisation of encounters inevitably leads us to. The police can kill anybody, even when it is obvious that they have a clear motive: the man could divulge information that would harm the political and law enforcement establishments. And they can do it in the most brazen manner possible when everyone has already warned that they will bump him off.Excuses will be made. The usual questions will be asked: Who do you trust? A gangster or the police? Are you sorry that this loathsome character is no longer among us? And so on.But the killing of Dubey marks a watershed in the history of encounters in India. Till now, the debate was about the ethicality of encounters .Now, it has gone beyond that.The issue that matters is: have we become a country where politicians can patronise gangsters and then, when things get awkward, ask the police to bump them off even as the whole country is watching?The killing of Vikas Dubey suggests that the answer is a resounding yes.(The views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-vikas-dubey-killing-marks-a-watershed-in-history-of-encounters/story-cv7Qh3HBpYDZCoRtrnPf7I.html
10-07-2020||Today's||The monk is now a tough administrator | Opinion||The monk is now a tough administrator and his ‘measure for measure’ policy gets amplified as and when his personal or the government’s image is threatened.Highly conscious of his image that he has cultivated brick by brick in three years, his day starts with a meeting with senior officials of the information department. By then, he has read most of the prominent dailies.Perhaps Swami Chinmayanand , one of the architects of the temple movement, may have lots to share, whom many believed Yogi would bail out because of the saffron they wear.Though the opposition still accuses the government of going soft on Chinmayanand, the latter has much to complain about. Another former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who mustered some initial support in the administration, too, was abandoned to fight a legal battle.The fact remains Yogi will not compromise his government’s image. He will spare none; he will dump old associates without a wink of his eyelid if they are wrong. No doubt, many now dub him ruthless.Take for instance, the dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey. He couldn’t have grown his empire without political patronage.His pictures with political leaders, including a former chief minister and present ministers, had gone viral while the UP police were chasing him ever since he murdered eight cops.But the growing criticism of his government escalated the police action against Dubey. Yogi gave one week’s time to the state director general of police to nab him — dead or alive. The incident took place on July 3 last and Vikas Dubey surrendered on July 9.Obviously, he surrendered after all help from his resources and sources were snapped by the government– the friendly cops were suspended while others turned hostile, his close associates were gunned down. Eventually, he surrendered for his life, knowing Yogi won’t spare him now.The fact is on the eve of Dubey’s surrender, the chief minister was personally monitoring the actions on the ground, keeping in touch with his Madhya Pradesh counterpart. The state police, too, were collaborating with cops of four adjoining states.And now Yogi has relaunched his campaign against gangsters, demolishing the empires of Mukhtar Ansari, Atiq Ahmad in east UP and Sundar Bhatti and Sushil Moonch in west UP. In his last campaign against criminals, colloquially dubbed ‘thoko drive’, about 100 criminals were gunned down, all having rewards on their heads. Questions were raised on the encounters – fake or real.Dubey’s surrender before the expiry of the seven-day deadline, and on the day when the Prime Minister had a one-hour interaction with the NGOs of his constituency, won Yogi much appreciation for his administration in handling the Covid-19 pandemic.And this is not the first time. Earlier, also the Prime Minister had publicly lauded Yogi when he had said, “Whoever shows courage in crisis gets success. What you have done is an example for the world.” The Prime Minister had then compared UP’s 24 crore population, equal to four European countries, and the number of Covid deaths.While the opposition does not spare him for his alleged communal face or acts, he brazenly follows his ‘Hindutva agenda.’ He does not brook criticism — anti-CAA protestors are facing the music for ‘ damaging government property’ and some media personnel have been booked in cases.Although some BJP MLAs are also critical of him for not entertaining personal requests—he has turned down requests from union ministers too – Yogi has succeeded in demolishing ‘ power centres ’ in the party.However, when it comes to PMO or BJP leadership, he is all eyes and ears.Barely three years back, when Yogi had taken over as the chief minister of the most volatile state, people had raised eyebrows as he had no administrative experience, though he had been an MP for several terms till then.The opposition, as well as experts, had then quipped, “Running a math is different from running a state.” His saffron robes and his religious practices were discussed. But after three years in office, it is his 18-hour work schedule that has overshadowed everything.He performs duties of the monk before people wake up- at 4 am, followed by yoga. His fitness routine also has a brisk walk in the evening. No doubt, hard work has yielded dividends - among BJP chief ministers he is rated the best- and is a star campaigner in elections next to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-monk-is-now-a-tough-administrator-opinion/story-GQ1q11LfQX9S8B7kraFI0N.html
