01-09-2020||India||Allahabad HC quashes Kafeel Khan's detention, orders immediate release||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the AMU didn't promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. The bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh said the Aligarh district magistrate, who passed the order for Khan's detention, did a "selective reading" of his speech, "ignoring its true intent". The court allowed the writ petition filed by Khan's mother Nuzhat Parveen and said the detention order by the district magistrate is illegal. The petition argued that Khan was granted bail in February by a competent court and he was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and the National Security Act (NSA) was subsequently invoked against him. Hence, his detention was illegal. Khan has been in jail since January after he delivered the allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year. He is lodged in Mathura jail. Parveen, who left for Mathura soon after the court pronounced its order, said she is very happy that her son is coming out of jail and she will be able to see him after long. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hailed the court's decision and hoped the Uttar Pradesh government will immediately release Khan "without any malice". Quashing Khan's detention order, the court said, "A complete reading of the speech primafacie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. "It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent." The court further said in the instant case, the "causal link is found to be missing or completely broken". "In absence of any material indicating that the detainee continued to act in a manner prejudicial to public order from December 12, 2019 up to February 13, 2020, or that he committed any such other or further act as may have had that effect, the preventive detention order cannot be sustained," it said. "In fact, the grounds of detention are silent as to public order at Aligarh being at risk of any prejudice in February 2020 on account of the offending act attributed to the detainee on the date December 12, 2019," the court said in its order. "What remains is a mere apprehension expressed by the detaining authority without supporting material on which such apprehension may be founded," it said. The court said it had also tested the legality of the detention "on the count of giving effective opportunity to the detainee to represent at earliest". "The grounds for detention along with material were supplied to the detainee in light of clause (5) of Article 22 of the Constitution of India enabling him to submit representation to the competent authorities at earliest," it said. "The material so given was a compact disk of the speech delivered by Dr. Kafeel Khan on 12th December, 2019, at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University," it said. "On asking, it is conveyed to us that no transcript of the speech was supplied to the detainee. The non-supply of transcript would have been of no consequence, if a device would have been supplied to the detainee to play the compact disk. It is the position admitted that no such device was made available to the detainee," it added. One more important aspect of the matter is that the orders of extension of detention were never served upon the detainee, the court said. "The record shown to us and the pleadings of the petition also refer that only radiograms relating to decision of the State Government for extension of the term of detention were supplied to the detainee," it said. "The radiograms mention that the actual order shall be sent through speed post but in fact nothing except the radiograms were given to the detainee. In light of the discussion above, we are having no hesitation in concluding that neither detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under National Security Act, 1980 nor extension of the detention are sustainable in the eye of law," it said. Under the NSA, a person can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that he or she is a threat to national security or law and order. Khan has already spent over six months in jail under the NSA. In its order, the court said, "The writ petition for the reasons above is allowed. The order of detention dated 13th February, 2020 passed by District Magistrate, Aligarh and confirmed by the State of Uttar Pradesh is set aside. The extension of the period of detention of detenue Dr. Kafeel Khan is also declared illegal." "A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr. Kafeel Khan, the detenue, from State custody forthwith," it said. The Uttar Pradesh government had extended Khan's detention under the NSA by three months twice -- in May and August. In an order dated August 4, the Home Department had said the NSA was invoked against Khan on February 13, 2020, on the orders of the Aligarh district magistrate. After this, the matter was sent to the advisory council, which, in its report, said there were "enough reasons" to keep Khan in jail. On her way to Mathura, Khan's mother Parveen told PTI on phone, "I am very happy that my son is coming out of jail. I will be able to see him after a long time." "My son is a good person and he was never against the country or the society. It is also my daughter-in-law's birthday today, and we are taking a cake with us as she is in Mathura," she said. Khan, who worked as a paediatrician at Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College, first hit headlines in 2017 after several children died at the hospital due to the lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders. However, later, he faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail. A state government probe cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the Yogi Adityanath government. Khan had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi welcomed the court order. "The Allahabad High Court today ordered the removal of NSA and immediate release of Dr. Kafeel Khan. It is expected that the UP government will release Dr. Kafeel Khan without any malice," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She also congratulated all "justice-loving people" and party workers in the state who had been making efforts for Khan's release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Amarinder Singh orders probe into attack on Suresh Raina’s relatives||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday a special investigation team of the state police will probe the attack on India cricketer Suresh Raina’s relatives in Pathankot, in which his uncle and cousin were killed. Raina, who pulled out of the IPL citing personal reasons, on Tuesday demanded a thorough probe into the violent attack on his aunt's family in Punjab, revealing that after his uncle, his cousin has also died. The 33-year-old returned to the country last week from the UAE, where the league will begin on September 19. In his first statement since landing in the country, Raina, however, did not say that the attack, allegedly a case of robbery, was the reason why he came back. "What happened to my family is (sic) Punjab was beyond horrible. My uncle was slaughtered to death, my bua & both my cousins had sever (sic) injuries. Unfortunately my cousin also passed away last night after battling for life for days. My bua (aunt) is still very very critical & is on life support," he said. Raina's relatives were attacked on the night intervening August 19 and 20 in Thariyal village in Punjab's Pathankot district. Raina's uncle Ashok Kumar, 58, suffered head injuries in the attack and died on the same night. Four other members of the family were also injured in the attack. Kaushal Kumar, 32, the elder son of Ashok, died on Monday night at a private hospital. Police said Ashok's wife and Raina's aunt Asha Devi is still critical, while his second son, Apin, 28, is out of danger. "The second son has undergone surgery for an injury to his jaw," Khurana said.  Ashok's mother Satya Devi, 80, has already been discharged from hospital. Raina retired from international cricket on August 15, alongside former India captain and close friend Mahendra Singh Dhoni. His departure from the IPL triggered intense speculation on the possible reasons behind it. Franchise owner and former BCCI President N Srinivasan, who seemed to be upset with the batsman in his early statements, later said that the team will stand by the all-rounder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Parliament readies itself for monsoon session amid the pandemic||Massive arrangements are being made for the 18-day Parliament session from September 14 that would be held under the shadow of a pandemic for the first time ever. Among these are thousands of masks and gloves, hundreds of sanitiser bottles and face shields, touch-free operation of doors, and Covid-19 tests for an estimated 4,000 people including MPs and staff members. Frequent sanitisation of the entire parliament complex will also be carried out, while arrangements have been made to sanitise various parliamentary papers as well as footwear and cars of MPs, officials said. Frisking of people will also make way for touch-less security scanning, while thermal scanning will also be totally touch-free. The first-of-its-kind monsoon session will see Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha sitting in two different shifts, while special seating arrangements have been made for MPs in adherence to social distancing guidelines. For making the entire Parliament complex a safe zone in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu have held extensive discussions with officials of the Home Ministry, Health Ministry, ICMR and the DRDO. As per the standing operating procedures finalised for holding the session from September 14 till October 1, MPs and staff of secretariats of both houses, as also the media personnel covering the proceedings, will be asked to undergo Covid-19 test at least 72 hours before the start of the session. Officials said arrangements have been made for tests of close to 4,000 people, including the MPs, staff members and journalists. Only MPs and ministers will be allowed inside the main building, while necessary seating arrangements will be made for separate seating of their personal staff in the complex. A new seating arrangement following social distancing guidelines has been prepared by both houses for their respective members. MPs will also be allowed to address the Chair while seated and wearing their masks so that the risk of infection might be minimised. It has also been decided that air of air conditioners will be exchanged six times every day to avoid any possible infection. The DRDO will also provide multi-utility Covid-19 kits to all MPs. Each kit will contain 40 disposable masks, five N-95 masks, 20 bottles of sanitisers of 50 ml each, face shields, 40 pairs of gloves, a touch-free hook to open and close doors without touching them, herbal sanitation wipes and tea bags to enhance immunity. The two houses together have more than 780 members at present. The Health Ministry has also suggested that the movement of Members of Parliament in chambers of both the houses can be made unidirectional to avoid face-to-face interactions. The Ministry will make available short video clips to all MPs on awareness about Covid-19 infections and the benefits of wearing masks, etc. Touchless sanitisers will be kept at 40 different places within the Parliament House complex, and emergency medical teams and ambulances will also be stationed. All guidelines related to Covid-19 prevention will be strictly followed, presiding officers of both houses said. The provision of ultraviolet boxes has also been made to sanitise various parliamentary papers handled by the presiding officers and members. Arrangements are also being made for sanitisation of footwear and cars used by the members and those provided by the Secretariat by providing mats of required dimensions soaked in Hypochloride gel placed in troughs. Marshals will also wear masks and face shields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee cremated with full state honours||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: He got along with everyone||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||SC rejects Bhushan's argument about 'bona fide' statements||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s arguments that truth was a defence against contempt and that what he had stated was his bona fide beliefs made in public interest. “We are of the view that, in the circumstances, the defence taken cannot be said to be either in the public interest or bona fide one. On the contrary, it is more derogatory to the reputation of this court and would amount to further scandalising and bringing administration of justice in disrepute, in which the common citizen of this country has faith and approaches this court as a last resort for getting justice,” the three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said. “He has also referred to various matters pending adjudication before this court and also adversely commented on the functioning of this court. He has raised eyebrows on the Ayodhya verdict and blamed this court. After going through the various averments made in the affidavit in reply for supporting truth as defence, we are of the considered view that the defence taken is neither in the public interest nor bona fide one.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs official demoted||A senior customs official who had supervised the investigation into the Kerala gold smuggling case has been transferred to a post considered less important after “leaked” statements attributed to a key accused landed the BJP in the middle of the scandal. N.S. Dev, an assistant commissioner who had been at the helm of the probe into the customs’ seizure of 30kg smuggled gold from the UAE at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport in July, was transferred to a more sedentary job in the legal department on Saturday. The customs department reports to the Union finance ministry. No reason has been cited for the transfer. The customs department had conducted an internal inquiry immediately after the media reported about the “leaked” statement of key accused Swapna Suresh. As the head of the customs commissionerate (preventive) headquarters in Kochi, Dev had also recorded Swapna’s statement. Dev, whose rank is that of a superintendent, had dug out a lot of information related to Swapna’s political links, a source said. It was not clear how the handwritten statement, purportedly given by Swapna to the investigating agency, got leaked as several officials had handled the case. In the “leaked” statement, it has been claimed that Anil Nambiar, the coordinating editor of the pro-BJP Janam TV, had “requested the help” of the UAE consulate in the state capital to support the party in 2018. Dev is the second customs officer in Kerala to be transferred in a month after joint commissioner Aneesh Rajan, who had played a key role in busting the high-profile smuggling racket, was transferred to Nagpur from Thiruvananthapuram in end-July. Rajan, asked repeatedly by reporters, had denied that he had received any calls from the chief minister’s office after the gold consignment was detained. The BJP had then been putting pressure on the Left government by alleging that someone from the CMO had called the airport customs to get the baggage released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Rahul sees corporate takeover design in lockdown ||Rahul Gandhi on Monday suggested that the BJP government was “destroying” the informal sector of the economy to facilitate a takeover by the big corporate and counted the lockdown as part of that scheme, alleging an attempt to push people into “slavery”. While the former Congress president listed demonetisation and the imposition of a flawed Goods and Services Tax (GST) as the two major assaults, he made a grave accusation against Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying that the harsh lockdown during the pandemic was also a part of the design to destroy the informal sector, which makes up the overwhelming majority of the Indian economy. Although Rahul has often accused Modi of deliberately harming the informal sector, claiming that the lockdown, which not only destroyed the small industries and traders but also subjected millions to extreme hardship, was intended to help the big corporate is bound to trigger a political confrontation. In a video released on Monday morning, Rahul said: “The BJP government has been attacking the informal sector over the past six years. I can give you three big examples right now — demonetisation, wrong GST and lockdown. Don’t presume that there was no thinking behind the lockdown. Don’t think it was done at the last minute. The aim of these three decisions was to destroy our informal sector.” Modi announced the lockdown on March 24 and the restrictions kicked in within just four hours. The Congress has repeatedly attacked the Prime Minister for the “unplanned” lockdown but the allegation that it was enforced to devastate the informal sector gives an entirely new dimension to the campaign that the government mismanaged the pandemic. Rahul said on Monday: “The Prime Minister needs the media and marketing to run the government. This media management and marketing is done by 15-20 people. The informal sector has a lot of money, lakhs of crores, which the government can’t touch. They want to break this sector and take away this money. The effects of this attack on the informal sector will be seen soon. The results will be that India won’t be able to produce jobs. Because the informal sector produces 90 per cent of the jobs. Once the informal sector is destroyed, India won’t be able to produce jobs.” The Congress parliamentarian added: “You (the common people) are the ones who run this country, you take us forward and there is a conspiracy being hatched against you. Aapko thaga ja raha hai aur aapko ghulam banane ki koshish ki ja rahi hai (You are being cheated and there is an attempt to turn you into slaves). We have to understand this attack and the entire country has to unite to fight against this.” Explaining how the Indian economy had survived the 2008 global meltdown but had got wrecked under Modi, Rahul said on Monday: “In 2008, the world was hit by an economic storm. It affected the entire world: US, Japan, China, everywhere. In the US, banks fell, corporations fell and companies shut down. In Europe also, banks fell, but India was unaffected. India had a UPA government at that time. “I went to the Prime Minister and asked him, Manmohan Singh ji, what is the reason the entire world suffered an economic crisis but India remained unaffected? Manmohan Singh ji replied, ‘Rahul if you want to understand India’s economy, you will have to understand that India has two economic structures. One is the formal economy and the other is the informal economy.’” Rahul added: “You know the big companies which constitute the formal sector. The informal sector comprises farmers, labourers, small and medium industries, small traders. Till the time India’s informal sector is strong, no economic storm can touch India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court says Freedom of Speech not absolute||The Supreme Court said though there is Freedom of Speech under Article 19(1)(a), it is never absolute because the makers of the Constitution have imposed certain restrictions on it. When such freedom is sought to be abused and has the effect of scandalising the institution and the persons who are part of it and cannot defend themselves publicly, the same cannot be permitted in law, it said. “Though a fair criticism of judgment is permissible in law, a person cannot exceed the right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution to scandalise the institution,” the court said, arguing that sitting judges cannot go to the press and retired judges are not supposed to answer every allegation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||After Mann Ki Baat address, Modi fails youth test ||A blizzard of “dislikes” continued to dog the BJP’s video upload of Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat radio address on YouTube, with users tearing into the Prime Minister over burning issues such as rising unemployment and the government’s decision to go ahead with competitive exams amid the pandemic. By 8pm on Monday, over 24 hours after the video had been uploaded on the BJP’s YouTube channel, it had garnered 7.07 lakh “dislikes”, compared to 1.14 lakh “likes”. Rarely has official social media uploads related to the Prime Minister attracted such a negative response. On Monday, another dimension was added to the newest form of social media protest when many users alleged that their comments critical of the Prime Minister had been removed and the number of “dislikes” reduced. On Sunday, Modi spent the better part of his Mann Ki Baat address extolling the virtues of swadeshi dog breeds and urging people to rear them, and also speaking at length on the potential of the Indian toy and online gaming industry. As soon as the video was uploaded on YouTube, people began venting their anger. YouTube user Rishu Ranjan Verma wrote: “Discussion on unemployment is the matter of contemplation, when will you do it?” Prateek Thappa averred: “Let us do kaam ki baat, we need employment.” Rahul Soni commented: “Why is the govt not postponing exams?” Kundan Kumar suggested: “Bahut ho gaya Maan Ki Baat. Aab students ki job ki baat honi chahiye (enough of Mann Ki Baat, let there now be talk on jobs for students.)” The JEE Main exams are to be held from September 1 to 6. The  NEET is scheduled for September 13. Nearly 8.5 lakh students are slated to take the JEE. Around 16 lakh students are to sit for the NEET. YouTube user Abdul Qadir said: “They are removing dislikes. This is the real face of our beloved government.” Sekar Pandia wrote: “12.59am 1.9 lakh dislikes and 1.08am it came to 1.7 lakh dislikes. How can this happen. Manipulation cannot change the mood of people.” Wrote Suprava Dutta: “...How many comments will they delete? I’m against this inhumanity. It’s time to show the power of the young generation.” Gouminlal, a research scholar at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, told The Telegraph: “The unemployment rate was 6.1 in 2018, the highest in the last four decades. Before the lockdown itself, the unemployment rate was very high and the economy was sluggish. After the lockdown, the unemployment situation has deteriorated significantly. The government should tell what is being done on this.” Many said the floods in Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar would also pose hurdles for JEE aspirants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Report suggests Facebook gave fillip to Modi's election campaign||The Wall Street Journal on Monday published what the American newspaper said were excerpts from internal communications of Facebook officials that suggest that the social media company had helped the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections by lighting “a fire to his (Narendra Modi’s) social media campaign and the rest is of course history”. Also on Monday, a Delhi Assembly panel probing Facebook’s alleged role in the February 2020 riots that killed 53 people said the company should be made a co-accused in the police investigation, after hearing deposition that alleged that the social media network had “sheltered hate against minority communities”. The Journal, a New York-based financial daily, reported in an article titled “Facebook Executive Draws Scrutiny on Political Stance” that the social media behemoth’s public policy chief for South and Central Asia, Ankhi Das, had in messages to colleagues in a Facebook group said a day before the BJP was elected to power in 2014 that they had helped Modi become Prime Minister. The Journal reported: “In one of the messages, Ankhi Das, head of public policy in the country, posted the day before Narendra Modi swept to victory in India’s 2014 national elections: ‘We lit a fire to his social media campaign and the rest is of course history. ‘It’s taken thirty years of grassroots work to rid India of state socialism finally,’ Ms Das wrote in a separate post on the defeat of the Indian National Congress party, praising Mr Modi as the ‘strongman’ who had broken the former ruling party’s hold. Ms Das called Facebook’s top global elections official, Katie Harbath, her ‘longest fellow traveler’ in the company’s work with his campaign.” The Journal continued: ‘“Success in our Gujarat Campaign,’ Ms Das wrote of the training of Mr Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party team in October of 2012, noting the campaign was close to reaching a million fans on Facebook…. “Ms Das made her sentiments on the race clear. When a fellow staffer noted in response to one of her internal posts that the BJP’s primary opponent, the Indian National Congress, had a larger following on Facebook than Mr Modi’s individual page, Ms Das responded: ‘Don’t diminish him by comparing him with INC. Ah well — let my bias not show!!!’” Contacted by The Telegraph, a Facebook spokesperson in the US echoed what the company has said in the Journal report on Monday: “These (Das’s) posts are taken out of context and don’t represent the full scope of Facebook’s efforts to support the use of our platform by parties across the Indian political spectrum in 2014. Facebook’s public policy team operates with integrity and any suggestion that their efforts are motivated by partisanship discounts their hard work every day.” On Monday, the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony said, after hearing several journalists and Internet experts who have deposed before it, that “Facebook should be impleaded as co-accused in the Delhi riots investigation”. The committee said in a statement: “Sh. Awesh Tiwari (a journalist) has deposed that the complicity of Facebook is not only limited to aggravation in Delhi riots but (the company also) has been consistently sheltering hate against minority communities since a very long time. He has further asserted before the committee that Facebook essentially refuses to take down the hateful and divisive content off its platform….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court hopes  4-judge news meet was 'first and last'||The Supreme Court said on Monday it hoped the unprecedented news conference held by four sitting judges on January 12, 2018, to voice concerns about the judiciary was the “first and last” one. “We hope it was the first and last occasion that the judges have gone to press, and God gives wisdom to protect its dignity by internal mechanism, particularly, when allegations made, if any, publicly cannot be met by sufferer judges. It would cause suffering to them till eternity. “Truth can be the defence to the judges also, but they are bound by their judicial norms, ethics, and code of conduct,” the three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari said. Four senior judges of the Supreme Court had held the news conference to voice concern about the opaque manner in which politically sensitive cases were being assigned by the then Chief Justice, Dipak Misra. One of the cases concerned the mysterious death of special CBI Judge B.H. Loya. The CJI had marked it to Justice Arun Mishra. Heading the bench that convicted Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt and handed the sentence on Monday, Justice Mishra said: “The contemnor has tried to justify the averments made on the basis of the Press Conference dated 12.01.2018 of the four seniormost judges of this court. Concept of equality before law (is) what is permissible not as to what is impermissible. “It is settled that negative equality cannot be claimed as there is no concept of negative equality.” The court said it was not concerned with any criticism or statements made by former judges in the present contempt case against Bhushan, and that it was required to decide the cases on the basis of the law. “The court cannot abdicate its duty and has to be uninfluenced by the statements published in various articles published in the media and opinions expressed therein.,” the bench said. “Dr Dhavan, learned senior counsel (for Bhushan), has submitted that this court will be criticised in case it inflicts any punishment upon Shri Prashant Bhushan. We are unmoved by this submission. While exercising our judicial functions, we cannot take into consideration whether we will be praised or criticised for the judgment which we render. “We are required to decide the cases on the basis of the law as it correctly stands, in our perception and understanding. We are not expected to decide the matter on the basis as to whether there will be criticism of the judgment or not. We have to be always ready for its fair criticism,” the court said. It then handed Bhushan a fine of Re 1, which he has to pay by September 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Bhushan: Hope for truth has strengthened ||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Monday said he would pay the Re 1 fine imposed on him for criminal contempt, while reserving his right to file a review petition against the August 14 judgment convicting him for his two tweets and the nominal sentence. At a press conference, Bhushan thanked his legal team of senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave for defending him. The following is the statement issued by Bhushan: “The Supreme Court of India has announced its verdict on the contempt case against me. It holds me guilty of contempt of court and has decided to impose a fine of Re 1 and, failing that, imprisonment of three months and debarring me from practising for three years. “I had already said in my first statement to the court: ‘I am here to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen’. “Therefore, while I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment. “I have had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court. I have always believed it to be the last bastion of hope, particularly for the weak and the oppressed who knock at its door for the protection of their rights, often against a powerful executive. “My tweets were not intended in any way to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary as a whole, but were merely meant to express my anguish at what I felt was a deviation from its sterling past record. “This issue was never about me versus the Hon’ble Judges, much less about me versus the Supreme Court. When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen. “I am extremely grateful and humbled by the solidarity and support expressed by countless persons, ex-judges, lawyers, activists and fellow citizens who encouraged me to remain firm and true to my beliefs and conscience. “They strengthen my hope that this trial may draw the country’s attention to the cause of freedom of speech and judicial accountability and reform.  What is very heartening is that this case has become a watershed moment for freedom of speech and seems to have encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society. “I would be failing in my duty if I do not thank my legal team, especially senior advocates Dr Rajeev Dhavan and Shri Dushyant Dave. “I am more confident now than ever before that truth shall prevail. Long live democracy! Satyameva Jayate!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||A pragmatist within the paradigm that happened to be in place||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died on Monday in an army hospital in New Delhi, was cremated on Tuesday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chiefs of three defence services were among the dignitaries who paid their last respects to him on Tuesday morning when the mortal remains of the 84-year-old leader were brought to his residence, 10, Rajaji Marg, earlier in the day. The Union government has announced a seven-day State mourning across the country from August 31 to September 6, both days included.  During the State mourning, the national flag will fly at half-mast and there will be no official entertainment. Mukherjee's son, Abhijit, announced his death on twitter. “With a Heavy Heart, this is to inform you that my father Shri Pranab Mukherjee has just passed away in spite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital and prayers, duas and prarthanas from people throughout India! I thank all of You,” he said. Pranab Kumar Mukherjee served as a minister in the central government for much of his political life, holding a number of portfolios; but it is with the finance ministry that one tends most commonly to associate him though he was finance minister of the country only twice, from 1982 to 1984 and again from 2009 to 2012. This was perhaps because each of these stints was associated with an event that left an indelible imprint on public memory. His first stint, under Indira Gandhi after she had returned to power following the collapse of the Janata Party government that had supplanted her in the post-Emergency elections, saw India approaching the International Monetary Fund for a $5.8 billion loan under the Extended Facility that had been set up in the wake of the second oil shock in 1979-80. India had been extremely chary of borrowing from the IMF throughout the period of dirigiste economic policies, so this move was as unprecedented as it was controversial. The controversy was stoked in particular when the “conditionalities” associated with the loan, which were quite strict with rigid timeframes for fulfilling specific fiscal targets, were revealed by The Hindu newspaper through a “leak” in Washington DC. It has remained a mystery why India went in for the loan at all, since the balance-of-payments situation did not really warrant it; this was also evident from the fact that India did not even take the full amount of the loan eventually. It would not be fair, however, to blame Pranab Mukherjee for this exercise, since he was not the moving spirit behind it and was not even in charge of the finance ministry when the loan was being negotiated, though he was when the controversy erupted. His second stint as finance minister was marked by his effort to close the “Mauritius route”. Strange though it may seem, Mauritius was the country from which the maximum amount of foreign direct investment used to come to India. The reason was simple: multinational companies from the advanced countries used to route their investment to India via Mauritius, because Mauritius, which hardly taxed these companies at all, had at the same time a double-taxation-avoidance treaty with India. The companies therefore got away virtually without paying any taxes, since they would claim to pay taxes in Mauritius and not in India, while hardly paying anything in Mauritius. Pranab Mukherjee, to his credit, tried to stop this, by stipulating that whether a company could claim tax avoidance in India should be determined by whether it paid any taxes on its Indian profits in the country where its headquarters were located, rather than in Mauritius through which its investment was routed. This move, not surprisingly, caused a big uproar in corporate circles and eventually the Manmohan Singh government had to abandon the step. The two events associated with the two stints of Pranab Mukherjee as finance minister sum up between them the nature of his stewardship of the finance ministry. Not a person of strong ideological predilections, he was more in the nature of a pragmatist within the broad policy paradigm that happened to be in place during his stint as finance minister. If the first move we mentioned above brought forth strong opposition from the Left and Nehruvian circles, the second move aroused stiff opposition from the Right and from the neo-liberal world, especially the world of the corporate houses and multinationals. He was neither a committed Nehruvian, struggling behind the scenes to prevent the imposition of neo-liberal economic policies on the country, as many in the Congress and the government were; nor was he a committed neo-liberal trying behind the scenes to introduce such policies before they actually got introduced. He would, however, have carried out either set of policies if given the responsibility to do so. His stewardship of the Planning Commission as its deputy chairman in the early nineties, when neo-liberal policies were being introduced and the Planning Commission’s role was being devalued, must have confronted him with serious challenges; but he was pragmatic and accommodative enough to ride over these challenges. His pragmatism was, however, marked by a degree of personal efficiency. In the finance ministry, dominated by techno-savvy officials and “professionals” returned from Washington DC, from the stables of the World Bank and the IMF, he commanded respect for his mastery over details, his knowledge of the intricacies of finance, and his avoidance of over-reliance on the bureaucracy. It was typical of Pranab Mukherjee that he tried to maintain cordial relations across the political spectrum, from the Left to the Right. This sometimes earned him brickbats, but it was part of his mental make-up that contributed as much to his durability as to his success. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, the Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||LAC: China violates military consensus to change status quo||Tension is running high on the Ladakh border after India said it had pre-empted China’s “provocative military movements to change the status quo” and Beijing responded by asking New Delhi to withdraw troops that had “illegally crossed” the Line of Actual Control (LAC). On Saturday night, Indian soldiers noticed Chinese troop movements and mobilised to deter further encroachment, the Indian Army said. The confrontation did not escalate into a clash, sources said. “On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA (Chinese People’s Liberation Army) troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo,” the Indian Army said in a statement on Monday afternoon. “Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the southern bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground. The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity,” the statement added. The southern bank of the Pangong Lake — known as the Chushul sector — has been an area of concern since the standoff began in early May. PLA troops have reportedly dug themselves 8km inside India-claimed lines at Finger 4 and have refused to disengage despite a series of military and diplomatic talks. Although no physical clash was reported on Saturday night, the incident appeared to be the most serious development confirmed by the two sides after 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China suffered unspecified casualties in hand-to-hand combat at the Galwan Valley on the night of June 14. On Monday evening, China accused India of upsetting the fragile peace that has held since the June carnage. The spokesman for the PLA (Western Theatre Command), Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, was quoted by state-controlled broadcaster CGTN as stating that the Indian Army had illegally crossed the LAC on Monday. Zhang was quoted as describing it as a provocative move that violated the previous consensus and urged the Indian side to withdraw its forces. On the Galwan incident, too, China has repeatedly claimed that it was India that had violated the agreements on boundary management and breached the LAC. Earlier in the day, asked about the Indian Army’s statement on pre-empted PLA activity in eastern Ladakh, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian had said: “The Chinese border troops have been strictly observing the Line of Actual Control and never crossed the line. The Chinese and Indian border troops are in contact with each other regarding the issue on the ground.” The BJP cut a brave front, saying: “Territorial integrity is intact; the army has courage; our Prime Minister and the government are full of self-confidence.” Although the narrative of going across the LAC is something that would otherwise fit into the Right-wing narrative of a muscular dispensation at the Centre, the Narendra Modi government has continuously maintained that Indian troops did not breach the contentious and non-demarcated line. Sources in the security establishment said the situation along multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh was “exceedingly” tense after Saturday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Economy: steepest GDP decline on record||The Indian economy shrank by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter ended June 30, signalling that the road to recovery would be more arduous than most economists have projected. It marks the steepest decline since the National Statistical Office (NSO) started quarterly measurement of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1996. The slide in real GDP — which is measured on the basis of prices in 2011-12 — had been expected after the Narendra Modi government clamped the world’s severest lockdown in March to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, triggering a slump in consumer spending, private investment and exports. But the fall has been steeper than forecast. The contraction in India’s economic growth during April-June has been amongst the severest so far globally. Only Peru (-30.2 per cent) and Macau (-67.8 per cent) have reported lower GDP growth numbers for the period, Care Ratings said in a research report. Real GDP is widely expected to contract this year with estimates ranging from the IMF’s 4.9 per cent slide to the OECD’s worst-case estimate of a 7.3 per cent fall in the eventuality of a second outbreak of the pandemic in October-November. Other economists have come out with more depressing forecasts. Most credit rating agencies have already spooked the market with forecasts of a real GDP contraction ranging from 15 to 25 per cent. The last time that India faced a full-year contraction in its real GDP was in 1980. But the more worrying fact is that nominal GDP has also contracted by 22.6 per cent and presages the possibility that the overall size of the Indian economy could shrink this fiscal — a frightening prospect that the country has never had to deal with. The main difference between nominal GDP and real GDP is the adjustment for inflation. Since nominal GDP is calculated using current prices, it does not require any adjustments for inflation. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had articulated these fears a few weeks ago when he said that a growing consensus had started to emerge among economists that nominal GDP could also contract this year. “If it happens, it will be the first time in independent India. I hope the consensus is wrong,” Singh had said. Last year, real GDP had grown by 5.2 per cent in the first quarter and the nominal GDP by 8.1 per cent. A contraction in the nominal GDP will have big implications for tax collections this year, deepen job losses, spark wage cuts, depress demand, trammel production processes and lead to a ballooning fiscal deficit that will then need to be papered over by greater borrowings. In May, the Centre had jacked up its gross borrowing programme by 53 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore from a budgeted Rs 7.8 lakh crore. Data show that of the 54 countries that have reported their GDP figures for the April-June quarter, only China and Vietnam have recorded a positive growth over the same period last year. China’s economy grew by 3.2 per cent in April-June after recording a decline of 6.8 per cent in January-March 2020. Manufacturing — which accounts for 13.8 per cent of the gross value added (GVA) at basic prices in the first quarter and serves as a nerve centre for job creation — contracted by a sharp 39.3 per cent. The construction sector shrank by 50.3 per cent while mining output fell by 23.3 per cent. Agriculture was the sole bright spot and grew 3.4 per cent. The NSO note said: “The quarterly GVA at Constant (2011-12) prices for the first quarter of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 25.53 lakh crore, as against Rs 33.08 lakh crore in Q1 of 2019-20, showing a contraction of 22.8 per cent.” The GVA is a key metric to measure economic activity that strips out the impact of taxes and subsidies on the value of output. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “The only sector that has grown is agriculture, forestry and fishing at 3.4 per cent. The finance minister (Nirmala Sitharaman), who blamed an ‘Act of God’ for the economic decline, should be grateful to the farmers and the gods who blessed the farmers.” Sitharaman has been castigated after she termed the Covid-19 pandemic an act of God — and refused to compensate states for any loss of revenues on account of falling goods and services tax (GST) collections and a virtually empty compensation cess corpus. Krishnamurthy Subramanian, chief economist at the finance ministry, said the Indian economy was set for a “V-shaped” recovery and should perform better in the coming quarters as indicated by a pickup in rail freight, power consumption and tax collections. Very few economists support that view and even the Reserve Bank of India has indicated that the economy will contract this year while refusing to put out a numerical estimate. Consumer spending — the main driver of the economy — dropped by 24.5 per cent at current prices while capital investments were down by 47.9 per cent. Exports were down by 17.1 per cent in the first quarter at Rs 7,68,037 crore while imports shrank by 38.5 per cent to Rs 6,89,734 crore at current prices. M. Govinda Rao, a member of the 14th finance commission and currently chief economic adviser at Brickwork Ratings, said: “The economy has certainly entered a recession phase as the second quarter GDP number is also most likely going to be negative. However, the pace of contraction may be slower in Q2 than in Q1 due to the lower base, which will wane to some extent, and the gradual lifting of the lockdown in areas and sectors, which is likely to improve economic activity.” D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said: “The first-quarter numbers highlight an extremely challenging outlook for the Indian economy with only one sector — agriculture — showing positive growth. Signals are strong that FY21 is likely to end in a net contraction. With nominal GDP also showing a negative growth of about (-)23 per cent in 1QFY21, tax revenues are also likely to contract sharply in the year as a whole. The Indian economy has clearly landed in a severe vicious cycle with the need to stimulate demand becoming paramount while the capacity to support demand by the government is at its weakest. Without stimulating private consumption and investment demand, it may be difficult to arrest this downward momentum.” The NSO said its data collection mechanism had been badly hampered by the lockdown restrictions and the severity of the resultant impact on economic activity. “In these circumstances, the usual data sources were substituted by alternatives like GST, interactions with professional bodies, etc. and which were clearly limited,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Ladakh highway closed to civilian traffic||Chaos gripped the Srinagar-Ladakh highway on Monday following the suspension of civilian traffic, which coincided with a fresh stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the Pangong Tso lake area in eastern Ladakh. Hundreds of vehicles, many carrying essential supplies to Ladakh from Manigam to Sonamarg in Ganderbal adjoining Kargil, remained stuck. Some media reports claimed the road was closed to civilians owing to provocative military movement by the Chinese troops and would be exclusively used for military purposes. Ganderbal police chief Khalil Poswal denied that the road was closed to civilian traffic because of Ladakh developments. “Traffic was suspended because of rain, but later was cleared and the vehicles are now on way (to Kargil). There is absolutely no government order (suspending civilian traffic),” Poswal told this paper. The government has in recent months issued several controversial orders, but refused to link them to the developments in Ladakh. In June, weeks after the Ladakh crisis erupted, the government directed stocking up of LPG cylinders for two months and vacating school buildings in Ganderbal for the deployment of security forces. In Ladakh, former Chushul councillor Sonam Tsering said mobile connections were suspended afresh in border areas on Sunday following fresh provocation by the Chinese army. Chushul is the nearest human habitation from the site of fresh confrontation, but still a long distance away. “Mobile connectivity remained suspended in these areas for months but was restored some 15-20 days back. Yesterday, connectivity was again suspended,” Tsering said. “The site of fresh trouble is a long distance from our village and no civilians live in a vast area near the place. Reports reaching us in Leh (town) is that there is no panic in the area.” Tsering said more troops could be seen heading towards Pangong Tso area from Leh on Monday. Kargil politician Sajjad Hussain said the fresh confrontation and reports of suspension of civilian traffic on Srinagar-Kargil road had triggered panic in the district. “We are in a lockdown from many months and are running short of essentials. Earlier too, during the pandemic, going to Kashmir was like going to another country as only a few people with permissions could travel because of Covid-19 restrictions,” he said. “If the road is closed, people, mostly poor, will suffer more hardships,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||States can offer quota to in-service doctors: SC||A five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court on Monday ruled that states had the legislative competence to frame laws setting aside postgraduate medical seats for in-service doctors from their own merit quota. The court said this would not collide with the Centre’s MCI Regulations, 2000, with regard to admissions to medical colleges. The constitution bench upheld the rules framed by several states, including Bengal, providing for reservation in postgraduate courses for those in-service doctors who have served in rural and far-flung areas. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose was hearing a batch of petitions, appeals and cross-appeals filed by Bengal, and also several doctors, challenging the conflicting judgments passed by various courts, including different three-judge benches of the Supreme Court. Calcutta High Court had last year taken the view that the state did not have the legislative competence to frame quota rules, observing that such provisions could be made only in keeping with the MCI Regulations. The Supreme Court said on Monday: “If the state authorities provide reservation for in-service doctors from within the state’s own merit list, our view is that such an exercise would be relatable to the admission process and the same would not be in breach of any prohibition flowing from the 2000 Regulations. This would entail some form of variation of the merit list of the state, but we do not find any prohibition under the 2000 Regulations against a state undertaking that exercise. “Such step undertaken by the state would be relatable to the state’s legislative power derived from Entry 25 of the Concurrent List and not covered by the 2000 Regulations. We do not find any repugnancy with the 2000 Regulations if the state authorities create such a distinct channel of entry.” Justice Shah, who authored the judgment, laid down that there was no bar in the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, and its amendment in 2018 on individual states reserving seats for in-service doctors. The court, however, made it clear that such doctors would have to have the minimum marks in the NEET medical entrance exam as prescribed in the MCI Regulations, 2000. The court also said the states should fix a minimum service period for doctors in rural or remote areas for them to be eligible for the quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court slaps Re 1 fine, Bhushan to pay||The Supreme Court on Monday fined lawyer Prashant Bhushan Re 1 for “criminal contempt” while declaring it was “not afraid” to send him to jail or debar him from practice. The three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, whose decision on the eve of Independence Day to convict the lawyer for two tweets had triggered outrage and prompted many to repost the tweets, said if Bhushan failed to pay the fine, he would have to serve three months’ simple imprisonment and be debarred from legal practice for three years. Bhushan, who had refused the court’s repeated calls to submit an apology and said he would accept any punishment, held a news conference later in the day to announce that he would pay the fine. “While I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment,” he said. Justice Mishra, who retires on Wednesday, authored and pronounced the judgment. “The court, from the very beginning, was desirous of giving quietus to this matter,” it said. The contempt proceedings against Bhushan were initiated suo motu by the Supreme Court, which objected to a tweet the senior lawyer had put out about the Chief Justice of India posing on a Harley-Davidson and another about the destruction of democracy in the past six years. Justice Mishra said: “If we do not take cognisance of such conduct, it will give a wrong message to the lawyers and litigants throughout the country. However, by showing magnanimity, instead of imposing any severe punishment, we are sentencing the contemnor with a nominal fine of Re 1.” The bench said it was going by attorney-general K.K. Venugopal’s advice in an earlier contempt case that the court’s shoulders were broad enough to take criticism. “No doubt about it, our approach has to be like the one stated by the learned attorney-general,” it said. During the hearing on the sentence, Venugopal had urged the court to show “statesmanship” and Bhushan’s lawyer Rajeev Dhavan had argued that its shoulders were broad enough to take criticism. But the judges had said they could be lenient only if Bhushan withdrew his comments. Bhushan refused, saying the tweets were his bona fide views and to withdraw them would be a contempt of his conscience. In refusing to apologise, he had invoked Mahatma Gandhi and said he was not seeking “mercy” or “magnanimity” and would submit cheerfully to any punishment. “Directly or indirectly, the contemnor was persuaded to end this matter by tendering an apology and save the grace of the institution as well as the individual, who is an officer of the court,” the bench said. “However, for reasons best known to him he has neither shown regret in spite of our persuasion or the advice of the learned attorney-general. Thus, we have to consider imposing an appropriate sentence upon him,” it continued. The Re 1 fine will have to be paid by September 15, the court said. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt is six months in jail or a fine or both. “We are not afraid of sentencing the contemnor either with imprisonment or from debarring him from the practice. His conduct reflects adamance and ego, which has no place to exist in the system of administration of justice and in noble profession, and no remorse is shown for the harm done to the institution to which he belongs. “At the same time, we cannot retaliate merely because the contemnor has made a statement that he is neither invoking the magnanimity or the mercy of this court and he is ready to submit to the penalty that can be lawfully inflicted upon him for what the court has determined to be an offence,” Justice Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Call to refrain from unbridled Covid test scale-up||Three public health bodies on Monday called on government authorities to refrain from unbridled scaling up of tests for the new coronavirus and introduce pragmatic and targeted testing to conserve resources and save lives of coronavirus disease patients. The three health bodies have also advocated a “public health approach” that seeks to achieve the maximum possible good for the largest possible numbers of people and recognises the epidemic as a public health challenge and not a law-and-order issue. They have also said the vaccines against Covid-19 have no role in the current ongoing pandemic and “we must avoid the false sense of hope that this panacea is just around the corner.” “The ongoing pandemic is a public health problem that is fast worsening existing health inequities,” the Indian Public Health Association, the Indian Association of Epidemiologists, and the Indian Association of Social and Preventive Medicine said in their statement. “It is not a law-and-order problem and should be dealt with empathy and meaningful community engagement,” the three associations said. They have asked authorities to “discontinue” lockdowns as a strategy to control the epidemic, saying geographically limited restrictions may be imposed for short periods within epidemiologically defined clusters and only where there is no widespread or community transmission. The associations have also advocated the opening of schools and educational institutions in a “graded and pragmatic manner” in areas where the substantial proportions of the population are infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The statement comes amid surveys in cities such as Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai, and Pune that have found from 17 to 51 per cent of sampled populations exposed to the infection. In Delhi, this infection prevalence rate has increased from 23 per cent in June to 29 per cent in July. The associations have said scaling up testing amid such widespread transmission would only “divert attention and resources from control measures”. Testing should focus on high-risk individuals such as persons with underlying health disorders, healthcare workers, or the elderly. All patients showing symptoms of Covid-19 should be treated either at home or in hospital depending on their clinical needs, the association said, even without testing. All such patients should be monitored whether at home or in hospitals and provided all required care if they develop severe disease. The associations have called for prioritising resources to monitor patients and shifting them to hospitals, if needed, to reduce mortality. They have also asked authorities to establish a “reliable and accountable” dashboard to provide information about vacancies in hospitals and ambulance services. “The time has come to change our testing strategy,” Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who is also the president of the Indian Public Health Association. “The surveys show that tests are detecting only a fraction of the infected people.” India has dramatically scaled up testing from a few thousand samples tested daily in March to over 900,000 daily tests in August. As tests have increased, so has the number of lab-confirmed infections. In Delhi, for instance, with an estimated population of 20 million, the 6 per cent rise over a period of a month, Rai said, would mean about 1.2 million new infections over 30 days. “This means, 40,000 people became infected every day – but testing detected 2,000 to 4,000 every day.” Rai said the associations’ recommendation to open schools, albeit in a graded manner, takes into account the developmental and mental health needs of children. The associations said while awaiting for vaccines with optimism, the response to the pandemic must assume that an effective vaccine would not be available in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: perpetual PM-in-waiting & master of ironies ||Driven all his life by the desire to be the Prime Minister, the executive head of the government, he became the President of India, the ceremonial head who barely has any power. Pranab Mukherjee was a unique character in Indian politics who had to contend with countless little ironies all his life. A crafty politician who understood the intricacies of mass politics better than anybody else but wasn’t a mass leader. A loyalist who couldn’t bridge the supreme leader’s trust deficit. A quintessential Congressman who was conferred Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, by a government that has vowed to finish the Congress. A Union minister often alleged to have helped Dhirubhai Ambani build his financial empire but who remained largely spotless throughout his long political stint. A wise man whose patience and perseverance sustained a rising political career for six decades but who could fly into a blind fury without a reason. A team man and a consensus-builder who defied the Congress wish and addressed an RSS congregation. A hardcore traditionalist who yearned for political relevance even after retirement from the top constitutional post. Ironies don’t end here. Mukherjee’s long political career has no parallel in Indian politics. He wielded more power than the contemporary mass leaders of his time, signifying how political clout isn’t synonymous with electoral appeal in Indian politics. Mukherjee remained in Parliament from 1969 through Rajya Sabha nominations and got elected to the Lok Sabha only in 2004. He was also an integral part of the Congress high command structure — in its working committee for 23 years — despite the trust deficit generated by his exit from the party in 1986 when he fell out with Rajiv Gandhi. Although the general belief is that the differences with Rajiv occurred because he expressed his desire to be the interim Prime Minister after Indira Gandhi’s tragic assassination in 1984, it is very unlike Mukherjee to come upfront with his desires as he always chose to manoeuvre his way quietly. Mukherjee wrote in his book The Turbulent Years: 1980-1996 that he along with some other leaders suggested to Rajiv that he take over even though by convention the senior-most minister should have been sworn in. Mukherjee, however, did object to the haste as some people wanted the swearing-in to be done by Vice-President in the absence of President Zail Singh. This allowed many of his rivals to influence Rajiv against him. Mukherjee wrote that he enjoyed Rajiv’s trust for months after that incident but was suddenly dropped from the ministry after the election victory. This led to differences and he formed his own Bengal-based party but returned in 1989. The story about his prime ministerial ambition refused to die and this was used to create suspicions in the mind of Sonia Gandhi about the veteran leader who failed to win her full confidence despite working closely as her key aide. He invariably headed the committees formed for the Congress plenary and acted as chief strategist when the party was struggling in the Opposition between 1998 and 2004. When Sonia chose Manmohan Singh as the Prime Minister in 2004, ignoring Mukherjee’s seniority and political stature, he was deeply disappointed but demonstrated the maturity to work under his junior without any grudge. Many cabinet ministers felt Mukherjee was Singh’s main strength in the government. Mukherjee suffered another jolt in 2009 when the UPA returned to power for the second term and Singh was retained as Prime Minister. He saw 2009 as the last opportunity to fulfil his dreams. Though some Congressmen believed Manmohan would be replaced midway through his second term, Mukherjee knew Sonia’s mind better than others and decided to focus on the President’s post that was to fall vacant in July 2012. He had confided in some of his aides that prime ministerial possibilities were over and occupying Rashtrapati Bhavan could be the consolation prize. He knew it would not be easy but started working on every possible ally to bolster his prospects. Mukherjee, a hardcore traditionalist, was not only ready to bear the burden and heat of the day for his party — he often gave appointments to people after 11pm after finishing his work — but also commanded respect cutting across party lines. Famous for his sharp memory, rattling out dates and political events with amazing ease, he nurtured a serious interest in the economy, drafting political documents and external affairs. Congress veterans respected him for understanding the system better than anybody else, having handled commerce, finance and foreign affairs in various Congress governments for decades. He was also the deputy chairman of Planning Commission and served on the board of World Bank, IMF and other international financial institutions. Even as President, his political activism manifested in subtler forms as he spoke his mind on every subject of contemporary politics. He gave most insightful and political speeches that some of his predecessors either avoided or were incapable of. Even after retiring from Rashtrapati Bhavan, he remained active, meeting people from all walks of life almost daily. He continued to have strong views on the Congress, often expressing his displeasure at the functioning of the party that he felt should regain its strength to protect India’s democracy. Such was his involvement in politics that many Congress leaders speculated that he could be the party’s candidate for Prime Minister in the 2019 general election. His relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was surprisingly cordial, causing heartburn and suspicion in the Congress. Modi, too, made the most of it, showering effusive praises on him while ruthlessly criticising members of the Gandhi family — from Jawaharlal Nehru to Rahul Gandhi. The Modi government conferred the Bharat Ratna on Mukherjee in 2019, further deepening the distrust that many Congress leaders always nurtured about his intentions. What gave credence to the views of his critics is his extraordinary decision to accept the invitation extended by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to address the pracharaks at its Nagpur headquarters. While the Congress openly opposed this idea because a former President and a Congress veteran visiting the RSS headquarters would legitimise the divisive ideology that was held responsible for the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi, Mukherjee thought the country was already engaging with them as the ruling party. He felt the need for a debate as the RSS was no longer a fringe organisation after the people of India voted for the BJP across the country, making it the biggest party that shaped India’s destiny. Although he asserted the vitality of constitutional principles and secular values in his speech, the Congress leadership could not forgive him for the gifting the RSS the advantage of a symbolic victory. Even during Modi’s prime ministership, despite friendly relations with the government, Mukherjee espoused the value of tolerance and social harmony in his speeches. In 2016, he said in a speech that democracy was not about numbers alone and that the rule of law should be the sole basis for dealing with any challenging situation. He said: “The diversity of our country is a fact. This cannot be turned into fiction due to the whims and caprices of a few individuals. We derive our strength from tolerance. It has been part of our collective consciousness for centuries. It has worked well for us and it is the only way it will work for us.” This was yet another irony of his life — a leader committed to secularism who faced criticism for legitimising the communal forces by his tactics. India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum....Narendra Modi ...In his death, our country has lost one of its greatest leaders of Independent India. He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs. Manmohan Singh Pranabda had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the central government over five decades, it is hard to imagine how we can do without his wisdom, experience, sage advice and deep understanding of so many subjects....The Congress party deeply mourns his loss and will always honour his memory.Sonia Gandhi It is with deep sorrow I write this. Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee has left us. An era has ended. For decades he was a father figure. From my first win as MP, to being my senior Cabinet colleague, to his becoming President while I was CM.... So many memories. A visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable....Mamata Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
