02-09-2020||India||Parliament Question Hour: 'Unstarred questions' and answers in writing||Folowing the uproar over scrapping Question Hour in parliament for the coming session, the government has said it would allow "unstarred questions" - meaning written questions that will receive written responses, reported NDTV. The modification came shortly after the government's claim that that Question Hour was dropped only after discussions with opposition leaders and at the time, no one but Trinamool Congress's Derek O' Brien had objected. Pralhad Joshi, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, speaking with NDTV, said that TMC's leader in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandopadhyay, has agreed to the move. "It is not good that after agreeing, leaders start saying in public that they don't agree," Joshi was quoted saying. The plan to drop Question Hour in the short parliament session that would begin on September 14 after a five-month gap, triggered a huge row, with various leaders accusing the government of stifling the voice of the opposition. With session timings cut down to roughly four hours a day, the government had done away with Private Members' business, the hour set aside for bills put up by MPs. The Zero Hour -- slotted for members to raise matters of public importance -- was limited to 30 minutes. The opposition's contention is that such a schedule gives them no opportunity to raise and discuss matters they consider important. Among the most vocal is Derek O'Brien, who has accused the government of "murdering democracy" in the name of coronavirus. Joshi said, "We discussed the option to drop the Question Hour and issued notification only after everyone agreed except Derek O'Brien. All senior members requested that it should be wound up as early as possible. "Rajnath Singh and I spoke to all the senior leaders. We spoke to all major and minor parties. Except Derek O'Brien, no one objected. Everyone said there is a pandemic situation, so we agree. Sudip Bandhopadhyay agreed. He is the leader of Trinamool Congress in the Lok Sabha," Mr Joshi added. The minister also said other opposition leaders like Congress's Ghulam Nabi Azad, Janata dal Secular chief HD Devegowda and Nationalist Congress Party's Sharad Pawar have agreed. But shortly after, Congress's Anand Sharma tweeted his reservations, calling the decision "arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic". "Delayed monsoon session of Parliament is one of special significance after the lockdown and phased unlocking. proposal to exclude Question hour is arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic. It is Members privilege and the very life of a session," another tweet read. Mr Azad and Congress's Adhir Ranjan Choudhury said they have written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker not agreeing with the curtailing of the Question Hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
02-09-2020||India||Six chief ministers write to Centre on GST stand-off||Chief ministers of six non-BJP-ruled states, including Mamata Banerjee,  Pinarayi Vijayan and Arvind Kejriwal, have written to the Centre to remind it of its "constitutional" responsibilities in the stand-off over the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in GST compensation and financial relief (from the pandemic) due to states. The six CMS rejected the re-payment options - that states borrow to offset dues - and reminded the Centre it had a legal duty to reimburse states' loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST regime, reported NDTV on Wednesday. They said if states were to borrow then repayment schedules would place an extra burden on their finances. The Centre, they said, could take up this burden and pay back the loan by carrying forward GST cess collection past 2022. Apart from the chief ministers of Bengal, Kerala and Delhi, the others who also wrote to the Centre are Edappadi K Palaniswami (Tamil Nadu), K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh). Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that depriving states of GST compensation was an "attempt to undermine federalism". She urged him not to belie the trust between the states and the Centre on the issue, reported PTI. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal's opinion that it is not the responsibility of the Centre to compensate the states for Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall during a pandemic "appears to be an act of subterfuge", Banerjee said in the letter. In the 41st meeting of GST Council on August 27, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the COVID-19 pandemic is an "act of God" which has hit GST collection and ruled out paying compensation to states from its coffers. "On behalf of Bengal and other states, I sincerely urge you not to belie the trust between the States and the Centre on matters of GST which has been hailed globally as the finest example of cooperative federalism," Banerjee said. Banerjee asked Modi not to allow "an insufferable blow to the federalist polity of the nation" by depriving the states of the GST compensation. "I am deeply anguished by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) imbroglio which tantamounts to a betrayal of the trust and moral responsibility of the Government of India towards the states, violating the very premise of federalism. "This is a travesty and an abrogation of the fundamental basis on which the states gave up 70 per cent of their taxing powers, including the entire VAT regime, to usher in the GST regime," Banerjee said in the four-page letter. The "agreed formula" for giving up taxing powers was the promise of full compensation of shortfall in GST collection for five years, she said adding that the Centre is duty-bound to give compensation to the states. She reminded Modi that as the chief minister of Gujarat, he had opposed implementation of GST and the late BJP leader Arun Jaitley had stated that the saffron party did not trust the Centre in honouring compensation of GST losses to the states.
"His words are ringing in our ears as we are losing trust on the BJP Government in the Centre, in honouring its solemn, promise of fully compensating GST losses to the states," Banerjee said.
The Kerala Chief Minister said transferring obligation of GST compensation to states through borrowing was not in accordance with the spirit of understanding between Centre and states on this issue. Referring to Sitharaman’s comments, he said: "it may be kindly (noted) that revenue loss and expenditure pressures have been greater for the states". Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote spoke of “ extremely onerous burden on states reeling under financial crisis due to shortfall in revenue collections and increased commitment of expenditure from Covid-19 response". He also noted that assurance of compensation to meet shortfall in collections was one of the pillars on which the entire GST edifice rested. As per the Centre's calculations, the compensation requirement of states in current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess. Out of the shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, the shortfall due to GST implementation is Rs 97,000 crore and the remaining is due to Covid-19 impact. The Centre has given two options to states -- to either borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow only Rs 97,000 crore through a special window, which would be provided by the RBI, to meet the revenue shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
02-09-2020||India||P Chidambaram asks to name donors of PM CARES fund||The PM CARES Fund, set up in March to deal with emergency situations like the Covid-19 pandemic, received Rs 3,076.62 crore in just five days of its formation, as per an account statement made public by the fund on Wednesday. The 'receipt and payment account' showed nearly Rs 3,075.85 crore as 'voluntary contributions', while Rs 39.67 lakh came as foreign contributions. It put the fund's closing balance as on March 31, 2020 at Rs 3,076.62 crore, after including interest income and deducting service tax on forex conversion. The fund started with an initial corpus of Rs 2.25 lakh, as per the account statement posted on the fund's official website. It also referred to "accompanying notes to the financial statements", but those were not made public on the website. Reacting to the account statement of the fund, Congress leader P Chidambaram said the auditors of the fund have confirmed that the fund received Rs 3,076 crore in just five days, but the "names of these generous donors will not be revealed". "The donee is known. The trustees of the donee are known. Why are the trustees afraid to reveal the names of the donors?," Chidambaram said. According to details posted on the website of the 'Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund)', the fund consists "entirely of voluntary contributions from individuals/organisations and does not get any budgetary support". "During 2019-20 (from March 27-31, 2020), an amount of Rs 3076.62 crore has been collected under PM CARES Fund," it said. It further said this fund has been set up as a public charitable trust "keeping in mind the need for having a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected". The fund generated a lot of interest immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced its formation of the fund in the last week of March after the Covid-19 outbreak and appealed for donations, prompting several private firms, government bodies and individuals, including celebrities, to donate money. The Fund's objectives include undertaking and supporting relief or assistance of any kind relating to a public health emergency or any other kind of emergency, calamity or distress, either man-made or natural, including the creation or upgradation of healthcare or pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary infrastructure, funding relevant research or any other type of support, according to its website. The government has used a part of the money to buy medical equipment, including ventilators, to boost the battle against the Covid-19 and has also provided relief to migrants. Opposition parties have, however, criticised the Fund, claiming that its contributions and expenses are not transparent, a charge denied by the government. Last month, the Supreme Court had refused to direct the transfer of contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The top court had also ruled that at this need of the hour no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust PM CARES Fund to have necessary financial resources to meet the emergent situation, adding this fund and the NDRF were entirely different funds with separate object and purpose. While Prime Minister is the ex-officio Chairman of the PM CARES Fund, the Minister of Defence, Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Finance are its ex-officio trustees. The chairperson (Prime Minister) has the power to nominate three trustees to the board of trustees, who can be eminent persons in the field of research, health, science, social work, law, public administration and philanthropy. Also, any person appointed a trustee will act in a pro bono capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
02-09-2020||India||Govt bans 118 more mobile apps, including PUBG||PUBG Mobile, a wildly popular game in India, is among 118 more Chinese apps blocked by the government amid fresh tension over China's provocation in Ladakh, PTI and NDTV reported. The move was in the interest of India's sovereignty and integrity, defence and security, the government said in a statement. There are close to 33 million active PUBG players in India, according to reports. The game clocks some 13 million daily users, the website said.
The banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, according to an official statement.
All these banned apps have Chinese links, sources said.
The Centre had earlier banned a number of Chinese apps, including TikTok and UC Browser.
"Government blocks 118 mobile apps which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order," the statement said. This move, it said, would safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users.
It said the IT Ministry had received complaints from various sources, including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms, for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users' data to servers outside India.
"The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures," said the statement. The home ministry's cybercrime centre had also recommended blocking these "malicious apps", the government said. The statement referred to bipartisan concerns flagged by various public representatives both in parliament and outside, adding that there had been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against apps "that harm India's sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens", said NDTV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
02-09-2020||India||The trauma Ravi Shankar went through as a child||Anoushka Shankar has spoken candidly about how her father, Ravi Shankar, was sexually abused as a child. Anoushka, who will be reinterpreting some of her father’s music when she performs at the Proms at the Royal Albert Hall on Friday, said she had discussed with her mother, Sukanya, the abuse her father had suffered, before deciding it was important not to brush the issue under the carpet. Anoushka was talking to The Times, London, which referred to Oliver Craske’s “biography of Ravi, Indian Sun, which uncovered for the first time the sexual abuse that he suffered during his Bengali childhood. Craske discloses that the seven-year-old Ravi was raped by an ‘uncle’, and that the abuse carried on until his teens — something Ravi only revealed to his second wife, Sukanya, when he was in his seventies”. Anoushka did not shy away from discussing what her father had gone through. “My mum and I did go back and forward over whether to talk about it,” she told The Times. “Ultimately, though, it felt like such an important part of his story. I think it’s important to lift the veil on this stuff a bit more. It’s hard enough for an Indian woman to speak about abuse and assault. An Indian man? That you never hear about.” The sitar maestro died, aged 92, on December 11, 2012. Since he was born on April 7, 1920, there were plans to mark the centenary of his birth with a gala ceremony this year but this has been postponed because of the pandemic until April 7, 2021. The newspaper suggested that the abuse he had suffered as a child perhaps “sheds new light on Ravi’s extraordinary need for affection in his adult life: his liaisons with hundreds of women”. Anoushka responded: “Absolutely, though I always felt my dad had an unfair rap with that stuff. I obviously wouldn’t name people, but I’ve seen many musicians who had children on the side of their marriages, or have children they don’t acknowledge, or who have treated their partners horribly by having women in every city they tour. My father did things consensually with his partners. They were honest and comfortable about it. I find it so frustrating and hypocritical that someone like him, who was so open about his life, got a bad press when there are all these jerks around who just keep quiet about what they do.” The paper pointed out that Anoushka, who is 39, “has been through the mill these past three years. Her marriage to the film-maker Joe Wright broke up in acrimony — something she more than hints at by opening Bright Eyes, the finest song on her latest EP, Love Letters, with the words: ‘Does she feel younger than me as you’re lying in your bed?’ Then last year she had a hysterectomy and, with characteristic bravery, revealed all her feelings about it in a long post on Twitter beginning: ‘Why I no longer have a uterus, and why I decided to tell you’.” During Friday’s performance, which will be done without an audience, she intends devoting the first half revisiting her father’s music “but in an entirely new musical context. She has reworked many of Ravi’s classic tracks in conjunction with the electronic music artist Gold Panda”. “Basically took things from across the spectrum,” Anoushka explained. “A couple of his concertos, some tracks from his 1970s album Shankar Family and Friends, loads of bits and pieces that we love. And then presented the material in a different, more modern light, while still showcasing the beauty of his music. “I play a lot of my dad’s stuff, but I’ve never taken it apart and reinterpreted it in this way. It felt a bit cheeky, but also fun.” That Ravi Shankar was abused as a child by an unidentified “uncle” came as a surprise even to the London-based music producer Jay Visvadeva, who told The Telegraph: “I didn’t know about it until I read Oliver Craske’s book — and I had known Raviji from September 1970 until he died.” That the musician had many affairs was not a secret, though. “He was a wonderful man with many positive things in his life.” “But there were negative things, too,” added Visvadeva, chief executive and artistic director of Sama, an arts organisation with a 50-year track record. “His (first) wife and son suffered as a result of his infidelity.” It was not a surprise to him that Anoushka had been so frank in her interview: “She is also an icon and outspoken in her views.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
02-09-2020||India||Landslide traps over 1,000 pilgrims in Munsiyari||Over 1,000 people who had returned to their villages in Munsiyari of Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand for a yearly religious ritual have got stranded for the past six days because of rain-triggered landslides. The residents of 13 villages leave home and stay with relatives in the plains during the monsoon months because rain and landslides cut off these areas, earning them the name of “migration villages”. However, they return for two days during this period for Nandashtami, or the worship of the Nanda Devi mountains. This time, the residents of the 13 villages, including Tolalwa, Bilju, Rilkot, Martoli, Burfu, Chhirkani, Ralam, Milam, Panchhu and Ganghar, had returned on August 25 for the two-day rituals that began the next day. Some people who began leaving the villages on August 26 itself after completing the rituals early informed the authorities in Pithoragarh that over 1,000 people would no longer be able to return as landslides had started. The residents mostly belong to the Johari tribe and are predominantly farmers. Pankaj Brijlal, the panchayat chief of Dummar village 40km downhill, said: “I got the message from some people who had left the villages immediately after the first day of the puja on August 26 that over 1,000 people wouldn’t be able to return because all connecting roads had been damaged because of rain and landslides. I have informed the local authorities and they have promised to repair the roads by Wednesday.” “I am in touch with the people trapped there over cell phone, although the connectivity is very poor,” he added. Mahesh Ram, an engineer in the public works department, said: “Labourers have been sent to repair and clear the routes and we hope that it will be done within two days.” Located in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, Nanda Devi is the second highest mountain in India after Kanchenjunga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
02-09-2020||India||Centre to send Covid teams to 4 states||The Union health ministry plans to deploy central medical teams to Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh to help with containment, surveillance, testing and clinical management of the coronavirus disease amid a sudden surge and high mortality in these states. The health ministry said on Monday that each “multi-sectoral” team would also work with the state authorities to achieve early diagnosis and adequate follow-up of cases. Each “multi-sectoral team” will include an epidemiologist and a public health expert. The 7-day average daily new cases in all four states, among others, have increased over the past two weeks — from 475 on August 16 to 1,311 on August 30 in Chhattisgarh, 702 to 1,578 in Jharkhand, 2,018 to 3,201 in Odisha and 4,544 to 5,407 in Uttar Pradesh. The Covid-19 mortality rates in the four states are lower than India’s average of 1.78 per cent on Monday. The cumulative mortality rates are 0.9 per cent in Chhattisgarh, 1.1 per cent in Jharkhand, 0.5 per cent in Odisha and 1.5 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. The health ministry did not specify on Monday what it meant by “high mortality” in the four states. But health officials have earlier told The Telegraph that the ministry keeps track of changes in mortality and “immediately” alerts states when there are any increases. The ministry has said all states should aim to reduce the case fatality rate to less than 1 per cent. Public health experts view Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh as among states where the Covid-19 epidemic for weeks lagged behind others such as Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, but are now experiencing a surge in cases. “India has multiple Covid-19 epidemics — different geographical areas are in different phases of the epidemic,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist and member of a Covid-19 task force on epidemiology and surveillance set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The central government has been deputing its teams from time to time to visit various states to interact with local authorities and “get a first-hand understanding” of the challenges faced by them, the ministry said. The Centre had earlier deployed similar teams to Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Bengal, among other states. India on Monday recorded 78,512 new Covid-19 cases, raising the country’s total number to over 3.62 million, of whom over 2.77 million have recovered, 781,975 patients are under medical supervision and 64,469 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||There’s a hole in FaceBucket… So fix it, Dear Ravi, Dear Ravi…||Plug the leak, Dear Mark. Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has written a 900-plus-word letter to Mark Zuckerberg, extending best wishes to the Facebook CEO and his family and lecturing him on the perceived political beliefs of the company’s employees. After beating about the bush like a true commissar, Prasad comes to the point: “The spate of recent anonymous, source-based reports is nothing but an internal power struggle within your company for an ideological hegemony. “No other logic can explain how facts are being spun by the selective leaks from within your company to try to portray an alternate reality. This interference in India’s political process through gossip, whispers and innuendo is condemnable. This collusion of a group of Facebook employees with international media is giving a free run to malevolent vested interests to cast aspersions on the democratic process of our great democracy.” The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine had recently published reports naming Ankhi Das, Facebook’s public policy head for South and Central Asia, while reporting on how the social media giant had condoned hateful speeches of BJP leaders and how it had supported Narendra Modi’s campaign. Prasad, who is also Union law minister and a former information and broadcasting minister, wades into HR issues usually handled by company officials — not elected representatives, unless the area of operation happens to be North Korea. “It seems from credible media reports that the Facebook India team, right from the India Managing Director to other senior officials, is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief. People from this political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people of India in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision-making apparatus of important social media platforms. Facebook is the latest tool in their arsenal to stoke internal divisions and social disturbances,” the minister wrote. The minister has not identified the media that purportedly published the “credible reports” about the domination of Facebook India by employees of a particular ideological slant. Such comments on a company’s staff should normally elicit a reply that politely seeks to convey “it is none of your business who we hire” but Zuckerberg so far has shown scant evidence of spine while dealing with strongman regimes. The irony is unlikely to escape Zuckerberg: In the US, his company is accused of siding with the Right wing. In India, the Right wing is accusing him of siding with the Left and worse. Prasad also did not explain why his party’s MP Nishikant Dubey split procedural hair and objected to the decision by a parliamentary panel to call Facebook. Since Prasad’s government has so many grievances against Facebook employees, the BJP should have been eager to grill Facebook in front of the House panel. In the letter to Zuckerberg, Prasad comes up with another gripe: Facebook employees are “abusing the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers”. The BJP leader’s letter does not mention specific instances of such abuse but merely says: “It is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet Ministers of India while still working in Facebook India and managing important positions.” It is not clear why Prasad is taking such a benevolent step of writing a letter instead of sending law-enforcement agencies after those who allegedly abused the Prime Minister. Several such instances have been reported across the country when lesser mortals take out their anger on the Prime Minister. Prasad also alleged unfair practices against the BJP during the last general election. “I have been informed that in the run up to the 2019 General Elections in India, there was a concerted effort by the Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right-of-centre ideology. I am also aware that dozens of emails written to the Facebook management received no response. The… cases of bias and inaction are seemingly a direct outcome of the dominant political beliefs of individuals in your Facebook India team,” the minister wrote in the letter. Prasad alleged that “there have also been multiple instances recently where Facebook has been used by anarchic & radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence”. “However, we are yet to see any meaningful action against such elements. Is this action also held back by the same vested interest groups who have an incentive in stoking political violence and instability in India?” the BJP leader said. Prasad claimed that Facebook had outsourced fact-checking to “shady organisations with no credibility”. He alleged that the fact-checkers “harbour publicly expressed political biases”. The minister had advice for Facebook. “As a transnational digital platform, Facebook must not only be fair and neutral, but also visibly seen to be so, to users of diverse beliefs and ideologies. Individuals working in any organisation may have their individual likes or dislikes, but that must not have any bearing on the public policies and performance of the organisation,” he wrote. Prasad signed off thus: “Facebook has been a novel experiment in democratising the expression of people and giving a platform to millions of ordinary citizens to freely express their views, connect, build communities, associate and communicate. I hope that you are cognisant that this experiment should not be allowed to be hijacked by a vested lobby that abhors free speech and tries to enforce one world view and rejects diversity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Two rounds of face-off on India-China border||The Indian Army is now controlling key ridges on the southern bank of the Pangong Lake and has fortified its positions after the Chinese army attempted to alter the status quo “unilaterally” on Saturday night, sources in the defence ministry said on Tuesday. It also emerged during the day that there were two rounds of confrontation, not one, since Saturday night. An official statement from the Indian external affairs ministry mentioned two sets of offensive from the Chinese side, putting to rest the discrepancy in the dates mentioned in the versions put out by the two armies on Monday. The Chinese troops tried to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Tso — first “in the late night of 29th and on 30th August” and again on Monday when the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussion to deescalate the situation, the Indian foreign ministry said. In both instances, the Indian side, according to the ministry, was able to prevent the attempts by the Chinese troops to unilaterally alter the status quo. Defence ministry officials said the latest army operation led to the occupation of multiple ridges above 14,000 feet, which is said to have upset the People’s Liberation Army troops who tried to open a new front on the south bank of the lake but was foiled by the Indian soldiers. “The Indian Army has now occupied some key ridges near the southern bank of the lake and are controlling the heights and keeping a close watch on the PLA troops’ movements. The army has also fortified its positions there, which has upset them,” a ministry official said. There are indications that the occupation of the key ridges was done with an eye to drive a hard bargain during negotiations. The official added that the ridges that had been occupied are well within the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control. “Our action is purely defensive and not offensive. It has been done considering the massive Chinese build-up on their side of the LAC in this particular zone,” he said. Even off the record, official sources in India have been maintaining that Indian troops are only occupying key ridges within this side of the LAC. But the line is not demarcated and border management often runs on perceptions. Sources in the security establishment said tension was simmering at multiple friction points in the region as the armies of the two countries had deployed additional men and machines, including artillery and missile systems. “It is boiling,” said an Intelligence Bureau official, adding that the brigadier-level talks that took place on Tuesday remained inconclusive. Accusing China of violating the understanding arrived at through a series of meetings to deescalate and disengage, India said the Chinese side was in breach of every single agreement and protocol with its provocative actions. Earlier in the day, the Chinese embassy in New Delhi accused Indian troops of violating the consensus reached in previous multi-level engagements and negotiations “again at the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake and near the Reqin Pass in the western sector of the China-India border”. Accusing India of “flagrant provocations”, the embassy said India’s move had grossly violated China’s territorial sovereignty and seriously flouted relevant agreements and protocols for peace and tranquillity in the border areas. In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said: “Since the founding of the People’s Republic of China more than 70 years ago, we have never initiated a war or conflict, and never taken an inch of land that is not ours. In fact, China’s border troops have been strictly abiding by the LAC and they’ve never trespassed. The Indian side should respect facts and take concrete actions with the good will of preserving China-India relations, so as to jointly preserve peace and tranquillity of the border areas.” Asked about the counter-allegations coming out of the two capitals, Hua said: “What India said may differ from ours, but there’s only one simple truth.” The border standoff had started on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake with hand-to-hand skirmishes between the two armies on May 5, before it snowballed into a violent face-off on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting and took a comprehensive review of the security situation along the LAC. The meeting was attended by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, the tri-services chiefs and the director-general of military operations. Rajnath is leaving for Russia on Wednesday to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers’ meet on September 3. The Chinese defence minister will also take part in the meet. Sources in the defence ministry said no bilateral meeting with the Chinese was scheduled. Last week, India had pulled out of a multi-nation military exercise in Russia that included the People’s Liberation Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Allahabad HC quashes Kafeel Khan's detention||Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA) and ordered his immediate release, saying the Uttar Pradesh government had done a “selective reading” of his anti-CAA speech at Aligarh Muslim University. The medical doctor had called for national integrity and not incited violence, the court observed. Khan, a critic of the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh, has been in jail since January. Although he was granted bail in February, the Aligarh district magistrate invoked the stringent NSA against him with the ratification of the Uttar Pradesh government and continued to keep him in jail. On Tuesday, quashing Khan’s detention order, the bench of Chief Justice Govind Marhur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh said: “A complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the district magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent.” The court was hearing a writ petition filed by Khan’s mother Nuzhat Parveen challenging the doctor’s detention against the NSA. Parveen had initially moved the Supreme Court, which transferred the case to Allahabad High Court. Khan had addressed students at AMU on December 12 last year during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The court noted that he had been arrested on the charges of “provoking religious sentiments” and attempting to “incite hatred, enmity and disharmony” to cause an “adverse impact on the harmony between the communities” and disturb public peace. The high court said Khan’s detention under the NSA after being granted bail by a competent court in February was illegal. A person can be held without trial for 12 months under the NSA. Khan is lodged in Mathura jail. Allahabad High Court said that a “causal link is found to be missing or completely broken” in the case. “In the absence of any material indicating that the detainee continued to act in a manner prejudicial to public order from December 12, 2019, up to February 13, 2020 (when Khan was booked under the NSA), or that he committed any such… further act as may have had that effect, the preventive detention order cannot be sustained,” the court said. The court added: “In fact, the grounds of detention are silent as to public order at Aligarh being at risk of any prejudice in February 2020 on account of the offending act attributed to the detainee on the date December 12, 2019. “What remains is a mere apprehension expressed by the detaining authority without supporting material on which such apprehension may be founded.” The court noted that Khan had during the AMU speech said that “Mota Bhai” — elder brother in Gujarati and a term sometimes used to refer to Amit Shah and Narendra Modi — wanted to see people either as Hindu or Muslim, that crores would be spent to send people to detention centres and that the healthcare system had broken down. The court noted that Khan had said “they talk about shamshaan-kabristan, Ali-Bajrang Bali, your Kashmir, Ram Mandir, CAB, NRC. They don’t talk about the promise that they made for 2 crore jobs per year. They don’t talk about giving Rs 15 lakh to us as earlier said by them. The economy is doomed, small businessmen are ruined.” Explaining why Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath had targeted him, Khan had said: “The talk about nationalism is actually pseudo-nationalism, on the basis of pseudo-Hinduism only.” The court said Khan was given a compact disk containing his speech at AMU for him to prepare his representation but no player was made available. “The grounds for detention along with material were supplied to the detainee in light of Clause (5) of Article 22 of the Constitution, enabling him to submit his representation to the competent authorities at the earliest. The material so given was a compact disk of the speech delivered by Dr Kafeel Khan on 12th December, 2019, at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University. On asking, it is conveyed to us that no transcript of the speech was supplied to the detainee. The non-supply of transcript would have been of no consequence if a device would have been supplied to the detainee to play the compact disk. It is the position admitted that no such device was made available to the detainee,” the court noted. The court observed that the orders extending Khan’s detention were never given to him. “The record shown to us and the pleadings of the petition also refer that only radiograms relating to the decision of the state government for extension of the term of detention were supplied to the detainee,” it said. “The radiograms mention that the actual order shall be sent through speed post but in fact nothing except the radiograms were given to the detainee.” The court added: “In light of the discussion above, we are having no hesitation in concluding that neither the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act, 1980, nor the extension of the detention are sustainable in the eye of law,” it said. The Uttar Pradesh government had in August extended Khan’s detention under the NSA by three months, saying that an advisory council had noted in its report that there were “enough reasons” to keep him in jail. “The order of detention dated 13th February, 2020, passed by the district magistrate, Aligarh, and confirmed by the state of Uttar Pradesh is set aside. The extension of the period of detention of… Dr Kafeel Khan is also declared illegal. A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr Kafeel Khan… from State custody forthwith,” the court said on Tuesday. Khan had earlier been arrested in 2017 following the deaths of children at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das Medical College because of lack of oxygen cylinders. Khan had been the nodal officer of the 100-bed encephalitis ward of the medical college. It later emerged that the company that had been assigned to ensure uninterrupted supply of liquid oxygen had disrupted delivery because of non-payment of dues by the state government. Khan and nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital had been arrested and later granted bail. An Uttar Pradesh government committee had later absolved Khan of any wrongdoing. The doctor had then alleged that chief minister Adityanath did not like him because he had spoken the truth about the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Sangh overdrive on Pranab Mukherjee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, BJP president J.P. Nadda and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat showered rich tributes on Pranab Mukherjee, seeking to project his death as their loss, betraying an effort to appropriate the legacy of yet another Congress leader. Modi posted a series of tweets on Monday and Tuesday with the highlight being a photograph of him touching Pranab’s feet. Shah, back from hospital after an extended stay for post-Covid care, tweeted in Bengali and English and put out a video in Hindi. Bhagwat issued a statement in Hindi and English, in addition to a video message. He described Pranab’s death as an “irreparable loss to the Sangh (RSS)” and said the former President was “like a guide to the RSS”. The excessive showering of praise and the effort to appropriate his legacy is being seen in power corridors as aimed at the Bengal polls next year. Shah’s tweets in Bengali hailed Pranab as a “loved son of Bengal”. However, the calculated effort to appropriate Pranab had started while he was still in Rashtrapati Bhavan when Modi would flaunt his special bond with the President. Bhagwat, too, paid a number of visits to Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Modi government in 2019 conferred the highest civilian honour Bharat Ratna on Pranab and has now declared a weeklong mourning for the lifelong Congress leader. The BJP has in the past virtually appropriated the legacy of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who worked closely with Jawaharlal Nehru, by accusing the Nehru-Gandhi family of sidelining Patel. Modi used the allegation to play on Gujarati pride and reap political dividend during his stint as Gujarat chief minister. That Patel as home minister had banned the RSS is quietly brushed under the carpet. On Monday, when Pranab passed away, and on Tuesday, when he was cremated, the BJP appeared to be in a rush to leave the Congress behind in paying tribute to the former President. “I was new to Delhi in 2014. From Day 1, I was blessed to have the guidance, support and blessings of Shri Pranab Mukherjee,” Modi tweeted, with a picture of himself touching Pranab’s feet and also holding his hand. The tweets by Modi and other BJP leaders repeatedly addressed him as “Bharat Ratna”. The Congress tweets did not. Shah on Tuesday posted a picture of himself standing to pay respect to Pranab during a cabinet meeting to express “profound sorrow”. “For decades, former President, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji worked relentlessly towards strengthening the nation,” he tweeted. Nadda wrote: “He has served the country in many roles with diligence and determination.” Bhagwat said: “It will not be easy to fill the void in the politico-social life of Bharat. He was a guide for us because of his care & interest about the Sangh.” Modi and many of his ministers went to Pranab’s residence to pay their respects. The Congress was far quieter in its mourning. It posted videos of Pranab, spanning his life, and of senior party leaders remembering him. Party president Sonia Gandhi, in a letter to Pranab’s daughter Sharmistha, wrote: “Pranabda had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the central government over five decades, it is hard to imagine how we can do without his wisdom, experience, sage advice and deep understanding of so many subjects.... The Congress party de-eply mourns his loss and will always honour his memory.” Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in a statement: “I have learnt with profound sorrow about the passing away of Shri Pranab Mukherjee, former President of India. In his death, our country has lost one of its greatest leaders of Independent India. He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs.” Rahul’s tweet was less personal. “With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I join the country in paying homage to him,” he wrote. But before bowing in front of a portrait of the departed President to pay his last respect on Tuesday, Rahul took off his shoes. Modi did not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Drug money use slur on BJP||Former Karnataka chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has triggered a war of words by alleging that drug money helped the BJP topple the coalition government he helmed until a year ago. Still smarting from the pain of the way 17 of the coalition MLAs quit and joined rival BJP to destabilise his government in July last year, Kumaraswamy on Monday said ill-gotten money from “cricket betting networks, dance bars and drug mafia funded the defections” since he had cracked down on them. “During my tenure some of them (main drug peddlers) had fled to Sri Lanka as they knew we would get them,” he said accusing the BJP government of not doing anything to follow up on his work. What triggered the comment was the busting of three hangouts of drug peddlers by the Narcotics Control Bureau on August 21. The bureau had unearthed evidence about some film actors being regular customers of the peddlers. This made film producer and journalist Indrajit Lankesh, brother of slain journalist Gauri Lankesh, to come up and record his statement before the central crime branch about the widespread use of drugs among actors and others in the Kannada film industry. He had even provided video evidence of a top actress under the influence of drugs misbehaving at a gathering. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai had then said the government would take Indrajit’s revelations very seriously. State medical education minister and one of the 17 turncoats, K. Sudhakar, challenged Kumaraswamy’s claim. “Now that he has made such a serious allegation, the former chief minister must produce evidence to support his claim. If he does, I will resign. Or else he must retire from politics,” Sudhakar told reporters on Tuesday. After defecting from the Congress in June last year, Sudhakar has gained in prominence with chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa putting him in charge of the Covid-19 operations since he is a doctor. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday tweeted: “Central and state governments are working hard to dismantle the drug network. Our home minister has issued directives to the police department to dismantle the drug network.” Congress spokesman V.S. Ugrappa echoed Kumaraswamy’s allegations and said illegal casinos were running in the state. “It is a fact that the BJP brought down our coalition government using money power to buy our lawmakers, and that money was sourced from these illegal activities of anti-socials and criminals,” Ugrappa told The Telegraph. “On and off we hear some illegal gambling den being raided and crores of rupees seized. This only shows that the BJP government has turned a blind eye to the illegal activities,” he said. Ugrappa said illegal gambling dens usually run from licensed “recreation clubs”. “Many of them turn gambling dens for anti-socials,” he added. Soon after taking over as chief minister of the coalition government of the Janata Dal Secular-Congress alliance in 2018, Kumaraswamy had instructed the state police to crack down on the mafia involved in drugs, betting and illegal dance bars in the state. But nothing much came out of that investigation despite Kumaraswamy’s earnest efforts. When the BJP went poaching to get sufficient lawmakers to topple the coalition government, many who had rejected the party’s offers had released audio clips showing how Yediyurappa allegedly offered money and power to the turncoats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Rahul slams Facebook ‘assault’ on democracy||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Facebook and WhatsApp of a “brazen assault” on India’s democracy and social harmony, asserting that no foreign company could be allowed to interfere in the nation’s affairs. A day after the Congress sought a criminal investigation against Facebook, claiming that expecting any corrective measure from its top global authorities was futile as the nexus with the BJP ran deep, Rahul tweeted: “International media have fully exposed Facebook’s & WhatsApp’s brazen assault on India’s democracy & social harmony. No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation’s affairs. They must be investigated immediately & when found guilty, punished.” The Wall Street Journal and Time magazine have been publishing reports on how Facebook had condoned hate posts of BJP leaders and pro-Hindutva Right-wingers, and how the American company had aided Narendra Modi’s electoral campaigns. Sharing a complaint letter law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has written to Facebook CEO Zuckerberg, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “If Modi Govt has an iota of credibility, why doesn’t it agree to a JPC (joint parliamentary committee) probe into the shameless collusion between Facebook India & BJP. Why are u running scared? Why are u giving cover fire to guilty? Why protect the colluders? Where is the 56’ chest? The Congress on Wednesday issued a statement saying: “The BJP has been on a mission to subvert India’s democracy and harmony from the time they came to power in 2014. Dismantling democratic institutions and undermining their authority is but second nature to them. Using all means available to them, a recent investigative article by reputed international media reveals, the BJP has gone above and beyond to propagate their agenda. The BJP is found to have availed the services of social media platforms to deceive the Indian public.” The statement added: “The aim of the BJP is ‘divide and rule’ and the social media giant Facebook is helping them achieve this. Casting aside democratic principles, the BJP is attempting to rule the nation by manipulating and coercing public opinion. The blasphemous nexus between the BJP and Facebook is for all to witness and must be investigated without delay.” Pointing to the WSJ and Time reports, the Congress said: “Facebook India and WhatsApp have been used to fire Modi and BJP’s social media campaign, spread hate and disharmony within India and more. From Facebook India’s head of public policy, Ankhi Das’s collusion with the BJP even before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, to Facebook’s inaction to pull down pages, posts that fuel communal hatred and fake news, the link between the two seems stronger than ever. Moreover, Facebook’s global leadership has been aware of the biases and partisanship but remained willing participants, proving that the unholy nexus between BJP-FB has hit the nerve centre of our nation’s democratic functioning.” The statement has pointed to a news report alleging that Facebook had pulled down pages on the BJP’s complaints in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but refused to act on incendiary uploads by the RSS ecosystem. “The BJP had flagged 44 rival pages to Facebook and 14 were pulled down,” the Congress statement claimed. The pages flagged by the BJP are the official accounts of the Bhim Army, the satire site We Hate BJP and a page called The Truth of Gujarat that shares mostly Alt News fact checks. The Congress had on Monday sought a criminal investigation into the affairs of Facebook India. Earlier, the party had written twice to Zuckerberg warning of legal action and urging him to overhaul the company’s India leadership. Asserting that it was no more a political or partisan matter, the Congress on Monday broadened the scope of its demand by asking for an inquiry by a parliamentary standing committee on information technology into the activities of all heads of public policy teams of foreign technology companies operating in India and establish a code of conduct for them. The Congress feared that its letters to Zuckerberg might turn out to be an exercise in futility as the Facebook headquarters had not acted despite full knowledge of its India team’s biases against the Opposition party and alignment with the BJP. The Congress had said in a statement: “India is a sovereign republic and simply cannot tolerate interference in its domestic affairs by anyone, let alone a foreign company in pursuit of profits. The founders and leaders of the Congress party sacrificed their lives to win India her freedom and to establish India as a democratic republic. We will not allow this hard-won democracy to be manipulated and tarnished.” Apart from a criminal investigation, the Congress also demanded a joint parliamentary committee investigation immediately. “All pending approvals and licences for Facebook and WhatsApp to be put on hold until the investigations are completed. Suspension of Facebook India’s leadership team with immediate effect until the conclusion of the investigations,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Konark Sun Temple opens for visitors||The 13th Century Sun Temple at Konark, which has been closed since March 15, reopened for tourists on Tuesday. However, tourists need to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distance while entering and moving around in the temple premises. Only 2,500 tourists will be allowed to enter the premises on any given day. ASI (Bhubaneswar circle) chief Arun Mallik said, “There has been a good response. Some tourists visited the temple after thermal screening. We are hopeful that more and more tourists visiting the temple in the coming days.” According to the guidelines, there will be designated routes for entry and exit and movement within the monument. “As per the guidelines, there are mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions to be followed at the time of entry. An entry ticket is issued by e-mode only,” Mallik said. Though the Sun Temple opened to tourists on Tuesday, the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri is yet to allow devotees. All the religious institutions will remain closed in the state till September 30. Even the famous cremation ground, Swargadwara in Puri, will remain shut down for the outsiders till September end, according to the order of the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Orissa High Court nod for Cuttack’s oldest Durga Puja    ||The Orissa High Court has allowed Balu Bazaar Puja Committee, the oldest puja committee of the 1,000-year-old Cuttack city, to organise Durga Puja but without public participation and with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The committee has been organising the puja for more than 500 years now. Here the puja was started by one Banerjee family from Bengal who had come to the state along with saint Chaitanya Deb from Bengal in the 15th Century. Advocate Anirudha Sanganeria, who pleaded the case on behalf of the committee, told The Telegraph, “We had moved a PIL urging the court to allow us to organise the puja. We also cited how the Puri Rath Yatra was held peacefully without the participation of devotees. Considering our plea, the High Court bench headed by chief justice permitted us to hold the puja. However, they have directed us to organise the puja without any public participation.” Sanganeria said the high court also wanted to know where we will make idols. “When we informed the high court that the idols will be crafted inside the premises of a temple and there will be no congregation of people, the court no more objected to our plea. The immersion of idols will also be held without participation of devotees.” However, the high court asked the puja committee to follow all the guidelines pertaining to the Covid-19 issued by the state as well as the Centre from time to time. The Balu Bazaar Puja Committee has a rich history of Durga Puja. President of the Balu Bazar Puja Committee Suryakanta Sanganeria said, “The puja was first organised in 1509 by one Banerjee family which had come along with saint Chaitanya Deb from Nabadwip to Odisha in early 15th Century. During their sojourn here, the Durga Puja time came and the Banerjee family approached the people of Cuttack for their cooperation. People had overwhelmedly supported the move and the idol puja began. Even when famine gripped Odisha in 1865-66, the puja was not stopped. It was not stopped even during the Spanish flu of 1919.” The silver city Durga Puja is famous for its extravagance and the amount of silver and gold used to decorate the idols. This time Durga Puja is scheduled to be held from October 21. Nearly 169 pandals are erected every year in the city during the Durga Puja. Cuttack Peace Committee vice-president Nrusingha Charana Choudhury said: “We are aware of the corona pandemic. We have already a round discussion with the Cuttack district administration. They have agreed to allow us to conduct the puja. But the puja will be held without public participation. There will be no distribution of prasad and there will be no decoration.” Choudhury said, “Following the high court order, another meeting will be held by the state administration to issue fresh guidelines regarding the puja. Whatever guidelines the government will issue, we will follow them in letter and spirit.” Sources said the administration will insist upon puja committees not making idols higher than five feet. Police commissioner, (Bhubaneswar-Cuttack) Sudhansu Sarangi said, “There will be no decoration, music and other cultural programmes this year during durga puja.  We will allow only 10 people inside the mandap (pandal) during the puja. If we allow more people, there is a chance of contamination. We will not allow the congregation of people in the Puja mandap. We will issue fresh guidelines after detailed discussion with the various stakeholders including public representatives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
