03-09-2020||India||Will answer every question asked in Parliament: Govt||The Centre on Thursday said it would answer every question asked in Parliament, and 160 “unstarred” questions would be answered every day during the monsoon session starting September 14, sources said. The sources countered the Opposition charge that the Question Hour was being curtailed and pointed out that it has been dispensed with in previous years for various reasons. Research conducted by the Rajya Sabha also revealed that 60 per cent of Question Hour time was not availed during the past five years. Sources said the Question Hour was done away with during the Emergency in 1975 and 1976. Unlike then, the country is now in the midst of a health emergency due to Covid-19 and the season is being held under extraordinary circumstances even as there is paucity of time, the government said. The presiding officers of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have been informed by the ministry of parliamentary affairs that the government has consulted various political parties and that there is broad consensus, barring one political party, on doing away with the Question Hour. It is based on this consensus among the Opposition parties that the government has requested the presiding officers to do away with the Question Hour and Private Members’ Business for this session, the sources said. The Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi had not consulted all the Opposition leaders. He said that doing away with the Question Hour and not holding the government accountable to the questions of public interest raised in Parliament in the “starred” category was “an assault on India’s democracy and a sinister design to undermine Parliament and parliamentary practices”. He said that in the “starred” question category, the minister concerned has to answer supplemental questions. The idea is to hold the government accountable to ensure that public welfare steps are taken and fix accountability of the government to Parliament and through it to the 130 crore people of India, the Congress leader said. Besides the “unstarred” questions, up to 10 special mentions will also be taken up to bring matters of importance to the government’s notice, the sources said. Both Houses will also discuss important issues like the pandemic, the state of the economy and other developments and there will be provisions for short discussions, besides calling attention notices will also be taken up, the sources added. The Opposition has criticised the government for its decision to not have the Question Hour and the Private Members' Business, alleging that it is trying to “murder” democracy in the name of Covid-19, and the session is being convened to bring legislative proposals to replace ordinances. “By abolishing the Question Hour, the government is running scared of answering relevant questions to the people of India through their elected representatives. The Modi government does not want to answer questions on the transgressions by China, about India’s economy and the free fall of the GDP. “The Modi government does not want to be held accountable in the coronavirus pandemic. It does not want to be held accountable for the closure of businesses and industries. The Modi government does not want to be held accountable for the sinister stifling of democracy and that is why it wants to end the Question Hour. The Congress party will oppose it tooth and nail,” Surjewala said at an online media briefing. Government sources have argued that there has been no Question Hour in state Assemblies ruled by the Congress and other Opposition parties during the pandemic and that sessions are being held for only one to three days. The research conducted by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat revealed that during 2015-19, only about 40 per cent of the Question Hour time was available to raise questions and obtain oral responses of the government and the rest went unused on account of disruptions. During 2015-19, the Rajya Sabha held a total of 332 sittings, during which a total time of 332 hours was available for the Question Hour, but only 133 hours and 17 minutes were spent on raising questions and obtaining oral replies from the ministers concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
03-09-2020||India||Border situation a direct result of Chinese action, says India||India on Thursday said the situation witnessed in the border areas in eastern Ladakh over the past four months is a "direct result" of actions taken by China aimed at effecting unilateral change in the status quo of the region. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India is committed to resolve all issues through dialogue, noting the way ahead to address the issue is negotiations. "It is clear that the situation we witnessed(in eastern Ladakh) over the past four months is a direct result of actions by Chinese side aimed at effecting unilateral change in status quo. "We strongly urge China to sincerely engage with the Indian side with the objective of expeditiously restoring peace in border areas through complete disengagement," he said at an online media briefing. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. Srivastava on Tuesday said the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) was engaged in "provocative action" again a day earlier when the ground commanders of the two sides were holding talks to ease the situation. Following the Chinese attempts, the Indian Army has strengthened its presence in at least three strategic heights in the southern bank of Pangong lake. Replying to a question on whether External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will travel to Moscow to attend a meeting of the SCO foreign ministers on September 10, Srivastava said "yes". The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is an eight-nation regional grouping that includes China and India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
03-09-2020||India||Facebook responds to Congress's charge of 'political bias' ||Amid a raging controversy over Facebook's alleged political bias and interference in India's democratic process, the social media giant has told the Congress that it is non-partisan, denounces hate and bigotry in all forms and strives to ensure that its platforms remain a space where people can express themselves freely. Responding to concerns raised by the opposition Congress, Facebook's Public Policy, Trust and Safety Director Neil Potts has said that it has taken the party's allegation of bias very seriously and will ensure that it remains non-partisan and is committed to maintaining the highest levels of integrity. The Congress accused Facebook of interfering in India's democratic process and social harmony and being soft on members of the ruling BJP on applying its hate-speech rules. The Congress had written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg following reports by the Wall Street Journal and the Time magazine about the conduct of Facebook and WhatsApp India's leadership team, alleging bias and proximity with the ruling BJP. "We take seriously the concerns and recommendations you raised on behalf of the Indian National Congress... First and foremost, we want to take this opportunity to state that we are non-partisan and strive to ensure that our platforms remain a space where people can express themselves freely. We take allegations of bias seriously and want to make clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in all forms," Potts said in the letter, dated September 1. In his letter to AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, who had written to Zuckerberg twice, Potts said, "On the question of hateful content by public figures, we want to assure you that our Community Standards prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics, including religion, caste, ethnicity, and national origin. In line with our hate speech policy, we have removed and will continue to remove hateful content by public figures in India on our platforms." Facebook is at the centre of a raging political debate in the country with both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress accusing it of colluding and influencing opinion. The BJP has accused the social media giant's employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and "abusing" Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers. In a three-page letter to Zuckerberg, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad flagged the social media platform's alleged "bias and inaction" by individuals in the Facebook India team on complaints by people supportive of right-of-centre ideology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Modi donated Rs 2.25 lakh from personal savings to PM CARES: Officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's donations to a number of public causes, ranging from girl child education to the cleaning of Ganga, from his savings and the proceeds of auctions of the gifts he received exceed Rs 103 crore, officials in the Prime Minister's Office  said on Thursday. The latest among his donations was the initial corpus of Rs 2.25 lakh to the PM CARES Fund, which was set up in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak to support relief of any kind relating to a public health emergency or any other kind of emergency, calamity or distress. The Fund, set up in March, received Rs 3,076.62 crore in just five days of its formation, as per an account statement made public on Wednesday. Highlighting Modi's donations to public causes, an official on the condition of anonymity revealed that he gave Rs 21 lakh in 2019 from his personal savings to the corpus fund set up for the welfare of sanitation workers of Kumbh Mela. After receiving the Seoul Peace Prize in South Korea in 2019, the prime minister had announced that the entire prize money of Rs 1.30 crore would be given to the Namami Gange project, aimed at cleaning Ganga river, he added. PM Modi has contributed to many public causes. These donations have now exceeded Rs 103 crores, the PMO officials said. During a recent auction of mementoes received by Modi as prime minister, Rs 3.40 crore was collected and donated to the cause of Namami Gange. The sources said Modi had donated Rs 21 lakh from his personal savings towards the education of Gujarat government staff's daughter after he quit as the state chief minister in 2014 to take over as the country's prime minister. He had also raised Rs 89.96 crore by auctioning all gifts he received as chief minister and donated this to the Kanya Kelavani Fund, a scheme for education of the girl child. The prime minister had also initiated the auctioning of gifts he received till then in 2015, and Rs 8.35 crore were raised, with the amount channelled to the Namami Gange Mission, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Facebook stirs, bans BJP leader for hate speech||Under pressure for weeks over its handling of hate speech, Facebook on Thursday said it has banned BJP politician T Raja Singh from its platform and Instagram for violating its policy on content promoting violence and hate. "We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform, a Facebook spokesperson said in an emailed statement. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led to Facebook's decision to remove his account, according to the statement. Facebook - which counts India among its largest markets with over 300 million users - has been in the eye of a storm after a Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report alleged that Facebook's content policies favoured the ruling party in India. The report had alleged that Facebook had ignored posts containing hate speech by BJP MLA Raja Singh. Since then, the ruling BJP and Congress have been trading barbs over social media giant's alleged bias. In the wake of the WSJ report, a Parliamentary panel had summoned Facebook representatives to discuss the issue of alleged misuse of the social media platform on Wednesday. On Tuesday, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had also written to Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg accusing the social media platform's employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and "abusing" the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers. According to sources, the decision to remove Singh from the platform was taken after an extensive process that the company follows in determining which individuals meet the criteria for policy violation and the work had been ongoing for some time to review Singh's actions. The company had previously removed the content Singh had posted that violated its policies, including its hate speech policies, but the decision to ban Singh from the platform has been taken now, one of the sources said. Post the ban, Singh has been designated under Facebook's dangerous individuals and organisations policy, and he will not be allowed to maintain a presence on the platform going forward. As a part of the process, Singh will not be allowed on Facebook or its photo and video-sharing platform Instagram. The company will remove Pages, Groups and accounts set up to represent him. However, it will continue to allow wider discussion of him, including praise and support. Another source said the signals used by Facebook to determine dangerous individuals and organisations include whether they've called for or directly carried out acts of violence against people based on factors like race, ethnicity, or national origin. Other parameters that were taken into account include checking whether they're a self-described or identified follower of a hateful ideology; or they have used hate speech on Facebook, Instagram, or other social media sites, the source said. To date, the company has banned a range of groups and individuals across the globe for violating this policy. The social media giant uses a mix of technology tools and reviewers to take action against content violating its policies. In Q2 2020, it had removed over 4 million pieces of content tied to hate groups, over 96 per cent of which was removed before anyone reported it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India|| Army Chief begins two-day visit to Ladakh||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane began a two-day visit to Ladakh on Thursday to carry out a comprehensive review of the security situation in the region in view of China's fresh attempts to change status quo along the southern bank of Pangong lake, official sources said. Gen Naravane will be briefed about the evolving situation by top Army commanders overseeing deployment of troops as well as India's combat readiness in the region, they said. "The Chief of Army Staff is on a two-day visit to Leh to review operational preparedness in Ladakh region," said a source. Tension escalated in the Pangong lake area after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy certain areas in the southern bank of Pangong lake following which India rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) was engaged in "provocative action" again a day earlier when the ground commanders of the two sides were holding talks to ease the situation. Following the attempts, the Indian Army strengthened its presence in at least three strategic heights in the southern bank of Pangong lake. Some "readjustments" in deployment of troops were also carried out on the northern bank of the Pangong lake on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as part of precautionary measures, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Twitter account linked to Modi's website hacked||Twitter on Thursday said the account linked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal website was hacked, and it has now been restored. "We're aware of this activity and have taken steps to secure the compromised account. We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted. Advice on keeping your account secure can be found here," a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement. The compromised account has about 2.5 million followers. After hacking the @narendramodi_in Twitter account, which is the Prime Minister's personal website, the cybercriminal reportedly sent out posts seeking donations for the PM National Relief Fund for Covid-19 using crypto currency. "Yes, this account is hacked by John Wick (hckindia@tutanota.com), We have not hacked Paytm Mall," another message had said. On August 30, cybersecurity firm Cyble had said hacker group 'John Wick' was behind a data breach at Paytm Mall, the e-commerce unit of Paytm. Paytm Mall had said it had not found any security lapses after investigating claims of a possible hack and data breach. Twitter on Thursday also said as per its investigation, the latest attack was not due to a compromise of Twitter's systems or service. There is no indication or evidence of any correlation between this account compromise and the incident that took place in July, it said. Accounts of high-profile users like Elon Musk, Bill Gates, Barack Obama, Jeff Bezos and others were compromised on July 15. In an update on its blog on July 30, Twitter had said attackers had used credentials of some employees to access its internal systems and gain information about its processes. The attackers targeted 130 Twitter accounts, ultimately Tweeting from 45, accessing the DM inbox of 36, and downloading the Twitter Data of 7 accounts, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Judges afraid of the Bar, says Dushyant Dave||The Supreme Court has come to a level where judges are afraid of the Bar, Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave wrote in a letter to the Chief Justice of India on Wednesday, after he was denied a chance to speak at the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. Dave, a forthright lawyer who was part of Prashant Bhushan’s legal team in the criminal contempt case and who had contributed more than Rs 1 crore out of his own pocket towards a Covid relief fund for advocates, said he was “deeply saddened” and would not participate in any event organised by the Supreme Court till his term as SCBA chief ended in December. By convention, the SCBA, which represents the Supreme Court’s lawyers, holds a farewell for a judge on the day of their retirement. The farewell address is delivered by the SCBA president. But Justice Mishra, who headed the bench that convicted Bhushan of “criminal contempt” amid outrage and protests by lawyers, had cited the pandemic and said he did not want the farewell. Traditionally, on their last day in office, the retiring judge sits in the Chief Justice’s court. This convention was followed and Justice Mishrasat with Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, in proceedings that were held through videoconference. After the matters were disposed of, a brief farewell was held, to which attorney-general Venugopal, SCBA chief Dave and Supreme Court Advocates on Records Association (SCORA) president Shivaji Yadav were invited. While the attorney-general, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, former attorney-general Mukul Rohatgi and Shivaji Yadav got to speak, Dave said he was deliberately “muted”. Once he realised he was not being allowed to speak, the SCBA president logged out of the proceedings and wrote a letter of protest to the Chief Justice. The Telegraph contacted the office of the Chief Justice of India for a clarification, but there was no official response. Sources in the National Informatics Centre, which handles e-conferencing, said if at all Dave had been unable to speak it was because of technical glitches of the sort faced every day even by judges during hearings. Dave, in his letter to the Chief Justice, said the audio and video were fine. The text of his letter follows: “As president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, I wish to place on record my strong disappointment and condemnation at what happened earlier today in the Supreme Court of India during the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. “I got a link this morning at 10.06 to join the Ceremonial Bench of the Chief Justice of India at 12.30pm from the Team SCI VC and which was sent on WhatsApp by the concerned registrar. I responded at 10.16, accepting it, which was acknowledged by the registrar at 10.18. “I joined through the link around 12.20pm and was confirmed by the Team, saying Video and Audio were perfect. I then had conversations with the AG, the SG, President SCORA, amongst others. Once the court assembled, I saw and heard all the proceedings clearly. At the end, Mr Rohtagi bid farewell. “After court work, Mr Venugopal was requested to speak and I saw and heard him fully, including as to his disappointment on the punishment of Shri Prashant Bhushan. (Venugopal had said in his speech that he would personally have been happy had no punishment been meted out to Bhushan for contempt.) “When he ended, I thought that I will be requested to speak, instead Mr Jadhav was requested knowing full well I was present. For some unknown reasons, I was being disconnected again and again but I persisted and rejoined each time. I saw and heard Shri Jadhav fully and at the end of his address again I was not requested to speak, though Shri Jadhav acknowledged my presence in his address. “After that Your Lordship spoke, which I saw and heard, and then invited Justice Mishra to speak. At that stage, realising the game plan, I exited in the larger interests of the dignity of the Bar and myself.” The text of his letter added: “But what is most important is that I messaged the secretary general on WhatsApp at 12.49 and again at 12.53, asking why I was kept on mute and why was I at all invited. Only at 1.02 he responded, saying he is instructing the registrar to look into it, by which time it was too late and so I messaged him informing that I had exited. “The entire episode leaves much to be desired on the part of this great institution. The whole attempt was to prevent me from addressing on behalf of the SCBA and its EC, after having invited and the invitation having been accepted. This was clearly an affront to the Bar and to me personally. “While you may have done so fearing that I might say something unpleasant, let me tell you exactly what I was to say which I had written down.” Dave then reproduced the speech that he had intended to read out at the farewell. The letter continued: “I must confess, the Supreme Court has come to such levels where the judges are afraid of the Bar. Please do remember, judges come and go but we the Bar remain constant. We are the real strength of this great institution because we are permanent. “I must say, I am personally deeply saddened by this event and will never again participate in any function being organised by the Supreme Court till my term is over in December.” Dave is known for his forthright views and criticism of the present BJP government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Covid excuse to quarantine Question Hour||The self-avowedly muscular Narendra Modi government has used the pandemic as a plea to scrap Question Hour for the upcoming Parliament session, depriving the House of its lone device to exercise some control over the executive and prompting Opposition protests. The publication of a provisional calendar for the fortnight-long session, starting September 14, has confirmed weeks of speculation about the suspension of Question Hour, which an explanatory note on the Rajya Sabha website says “gives the institution of Parliament the great significance it possesses”. Question Hour represents the first hour of a day’s sitting, when MPs can raise governance-related queries that the ministers concerned are obligated to answer, orally or in writing. As Opposition members and social media users slammed the government move as a gag on democracy, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi was quoted in the evening by ANI as saying: “I have suggested Lok Sabha Speaker & Rajya Sabha Chairman to keep the duration of the Zero Hour at 30 minutes. They will take the final decision. Govt is ready to have discussions on every issue. We have also requested the Speaker to take un-starred questions.” However, Zero Hour had already been curtailed to 30 minutes, and un-starred questions do not require oral answers from the ministers — only written answers are circulated among members. During Zero Hour, ministers are not compelled by law to respond even if they are in the House when an issue is raised. Joshi was quoted as saying that the leaders of all the Opposition parties barring Trinamul had agreed to the scrapping of Question Hour. However, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, had written to the Speaker last week urging him to ensure there was no curtailment of Question Hour or Zero Hour. The government has argued that conducting Question Hour would require officials to visit the Parliament complex to assist their ministers, increasing the number of people on the premises. However, Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien underlined that ministers can be briefed via videoconferencing too. Besides, the number of questions to be taken up daily during Question Hour can be reduced from the current 20, it was suggested. The Opposition has a raft of questions for the government — from the management of the Covid crisis and the Chinese incursions to the economy and the PM Cares Fund — and had been hoping to get a few answers, however wishy-washy. Another of the government’s arguments — that there wasn’t enough time for Question Hour during a session hamstrung by Covid-related restrictions — too faced a challenge from O’Brien. The quizmaster turned politician did some quick research and calculation to show that not only was a regular session without Question Hour unprecedented, there was enough time to accommodate it despite all the curbs. Parliament usually functions for 30 hours in a five-day week, working six hours a day — two hours before lunch and four in the afternoon. This coming session, the two Houses will function four hours a day and sit during the weekends too, making it a 28-hour week. With private members’ business too having been done away with, O’Brien underlined that the upcoming session had actually gained an extra 30 minutes. Past sessions without Question Hour, O’Brien said, were sessions called for special purposes like the 1962 Chinese aggression, proclamation of the Emergency, and enactment of the 44th Amendment to undo many of the decisions taken during the Emergency. Others protested too. “I said four months ago that strongmen leaders would use the excuse of the pandemic to stifle democracy & dissent. The notification for the delayed Parliament session blandly announces there will be no Question Hour. How can this be justified in the name of keeping us safe?” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted. “Questioning the government is the oxygen of parliamentary democracy. This Govt seeks to reduce Parliament to a notice-board & uses its crushing majority as a rubber stamp for whatever it wants to pass. The one mechanism to promote accountability has now been done away with.” The DMK’s Kanimozhi said: “BJP govt’s decision to suspend the Question Hour for an entire session conveys just one message — ‘Even elected representatives have no right to question the government’.” Trinamul Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra linked the government decision to the general atmosphere of intolerance towards any questioning in the country. “Asking questions in court is contempt. Asking questions outside Parliament is sedition. And now asking questions inside Parliament is forbidden,” she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Absence of Modi-Xi role puzzling: Nirupama||The situation along the China frontier continues to remain “exceedingly” tense with the Indian and Chinese armies said to match each other in strength near the southern bank of the Pangong Lake, sources in the security establishment said. A retired foreign secretary and some veterans on Wednesday questioned the absence of contact at the level of the top leadership to resolve the standoff. Former foreign secretary Nirupama Menon Rao tweeted: “The absence of top leadership-level contact — viz. between @PMOIndia/@narendramodi and (President) Xi Jinping — as tensions mount in the continuing India-China standoff is inexplicable. Surely, the two informal summits and many bilateral meetings between them should have helped.” Brigadier-level talks between the two armies that took place on Wednesday for the third consecutive day ended inconclusively and is likely to continue on Thursday. “The ongoing talks for the third consecutive day today failed to achieve any breakthrough. Both sides are negotiating very hard to resolve the standoff and at the same time continue to deploy more men and matching weapons,” said an official of the Intelligence Bureau. A veteran said: “It is clear that diplomacy and military talks are not working at all. Diplomatic intervention from the political leadership is the need of the hour.” Tension escalated in the weekend after Chinese troops allegedly attempted to change the status quo on the southern bank of the Pangong Lake but were thwarted by the Indian Army. A reported counter-operation by the Indian Army led to the occupation of key ridges on the southern bank of the lake within India’s side of the LAC. The Indian Army on Wednesday denied media reports that its specialised units had occupied the ridges on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake where Chinese troops have dug themselves in 8km inside India-claimed lines since May. The army said it had made some precautionary redeployment on its side of the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Urdu to lose Jammu and Kashmir special status||Urdu is set to lose its 131-year-old status as Jammu and Kashmir’s sole official language. The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday decided to include Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English as official languages of the Union Territory. “We have decided to introduce the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill 2020 in Parliament, under which five languages — Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English —will become official languages,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a cabinet meeting in New Delhi. Javadekar, briefing the media on the cabinet decisions, linked the change to the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year. “It is not only the fulfilment of a long-pending public demand from the region but is also in keeping with the spirit of equality, which was ushered in after August 5 last year,” he said. The erstwhile Dogra rulers of Jammu and Kashmir had recognised Urdu as the official language in 1889, replacing Persian, which had enjoyed that status for three centuries. The change was largely driven by the desire that most people in the princely state understand the official language. Although Urdu is not the mother tongue of most Jammu and Kashmir residents, a big majority of their children converse in the language, a trend that has picked up in recent years. For more than a century, Urdu has been the language used in revenue records and the courts, and by police. English was, however, gradually allowed for official transactions. Jammu and Kashmir law secretary Achal Sethi said the previous Constitution (scrapped last year) recognised only Urdu as the official language. “But it was written there that English will continue to be used,” Sethi said. The Centre had last year passed the J&K Reorganisation Act, which empowered Parliament to “adopt any one or more of the languages in use in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Hindi as the official language or languages to be used for all or any of the official purposes”. Union minister Jitendra Singh, who is from Jammu, hailed Wednesday’s decision. “Inclusion of Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri as official languages in Jammu and Kashmir is not only the fulfilment of a long-pending public demand, but also in keeping with the spirit of equality ushered after August 5, 2019,” the minister tweeted. But National Conference leader and former minister Agha Rohullah said there was never a demand here for adding other languages. “It’s a continuation of what has been happening here and is a cultural invasion of Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir, being a Muslim-majority state, is not an administrative issue for them. It has become a theatre for them to woo Hindutva voters and they want to demolish the cultural identity of Jammu and Kashmir,” Ruhullah told The Telegraph. “Urdu has not been the language of one religion; people from all religions embraced it. It is the Dogras who made it the official language.” People’s Democratic Party spokesperson Firdous Tak said: “It’s like somebody writes an official letter in Kashmiri and gets a reply in Dogri. Neither will understand what the other has written.” Members of Jammu’s Dogri community, however, cheered the inclusion of Dogri in the list of official languages. Other ethnic communities of the Union Territory are now expected to demand official language status for their mother tongues. Kashmiri is spoken by over 55 per cent and Dogri by around 25 per cent of the population of Jammu and Kashmir. Pahari, Gogri and other languages are spoken by the remaining 20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Health ministry advice belies exam swagger||The Union health ministry has left it to symptomatic students the final decision whether to take an exam or not, echoing a public health policy caution not displayed by those pushing for immediate examinations at higher education institutions. “Only asymptomatic staff and students shall be allowed inside the examination hall,” the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union health ministry on Wednesday said. “In regular course, a symptomatic candidate should be referred to the nearest health centre and given an opportunity to undertake the exam through other means or the universities or educational institution should arrange for taking exam at a later date when the student is declared physically fit.” However, if a student found symptomatic insists on taking the exam, she or he “may be allowed to take the exam by shifting the candidate to a separate isolation room”, the SOPs said. “The permission in such cases shall be granted as per the policy already enunciated by the examination-conducting authorities.” Students living in containment zones will not be allowed to sit for the exams, nor will there be any exam centres in such zones. The guidelines are intended to be adopted by the organisers of a series of examinations from this month, covering lakhs of students in the higher education segment. They are also intended for universities that conduct exams during the current phase of the coronavirus epidemic. For practical purposes, the health ministry’s guidelines do not differ from those issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting the ongoing JEE Main exams and the proposed NEET for medical courses. The NTA too had specified that any student whose temperature is 99.4°C or higher would be allowed to take the examination in a separate isolation room. But the Union health ministry has made it clear that ideally, symptomatic students should not sit their exams — advice that is absent from the NTA guidelines. The examinations have become a matter of dispute between the Centre and some of the states, including Bengal. Bearing out the fears expressed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, as much as 75 per cent of the candidates stayed away from the first day of the JEE Main in Bengal on Tuesday. The Union health ministry’s SOPs have iterated the use of masks, physical distancing, sanitisers, thermal scanning, adequate crowd management and other precautions. But, some health experts said, the clause that allows symptomatic students to visit exam centres appears to contradict the primary objective of the SOPs. Health experts say that allowing symptomatic people into exam centres is fraught with risk. “This is in stark contradiction to the public health measures needed to contain a respiratory infection,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Under current circumstances, individuals with symptoms are expected to stay home and test themselves for the coronavirus infection, not mingle with others,” John said. “Even while on their way to separate isolation rooms, symptomatic students could potentially spread the infection to others.” Several infectious disease specialists have cautioned that exams can trigger a surge in cases -– whether they are open to students with or without infections. “Asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people also shed the virus and can spread the infection,” said Shahid Jameel, senior virologist and chief executive of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. “There is no way of knowing who is infected by checking the body temperature.” However, Jameel said, if in-person exams must happen, “it is best to focus attention on the seating arrangement and air flow, and ensure that everyone wears a mask and has a hand sanitiser for whatever it’s worth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||PubG and 117 other apps banned||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday banned another 118 Chinese-funded mobile apps, including the popular PubG, Alipay and Baidu, after terming them prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the nation. The latest move comes a little over two months after the ministry of electronics and information technology banned 59 apps, including TikTok, amid heightened tensions on the border with China. The apps banned on Wednesday include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading, Tencent Weiyun, PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, an official statement said. The apps have been banned invoking powers under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009. PubG is an online multiplayer battle royale game originally developed by PUBG Corporation, which is a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole — one of the probable reasons it was left out of the first list of banned apps. But it has been closely identified with Tencent, which launched it in China with some modifications. Intelligence firm Sensor Tower reckons there have been as many as 175 million downloads of the game in India, making it one of the most popular apps in use in the country. In late June, the Centre had banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok and UC Browser. The ministry had indicated then that it would ban another 47 Chinese apps, which were clones of the previously banned apps, for violation of data and privacy issues. However, this ban was never officially confirmed. So far, the government has sent questionnaires to firms like ByteDance, which owns TikTok, and had appointed a committee to hear submissions from the entities affected by the decision. Under Rule 9 of the IT Rules, the government can exercise emergency powers to ban public access to “any information… through any computer resource” as an interim measure without giving the entity an opportunity of a hearing. But the ban has to be confirmed after giving the entities an opportunity to defend themselves. Karnika Seth, a cyber law expert, said: “The government would have to prove beyond doubt the security concerns it had for banning these apps, while hearing out the contentions of the Chinese firms.” However, cyber security experts said the bans should not be seen in isolation. Along with the border tension, it is an attempt to pre-empt cyber attacks and further data transfers from the country. There could be several other measures that the government could come up with to protect its cyberspace. The statement said the IT ministry had received complaints from various sources, including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on the Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data to servers outside India. “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the statement said. There have been reports suggesting that many of the apps banned in June continue to be used -- and have effectively circumvented restrictions that were placed on them. There are several reasons for this. The Android apps need not necessarily be downloaded from app stores like Google Play. There are websites that offer the option of manual downloading of modified apps. Another infirmity in implementing the ban is that the government has to work with Internet service providers to ensure that these apps cannot access the Net. The government has to work with ISPs to prevent these apps from accessing the Internet and with the official stores to prevent download of both original and duplicate apps. Technical experts say that some aficionados continue to use the apps by avoiding updates. The government’s clampdown on Chinese companies has prompted many entities to reconsider their investments in Indian technology start-ups. Last month, Alibaba Group, one of the largest investors in several ventures, announced that it had halted fresh investments in Indian firms for at least six months. The government has changed its foreign investment policy by making it mandatory for Chinese investors to take prior approvals before funnelling money into any venture in the country. The government has also clamped restrictions on several items imported from China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Kerala CM writes to PM on GST||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to advise the finance ministry not to transfer the burden of GST on the states and instead follow the compensation clause in letter and spirit. “It is felt that transferring the obligation of GST compensation to the states through their borrowing is not in accordance with the spirit of understanding reached between the Centre and states during the discussions preceding the constitutional amendment for bringing in GST,” Vijayan stated in a letter addressed to the Prime Minister. While the letter was dated August 31, Vijayan released it on Twitter on Wednesday. He said the two borrowing options conveyed to the states on August 30 should be withdrawn. The Centre had asked the states to either borrow from the markets or from the special RBI window to meet the shortfall. Kerala was one of the states that immediately dismissed the borrowing options since the Centre refused to pay the GST dues. Vijayan drew Modi’s attention on the assurances to the states when GST was formulated. “When GST was implemented with effect from July 1, 2017, it was agreed upon that the states would be assured of an annual compounded growth rate of 14 per cent in GST revenue with 201516 as the base year during the initial five years of  implementation.” He noted that this was incorporated in the Goods and Services (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, and its Section 7 stated that “compensation shall be payable to the states and it shall be provisionally calculated and released at the end of every two month period”. Vijayan noted that that the provision was not adhered to since 201920. “From April 1, 2020, no compensation has been released to the states. The amount due to Kerala during the period April to August of financial year 2020-21 is Rs 7,000 crore.” The chief minister said the finance ministry had informed the GST Council that, “part of the loss was unprecedented as a result of Covid19”. “It may kindly be taken note of that the revenue loss and expenditure pressures have been much greater to the states and this artificial distinction that is being sought to be drawn would exacerbate the already severe financial stress on state,” Vijayan said. “It is worth recalling that the compensation promised and statutory backing given to the same was an important factor which prompted the states to accept uniform rates for supply of goods and services despite the rate fall inbuilt in the structure of GST,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Centre reverses order and allows online teacher hiring ||The Centre on Wednesday reversed a week-old order and allowed central universities to resume recruiting teachers, a process being conducted through online interviews amid the pandemic. Teachers expressed dismay, accusing varsity authorities of opacity and rule violations in online recruitments and arguing that such recruitment disadvantaged candidates with poor access to quality devices and high-speed Internet. On August 25, the Centre had asked central universities to freeze the recruitment of teachers and other employees until “complete lifting” of the lockdown, gladdening, among others, JNU teachers who had repeatedly complained about irregularities in faculty appointments. But after the vice-chancellors protested, the Union education ministry issued a fresh letter on Wednesday asking central universities to resume online recruitments. “This (August 25) decision has been reviewed on basis of representations received from vice-chancellors and now it has been decided to allow recruitment process to continue as per rules,” the latest letter said. Stressing the obvious, it asked universities to ensure full transparency in recruitment and give every eligible candidate a fair and equal opportunity. “Transparency is very subjective for the JNU administration. Many candidates have gone to court over the lack of transparency,” Moushumi Basu, member of the JNU executive council and a teacher at the university’s Centre for International Politics, said. Online recruitments had been under way in full swing at JNU till the August 25 directive, with the university’s teacher association lodging several complaints with the Union education ministry about irregularities in the process. The association had sought a freeze on recruitments at least till the lockdown was lifted and physical interviews were possible — which is what last week’s letter directed. Citing an example of the alleged irregularities, Basu said the varsity authorities had tweaked, during short-listing, the criterion declared in the advertisement for a faculty post at the National Security Study Centre. The advertisement had sought candidates with MA or MSc degrees apart from certain other specified degrees. But eventually, the administration did not interview those without an MSc, Basu said. She added that the JNU administration had reduced the number of posts reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes by tweaking the roster of posts. Every university has to maintain a roster that states the sequence in which reserved and unreserved posts would be filled in each department. “I believe many candidates will not be able to participate properly in online interviews because of the digital divide,” Basu said. Rajesh Jha, member of Delhi University’s executive council, too was unhappy with the government’s change of heart on online recruitment. “Transparency is difficult to maintain in online interviews. The candidate’s friends can help him while remaining outside the screen view,” he said. “The candidate can receive help via remotely assisted hearing aids. Last week’s decision came because of allegations of manipulation; by withdrawing it the government has allowed the continuation of wrongdoing by the universities.” An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for its about-turn remained unanswered. Nor did JNU vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar answer an email seeking his comments on the teachers’ allegation of irregularities in recruitment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||If I have hurt anyone, pardon me, pardon me: Arun Mishra||Justice Arun Mishra, whose term as Supreme Court judge will be remembered among other controversies for his effusive praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “versatile genius, who thinks globally and acts locally”, retired on Wednesday. “I have dealt with every case with my conscience. Sometimes I have been very harsh in my conduct directly or indirectly. Nobody should feel hurt. Analyse every judgment and don’t colour it this way or that way. If I have hurt anybody then please pardon me, pardon me, pardon me,” Justice Mishra said at a brief farewell held over videoconference. “Even in the last case of contempt, AG said that he didn’t want any punishment (for Prashant Bhushan) but...,” Justice Mishra said, without completing  his sentence. Justice Mishra headed the three-judge bench that convicted senior lawyer Bhushan of criminal contempt for two tweets, triggering outrage and protests. It eventually imposed a fine of Re 1. In his farewell speech on Wednesday, attorney general K.K. Venugopal said personally he would have been happy had the bench not punished Bhushan. “But his judgment elaborately laid down the contempt principle and it will be debated for a long time,” he said. The farewell too ended in controversy, with Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave not getting a chance to speak. By convention, it is the SCBA that hosts a retiring judge’s farewell and its president who delivers the address. Dave, known to speak his mind, alleged that he had been deliberately muted and that the Supreme Court had come to such a state where judges were afraid of the Bar. On February 23, in his vote of thanks at a global jurists’ conference, Justice Mishra had showered praise on the Prime Minister and described him “an internationally acclaimed great visionary”. The SCBA, led by Dave, had two days later issued a statement expressing deep concern and dismay at the effusive praise that it said went beyond “formal courtesy” and diluted the perception of impartiality of the judiciary. It reminded Justice Mishra that judges are often called upon to decide cases against the executive, and that it is the “foundational obligation” of judges to maintain a dignified distance from the executive. Some members of the SCBA convened a meeting on May 11 to remove Dave as president and from his primary membership over his criticism of Justice Mishra. However, with the help of the majority in the SCBA, Dave removed the prime mover of the campaign against him, Ashok Arora, from the post of secretary. The dispute is now pending with Delhi High Court. This wasn’t the first controversy Justice Mishra, known to be one of the most hardworking judges in the Supreme Court, was involved in. On January 12, 2018, four seniormost judges of the Supreme Court held an unprecedented news conference and accused then CJI Dipak Mishra of ignoring their seniority and allocating all important and sensitive cases to his own preferred judges. They did not take any names but the message was clear. Justice Mishra had been entrusted with the sensitive case of the death of judge B.H. Loya in suspicious circumstances. Loya, 48, who was hearing the CBI case in which current home minister Amit Shah was an accused, allegedly had a cardiac arrest and died on December 1, 2014, in Nagpur where he had gone to attend a wedding. Shah was discharged in the case weeks later. Some NGOs moved the Supreme Court for a court-monitored SIT probe into the judge’s death. Stung by the criticism of the four judges, Justice Mishra released the case from his bench. A bench headed by CJI Misra then heard the matter and dismissed the appeal for a probe into judge Loya’s death. After the news conference by the four judges, Justice Mishra had been in tears at an internal meeting. “It’s not me who had asked for work, but every successive Chief Justice of India had entrusted me with heavy work,” Justice Mishra, who suffers from a bad back because of arthritis, had told this correspondent. He was trusted by successive CJIs — Justices H.L. Dattu, T.S. Thakur, J.S. Khehar, Dipak Misra, Ranjan Gogoi, and S.A. Bobde —since his elevation to the Supreme Court on July 7, 2014, from Calcutta High Court where he was the Chief Justice. Justice Gogoi had been part of the judges’ news conference but when he was elevated as Chief Justice, he chose to have Justice Mishra as his co-judge along with Justice Sanjiv Khanna to rebut the sexual harassment allegations levelled against Justice Gogoi by a woman employee of the court. On Wednesday, Chief Justice Bobde said to Justice Mishra that he had been “a beacon of courage and fortitude in discharging your duties”. “Even on the personal front I’m aware of the great difficulties you have faced and despite that carried out your duties. I don’t know many people who have carried out work so bravely despite so many difficulties. You, Justice Mishra, are leaving behind a legacy of courage and fortitude,” Justice Bobde said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Facebook’s India head grilled by House panel||Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan appeared before the parliamentary standing committee for information technology on Wednesday in the midst of a raging debate over the social networking platform’s perceived bias towards the BJP that the ruling party has sought to fight back with a counter allegation. Mohan was questioned by the panel for well over two hours after which he is said to have responded with an assurance of providing a written reply to all the queries. According to those present in the meeting, even the BJP members joined the Opposition MPs in questioning the Facebook head though party MP Nishikant Dubey had been against panel chairman Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon the platform after The Wall Street Journal expose on the network giving preferential treatment to the BJP while applying its hate speech rules. One member said the BJP MPs seemed to have taken their cue from the letter written by IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday; quizzing Mohan about what they billed as the platform’s bias against the ruling party. A majority of the 30-member panel raised questions; mostly on hate speech and how Facebook addressed the issue of the platform being used to spread hate against certain communities; making some keen watchers bill it another pandemic of sorts. Since the panel members are not supposed to speak about the proceedings till the report is finalised, Tharoor tweeted: “In response to overwhelming media interest in the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology that just adjourned, this is all I can say: we met for some three & a half hours & unanimously agreed to resume the discussion later, incl (including) w/reps (with representatives) of @Facebook.’’ Late in the night, a Facebook company spokesperson said: “We thank the honourable parliamentary committee for their time. We remain committed to be an open and transparent platform, and to giving people voice and allowing them to express themselves freely.’’ However, there was no response from Facebook to the charges made against it by Prasad in his letter. The Telegraph sent a questionnaire to Mohan seeking a response to the allegations made by the minister about Facebook India being dominated by “people who belong to a particular political belief’’ but got no reply. Prior to Prasad’s letter, Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, had written to Zuckerberg stating that the “company’s recent blocking of Facebook pages and accounts in Bengal also points to a link between Facebook and the BJP’’. He also flagged the fact that he had sought an investigation into the serious charges against Facebook’s senior management in India in 2015 during a meeting with Zuckerberg in New Delhi. In a separate letter to Tharoor, panel member P.R. Natarajan of the CPM drew attention to the fact that India is not the only place where Facebook has been accused of discriminatory practises. Demanding a criminal investigation into the relationship between BJP and Facebook, he said, pending this, the platform should not be allowed to operate with any government department or constitutional body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||CPM leader’s son tied to drug-bust suspect||The son of the state secretary of the ruling CPM in Kerala has said he knew well one of the suspects arrested in a Bangalore drug bust. The confirmation by Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, came after a leader of the youth wing of the Opposition Indian Union Muslim League made the disclosure at a media conference in Kozhikode in north Kerala. P.K. Firoz, the general secretary of the youth wing of the League, told the media conference on Wednesday that Bineesh had connections with Mohammed Anoop who was arrested in Bangalore. The Narcotics Control Bureau had on August 21 raided two premises in Bangalore and seized large quantities of party drugs. They arrested suspected kingpin Anikha D, Anoop and drug peddler Rijesh Ravindran. Firoz claimed that Bineesh had “close connections” with both Anoop and Ravindran. “Bineesh had invested in Anoop’s restaurant in 2015. He had extended his best wishes through Facebook when Anoop started another restaurant in 2019,” Firoz said while waving a few sheets of paper that were purportedly Anoop’s statement to the NCB. In the purported statement, Anoop was quoted as saying that he opened a restaurant in Kammanahalli in Bangalore “with the financial help” of Bineesh. Later in the day, Bineesh said he knew Anoop for several years but didn’t know Ravindran. “I know him (Anoop) well and I had given some money for his restaurant. But the news that has come about Anoop is quite shocking since he is not that kind of a man, according to my understanding,” Bineesh said. Bineesh  said he had given “about Rs 3 lakh each twice” to Anoop to start the restaurant and often gave a few thousands of rupees when Anoop had financial problems. “Would I have given any money to him had I known he was selling drugs? I got to know that he was in this kind of activities only when he was arrested,” Bineesh said. “I first met Anoop when he was in a T-shirt business. He later moved to restaurant business. At that stage, many, including me, had helped him with money,” Bineesh said. He said Anoop used to book rooms for him whenever he visited Bangalore. “His restaurant didn’t do well and it crashed. The Anoop I know is a man who is in debt.” Bineesh accused Firoz of trying to “deflect attention from the killings of two DYFI activists by Congress workers on the eve of Onam (on Sunday)”. Firoz cited some phone records to allege that Bineesh was in Bangalore on July 10 when gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh was nabbed from a hotel. “My information is that powerful people, including film actors, have been at rave parties in Kerala where drugs are consumed,” said Firoz. Bineesh rubbished the allegations and said he was not in Bangalore when Swapna was caught. “I was not in Bangalore on that day,” said the CPM state secretary’s son who has dabbled in acting and maintained close ties with film professionals. The gold-smuggling case had put the Left government under pressure after it was revealed that the now-suspended secretary of the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, maintained close links with Swapna and the other accused. While the allegations made by Firoz has opened a new front for the Left government to deal with, it will also give Kodiyeri Balakrishnan a new headache about his son. His eldest son Binoy was accused by a Mumbai-based bar dancer of fathering her child out of wedlock. A DNA test result has not been made public yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Resistance hope rests on youth, not parties: Patnaik||Prabhat Patnaik, economist and professor emeritus at JNU in conversation with Subhoranjan Dasgupta, professor of human science: Dasgupta: In one of her recent lectures, eminent historian Romila Thapar said the Indian republic was teetering on the borderline. On one side of the border stood the secular Indian republic and on the other side a Hindu rashtra. Do you endorse this point of view? Patnaik: Yes, I agree that the republic is teetering on the cusp of a momentous transition, but I see the two sides of this cusp somewhat differently. On one side is a secular, democratic, federal republic where citizens are free of fear and enjoy a set of political rights defended by an independent judiciary; on the other is an authoritarian State where fear is pervasive and all institutions are subservient to the executive, which uses Hindutva as its vote-catching device but works essentially to further the interests of big capital, both domestic and foreign. “Hindu rashtra” is not a Hindu State in the sense of promoting the interests of the Hindus. It is an authoritarian State that suppresses not just Muslims but workers, peasants, petty producers, tribal people, oppressed castes, artists and intellectuals the bulk of whom are Hindus, and promotes the interests of a corporate-financial oligarchy. Its electoral plank is Hindutva, but Hindutva never filled anyone’s belly; it calls its goal a “Hindu rashtra”, but that is a misnomer. Perhaps the most powerful example of the oncoming Hindu rashtra is the picture showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi lying prostrate before the image of Ram in Ayodhya. Was this public display of devotion at all necessary? A Prime Minister like anyone else can have his personal religious beliefs, but to project the picture of his lying prostrate before the image of Ram is to appeal to people in the name of religion. This political use of religion is necessary for Modi precisely because his government cannot deliver on bread-and-butter issues that affect people’s lives. The country, even before the pandemic, was facing the most acute economic crisis since Independence. Between 2011-12 and 2017-18, the per capita real consumer expenditure in rural India declined by 9 per cent, which is so massive and unprecedented that the government suppressed the NSS data showing this. The pandemic has added greatly to this crisis. The government’s own panacea for the crisis is to make fiscal transfers to the corporates, suppress workers’ rights, privatise public-sector assets, make land acquisition easy, and so on, which the corporates relish without making an iota of investment. Investment depends on the growth of demand; but demand will actually shrink because of these measures, since a rupee transferred from the poor to the rich reduces the overall consumption demand. The public display of religious devotion becomes necessary in this context. With due deference to the Supreme Court, could it be said that the Babri Masjid verdict was also somewhat partial? You condemn the demolition of the Babri Masjid as a criminal act but in the same breath you grant the demolishers the right of building a grand temple in the disputed place. Is this an example of righteous justice? The verdict rewards vandalism. If the masjid had not been demolished, the Supreme Court would not even have entertained a petition regarding the ownership of that land, just as it would not if some people claimed that the Raja Rani temple in Bhubaneswar stood on land belonging to their ancestors. It is the masjid’s destruction that gave post facto pertinence to this issue of ownership of that land. The Supreme Court verdict therefore actually rewarded vandalism which it simultaneously condemned as a criminal act. In order to smoothen the passage to Hindu rajya, the present rulers are subverting each and every public institution, including the Election Commission. Some claim that even the judiciary’s sacrosanct independent functioning is being affected. Doesn’t this calculated sabotage remind you of similar programmes implemented by other authoritarian regimes? Yes, such subversion is the modus operandi of all such outfits, of which the RSS (with its front organisations) is a classic example. The Modi government uses a combination of carrot-and-stick methods, and places its followers in key positions, to subjugate public institutions like the Election Commission, Enforcement Directorate, CBI, Delhi police and the NIA. The media, with notable exceptions, are subjugated and the judiciary too is widely perceived to have become significantly subservient to the executive. Of course, the Modi government has been aided by several draconian laws existing from earlier times, including sedition laws from colonial times. The overall effect is to create an atmosphere of fear, criminalise dissent, produce conformism, punish critics and make all institutions serve its political agenda. Will the Hindus — or, better put, the Sangh parivar — demand the demolition of similar “mixed” shrines in Kashi and Mathura? Since religion is being used for political purposes, the demolition of mosques in Kashi and Mathura will be effected if it becomes politically necessary — for instance, if the electorate becomes restive because of the accentuating economic crisis. It is not the “Hindus” who “demand” any demolition; it’s the Sangh parivar that raises these demands to instigate a section of the majority community. It does so for political mileage, so that its blatant but counterproductive pro-corporate policies escape the electorate’s fury. How could there be a return to the reality of the secular republic from the borderline? By unleashing people’s movements and by positing a united opposition of the political parties? The political parties, by and large, have not escaped the carrot-and-stick methods of the Modi government. I do not expect them to take the lead in organising resistance. I put my faith in the innumerable young men and women who deeply abhor what is going on and who can initiate resistance, as it became clear during the anti-CAA movement. I also expect an upsurge of movements of workers and peasants because of their extreme hardship. Such upsurges will then overcome the paralysis of the political parties, forcing them to come together on a common minimum programme that must be not just political but also economic. The Left will have a big role to play in fashioning such a programme and forging political resistance against the spectre of fascism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||AIIMS issues Covid guide for doctors ||Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, have released guidelines on Covid-19 treatment and medications to try and curb “arbitrary practices” that are not based on evidence. The document, released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday, says that pirfenidone and methylene blue have no role in the treatment of the coronavirus disease and that evidence for another drug, favipiravir, is “weak”. India’s drug regulatory authority had in June approved favipiravir for use in Covid-19. But the AIIMS panel has underlined that studies have used favipiravir primarily in mild and asymptomatic patients, claiming to prevent progression, while most such patients recover with just supportive care. “Our guidelines seek to curb arbitrary practices that might be based either on personal experiences or anecdotal accounts of what works or doesn’t,” Anjan Trikha, professor of anaesthesiology and critical care and chairperson of the Covid-19 clinical management team at AIIMS, told The Telegraph. The AIIMS document underlines that “sudden deaths” among Covid-19 patients have been reported both at their presentation at emergency departments and in hospital. It says these may have resulted from a sudden cardiac event preceding silent hypoxia (oxygen deprivation) that went unnoticed, or from blood clotting complications. Patients showing risk factors for the development of severe Covid-19 or those with prior health disorders such as coronary artery disease or chronic lung disease “should be strictly monitored for their oxygen levels and should not be allowed to move unattended”, the AIIMS panel has said. Anticoagulants – drugs that reduce the risk of clotting – should be used in all “at-risk” patients who do not show any risk factors for bleeding, it has said. According to the panel, there is no evidence to support the use of the antiviral remdesivir in patients who show no symptoms but have underlying health disorders that put them at risk of severe disease. The guidelines recommend the use of corticosteroids, either dexamethasone or methyl prednisolone, in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe Covid-19. But there is no role for steroids when patients are discharged, they say. Some patients who develop severe disease and whose oxygen levels do not improve through non-invasive oxygen-delivery mechanisms might require invasive ventilation, the guidelines say. Patients unable to maintain oxygen levels and heading into respiratory fatigue, and those unable to tolerate non-invasive oxygen, should be considered for invasive ventilation, the guidelines add. “This document is part of efforts to promote the standardisation of clinical practices,” said Sumit Ray, a senior critical-care medicine specialist at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi. Standardisation efforts, he said, are important when the medical community faces a new infection. However, Ray said, there remain uncertainties about certain medications used in Covid-19. For instance, tocilizumab has been approved by India’s drug regulatory authority for use on “compassionate grounds”. But the AIIMS panel has stressed that tocilizumab represents “an experimental therapy” with a limited role and should be used only in patients with features of an inflammatory condition called cytokine storm after ruling out active infections. There are still questions about tocilizumab, Ray said. “The only major randomised clinical trial with this medication did not show benefits.” Early during the epidemic, AIIMS had established a helpline for doctors from across India to provide them with technical guidance on the clinical management of Covid-19. Senior AIIMS doctors have for the past eight weeks hosted twice-weekly online conferences to exchange experiences with other doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||All-round crisis finger at government||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s failures and apathy had created a crisis on every front, from the economy and democracy to border security, and deepened the people’s misery. Rahul Gandhi led the attack with a caustic tweet in the morning: “India is reeling under Modi-made disasters: 1. Historic GDP reduction - 23.9% 2. Highest unemployment in 45 years 3. 12 crore job loss 4. Centre not paying states their GST dues 5. Globally highest Covid-19 daily cases and deaths 6. External aggression at our borders.” Introducing a video that is part of the dharohar (legacy) series the Congress started a few days ago to familiarise the new generation with the freedom struggle, Rahul accused the BJP of divisive politics. “Divide and rule was a despicable policy and will always remain so. Such a policy was defeated by the country in the past and (it) will do it again today because brotherhood and harmony are the foundations of our democracy,” he tweeted. With these two tweets, Rahul has covered the entire range of issues the Congress has raised against the Modi government, from the economy and the Chinese intrusion to the handling of the pandemic, the politics of hate and the federalism row over GST compensation. The Congress has also objected to the cancellation of Question Hour — when MPs can question the government — for the coming Parliament session and the lack of transparency around the PM-Cares Fund. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “The auditors of PM-Cares Fund have confirmed that it received Rs 3,076 crore in just five days between March 26 and 31, 2020. But the names of these generous donors will not be revealed. Why? Every other NGO or trust is obliged to reveal the names of donors contributing more than a threshold amount. Why is the PM-Cares Fund exempt from this obligation? The donee is known. The trustees of the donee are known. Why are the trustees afraid to reveal the names of the donors?” On the cancellation of Question Hour, Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “I said four months ago that strongmen leaders would use the excuse of the pandemic to stifle democracy and dissent. The notification for the delayed Parliament session blandly announces there will be no Question Hour. How can this be justified in the name of keeping us safe? Questioning the government is the oxygen of parliamentary democracy. This government seeks to reduce Parliament to a notice-board & uses its crushing majority as a rubber stamp for whatever it wants to pass. The one mechanism to promote accountability has now been done away with.” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said: “Not allowing Question Hour... means the nation will not know the truth about Chinese incursions, PM-Cares fund, the Covid-19 situation, failure of the economic package.... Our system of checks & balances is being destroyed. Shame on the Government of India.” The Opposition is raring to ask questions, though, and the session is likely to witness serious disruptions. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh echoed Rahul’s sentiment, tweeting: “Here’s how India became a Vishwaguru under Mr Modi during Covid-19 pandemic. 1. Fastest contracting economy 2. Most stringent lockdown 3. Fastest rise in cases 4. Fastest rise in deaths. This double whammy was possible only due to the double MH formula — Modi Hai to Mumkin Hai!” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tried to explain the seriousness of the situation. “The common man may not understand the financial implications of declining GDP growth but he knows snatching the livelihood option of workers is cruelty. People walking home barefooted during the lockdown and empty buses remaining stranded is a sin,” he said. Surjewala said that in a country that had launched the Mars orbiter Mangalyaan, “a girl covering hundreds of kilometres with her father on a bicycle is helplessness”. “Deleting doctors’ Twitter account because they asked for PPEs is dictatorship. When ramping up testing was necessary, diverting attention by asking people to light up lamps is injustice. People dying at home while hospital beds are vacant is corruption,” he said. “Slapping fine(s) on common people for not wearing masks and leaders holding rallies is regressive. People may not understand GDP but they know describing disastrous decisions like demonetisation as a masterstroke is a lie. Blaming God for the economy slowing down for six years is a crime. This darkness breaks the common man.” Surjewala said that according to the National Crime Records Bureau, 42,480 farmers and farm workers had committed suicide in 2019 alone. “The youth, daily wage earners, labourers, farmers are all in distress because of the BJP’s bad governance. The figures for the lockdown period will be dreadful. Modiji, shed your arrogance and waive farmers’ loan,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Former Bihar CM’s party joins NDA||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) joined the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on Wednesday. The move comes ahead of the Assembly elections expected to be held in November this year. HAMS had quit the Opposition Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and other smaller parties last week. The party’s entry into the NDA could shore up its reach among the Scheduled Castes. “We are a part of the NDA from today. Good things should be done as soon as possible. We will work in close coordination with chief minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal United (JDU), though we will not merge with it. We have not imposed any condition for our entry into the alliance,” Manjhi said at a hurriedly convened press conference in the state capital. Manjhi said he left the Grand Alliance after his demand to constitute a coordination committee to steer the seat-sharing talks was not met. The former chief minister also said that he will not contest the Assembly polls. He is currently an MLA from Imamganj constituency in Gaya district. HAMS spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “Seats had never been an agenda for us. We are going with the NDA on the agenda of development. We will take ahead the stream of development launched by chief minister Nitish Kumar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” Bihar has around 16 to 17 per cent Scheduled Caste voters. Manjhi, who hails from the Musahar caste, claims to have influence on 5 per cent of the total SC votes, though poll experts assert that the figure could be less than 3 per cent. Manjhi had been previously with the Congress, the RJD and the JDU. Nitish had anointed him the chief minister after resigning over his party’s dismal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. However, Manjhi quit the JDU and formed HAMS in 2015 after he was forced to resign from the post of the chief minister as Nitish wanted to come back. He then aligned with the NDA, but left it in 2018 to join the Grand Alliance. HAMS could win just one seat despite contesting on 21 out of the total 243 seats as an NDA partner in the 2015 Assembly elections. Manjhi was the sole winner. It did not achieve any success in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Manjhi’s son Santosh Kumar Suman is an MLC. With the fortunes waning, sources say that Manjhi wants to contest on 15 seats in the coming state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
