04-09-2020||India||SC reject pleas seeking postponement of JEE, NEET exams||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the pleas, including the one filed by ministers of six opposition-ruled states, seeking review of its August 17 order which paved the way for holding NEET and JEE exams. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, which considered the pleas in-chamber, said there was no merit in the review petitions. The apex court also rejected the applications seeking listing of the review petition in the open court. Applications seeking permission to file review petitions are allowed. We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed, the bench said in its order. National Testing Agency (NTA) which conducts both the exams is holding JEE Main Exams from September 1-6, while NEET exams will be held on September 13. The review matters in the apex court are usually considered 'in-chambers' through circulation of petition among the judges of the bench. The judges then decide 'in-chambers' whether there is any merit in the review petition to re-examine the case in open court hearing. One of the review pleas was filed by ministers from West Bengal (Moloy Ghatak), Jharkhand (Rameshwar Oraon), Rajasthan (Raghu Sharma), Chhattisgarh (Amarjeet Bhagat), Punjab (B S Sidhu) and Maharashtra (Uday Ravindra Sawant). The apex court had on August 17 dismissed a plea which had sought postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases. While refusing to interfere with the conduct of medical and engineering entrance exams, the top court had said that though there is pandemic situation, ultimately life has to go and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted. In their review plea filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, the ministers of six states -- ruled by parties like Congress, TMC, JMM, NCP and Shiv Sena -- had claimed that the top court order failed to secure students' "right to life" and ignored "teething logistical difficulties" to be faced in conducting the exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea had said the apex court order fails to satisfy the safety and security concerns of students who have to appear for the exams. It had said the mere fact that lakhs of students have registered for the exam is not indicative of their consent or their willingness or their desire to attend physical exams. It had also said the August 17 order is cryptic, non-speaking and does not discuss various aspects and complexities involved in a matter of this magnitude. The review plea had also said that only two reasons given by the court - life must go on and students should not lose an academic year - do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue. It had said that JEE Mains is slated to be conducted over 660 exam centres with 9.53 lakhs students appearing for it, roughly 1,443 students per centre. Similarly for NEET UG, 15.97 lakhs students will appear in 3,843 centres across the country, nearly 415 students per centre, it had said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had in August assured the top court that all safeguards would be taken while conducting the examinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
04-09-2020||India||CBSE opposes plea to put off compartment class 12th exams in SC ||The CBSE on Friday opposed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking postponement of compartment exams for 12th class scheduled this month, saying all "necessary" safety measures for students are being taken in view of Covid-19 pandemic. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the counsel for the petitioner whether postponement of the examinations will help the students. "Without examination where do you stand. Is there any other methodology contemplated by CBSE," the bench asked during the hearing conducted through video conferencing. The counsel for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said the board has increased the number of examination centres for compartment tests from 575 to 1,278. "We have taken a decision that in a class where 40 students could sit, now only 12 will sit and we are taking all precautions," the counsel for CBSE said. "All necessary measures are being taken. The notification is likely to be issued soon. The examinations are to be held in September," he said. The court, which asked CBSE to file a short affidavit in response of the plea of Anika Samvedi, has now fixed the case for hearing on September 10. The plea has challenged the CBSE decision to hold compartment examinations for 12th class on the ground that it would be detrimental to the health of the examinees. The apex court asked the counsel for the petitioner to be clear about the relief being sought when he said the students will be considered as failed as the compartment examinations will not be concluded by September end. The lawyer also said the students will not be able to apply for further studies as admissions in universities will close by the time compartment examinations will be held. The counsel for CBSE said that on the one hand, petitioner wanted cancellation of examinations and then also raised the issue of admissions in universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||NCB raids Rhea's brother, Sushant's house manager ||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday conducted searches at the premises of Showik Chakraborty, brother of main accused Rhea Chakraborty, and Samuel Miranda in connection with the drugs probe linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said. They said both Showik and Miranda, house manager of Rajput, were handed over summons to join the investigation during the raids that started early morning. An NCB officer said as there was a lot of media presence during the raids, both told the sleuths that they will come along with NCB team. They are being taken by the NCB search team and will be questioned now, the officer said. The NCB has arrested two alleged drug peddlers operating in the capital city of Maharashtra in this case till now and it has detained one person. The agency has filed a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea. Rajput was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Odisha bins senate, eyes role in VC selection||The Odisha cabinet presided by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday decided to abolish the senate system of universities and let the government play a major role in the selection process of vice-chancellors of universities. It has also taken away the power of the universities to appoint their staff. However, the decision of the state government has triggered protests from the ABVP, a right wing all India student organisation which on Thursday organised a rally here demanding that the government should refrain from infringing on the rights of the universities. Chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy on Wednesday said: “Though senate is the highest authority of a university over the years it has become dysfunctional. Therefore, the concept of senate shall be done away with. It is found that the senate has become more an ornamental body with the real authority being exercised by syndicate. It is therefore decided to do away with the concept of senate and restructure syndicate for smooth academic and administrative functioning of the universities.” Henceforth, the syndicate of the university will function as the highest authority of the university. The constitution of the syndicate will be restructured to make it more functional and professional. In the restructured syndicate, there will be adequate representation of the chancellor and the state government. Senate is a body comprising various sections of the society, students, teachers and mostly from educational background which guide the universities on various issues but it has become dormant over the years. The syndicate is the executive body of the university and exercises general supervision over the affairs and management of the body. The tenure of vice-chancellors will be increased to four years from present three years so that they can make long-term contributions to the universities. “The upper age limit to hold the post of vice-chancellor shall be enhanced from 65 years to 67 years. No vice-chancellor shall be reappointed as VC of the same university for the second time,” Tripathy said. The state government also made it clear that it would play a crucial role in the appointment of the vice-chancellors. “At present, the state government does have a say in the three member search committees constituted by chancellor (governor) for selection of vice-chancellors. Therefore, an eminent academician nominated by the state government shall be made a member of the search committee in place of the nominee of the syndicate of the university concerned,” said Tripathy. According to the new amendment, the appointment of the teachers in the universities shall be done centrally by the Odisha Public Service Commission and not by the respective universities. The recruitment of non-teaching employees of the universities shall be done by state staff selection board and not by the universities. “The state cabinet today approved promulgation of the Odisha Universities (Amendment) Ordinance to amend the Odisha Universities Act 1989. Henceforth all the universities will function under one Act.  It will ensure smooth administration,” Tripathy said. The government has also decided to accord classical status to Odissi music. Culture minister Jyoti Panigrahi said: “The form of music is very ancient and is different from other form of classical music. The state will soon send a proposal to this effect to the Centre to give classical tag to Odissi music. Besides, we have also decided to take up a special project for the development of Suanoda village, the village of Gopabandhu Das (1877-1928).” Das, popularly known as Utkalamni (jewel of Utkal or Odisha), was the modern maker of Odisha. “The state should not interfere in the administration of the universities. It’s now trying to infringe on their autonomy which is dangerous for the education system,” said ABVP national executive member Sanjay Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Rawat sees Pakistan-China double threat||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat on Wednesday spoke about the threat of a combined challenge from Pakistan and China from two fronts and warned the western neighbour against any “misadventure” to take advantage of the tensions along the Line of Actual Control. General Rawat said India was prepared to respond and warned Pakistan of “heavy losses”. On China, he said that although it had resorted to aggressive action along the LAC despite border management protocols, India was “capable of dealing with this in all possible ways”. The general’s statement on the combined threat from China and Pakistan came a week after he had said India was “prepared for military actions” if the diplomatic and military talks with China did not yield results. On Thursday, speaking at a webinar organised by a US think tank in Delhi, Rawat said Pakistan could take advantage of India’s border standoff with China to attempt a misadventure. “If any threat develops around our northern borders, Pakistan could take advantage of that and create some trouble for us. We have taken adequate precautions to ensure that any such adventure by Pakistan is thwarted.… In fact, they may suffer heavy losses should they attempt any misadventure,” Rawat said. On China, he said: “We have border management protocols with China but of late we have been seeing aggressive actions by the Chinese. But we are capable of dealing with this in all possible ways.” Rawat said that Chinese economic cooperation with Islamabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir was continuing with diplomatic support and mandated high level of preparations on India’s part. “Infrastructure development in Tibet, development of strategic railway lines and military reforms by China are being studied by us,” he said.
India, Rawat said, was seeking US collaboration in technology development, especially in aerospace and artificial intelligence. “We are looking at info-sharing and continued supply of high-tech battlefield systems from the US,” the general said in response to the question whether the US could help in the current conflict with China. Naravane in Ladakh The army chief, General M.M. Naravane, on Wednesday arrived in Ladakh on a two-day visit. He reviewed the security situation along the LAC. Later in the day, Indian Air Force chief R.K.S. Bhadauria visited frontline air bases at the eastern air command in Meghalaya and reviewed the operational preparedness of the combat units. Sources in the defence ministry said the army chief was briefed by the senior field commanders of the northern command on the prevailing ground situation along the LAC. “During his two-day visit, General Naravane will review the operational preparedness of the troops who are locked in a standoff with Chinese soldiers for over four months now. He is likely to visit frontline posts near the south bank of Pangong Lake that has witnessed fresh rounds of confrontation between the armies of India and China,” said a defence ministry official. Over the weekend, tensions have escalated after Chinese troops attempted to change the status quo in eastern Ladakh — first on the intervening night of August 29-30 and again on September 1 — but were thwarted by Indian soldiers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Odisha nod for seven proposals ||The Odisha government has approved seven investment proposals worth Rs 3,205.67 crore in metal and metal downstream, infrastructure, tourism and cement sectors to bring the economy back on the track. The move is likely to generate employment opportunities for 2,494 people. The proposals were approved at the state level single window clearance authority (SLSWCA) meeting chaired by chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy on Wednesday. Principal secretary, industries, Hemant Sharma said the seven projects, included the proposal of M/s MGM Minerals Limited for expansion of its project by setting up 0.125 MTPA (Million Tonne Per Annum) Sponge Iron Plant, 0.6 MTPA Pellet Plant, 0.25 MTPA MS Billets, 0.25 MTPA TMT & Wire Rods and 40 MW Captive Power Plant at Nimdha in Dhenkanal with an investment of Rs 801.89 crore. “All these industries would provide employment to about 1,215 people. We continue to extend support for the state and country’s economic growth and perform its duties to steadfast growth trajectory of Odisha,” Sharma said. Another proposal was of M/s GM Iron & Steel Company Limited for expansion of its project by setting up 0.8 MTPA Pellet Plant, 0.2379 MTPA Direct Reduced Iron (DRI) plant, 0.195 MTPA Billet, 0.24 MTPA Wire Rod Mill, 0.416 MTPA Slag Cement and 46 MW Captive Power Plant in Dhenkanal, with an investment of Rs 607.52 crore of capacity and providing employment opportunities for 592 people. “M/s. Envirocare Infrasolution Pvt. Ltd’s proposal for setting up Iron Ore Beneficiation plant of 3.6 MTPA capacity at Koira in Sundergarh, with a total investment of Rs 60 crores, also got the nod of the committee. It would provide employment opportunity to around additional 175 people,” said a press release issued by the state government. Proposal of M/s Hindalco Industries Limited for setting up Flue Gas Desulphurization Plant (FGD) for its existing CPP (6x150 MW) at Lapanga, Sambalpur, with an investment of Rs 696 crore providing an additional employment opportunities for 50 people was also approved. Likewise, the proposal of M/s Lifeline Multi-ventures Pvt. Ltd. to set up a five-star Hotel in Bhubaneswar with a total investment of Rs 150.38 crore, was also approved by the state government. It would provide employment opportunities to 240 people. SLSWCA also approved the proposal of M/s JSW Cement Ltd. (JSW) for expansion of cement grinding capacity from 1.2 MTPA to 2.4 MTPA at Kalinga Nagar, Duburi, Jajpur, with an investment of Rs 489.88 crore and providing employment opportunities for 68 people. M/s Jajpur Cements Pvt. Ltd’s proposal for expansion of cement grinding capacity from 0.5 MTPA to 1.5 MTPA at Kalinga Nagar, Jajpur, with an investment Rs 400 crore has received the approval of the state and will provide employment opportunities to 154 people. The Odisha government has  made coronavirus test mandatory for any person to be produced before a magistrate for remand as over 500 inmates and 30 officials of different jails in the state have been detected as Covid-19 positive, reports PTI. The home department has issued an 8-point SOP to be implemented by different arresting agencies like police, excise, forest and vigilance departments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||HC seeks DU digital degree data||Delhi High Court has directed Delhi University to submit data pertaining to the number of students who have applied online for digital degree certificates and the number of such certificates that have been issued. The high court was informed that despite a judicial order, students have not been issued digital degrees. “This is completely violative of the order of this court. The timelines as set out in the order dated August 7 shall be adhered to strictly by DU,” Justice Prathiba M. Singh said. The high court directed the university to issue digital degree certificates of the two students, who filed the pleas, before September 7. “In the affidavit to be filed by DU, the data relating to number of students who have applied online for seeking digital degree certificates and the number of digital degree certificates issued online shall be clearly mentioned,” the judge said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||If driver is alone in car, no need to wear mask: Official||A person driving a car alone need not wear a face mask, the Union health secretary said on Thursday, but emphasised the need for continued personal protective measures, including the use of masks, in public spaces. The health ministry has not issued any guidelines mandating a mask while a person is driving a car alone, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan clarified while briefing reporters on the coronavirus, but asserted the need for continued Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. He added that when people are engaged in outdoor physical activities such as cycling or jogging in groups, they need to be mindful of physical distancing and wear masks to prevent the spread of infection. “If you’re riding your cycle alone, the health ministry has issued no directives specifying that you should wear a mask,” Bhushan said. The clarification comes amid concerns expressed by many on social media platforms that Delhi police have fined drivers alone in their cars who were not wearing masks. 
A Delhi resident told The Telegraph that he had to argue his way out when the police stopped him for driving without a mask on. “I had to tell them dimaag istamaal karo (use your brains),” the resident said. A local media report had said last week that Delhi police had fined at least 188,578 people for not wearing masks in public and collected Rs 9.42 crore. The health official iterated the importance of standard precautions — physical distancing, masks, frequent hand washing, respiratory etiquette — to minimise the risk of picking up respiratory infections. “We’re heading into the season of festivals and different examinations are also taking place…. It is important to not just adopt but also promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour across society — within families, among neighbours and in our workplaces,” Bhushan said. The reminder for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour from the health ministry comes amid a still growing epidemic and what some experts say are troubling anecdotal accounts of people defying directives to wear masks. “There are quite a few people we see on roads or in markets who wear masks improperly, or worse still, lower the masks when they have to speak to someone,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Public Health, New Delhi. “Behavioural interventions and adherence is a complex science — still in its infancy in India,” John said. “It is far more complex than just creating infographics and expecting compliance.” In the early weeks of the epidemic in India, the first advisory urging all members of the public to wear cloth masks had come from the office of the principal scientific adviser to the Union government. Multiple studies have established the efficacy of even cloth masks in curbing the spread of infections that spread through coughs or sneezes. A study by researchers in India, for instance, published last month found that while respiratory droplets from an uncovered cough can travel up to 3 metres, even a simple disposable mask can reduce the distance to less than 0.5 metres. “Even if a mask does not filter out all particles, if we can prevent clouds of particles from travelling far, it’s better than not doing anything,” said Padmanabha Prasanna Simha, an engineer at the Indian Space Research Organisation who led the study. Simha collaborated with a cardiovascular surgeon at the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bangalore, for the study that analysed the fluid flow fields of coughs under various common types of masks. Their findings were published last month in the journal Physics of Fluids. They found that N95 masks were the most effective at reducing the horizontal spread of cough droplets. The N95 masks reduced the speed of the droplets by a factor of 10, limiting spread to 0.1 to 0.25 metres. In situations where sophisticated masks are not available for the general public, any mask would be better than no mask at all to slow the spread of the infection, Simha said in a media release issued by the American Institute of Physics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Pandemic to push 47m women into poverty: UN||The female poverty rate in South Asia will increase in 2021 because of the Covid-19 pandemic and more women than men in the 25-34 age group will be poorer in the next decade, according to new data released by the United Nations. The UN Women and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) said that the Covid-19 pandemic will disproportionately affect women and push 47 million more women and girls into extreme poverty by 2021, reversing decades of progress to lift this demographic above the poverty line. The report, “From Insights to Action: Gender Equality in the wake of Covid-19”, said that the gender poverty gap will worsen further still in South Asia. Central and southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, home to 87 per cent of the world’s extreme poor, will see the largest increases in extreme poverty, with an additional 54 million and 24 million people respectively, living below the international poverty line as a result of the pandemic. “The expected rise of poverty in South Asia as a result of the economic fallout of the pandemic showcases the vulnerability of women and girls living in households that have only recently been able to escape poverty, the report released on Wednesday said. The pre-pandemic female poverty rate in South Asia was projected to be 10 per cent in 2021 but is now expected to reach 13 per cent. “Moreover, before the pandemic, projections for the region suggested that by 2030 only 15.8 per cent of the world’s poor women and girls would be living in South Asia. The revised projections now put that figure at 18.6 per cent,” the report said. The report pointed out that the resurgence of poverty due to the pandemic threatens to deepen gender poverty gaps, especially for people aged 25 to 34, which is a key productive and family formation period for both women and men. In 2021, it is expected there will be 118 women in poverty for every 100 poor men globally, and this ratio could rise to 121 poor women for every 100 poor men by 2030. While sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia will be the most impacted, “significantly more women than men in South Asia will be affected”. In the 25-34 age group, there will be 118 poor women for every 100 poor men in South Asia, and that ratio will increase to 129 women for every 100 men by 2030. Globally, the poverty rate for women was expected to decrease by 2.7 per cent between 2019 and 2021, but projections now point to an increase of 9.1 per cent due to the pandemic and its fallout. The “pandemic will push 96 million people into extreme poverty by 2021, 47 million of whom are women and girls. This will increase the total number of women and girls living in extreme poverty to 435 million, with projections showing that this number will not revert to pre-pandemic levels until 2030,” the UN agencies said. “The increases in women’s extreme poverty are a stark indictment of deep flaws in the ways we have constructed our societies and economies,” UN Women executive director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said. “We know that women take most of the responsibility for caring for the family; they earn less, save less and hold much less secure jobs. In fact, overall, women’s employment is 19 per cent more at risk than men’s.” Mlambo-Ngcuka said that the evidence of multiple inequalities is critical to drive swift, restorative policy action that puts women at the heart of pandemic recovery. While the pandemic has posed a serious threat to the prospects of eradicating extreme poverty by the end of this decade, the reality is even grimmer as these projections of increased poverty rates for women and girls only account for the downward revision of the gross domestic product (GDP), excluding other factors such as women leaving the workforce due to childcare responsibilities, that may also affect the sex distribution of poverty. “More than 100 million women and girls could be lifted out of poverty if governments implement a comprehensive strategy aimed at improving access to education and family planning, fair and equal wages, and expanding social transfers,” UNDP administrator Achim Steiner said. He noted with concern that women are bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 crisis as they are more likely to lose their source of income and less likely to be covered by social protection measures. “Investing in reducing gender inequality is not only smart and affordable, but also an urgent choice that governments can make to reverse the impact of the pandemic on poverty reduction,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Hate Speech: BJP Telangana MLA banned from FB, Insta||Facebook on Thursday announced it had banned BJP Telangana MLA T. Raja Singh from its Facebook and Instagram platforms for violating company policy on the promotion of “violence and hate”. Facebook’s announcement on Singh came a day after its vice-president and managing director in India, Ajit Mohan, had deposed for over two hours before a parliamentary standing committee on the safeguarding of citizens’ rights and the misuse of social media platforms. “We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform,” a Facebook spokesperson told The Telegraph. The Wall Street Journal had recently reported that Facebook’s public policy director for South and Central Asia, Ankhi Das, had opposed banning Singh and at least three other Hindu nationalist individuals and groups for hate posts, citing the company’s business interests in India. On Thursday, WSJ reported on its website that five accounts on Facebook in Singh’s name and one on Instagram — the photo and video-sharing platform owned by Facebook — had been disabled. Singh, whose Twitter background is a banner calling for the establishment of a “Hindu Rashtra”, tweeted: “I’d like to clarify that I’ve not been using FB since April 2019. So, banning me makes no sense.” He suggested that the pages Facebook had now banned may have been created by his followers, PTI reported. It quoted Singh as saying he had written to Hyderabad’s cyber police on October 8, 2018, that his official Facebook page had been hacked, and that a new page he had started “was unpublished/deleted in April 2019”. Singh said he would write to Facebook to reopen his official account. “I will follow all rules and regulations.... I should be given the right to use a Facebook account and I will seek their permission,” PTI quoted him as saying. In a video message, Singh alleged that Rahul Gandhi had made false statements on social media against the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and demanded that accounts of the Congress and the AIMIM party be deleted, the PTI report added. Facebook did not respond to queries on which accounts of Singh had been disabled and when; nor did it explain the delayed action against him. Time magazine had reported last week that Shivnath Thukral, a Facebook public policy executive whose role entails both enforcing the rules on hate speech and lobbying with governments, had gone slow on acting against another BJP politician, Assam MLA Shiladitya Dev, for his hate posts. Das, Thukral and Mohan have not responded to queries from this newspaper since the controversy broke out. Both WSJ and Time have reported that Das and Thukral have ties with the BJP, although Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad complained to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg this week that Facebook India officials were biased against his party. Response to Cong Facebook has responded to the Congress’s complaints of bias and collusion with the BJP, promising corrective measures, a non-partisan attitude and willingness to engage with the party on these concerns, the Opposition party said. The Congress had accused Facebook and WhatsApp of interfering in India’s electoral process and helping the BJP spread hate, and demanded a criminal investigation and a joint parliamentary committee probe. It had written two letters to Zuckerberg on the activities of his company’s India team and threatened legal action if corrective measures were not taken. “We have today received a response from Facebook Inc. Facebook has thanked the Congress party for raising this concern and acknowledged its seriousness while not refuting any of the charges made against individuals of the Facebook India leadership team in the media articles,” Congress data analytics chief Praveen Chakravarty said on Thursday. “They have also expressed their desire to be non-partisan and continue to engage with the Congress party on these matters.” Chakravarty added: “The party will await further concrete action from the global leadership of Facebook and demonstration of specific corrective measures being undertaken in Facebook and WhatsApp India.” Sources said the decision to ban Singh came after an extensive process that the company follows in deciding which individuals meet the criteria for policy violation, and that a review of Singh’s actions had been going on for some time, PTI reported. Facebook had previously removed content Singh had posted for violating its policies, but the decision to ban him from the platform had been taken now, one of the sources said. Singh has been brought under Facebook’s policy relating to dangerous individuals and organisations, the PTI report said. He will not be allowed on Facebook or Instagram, and the company will remove pages, groups and accounts set up to represent him, it added. However, Facebook will continue to allow a wider discussion of him, including praise and support, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Sharjeel in judicial custody till October 1||A Delhi court on Thursday sent JNU student Sharjeel Imam to judicial custody till October 1 in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Imam, arrested by the special cell of Delhi police on August 25, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in connection with the riots during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Imam’s counsel said that the accused had been sent to judicial custody till October 1 and earlier during the day, he had erroneously construed that Imam had been sent to jail for 14 days. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat sent Imam to jail considering the nature of the investigation in the case. “Considering the nature of the investigation as also the case record, application is allowed, Accordingly, Sharjeel Imam is remanded to judicial custody till October 1,” the court said. The police had moved an application for 30 days’ judicial custody of Imam. The court had earlier sent him to police custody for three days. Imam was also arrested on January 28 in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro gears up to reopen with safety norms||As Delhi Metro gears up to resume services on Monday, the authorities have issued detailed guidelines to ensure passenger safety amid the pandemic that could serve as a reference point for other cities like Calcutta that too are preparing to open up. The new norms announced by the Delhi Metro Railway Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday cover every aspect from entry to ticketing to security checks and travel. All lines of the Delhi Metro will gradually reopen from September 7 to 12, with services initially from 7am to 11am, and 4pm to 8pm. The Delhi Metro has 285 stations spread over 389km of tracks. Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri had on Wednesday announced the staggered reopening of Metro services across the country except in Maharashtra, where the lockdown has been extended to the end of this month. Even before the lockdown began in the capital on March 22, Delhi Metro had restricted the number of passengers in trains and prevented crowding at stations. In a media release on Thursday, the DMRC said that initially only one or two entrances would be opened at every station. “All passengers will be required to undergo thermal screening and hand sanitisation at the entry/frisking point itself. Forty-five major stations have been provided with ‘auto thermal screening-cum-hand sanitisation machines’, whereas the rest of the Metro stations will be having provision of ‘auto sanitiser dispensers’… and thermal screening will be done manually by ‘thermal guns’,” the statement said. “Only 2-3 persons at a time will be allowed to use the lift depending on the capacity…. Similarly, passengers will be required to stand on alternate steps on escalators to maintain social distancing,” it added. Fifty lifts at 16 stations have been made “leg-operated”, where buttons can be pushed with the feet instead of hands. Ticketing will be cashless and almost entirely without human interface. “Only smart card holders (including QR code users on Airport Express Line) will be allowed to travel, which can be recharged digitally by a number of ways easily avoiding human interface. Recharge of smart cards at the ticket vending machines (TVMs) or customer care centres will be through cashless modes only (debit/credit/Bharat QR code etc),” the DMRC media release said. Smart card recharging will also be cashless. The trains are going to be warmer and slower. Fresh airflow intake will be increased from 30 per cent to 100 per cent inside trains. Earlier, stations used to have only a 10 per cent intake of fresh air from 7am to 10pm to keep temperatures low, now such an arrangement will be allowed only from 10.30am to 4.30pm. For the rest of the time, there will be 100 per cent fresh airflow. The time a train will stop at a station will be increased by 10 seconds — from 10-15 seconds to 20-25 seconds — so that passengers get sufficient time to board and alight. At interchange stations, the stoppage time will be increased by 20 seconds — from 35-40 seconds to 55-60 seconds. The feeder bus services will remain suspended. Besides the mandatory use of masks, and seating on alternate seats, trains may skip stations that fall in Covid containment zones. The list of such stations will be issued just before the services begin and will be updated regularly. A team of 800 Metro officials as well as local police can restrict the entry of passengers into stations if crowds swell and physical distancing is compromised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Kafeel Khan and family move to Rajasthan for 'safety'||Kafeel Khan, the doctor released from jail on Tuesday after Allahabad High Court nullified his National Security Act-driven imprisonment, and his family have arrived in Jaipur, saying they felt safe in a Congress-ruled state. “There is a Congress government in Rajasthan. My family felt that we would be safe here. I wanted to spend some quality time with my family,” Khan told a news conference in Jaipur. The doctor, who spent eight months in jail following his arrest over an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act speech at Aligarh Muslim University, said he had been falsely implicated and sent to jail by the Uttar Pradesh government as he had exposed the system. On Tuesday, Allahabad High Court had quashed Khan’s detention under the NSA and ordered his immediate release, saying the Uttar Pradesh government had done a “selective reading” of his anti-CAA speech. The medical doctor had called for national integrity and not incited violence, the court observed. Khan said on Thursday: “I was leading a simple life. I tried to expose the system as children died at BRD Medical College (in Gorakhpur) because of lack of oxygen. This did not go down well with our chief minister. A false case was lodged and I was sent to jail.” He added that he was tortured and asked “weird questions” after being arrested in January for the December speech at AMU. The Uttar Pradesh government had invoked the stringent NSA against him after he was granted bail in February and kept extending his detention by three months at a time. “I was not given water for 72 hours after being taken into custody,” Khan said. “I was physically tortured after the STF arrested me. I was asked weird questions like if I have invented a powder to kill people and visited Japan to topple the government.” The doctor had made the same allegations in a video message on Wednesday. “The interrogators told me that I had made a powder that would instantly kill people. I said, ‘Brother, I’m a children’s doctor, how can I make a powder? Are you talking about corona? If so, ask China.’ They told me they had audio proof that I had planned to pull down the government. I asked them to show me the evidence, which they didn’t have,” he said. “They asked me why I had gone to Japan. I said instead of Japan, you should have said Pakistan. Tell me, how can I go to Japan if my passport is (with the) court?”
Khan’s passport was impounded on a court’s direction after the 2017 Gorakhpur child death tragedy. Khan said: “Often, they wouldn’t give me anything to eat for five days at a stretch.... They tortured me mentally and physically.” He alleged that he used to be hung upside down and beaten in jail. “I used to treat children suffering from malnutrition, now I’m suffering from malnutrition myself because of the poor quality of jail food.” Khan had said in the video message: “People are saying the government may try to implicate me in one case or another. They can also get me killed in an encounter. Maybe this is my last conversation with you.” On Thursday, Khan said he had feared for his life after his arrest. “State-sponsored victimisation of my family and myself has been going on. I feared (being) killed in an encounter. I’m thankful to the STF that they did not kill me while bringing me to Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Khan said he would urge Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to give him back his job in the state medical services. “As the high court has quashed the charges under the NSA against me, I would write to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to reinstate me in the medical service,” Khan told the media conference in Jaipur. “If I’m not allowed, I will hold medical camps in flood-affected areas of Assam as an activist.” He said his arrest had affected his family. “My 65-year-old mother, my wife had to frequently visit the Supreme Court during the pandemic. My brothers’ businesses were destroyed. My seven-and-a-half-month-old son doesn’t recognise me and runs off to my brother’s lap. I don’t think any government can cause me bigger pain than this,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||High Covid rates among health workers||India on Thursday recorded its highest-yet daily rise of 83,883 new coronavirus cases as health officials flagged increases in average daily deaths in Delhi and Karnataka and high positivity rates among healthcare workers in six states. The new cases have raised the country’s total number of lab-diagnosed cases to over 3.85 million, of whom over 2.97 million have recovered, 815,538 patients are under medical supervision and 67,376 have died, 1,043 over the past day. The Union health ministry released statistics showing that the average daily active cases have fallen over the past two weeks in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, but average daily case fatality rates have increased in Delhi and Karnataka. In Delhi, mortality has increased by 50 per cent from an average 12 deaths per day during the August 11-19 week to an average 18 deaths per day during the August 27-September 2 week. In Karnataka, mortality increased by 9.6 per cent from 114 per day to 125 per day over these two weeks. “We’re seeing this 50 per cent increase in Delhi because over the past few weeks, new infections and mortality have increased here,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, said while briefing reporters on the status of the coronavirus epidemic in the country. The Centre is actively engaging with the Delhi government to take steps to address this issue, he said. Bhushan also said the health ministry had recorded unusually high positivity among healthcare workers in some states — 18 per cent in Telangana, 16 per cent in Maharashtra, 14 per cent in Delhi, 13 per cent in Karnataka, 12 per cent in Puducherry and 11 per cent in Punjab. He said the health ministry had alerted the states, urging them to check on hospital infection control practices as well as on the appropriate use of personal protective equipment by healthcare workers. The rise in the daily new infections in Delhi follows a steady decline for several weeks. Delhi had recorded its highest-yet single-day rise of 3,947 new infections on June 23 but the number fell to 674 on August 3 but have since increased to 2,509 on September 2. Although antibody surveys have suggested that nearly 30 per cent of the population of Delhi has already been infected by the coronavirus, health experts say 
the fresh surge points to the large proportion of population still susceptible to the infection. While the current surge in daily new cases in Delhi might appear to be a second wave, public health experts say the surge might be the outcome of the virus spreading to new areas across the capital after the lockdown was relaxed. “What we need ideally is a ward-by-ward analysis of new infections within cities — that will give a clearer picture of what is happening,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad, and an infectious disease epidemiologist. Mavalankar and other senior epidemiologists have predicted that the virus will continue to spread across the country from cities into towns and villages until the population is protected through herd immunity — either through natural infections or through vaccines. Some epidemiologists have estimated that herd immunity — a situation in which so many people are infected that they pose barriers to the spread of the virus — is likely to emerge when about 60 per cent of a population is infected. Population surveys in several cities have pointed to infection prevalence of up to 30 per cent although in Dharavi, a pocket of Mumbai, a survey had detected an infection prevalence of 58 per cent. “In Dharavi, the number of new cases has fallen sharply,” Mavalankar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Eye on China, blanket scan on university pacts||The Centre has sought details of all the agreements Indian universities have signed with foreign institutions, with some professors and government officials suggesting the objective is to scrutinise the academic collaborations with Chinese universities. Senior JNU academic A.K. Mohapatra — a former ABVP member and trenchant critic of the Left — said China had been using its universities’ collaborations with Indian institutions to build a constituency in its favour among Indian academics and thus protect its business interests. Instructed by the Centre, the UGC on Thursday asked universities to inform it by September 15 about all the memorandums of understanding (MoUs) they had signed with foreign institutions. “In view of directions received from ministry of human resource development, all Indian universities are requested to provide information regarding the memorandum of understanding signed by them with foreign higher educational institutions,” the notice, signed by UGC secretary Rajnish Jain, said. Recently, the education ministry had asked several universities for the details of the Chinese study centres and Confucius institutions on their campuses. These centres are funded by the Chinese and promote their language and culture, among other activities. The UGC notice comes at a time when India has banned scores of Chinese apps, placed riders on foreign direct investment with an eye on China, and dropped Chinese as a foreign language for schoolchildren. “The UGC will collect details about all MoUs. The details of China-specific MoUs can be looked into,” a government official, who did not wish to be quoted, said. Mohapatra, dean of JNU’s School of International Studies, said that “90 per cent” of the MoUs between Indian and Chinese institutions were the result of Chinese initiative. The usual approach is to invite an Indian academic to China for a seminar, he said. “After the seminar, they privately discuss the idea of academic collaboration. The academic is provided with good hospitality,” he said. “When he comes back, he pursues the proposals for collaboration towards student and faculty exchange, joint research and the like.” Mohapatra said Beijing wanted foreign policy relations with New Delhi to remain unaffected by the border irritants because it had plans for business expansion in India. “China’s main objective behind the university collaborations is to create a constituency among academics to further its various interests. It also wants to isolate India from western countries — anti-America sentiments already exist among sections of Indian academics,” he said. “India is a major market for Chinese goods. So, whenever there’s a government plan to take a strong stand on China, (Beijing wants) protests here. These collaborations serve that purpose.” Navnita Chaddha Behera, a political science professor with Delhi University, however, cautioned against any “blanket approach” towards academic collaborations with Chinese institutions. “Collaborations depend on domains. Many are related to science, culture studies. One should see if they are for the advantage of both sides,” she said. “I would caution against a blanket approach. Sometimes these collaborations do help in back-channel diplomacy when formal diplomatic engagements break down.” Agreements for exchange programmes between Indian and Chinese institutions have been under the government’s radar for the past few months. Last October, the UGC had written to all universities saying they must secure clearances from the foreign and home ministries before signing any agreements with Chinese institutions for academic exchange. “Many institutions had before that signed MoUs with Chinese institutions — now the government will know about all those agreements,” a former vice-chancellor with a central university said, requesting not to be named. Asked whether the UGC could seek such information, given that universities were supposed to enjoy autonomy over their academic activities, he said it could. “The UGC is the funding agency — it can always ask for these details,” he said. The government’s current attitude towards China is reflected in the recently approved National Education Policy’s move to drop Chinese from the list of foreign languages that can be taught in schools. NEP 2020 says that “in addition to high-quality offerings in Indian languages and English, foreign languages such as Korean, Japanese, Thai, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian will also be offered at the secondary level....” This is different from what the draft NEP submitted by an expert committee last year had said: “A choice of foreign language(s) (e.g. French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese) would be offered... during secondary school.” The NEPs of 1968 and 1986 — which was modified in 1992 — did not cover the teaching of foreign languages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir domicile certificates for 12,000 ‘outsiders’  ||More than 12,000 “outsiders” are among the 12.5 lakh people who have received domicile certificates in Jammu and Kashmir under the new domicile laws for the fledgling Union Territory. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal has said that 99 per cent of these certificates have been issued to erstwhile holders of permanent resident certificates (PRCs). Most people in Jammu and Kashmir view the remaining one per cent as “outsiders”, and believe that the Muslim-majority state’s special status was scrapped so that these “outsiders” can be settled there to change its demography. Tensions had been flaring in the Valley and Jammu over reports that many “outsiders” had received domicile certificates. Kansal’s news conference was held to calm tempers through claims that most of these certificates had gone to erstwhile PRC holders. Till Article 370 was abrogated on August 5 last year, the permanent residents enjoyed exclusive rights over land and government jobs in the erstwhile state. But new laws introduced in May this year have thrown open the possibility of domicile being granted to certain categories of the other residents. The possession of a domicile certificate is now an eligibility condition for appointment to any Union Territory government post in Jammu and Kashmir. The government has taken a slew of measures in recent months to speed up the process of granting domicile certificates to applicants, including a five-day deadline for their issuance. “About 12.5 lakh domicile certificates have been issued so far. Over 99 per cent of those issued certificates include erstwhile PRCs, including Kashmiri Pandit migrants,” Kansal told the news conference on Tuesday. He said the remaining one per cent included 11,398 refugees from the erstwhile West Pakistan, 415 members of the Valmiki community and 10 from the Gorkha community. Among the 99 per cent are 12,340 registered migrants, who are apparently Kashmiri Pandits living in Jammu and outside. The refugees from West Pakistan have been living in Jammu and Kashmir for decades but were not entitled to permanent resident certificates as they had come from territory outside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Unlike them, tens of thousands of refugees from PoK received permanent resident certificates and were fully absorbed into the system. Some other “outsiders”, including senior IAS officer Navin Choudhary who is from Bihar, too have received domicile certificates but their number is not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Ladakh passes resolution to safeguard jobs and land for locals||The BJP-led Ladakh Hill Development Council in Leh passed a resolution on Thursday seeking safeguards for Ladakhis over land, employment and other opportunities, dealing a blow to the party’s integration theory. A source in the council said the resolution was tantamount to seeking Ladakh exclusively for Ladakhis, although it did not say so explicitly. When the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, of which Ladakh was then a part, was revoked last year, the BJP had argued the provision — which reserved land and jobs for local people — was hindering the state’s full integration with the rest of the country. Now, with Article 370 revoked, the Ladakhis have sought similar safeguards under Article 371, which grants special privileges to the residents of some Indian states. “Keeping in view the aspirations of the people of Ladakh, I would like to move the resolution that the Union Territory of Ladakh be granted constitutional safeguards for land, environment, employment, business and cultural resources either under 6th schedule, or under Article 371 or domicile act under Constitution of India to protect the tribal rights of the indigenous people of Ladakh,” the resolution said. When the Union Territory of Ladakh was carved out of Jammu and Kashmir last year, its Buddhist minority had cheered the decision. But it has since been raising concerns over the region’s identity and environment. In Hindu-majority Jammu, too, many have objected to “outsiders” being allowed to take up government jobs and buy land. In November, Ladakhi environmentalist and Magsaysay Award winner Sonam Wangchuk had voiced fears about the rise of a separatist movement in Ladakh, claiming Ladakhis were beginning to compare their treatment by India to that of Tibetans by China. Thursday’s resolution was moved by the deputy chairman of the council, who is from the BJP, and seconded by three other members. “It was unanimously passed with all parties supporting it,” a source said. Sources said 30 councillors, including six from the Congress, had participated in the meeting. Also present was the BJP parliamentarian from Ladakh, Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. He welcomed the resolution. The resolution said Ladakh’s distinct cultural aspects, strategic location and fragile ecosystem were the reasons Ladakhis from all sections of society were seeking “constitutional safeguards” for the protection of their land, employment, environment, business and culture. Ladakh’s Muslims, who enjoy a slender majority, had fiercely opposed the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and its division into two Union Territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Houses for sale over UP police ‘harassment’||At least 20 families in a western Uttar Pradesh village have pasted notices on their doors saying their houses are for sale, claiming they want to leave the state because of harassment by Yogi Adityanath’s police. Ironically, Adityanath had during the 2017 Assembly poll campaign alleged that people were fleeing their homes in western Uttar Pradesh for fear of criminals from a particular community, and promised to end the atmosphere of fear if voted to power. Residents who want to sell their homes in village Gangnauli, in the Baraut area of Baghpat district, say the police have been booking their family members in false cases to meet arrest targets. These residents are from multiple castes and communities, and make up nearly a fifth of the village’s 100-odd families. “The police have terrorised the area. Adityanath had promised us security but as chief minister, he has been torturing people on the plea of maintaining law and order,” Satveer Rathi, husband of village panchayat chief Sudeshna Rathi, told reporters on Thursday. “The police picked up my son Praveen from our fields on August 30 and later claimed he had been arrested from the highway while trying to escape. They shot and injured him, then framed him in a false case claiming they had seized a country-made pistol from him.” Rathi added: “This has happened with many families in the area. We have written to the chief minister several times to protect us but he has ignored our appeal.”
Baraut circle officer Alok Singh dismissed the allegations as “false”. “There are five cases against Praveen. One of his brothers, Pramod, is also a criminal and is in hiding. Another brother, Ravi, is lodged in Agra jail and is awaiting trial,” Singh said. He said Praveen faced robbery charges; Ravi was an accused in an attempt-to-murder case; and Pramod was a rowdy facing charges of assault and violence.
Rathi claimed that all the cases against his sons were false. “The police want to frame every youth of the area. We have come to know that each inspector has been set a target to arrest 20 youths,” another villager said, requesting anonymity. “This is because we don’t support the BJP in elections.” Gangnauli falls under Chhaprauli Assembly constituency, which has been voting for the Rashtriya Lok Dal since 2002. However, the BJP has been winning the Lok Sabha constituency, Baghpat, since 2014. Allegations of random arrests to meet targets have come also from a few other places in Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts, all in western Uttar Pradesh. So far, the allegations have not reflected any communal or caste angle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Chinese outfit faces tighter visa scrutiny ||India has ordered tougher scrutiny of visa requests by a Chinese non-profit headed by a senior official of the ruling communist party, designating it as an entity of concern in a broader security sweep, sources involved in the matter say. The closer monitoring of the Chinese Association for International Understanding (CAIFU) comes at a time when India and China are locked in their most serious border dispute in more than half a century. The latest step also follows tougher scrutiny of Chinese cultural and language institutions such as Confucius Institutes in the US and partnerships in Australia. Indian officials say the well-resourced Beijing-based group is tied to the Communist Party Central Committee’s United Front Work Department, which runs influence operations outside China by cultivating leaders, members of think tanks and the media. In an internal memo, the Union government has listed the body as an entity of concern, signalling that its activities could run counter to national interests, said two officials aware of the matter. The new category means that the body’s representatives, or groups it backs, will face a security clearance procedure before visas can be issued, said the officials, who sought anonymity because they were not authorised to speak in public. “Visa requests will be looked at very closely, whether it is think-tankers, businessmen,” one of them added. China’s foreign ministry said the association, headed by Ji Bingxuan, vice-chair of China’s largely rubber stamp parliament, the National People’s Congress, was a non-profit engaged in friendly interaction with social bodies from all countries. “It aims to promote mutual understanding and friendship between the Chinese people and people from all over the world, including India,” a ministry representative said in response to a Reuters query. “It also strives to promote the exchange between cultures and civilisations.” Organisations such as the India-China Economic and Cultural Council based in Beijing that have been sponsoring visas for CAIFU will also be subject to security clearances. The move is part of a broader investigation into Chinese activities in India as political ties sour. “We do know that the government is looking at various China-related outfits operating in India,” said Jayadeva Ranade, a China specialist formerly with the Research and Analysis Wing, India’s external intelligence service. Last month, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said the centre that manages Chinese government-funded Confucius Institutes in the US would have to register as a 
foreign mission.CAIFU has traditionally been headed by a high-ranking Chinese leader, such as a current or former vice-chair of the National People’s Congress. Its board comprises a current, and two former, vice ministers from the communist party’s International Liaison Department. “It has a lot of resources at its disposal, intended to win friends and reduce risk for China abroad,” said Srikanth Kondapalli, a China studies expert at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. A Chinese professor, however, said the new move would make little difference as India has traditionally been strict in handing visas to Chinese scholars and organisations. “I think the Indian move is more to appease domestic nationalism than a real security threat about Chinese spies,” said Zhang Jiadong, director of the Center for South Asian Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Congress piles economy heat on Modi, Nirmala||The Congress on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had lost the moral right to continue in office even “for a moment” for destroying the economy, which threatens to push over 40 crore people below the poverty line. Rahul Gandhi persisted with his charge that the informal or unorganised sector was being destroyed deliberately to hand over the “advantage to India’s biggest billionaires”, adding that the November 2016 demonetisation was the first major step towards that. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Why has the Prime Minister not spoken on the economic crisis so far, even as the quarterly growth has dipped to -23.9 per cent. Will feeding peacocks and changing clothes for photo shoots revive the economy?” He added: “Both the Prime Minister and the finance minister have lost the moral right to continue in office (even) for a moment. There were timely warnings of an economic tsunami but they refused to pay heed. They rejected suggestions given by Nobel laureates, economists, experts, the Congress president, Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi…. They made fun of Rahul Gandhi when he warned against the corona pandemic and the economic devastation. Time to rise from the shackles of this ruinous government and rediscover the aspirations and hopes of India.” Rahul, who on Thursday released the second episode of his video series on the economy, tweeted: “Modi’s cashless India was actually India devoid of labourers, farmers and small businesses. The (demonetisation) card played at 8pm on November 8, 2016, delivered its dreadful result on August 31, 2020 (when the grim economic data were released).” The former Congress president explained in the video: “Demonetisation was an attack on India’s poor, its farmers, labourers and small shopkeepers. Demonetisation was an attack on India’s unorganised economy.” Recalling the debilitating shock that demonetisation delivered to the country, Rahul said: “The first question: Did it erase black money? No. Secondly, what was the benefit of demonetisation for the poor people of India? The answer is — nothing. So, who got the benefit? The advantage was given to India’s biggest billionaires. How? The money that you had in your pockets, that you had in your homes was taken and used by the government to waive the debts of these people. But that was just one goal.” He added: “The second goal was to wipe out cash from the system. Our informal sector, which is the sector of the unorganised economy, runs on cash. Whether it is a small shopkeeper, farmer or labourer, he or she works with cash. The Prime Minister himself said that he wanted a cashless India, a cashless Hindustan. “However, if there is cashless India, the informal sector will be destroyed. Farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, small and medium businesses who are dependent on cash, those who cannot live without cash, suffered.” Surjewala said the Modi government now faced a severe “confidence deficit”. “Ask the micro, small and medium enterprises and they will tell you that neither do the banks extend loans or financial assistance nor does the words of the finance minister have any weight. Banks have no faith in the government and the government has no faith in the RBI. States have no faith in the central government. An atmosphere of distrust is prevailing. By denying the GST compensation, the Centre has pushed the states into serious crisis. They are creating conditions for a financial emergency.” Sitharaman earlier this week projected the pandemic as an “act of God” while announcing the Centre’s decision to disclaim its responsibility of compensating states for GST shortfalls. Surjewala reeled off critical statistical details: “The International Labour Organisation has said 40 crore Indians are being pushed below the poverty line. In the middle of this economic depredation, 80 lakh people were forced to withdraw Rs 30,000 crore from their EPFO accounts. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has reported 2 crore salaried people lost their jobs between April and July 2020. “In the unorganised sector, 10 crore jobs were lost during the lockdown. Out of 6.3 crore MSME units in the country, only one-fourth are able to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity. The rest are lying closed or are on the verge of permanent closure.” The Congress spokesperson pointed out that the State Bank of India’s latest report, released on September 1, had predicted that the GDP growth for 2020-21 would be -10.9 per cent. “The government should stop the business of lies and falsehood, in addition to curbing the tendency of diverting the people’s attention by using pliable television channels. It should realise the gravity of the crisis and pay heed to sane advice on how to revive the economy,” Surjewala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Bar on Netflix documentary on business ‘bad boys’||The release of a Netflix series on four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations has been put on hold following a state court order, two sources said on Thursday, in the latest legal tussle faced by the US streaming giant in a key market. The Bad Boy Billionaires: India documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Subrata Roy of the Sahara group, founder and former head of Satyam Computer Services Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi was set for release this week. The Araria district court in eastern Bihar last week ordered a stay on its release after the Sahara group argued it would damage Roy’s reputation, according to a copy of the order which is not public but was seen by Reuters on Thursday. The court order said the series “would certainly damage the reputation of the head of the Sahara family”. Roy is currently on bail in a case where he has been ordered to repay billions of dollars to investors of a scheme run by Sahara which was found to be illegal. Netflix had sought to appeal against the directive in the Supreme Court but was directed by judges on Wednesday to approach a higher state court first, the two sources with knowledge of the matter said. ”Netflix is currently deliberating what to do — the show’s release is absolutely on hold,” said one of the sources. Netflix declined to comment. The company counts India as a key growth market but its shows there have faced court cases and police complaints for obscenity or for hurting sentiments. On Thursday, Netflix’s website did not show a trailer or episodes of Bad Boy Billionaires, but described it as an “investigative docuseries (which) explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up — and ultimately brought down — India’s most infamous tycoons”. Raju, who was accused of a $-1billion accounting fraud more than a decade ago, has also secured an order from another state’s court against the show’s release, the sources said. Modi is facing extradition attempts by India after his arrest in London last year for alleged involvement in a $-2billion bank fraud, while Mallya too is in Britain fighting India’s extradition bid for alleged fraud at his now defunct Kingfisher Airlines. It was not clear if Modi or Mallya have filed petitions against the release of the series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Selective iron fist foils PDP meeting||The administration on Thursday scuttled the People’s Democratic Party’s first scheduled meeting since last year’s abrogation of Article 370 by preventing its leadership from attending it, indicating its iron-fist policy against some parties might continue. The government’s move was in stark contrast to its decision to allow the PDP’s rival, the National Conference, to hold a meeting last month after a year’s suspension of political activity. The BJP had been an ally of the PDP in Jammu and Kashmir for three years before withdrawing its support to the Mehbooba Mufti government in 2018. Mehbooba later fiercely opposed the plans to scrap the then state’s special status, warning that Delhi would not find anyone in Kashmir willing to hold up the national flag if Articles 370 or 35A were touched. After the government allowed the National Conference meeting, the PDP had decided to test the waters and announce its own meeting on Thursday despite the absence of the jailed Mehbooba. Although some of the party’s lower-rung leaders turned up at the party headquarters in Srinagar, the government prevented the senior leaders from moving out of their homes. The party released videos showing security forces stopping leaders from leaving their homes. Mehbooba’s daughter Iltija Mufti, who operates her mother’s Twitter account, hit out at the government for singling out the PDP. “Shameful that J&K admin along with police physically prevented PDP leaders from leaving their homes in Srinagar today. They shamelessly lie to courts that these people are free to move & then have the audacity to detain them illegally at home,” Iltija tweeted. Several PDP leaders are said to be under house arrest although the administration has repeatedly denied the claim. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal did not respond to calls and text messages from this newspaper. The National Conference had called its meeting to try and test a government claim in court that no political leader was under house arrest. The government did let National Conference leaders meet the Abdullahs, former chief ministers Farooq and Omar, thus allowing the meeting to take place.
Mehbooba’ party, however, continues to be in the crosshairs of the government, apparently for her “anti-national remarks” and starker public opposition to the developments of August 5, 2019. PDP leaders said that hours ahead of the scheduled meeting, the police had told them not to leave their homes. Party general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone said the meeting had to be cancelled. “It seems the government is scared of us,” he said. The party said it had earlier written to the divisional commissioner for Kashmir, inspector-general of police (IGP) for Kashmir, IGP security, Srinagar deputy commissioner, Srinagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) and the SSP security informing them about the scheduled meeting but received no response. “We had pledged to ensure compliance with the Covid-19 protocol but were not allowed (to hold the meeting),” Lone said. Recently, the National Conference and other parties had taken a joint public pledge to fight for restoration of Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Delhi Riots book authors file police complaint||The authors of the controversial book, Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story, filed a complaint with the police on Thursday against publishing house Bloomsbury, some media organisations and noted individuals, alleging cheating, mischief, misappropriation of property and criminal intimidation by them. The authors met Delhi commissioner of police S.N. Shrivastava with their complaint and sought “immediate and necessary action” against those named in it. The complaint accused professor Nandini Sundar and news portals The Print and Newslaundry of “illegal receipt and retention of stolen property”, and several individuals, including historian William Dalrymple and author Aatish Taseer, of “criminal intimidation and (making) statements creating and promoting enmity, hatred, and ill will between classes”. The book, authored by advocate Monika Arora and professors Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra, got embroiled in a controversy for inviting BJP leader Kapil Mishra as a guest of honour on its launch on August 22. There have been allegations that several leaders, including Mishra, made inflammatory speeches targeting anti-citizenship law protesters before the violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 23. Bloomsbury, after facing a backlash on social media, withdrew itself from the book, saying the virtual launch was “organised without its knowledge”. The book found a new publishing house in Garuda Prakashan the next day. According to the complaint signed by Arora, Bloomsbury “wilfully with dishonest intentions expunged her work and also leaked a PDF version of the book in public to hamper any future sales”. “The present complaint seeks investigation... for being the publisher of my authored book and having deliberately, wilfully with dishonest intentions expunged my work, effort and skill thereby diminishing my goodwill, reputation and standing, without my knowledge and consent rescinded from performing its obligations under the terms of the agreement dated 29.5.2020 and leaked a PDF version of the book in public to hamper any future sales,” the complaint said. In the complaint, Arora claimed that a “venomous campaign” emerged on the social media and a “group of individuals/ propagandists”, whom she referred to as “Urban Naxal Gang”, “conspired and went all out to kill the book by pressurizing, intimidating, bullying and blackmailing the publishers”. She also put out tweets by activist Saket Gokhale, along with journalist Arfa Khanum Sherwani and poet Meena Kandasamy, all named in the complaint, alleging that they were congratulating one another for being able to put a stop on the release of the book. The complaint also accused The Quint and NewsLaundry and Sundar for critiquing the book and attempting to discredit the authors’ work based on a leaked or “stolen” PDF copy of the book. Taseer tweeted:  “I’m actually glad this has happened. This should remove all doubt, in anyone’s mind, that these were not independent writers at all, but a state-sponsored syndicate, dedicated to whitewashing the role of certain BJP leaders in the Delhi Riots.” “This complaint is a joke. But the one I file about the contents of the book with DGP Maharashtra won’t be,” tweeted Gokhale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
