05-09-2020||India||Narcotics Control Bureau arrests member of Sushant Singh Rajput’s personal staff||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Dipesh Sawant, a member of Sushant Singh Rajput's personal staff, in connection with a drugs probe linked to the actor's death, officials said. With this, the total number of people arrested in this case has risen to six. The officials said Sawant, who was being questioned since morning, has been arrested under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. A senior NCB officer had earlier said that Sawant's role was that of a "witness" in the case. On Friday, the federal anti-narcotics agency had arrested Showik Chakraborty, 24, Rhea Chakraborty's brother, and Samuel Miranda, Sushant's house manager. The agency said it has now got an "inkling" of the narcotics network and penetration in Bollywood. Showik "dealt in drugs with many others", the NCB told a court here as it obtained his custody along with that of Miranda till September 9. Besides Showik and Miranda, Kaizan Ibrahim, another accused, was also produced before the court. He was remanded in judicial custody. The NCB has also arrested Zaid Vilatra (21) and Parihar (23) in relation to the case. Various angles surrounding the death of the 34-year-old actor are being probed by three federal agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Earlier in the day a CBI team visited Sushant’s flat in suburban Bandra again on Saturday as part of its investigation, an official said. On Saturday, Sushant's family lawyer Vikas Singh said doctors cannot share sensitive information of patients without the consent of their legal heirs. He also said that any doctor who claims to have treated the actor should discuss his medical history with the family first. Sushant was found dead at his flat in suburban Bandra area on June 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||India records 86,432 infections reported in a day||India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past 40 lakh, just 13 days after it crossed 30 lakh, with a record 86,432 cases being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 31,07,223 on Saturday pushing the recovery rate to 77.23 per cent, according to the Union health ministry. The total coronavirus cases rose to 40,23,179, while the death toll climbed to 69,561 with 1,089 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8am showed. India's Covid-19 cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days. It took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh and 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark. It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the novel coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.73 per cent. There are 8,46,395 active cases of coronavirus infection, which is 21.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 4,77,38,491 samples have been tested up to September 4 with 10,59,346 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Now, BCI to vet tweets of  Bhushan||The Bar Council of India has ordered a “thorough study and examination” of lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s two tweets on the judiciary, for which the Supreme Court convicted him of criminal contempt and fined him Re 1. The BCI, the regulatory body for lawyers and legal education, said on Friday that it had directed the Bar Council of Delhi, with which Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, “to examine the matter and proceed as per law and rules to decide the same as expeditiously as possible”. Under Section 24A of the Advocates Act, an advocate convicted of any offence relating to moral turpitude can be disqualified from legal practice for two years. Under Section 35, the Bar Council of the state where a lawyer is enrolled can take the following actions: ⚫ Reprimand the advocate. ⚫ Suspend the advocate from practising in any court in the country for a certain period. ⚫ Remove the lawyer from the state roll of advocates. The BCI said its general council had discussed and deliberated on Thursday the judgment delivered by the apex court bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, which convicted Bhushan but decided to show “magnanimity” by imposing the token fine. “The council is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Shri Prashant Bhushan, advocate, and the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India need thorough study and examination by the Bar Council,” the BCI said in a statement issued by its secretary, Srimanto Sen. The BCI statement said the examination was needed “in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it under the Advocates Act, 1961, and the rules framed thereunder, particularly, Section 24A and Section 35 of the Advocates Act, 1961, and Chapter II, Part VI of the Bar Council of India Rules”. The BCI said Thursday’s meeting via videoconference was presided over by vice-chairman Satish A. Deshmukh. Bhushan has already paid the fine as directed by the court. Had Bhushan failed to do so, he would have invited a jail term of three months and been barred from legal practice for three years, according to the court order. Earlier this year, the BCI had waded into a skirmish with the Supreme Court Bar Association by “staying” the suspension of association secretary Ashok Arora, who had attempted to get association president Dushyant Dave removed for criticising Justice Mishra’s praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Outcry over riot case ‘coercion’||Over 1,000 citizens issued a statement on Friday asking the Delhi police to lay off “coerced ‘confessional’ statements and manufactured evidence’. Several Delhi-based activists who have been under the police’s lens over the February riots that claimed 53 lives too spoke out at a news conference against attempts to criminalise the protests against the new citizenship matrix. The citizens cited news reports that said four chargesheets filed on the riots case showed identical confessional statements by different witnesses. They also cited a recent letter from rights activist and former JNU student Umar Khalid to police commissioner S.N. Srivastava. The letter said an acquaintance of Umar’s had been told to give a statement that Umar had called for blocking roads during the riots or face arrest. Separately, Khalid, named in an FIR on the Delhi riots, told a news conference in New Delhi on Friday: “Thirty seconds — in which I called for protests against the CAA — of a 17-minute speech of mine in Amaravati was first tweeted by the BJP’s Amit Malviya, then telecast by channels, and then used by the police to claim that I had called for riots…. Had they shown the full speech, the people would know that I said that the only two weapons we have are those that Gandhi gave us — ahimsa and satyagraha.” The citizens’ statement said: “We are gravely concerned that Dr Umar Khalid, a young scholar, already vilified and targeted relentlessly by a section of the media, is now being implicated in riots cases on the basis of manufactured evidence. “Umar Khalid is not above the law, and must support any police investigation. But when the process of law is sought to be short-circuited and undermined, then any citizen’s liberty is gravely threatened.” The statement added: “We seek an urgent assurance from the Delhi police commissionerate that practices like extorting ‘confessions’ to manufacture evidence will be immediately ended; that those who indulge in them will be held accountable; and that no action will be taken against Umar Khalid or anyone else on the basis of these so-called confessions and fabricated evidence. “Even these coerced confessional statements do not make for UAPA offences, and invoking this law appears to be done without application of mind to give acts the colour of a conspiracy against the state. We ask the police to drop the application of UAPA in all these cases.” Among the citizens who signed the statement are academics Ramachandra Guha, Zoya Hasan, Partha Chatterjee, Jayati Ghosh, Poonam Batra, Nivedita Menon and Sucharita Sen; former civil servants Jawhar Sircar, Wajahat Habibullah, Madhu Bhaduri, Deb Mukherjee, Amitabha Pande, Sundar Burra and Aditi Mehta; filmmaker Aparna Sen and former governor Margaret Alva. Khalid addressed the news conference on Friday along with former bureaucrat Harsh Mander and political activist Yogendra Yadav — named in chargesheets but not booked for any offence — academic Apoorvanand Jha and student leader Kawalpreet Kaur, who are being probed for their alleged role in the riots. They condemned what they called a police witch-hunt against those who spoke up for the riot victims or criticised the “discriminatory” Citizenship Amendment Act and related laws. “During the protests, some WhatsApp groups were made. Now every word exchanged in these groups is being examined with a defective microscope by the police, their meaning and context deliberately and mischievously misinterpreted, the truth ripped into shreds and re-imagined to create the mythology of a conspiracy of hate, violence and insurrection,” said Mander, a social activist who was an IAS officer. “There were significantly other WhatsApp groups that were indeed actively calling for violence on those dates; none of these are being subject to any investigation of a conspiracy.” Yadav asked: “Is this an investigation into a ‘conspiracy’ or is the investigation itself a conspiracy? Is the entire investigation just a façade to arrive at premeditated conclusions already announced before the investigation had even commenced?” Union home minister Amit Shah had called the riots a pre-planned conspiracy after initially calling them spontaneous. Yadav asked why the police had not taken note of reports against BJP leaders Satya Pal Singh, Jagdish Pradhan, Nand Kishore Gujjar, Mohan Singh Bisht and Kapil Mishra or Right-wing social media sensation Ragini Tiwari. Mishra has been accused by the Delhi Minorities Commission and others of inciting the riots. Yadav further asked why the police had not identified the cops who had beaten a youth named Faizan while forcing him to sing the national anthem. Faizan later died. Kawalpreet Kaur, Delhi president of the CPIML Liberation-backed All India Students’ Association, said: “The impunity granted to the supporters of the ruling dispensation in the clear incitement to violence seems to be a repeat of the impunity that the Delhi police have provided over decades to the political leaders who were involved in inciting and participating in the 1984 anti-Sikh genocide. “However, this time, the Delhi police seem to have gone one step ahead and, while providing impunity to the netas, they have started targeting the students and activists who have been critical of the regime.” The police have not responded to this newspaper’s queries about the charges levelled against the force at the news conference and in the statement by the citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Rajnath meets China minister||Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe met for over two hours in Moscow on Friday, hours after the Indian foreign secretary and the army chief publicly acknowledged the gravity of the situation on the Ladakh border. “The meeting between Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh and Chinese Defence Minister General Wei Fenghe in Moscow is over. The meeting lasted for 2 hours and 20 minutes,” the Indian defence minister’s office tweeted close to midnight. Rajnath and Wei met on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers’ meeting in Moscow. This is the first face-to-face contact at the political level between India and China since the Chinese troops opened multiple fronts along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and changed the status quo in May. The meeting was apparently sought by Wei, a state councillor and member of the Central Military Commission that controls the People’s Liberation Army of China. “It was a very crucial dialogue to resolve the border standoff in Ladakh,” a defence ministry official said in Delhi. The political intervention comes at a time military-level talks appeared to have remained inconclusive for five straight days. This week, more than 25 hours of discussions had been held between the military commanders of both sides. Taking into account the time spent on translation, it still adds up to at least 12 hours of parleys. Earlier in the day, Indian foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla described the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China as “unprecedented” and army chief Gen. Manoj Mukund Naravane said it was “delicate and serious”. This is the first time there has been a public acknowledgement at such a high level of the gravity of the situation. This also seems to be part of a calibrated change in the communication strategy. But the foreign secretary underscored the significance in the fact that the two countries have remained engaged both diplomatically and militarily through the most difficult moments of the crisis. The foreign secretary said this while delivering a lecture  organised by the Indian Council of World Affairs. “We haven’t lost any lives on the (China) border in the last 40 years. We haven’t seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years is something we have to take stock of. What is important is that during difficult moments of this crisis, we have been engaged both militarily and diplomatically with China. The pandemic has not stopped us from engaging.” Gen. Naravane, who arrived in Ladakh on Thursday, said: “The current situation along the LAC is a bit delicate and serious. For our security, we have undertaken some precautionary steps. We are sure that the problem can be resolved fully through talks.” “The morale of the jawans is very high and they are ready to face any challenges. I would like to reiterate, like always, that our officers are the finest in the world. They will make not just the army but the entire country proud,” the army chief added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Odisha  BJP MLA arrested||A BJP MLA from Baripada in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district, Prakash Soren, was arrested by police on Friday for allegedly assaulting a government engineer. It was alleged that the concerned engineer had refused to award work orders to the supporters of the MLA in various government projects as desired by him. Sources said Soren had asked Ganapati Jena, an assistant executive engineer in the ITDA (Integrated Tribal Deve lopment Agency), to meet him at the Baripada circuit house in Mayurbhanj on Thursday morning. But the engineer met him in the evening. An infuriated Soren and his supporters allegedly misbehaved with him and beat him up. Jena, who is undergoing treatment in a local hospital, had lodged an FIR after the assault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Puri opens for tourists, govt plans cruise services||The pilgrim town is ready to welcome tourists again after the state government lifted all the restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tourists can now stay in the town for as long as they wish to with no fear of being quarantined for stay beyond 72 hours as was the case earlier. All the checkpoints on the entry routes to the town, known for its beautiful beach and temples, especially the 12th Century shrine of Lord Jagannath, have been removed. The government has also decided to introduce cruise services in the Chilika Lake, the largest brackish water lake of Asia, Mahanadi, Bhitarakanika and Satkosia gorge. Puri collector Balwant Singh told The Telegraph: “There is no bar on tourists from entering Puri. We have decided to open up this sector as we have to take care of the livelihood of lakhs of people who depend on tourism. Hotels have started making bookings and there is no 72-hour stay bar on visitors. Tourists can come and enjoy the different spots of Puri. However, our request to them is to strictly follow all the Covid guidelines.” However, officials maintained that Swargadwara, the cremation ground in Puri, will remain closed to outsiders till the end of this month. As tourism sector contributes 10 per cent of the state’s GDP, the government is now trying to promote it in a big way with steps like introduction of cruise services in lakes and rivers. The service will run in public-private partnership. Officials hope that international players will join hands with the government in promoting the service. Chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy said: “Cruise service will be introduced in compliance with Covid-19 guidelines. It will boost economic activities by promoting tourism.” Tourism secretary Visal Dev said: “We have decided in principle to run cruise services in Mahanadi, Chilika and on the national waterway 5 from Dhamara to Paradip. It will also connect the Dangamal reserve forest under Bhitarakanika sanctuary in Kendrapara district. The Inland Waterways Authority has been asked to get all statutory clearances from different authorities. Now we plan to bring international cruise operators to the state so that tourism will get a big boost. We are in touch with three to four international cruise operators.” According to the plan the cruise service in the Bhitarakanika circuit, known for its crocodile and birds, will be of five nights and six days. It will connect tourists spots like Chandbali-Aaradi-Khola. “Chilika circuit, known for birds and Irrawady dolphins, will cover three nights and four days. The cruise service will connect Chilika and various islands like Kalijai, Nalabana-Honeymoon island-Mangalajodi-Satapada-Rajhans island-Satapada and Puri,” official said adding that state PPP cell has been asked to chalk out a plan in consultation with the department of tourism. The state has a long coastline of 482 km, five major rivers, reservoirs and water bodies including Chilika, the largest brackish water lake of Asia. “All these water bodies possess tremendous tourism potential. To unlock the potential, the department is planning to develop day cruises in select water bodies of the state with private sector participation,” said a senior official. Officials maintained that Odisha Tourism Policy, 2016, offers many fiscal incentives for projects like water sports, adventure sports, house boats, cruise tourism projects, aquariums, aqua-parks etc. by way of investment and interest subsidy with an intention to promote private sector investments. “Fiscal Incentives are also available under large revenue generating projects of Government of India like cruise vessels, cruise terminals etc.” The government has already framed Odisha Boat Rules, 2017 to regulate water sports activities in the state. The Centre has recommended Puri and seven other beaches in India to the International Jury of Denmark for global eco-label “ Blue Flag” certification to the sea beaches under the Beach Environment and Aesthetic Management System (BEAMS) programme. Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday tweeted, “Thank PM Shri Narendra Modi Ji and Min. Prakash Javdekar Ji for recommending the Golden beach in Puri along with seven other beaches in India to the International Jury for the coveted global eco-label- Blue flag certification in the forthcoming tourist season under the BEAMS Program.” The Chandrabhaga beach near the Sun Temple in Konark was the first in the country to have got the tag in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Drug cuffs on Kannada actress||A leading Kannada actress and an event organiser were arrested on Friday in connection with a drug racket bust in the city that has thrown up political and movie links. Police arrested actress Ragini Dwivedi, 30, and event organiser Viren Khanna after questioning them through the day over alleged links with drug peddlers, Karnataka police’s central crime branch said. The two have been sent to four days’ police custody. Karnataka police officers had picked up Khanna from his native Delhi and brought him to Bangalore. CCB officers raided the north Bangalore apartment of Ragini, who has also acted in Malayalam and Telugu movies and had made a special appearance in the Hindi film R… Rajkumar, early on Friday after she failed to honour a call for questioning the day before. They also searched the premises. Ragini’s name had been found in the call records of a government clerk arrested last week on drug peddling charges, sources said. Ragini, 30, who was not allowed to make any phone calls, was driven to the CCB office in Bangalore where she was questioned in the presence of senior women officers. Her questioning follows the arrest of Ravishankar, a clerk at the regional transport office, and a real estate developer named Rahul. Both of them are said to have links with several Kannada film stars. On Thursday, Ragini had refused to appear personally for questioning by the CCB. “My advocates have presented themselves before the police, have explained my difficulty in not being able to appear today and have sought time. I am committed to appear on Monday morning before the police,” she had tweeted on Thursday. CCB officials have seized Ragini’s mobile phones and laptops that will be sent for a forensic examination. Bangalore police commissioner Kamal Pant told a news conference on Friday that cops had been tracking the drug network for a month. “The CCB has been following leads on drug peddling. Then we got information about a government employee being a regular participant at parties and that his close contacts were some film actors,” Pant said. “When we finally got him, we found he is a clerk at the RTO in Jayanagar (in Bangalore) and that he used to supply drugs at these parties,” the officer added, referring to Ravishankar. “Based on the revelations made by him, we started our second layer of investigation,” Pant said, adding that more people were being summoned for questioning. The officer said lot of information had emerged during the interrogation of Rahul. “He is into real estate and has regularly travelled abroad to attend such parties,” Pant said. But the police commissioner refused to give more information when asked if another popular actress believed to be close to Rahul would also be questioned. “I cannot disclose anything more since the investigation is on,” Pant said. The Narcotics Control Bureau had raided two premises in Bangalore on August 21 and seized a large quantity of party drugs and arrested the suspected kingpin, Anikha D, and alleged drug peddlers Anoop Mohammed and Rijesh Ravindran. Filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh, brother of slain journalist Gouri Lankesh, had earlier spoken to the media and the police about rampant drug abuse in the film industry. Indrajit has named 15 actors and actresses in his deposition before the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||SC bins TN judges’ plea on appointments||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition filed by some district judges of Tamil Nadu challenging Madras High Court collegium’s decision to recommend certain district judges for appointment in the high court by overlooking the petitioners’ claim in terms of overall seniority. Appointment to the high courts are made either by way of direct recruitment of advocates who have a minimum 10 years practice or those who have been district judge for about 10 years. The petitioners had taken the stand that in terms of overall seniority they were senior to the six other respondent judges as their earlier legal practice should also be taken into consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Aligarh Muslim University time capsule update||Aligarh Muslim University is thinking of digging up the 143-year-old time capsule embedded under the campus and burying a new one containing details of the institution’s achievements and an account of contemporary history and current affairs. If carried out, the move will coincide with the centenary celebrations of the university, currently put on hold by the Covid-19 outbreak. Rahat Abrar, director of the university’s Urdu Academy, told reporters the old time capsule was buried on January 8, 1877, the foundation day of the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College which later became Aligarh Muslim University in 1920 through an act of Parliament. “According to newspaper clippings from 1877, the capsule contained the records of the donors (towards the establishment of the college) and the struggles of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, the founder of the college,” Abrar told The Telegraph. “Some gold, silver and copper coins of the time were also placed inside the capsule. But we don’t know what else is there. We want to dig it up to find out, and make the AMU community aware of all that it contains.” He said a “final decision to recover the time capsule” was yet to be taken. “It will be discussed at our next meeting. Nor have we decided yet what to do with the old capsule if it’s dug up --- whether it will be kept in a museum or buried again with the new capsule,” Abrar said. “There’s also a plan to place a new time capsule under a campus building. It will contain the history of AMU between 1920 and 2020 in digital and printed form. It will also mention current affairs. The rest will be decided by the committee formed for the centenary celebrations.” University sources said the new time capsule could be buried under Sir Syed House, Victoria Gate, Kennedy Hall or the library building. According to the Aligarh Institute Gazette, published on January 12, 1877, the old capsule was placed under the Starchy Hall on the campus in the presence of Sir Syed, then king of Varanasi Shambhu Narayan, and then Viceroy of India Edward Robert Lytton. Pictures of the occasion are available in the university archives. The Gazette, launched in 1866, was associated with the Scientific Society, instituted by Sir Syed in 1863 to promote a scientific temper among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||MPs to need Covid-negative certificate to attend monsoon session||All MPs will need a Covid-negative certificate to be able to attend the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament and have been advised to either get the RT-PCR tests done in their constituencies or take the rapid antigen test at the special counters set up in the Parliament House. Only those members who have Covid-negative certificates or whose rapid antigen test comes clear will be allowed to proceed for the session. In case a member tests negative, but is symptomatic, he/she will have to take the RT-PCR test and go into home isolation while awaiting the result. Those testing positive will be reported and sent to institutional isolation or hospitalised as decided by the doctors. Family and staff members of MPs have also been advised to get themselves tested. Meanwhile, all officers and staff of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, too, have to take the Covid-19 test mandatorily in preparation for the session beginning on September 14. Arrangements have been made for testing personnel attached to the Lok Sabha secretariat on Saturday. Besides the secretariat staff, all others working in the sprawling complex will be tested. This includes employees of the Central Public Works Department, the State Bank of India, NDMC, Railway Reservation Counter, Air India, Post Office and Railway Catering Unit. Similar instructions are also likely to go out to the media and officials accompanying ministers during the session, sources privy to the planning told The Telegraph. Meanwhile, after the row over the scrapping of Question Hour for this session, the government has decided to allow un-starred questions that Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, likened to “throwing crumbs” as it still avoids direct questioning. Unlike starred questions that are replied to on the floor of the House by the ministers concerned followed by supplementary questions which, too, are answered, un-starred questions only get written replies that are laid on the table of the House. Time is never allotted for un-starred questions. It is not just MPs who are disappointed by the government’s refusal to reconsider the suspension of Question Hour. Signature campaigns launched by concerned citizens have found considerable traction and one such letter to the presiding officers of the two Houses noted that several state Assemblies that held their sessions through the pandemic did not suspend Question Hour. “If the state Assembles can put sufficient precautions in place to ensure smooth functioning of the House without suspension of any procedures, then Parliament ought to as well,’’ the letter pointed out; adding that India was not in the league of nations that quickly adapted to the pandemic and enabled virtual Parliament sessions, complete with Question Hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Guard down, infections spiral in a Maharashtra village||The quaint, sugarcane-growing village of Rajewadi in Maharashtra did not have a single confirmed coronavirus case until mid-August. Now one in every four people there is positive for the virus, with police blaming a local religious event for the spread. Such spurts in cases in small towns and villages, where mask wearing and social distancing have nearly vanished and community gatherings are back, explain why India’s infections are now rising faster than anywhere else in the world and why the country is soon set to top 4 million cases. Based on current trends, India will overtake Brazil as the second-worst affected nation after the US in days. The country reported 83,883 new infections on Thursday, surpassing its previous global record for the highest single-day rise. The World Health Organization has said India’s relatively low mortality rate could rise as the virus fans out to the vast countryside, where health facilities are basic at best. In Rajewadi — a small village of around 360 in Maharashtra — authorities launched widespread testing after an elderly resident was found to have died of Covid-19 on August 17, said Aniruddha Athalye, a senior health official in Satara district where the village is located. Since then, 91 people there have tested positive and the village has been sealed off by police. Government officials, police and residents said days before the death — the village’s only fatality from the disease — the person and about 30 others had gathered one night to offer prayers to a local deity. They had dinner together after the rituals, and throughout the function no one wore masks or practised social distancing. Police said almost all those who attended have tested positive. Police have lodged a complaint against the organiser for violating the state’s epidemic act. A person who saw the function but did not attend said “everyone was behaving like coronavirus won’t catch them”. He declined to be named while police investigate the case. The village is now barricaded with bamboo and wood, with a poster describing it as a containment zone. Sanjay Bhosale, a village grocery shop owner whose son has contracted the virus, said residents had grown tired of the virus rules and started visiting each other like before. “A perception was created that coronavirus was just a hype, that it’s not that serious,” Bhosale said. “Normal life had resumed for us. Only after the person died, people took it seriously again, but by then the virus had spread across the village. Now we are taking precautions.” In Satara, total cases doubled between August 6 and August 23, the period in which India added 1 million new infections — the fastest such jump in the world. “In April and May, people were following all the rules but now the mentality has changed. They have become casual and are taking coronavirus lightly,” Satara’s civil surgeon Subhash Chavan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Chirag Paswan set to bargain hard ||The LJP, like ally BJP, has begun asserting itself to drive a hard bargain for the Bihar elections scheduled later this year, in the process attempting to undercut JDU chief Nitish Kumar who is said to be battling anti-incumbency after three terms as chief minister. Hectic strategising for the year-end polls has begun with the three NDA partners eyeing to bolster their position amid hopes of an easy victory due to the disarray in the Opposition camp. The LJP on Friday put out full-page advertisements in newspapers in Bihar and also in some Delhi dailies, making its presence felt. The ads seek to project Chirag Paswan, son of veteran Dalit leader Ramvilas Paswan, as the face of the community after his father. This comes days after Nitish welcomed another Dalit leader, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, into the NDA fold in Bihar. The move by Manjhi’s party, the Hindustani Awam Morcha, to exit the Opposition “Grand Alliance” and join the NDA is being seen as a plan by Nitish to counter the LJP’s Dalit card. Chirag, who has taken over the reins of the LJP from his ageing father, has been consistently attacking Nitish over governance issues recently. The LJP has only 2 MLAs in Bihar and is not part of the NDA government led by Nitish. “They are fighting to rule over us and we are fighting to feel proud of Bihar,” a line in the LJP ad, which positions Chirag as the “Yuva Bihari”, said. This too was seen as an indirect attack on Nitish, trying to accuse him of being interested only in power. “Nitish Kumar is trying to sideline the LJP but we are determined to prove our worth in Bihar,” an LJP leader said, threatening to even field candidates against the JDU to harm Nitish’s prospects. The LJP has called a meeting of its Bihar leaders next week. Privately, party leaders are claiming that a decision on fielding candidates against Nitish’s nominees could be taken at the meeting. All this, however, is being viewed as part of efforts to bargain hard for a larger share of seats. “We have six Lok Sabha MPs and so we should get at least 36 seats to contest (in the Assembly elections),” another LJP leader said. The LJP had in 2015 contested 42 seats when Nitish had joined hands with the RJD-Congress. The flurry of activity in the LJP comes close on the heels of a similar effort by the BJP. At a meeting of Bihar MPs recently, BJP leaders demanded an equal share of seats. The MPs argued that the Lok Sabha poll formula of the BJP and the JDU contesting an equal number of seats (17) while leaving a fare share (6) for the LJP should be followed. Bihar has 243 Assembly seats. “Brand Nitish Kumar has eroded substantially in Bihar. There is simmering anti-incumbency against him,” a Bihar BJP MP said, stressing that in 2020 Nitish can no longer hope to play “big brother”. There is a perception among a section of the JDU that the BJP and the LJP might be playing in tandem to downsize Nitish. “There is only one ‘big brother’ now: Narendra Modi and the BJP. We want the BJP to sideline Nitish and take the lead in Bihar,” an LJP MP said. The BJP, however, is not ready to hand out such treatment to Nitish just yet, according to sources. Party strategists feel that despite 15 years of anti-incumbency, he still commands substantial support among sections of the lower backwards and Dalits. “At the same time, Nitish should understand the new political reality…. He should also realise that the BJP is no more the party it used to be,” a key Bihar BJP leader said. The Election Commission on Friday again said it was planning to go ahead with the Bihar Assembly elections as scheduled. “Considering that General Assembly Elections of Bihar are also due and required to be completed before 29th November 2020, the Commission has decided to conduct all the 65 by-elections (across the country) and the General Assembly Elections of Bihar around the same time,” the EC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Cong glare on crores in job test fee ||The Congress has accused the government of collecting hundreds of crores as employment examination fees although it has either not conducted any tests or not handed out appointment letters in years. The Congress on Friday reminded the government that millions of families have been subjected to extreme miseries because of the massive unemployment. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “The Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) brought out a notification for 1,03,760 vacancies in the Group D category on February 23, 2019. It raised the hopes of millions of youths just before the parliamentary elections. The exam dates have not been announced so far in 18 months. The RRB had collected around Rs 500 crore in examination fee from 1.16 crore applicants.” The Congress spokesperson termed the government’s attitude reprehensible. “The RRB issued another notification for 35,277 NTPC (non-technical popular categories) vacancies on February 28, 2019. The exam dates have not been announced yet. Close to 1.26 crore applications were received and the RRB collected Rs 500 crore as fee,” Vallabh said. Giving more examples, he said the RRB had on February 3, 2018, issued a notification to fill up 64,371 vacancies in the posts of assistant loco pilots and technicians. “The examination was conducted and the RRB declared the final results and the merit list on December 12, 2019. Almost nine months have passed but the successful candidates are yet to get their appointment letters and they are waiting to join,” Vallabh said. The Congress spokesperson alleged that candidates who had appeared for the Staff Selection Commission’s Combined Graduate-level Examination in 2018 were also waitingin the wings. “Following the Tier I and Tier II exams, the Tier III exam was held in December 2019. Over 11,000 vacancies in the Group C and Group D categories were to be filled up. But even after nine months, the final results have not been announced,” Vallabh said. Claiming that these were just a few examples, Vallabh asked: “Is this incompetence or ill-intention?” “Most of the aspirants of these examinations do not come from very well-to-do backgrounds. All these combined are 2.15 lakh vacancies. Why were most of these notifications released three months before the elections? Do these jobs really exist or was it just a political gimmick, like the promise of Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s account, to attract voters?” Vallabh asked. He also asked the government why there was no fixed timeline and whether the exams to fill up vacancies this year will be held now or a few years later. The Congress has been highlighting the job crisis for the past few years. Parliamentarian Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Friday: “The Modi government must conduct examinations, declare results and issue appointment letters to solve the problems of youths.” In another tweet in Hindi, Rahul said: “12 crore jobs missing. Five-trillion-dollar economy missing. Common man’s income missing. The country’s security and happiness missing. Answers to questions missing.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge, tweeted a video where job aspirants have spoken about their endless wait for exam results. Asked whether the recruitments were not done because of the miserable financial condition of the railways, Vallabh said: “Why were the vacancies announced then? Remember, these students come from very poor backgrounds. They pay examination fees with great difficulty. Over 64,000 selected candidates are waiting for jobs. The railway minister (Piyush Goyal), who is busy suggesting the sale of Kolhapuri chappals in five-star hotels to boost the economy, should answer this question.” The Congress spokesperson said the economic slump would be far more sharper than the 23.9 per cent fall in GDP if the informal sector was taken into consideration. “We only get hollow rhetoric and excuses from the government. And now they are blaming God for this mess they have created,” Vallabh added. Recalling that the Manmohan Singh government had lifted 14 crore people out of poverty, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said in a video message: “The time has come to distinguish between hard work and fraud work. We saw hard work when Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi introduced welfare schemes to empower the poor and boost the incomes of the common man. The fraud work during the current regime has dragged the GDP growth down to -23.9 per cent but the assets of Ambani and Adani have jumped by over 35 per cent. It is time to decide whether you want a government which works for the poor or (one that works for) crony capitalists.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||JNU asks PhD students to pay for delay in thesis due to Covid||JNU is seeking tuition fees from end-year PhD students for the extra semester they have been granted to finalise and submit their theses, a process halted by the pandemic-induced closure of universities. Some PhD students said they had protested the university’s decision to extract fees from them over a problem they were not responsible for, but the authorities had not responded. Other leading central universities such as Pondicherry University, Hyderabad University, Jamia Millia Islamia and Delhi University are not charging any tuition fees for the extra six months. While PhD is a four-year programme, the students can be given an extra year if necessary. The fourth and fifth-year PhD students were to submit their theses by June this year. Most of them had almost finished their work when the pandemic struck and closed the institutions with their libraries, depriving the students of the opportunity to use reference material or cross-check data and preventing them from submitting their theses. In April, the University Grants Commission advised all the universities to give an extra six months to research students who were unable to submit their theses because of the lockdown. On Tuesday, JNU issued a notification saying the research students would need to undergo provisional registration for the extra six months. The notice did not mention any fee waiver or relaxation. An official from the JNU administration confirmed that the students would have to pay the tuition fee to secure a provisional registration. The tuition fee per semester is Rs 187 for Indian students and $600 (about Rs 44,000) for foreign students. “This decision to charge a fee is wrong since the delay in submitting the thesis was because of the lockdown and pandemic. The students should not be penalised for no fault of theirs,” said Arnika Ahldag, a foreign student at JNU’s School of Arts and Aesthetics who was in the fifth year in the 2019-20 academic session. Another foreign student described the fee of $600 as “a huge burden”. The JNU official who spoke to this newspaper said the deans of the schools and some of the chairpersons of the centres at the university had discussed the matter but the authorities were against any fee relaxation. An email sent to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Wednesday has remained unanswered. While the extra six-month period for research students is to end on December 31, it remains unclear when the universities and their libraries will open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Mortality alert to 15 districts||The Union health ministry on Friday exhorted five states to take steps to lower deaths among Covid-19 patients, citing a surge in new infections and mortality in 15 districts across Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a videoconference, urged health secretaries and district health officials in the five states to focus on containment measures, increased testing and the effective clinical management of patients. The states have been asked to limit and eventually break the transmission through  measures such as perimeter control and active house-to-house search for new cases within containment zones. The 15 districts are Chittoor and Prakasam in Andhra Pradesh; Mysore, Bangalore Urban, Bellari, Koppal, Dakshin Kannada and Davanagere in Karnataka; Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab; Chennai, Coimbatore and Salem in Tamil Nadu; and Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Covid test rule tweak by ICMR||The Centre on Friday released a fresh advisory for coronavirus disease tests, recommending “testing-on-demand” for everyone who wishes to get tested and tests on all the people living in containment zones, particularly in cities with widespread transmission. The new advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research formalises “testing-on-demand”, a concept that doctors say has already been in practice since the June 23 advisory that had said anyone with respiratory symptoms may be tested for Covid-19. But the recommendation to expand testing for routine surveillance in containment zones appears to disregard a call this week from top public health experts for targeted testing. Indiscriminate testing would only divert resources from control measures and would not necessarily save lives, they said. The council has iterated its policy to test all asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of new lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases once between day 5 and day 10 of coming in contact. All asymptomatic high-risk individuals such as those aged above 65 years or those with underlying health disorders living in containment zones should also be tested, it said. “Ideally, it is suggested that 100 per cent of people living in containment zones should be tested… particularly in cities where there has been widespread transmission of the infection,” it said. Public health specialists said they were puzzled. “We have to ask — what is the purpose of expanding testing?” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Many cities with widespread transmission are not in a phase where the infection can be really contained any more — that period is over.” The Indian Public Health Association and two other professional bodies had on Monday urged the government to cease indiscriminate testing and turn attention to preventing deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||CBSE optional exams to be held on September 22-29 ||The optional exams for students seeking improvement of marks in their Class XII tests will be held from September 22 to 29 along with the compartment exams for Classes X and XII, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday. “The compartment examination for the two classes will begin from September 22 and will conclude on September 29. All candidates will carry their own hand sanitiser in transparent bottles and (their own) water bottles, and will be required to cover their mouth and nose with mask or cloth,” CBSE exam controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said in an official notification detailing the exam schedule. Earlier in the day, the CBSE had opposed in the Supreme Court a plea seeking the postponement of the compartment exams for Class XII, saying all “necessary” safety measures for students were being taken in view of the pandemic. The court asked the board to justify its stand in an affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing on September 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Valley voices Hindi fear ||The Valley’s civil society has woken from a yearlong slumber to oppose a purported central government design to impose Hindi on Jammu and Kashmir and voice alarm at a “learning crisis” triggered by schools remaining shut for 381 of the last 390 days. The Group of Concerned Citizens (GCC) on Friday alleged a ploy in Wednesday’s decision by the Centre to designate five official languages for Jammu and Kashmir, where Urdu had been the sole official language for 131 years. Among the signatories to its statement are two dozen former bureaucrats, retired university vice-chancellors and other academics, retired judges, journalists and lawyers. The development comes at a time minority ethnic groups have stepped up their campaign for official language status for the Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi languages. This follows the Centre’s Wednesday move to include Kashmiri and Dogri — the languages of the region’s two biggest ethnic groups — along with Hindi and English in the list of official languages. “It is feared that this move (having five official languages) may lead to divisive linguistic politics, as competing demands for inclusion of other languages such as Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi have already started cropping up. Even in the case of Kashmiri and Dogri, the question arises as to which of the many dialects of these languages will be adopted,” the GCC statement said. “Moreover, none of the states or Union Territories of India (has) more than two official languages. The group has genuine apprehension that in the confusion that is likely to occur, (the) Hindi language may ultimately be imposed as official language in the Union Territory.” The group has called for the retention of Urdu as the sole official language. The GCC statement comes after the government clampdown on August 5 last year had succeeded in silencing Kashmir’s people, including its leading civil society groups. The only notable resistance had been offered by women from elite backgrounds who took to Srinagar’s streets last October against the August 5 decisions. They spent a night in jail and were released after signing bonds pledging silence. Friday’s GCC statement suggested it was now the men’s turn to speak. Former J&K Public Service Commission chairperson Shafi Pandit, who is part of the citizens’ group, said the GCC was a non-political group and had not issued any statement in more than a year because of the prevailing situation. “We thought we should not hesitate to speak on an aspect that impacts our culture,” Pandit told The Telegraph. He said the Centre had blacked out Urdu from its National Education Policy, 2020, although it was a “modern Indian language listed in the 8th Schedule as per Articles 344(1) and 351 of the Constitution”. “(GCC) deeply regrets not to find the name of Urdu language in the entire document even once…. Not finding its name anywhere raises the suspicion about the future of this great language used very widely across the country by all the communities,” the GCC said. The NEP talks about the teaching and promotion of “Indian languages” as a group without spelling out names except for a single reference to Hindi and multiple references to Sanskrit. The GCC has also expressed fear that the Centre might replace the Persian script with Devanagari for the Kashmiri language. The fear stems from the use of Devanagari instead of Persian by the California-based Unicode Consortium’s Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) for use in computer applications. Persian has for centuries been the script used for Kashmiri. Citing “the cultural, emotional, religious sensibilities of Kashmiris associated with the Kashmiri language, and its viable and time-tested standard Persian script written in Nastaliq style”, the group has urged the government to take up with the Unicode Consortium the matter of replacing Devanagari with Persian for Kashmiri in the CLDR. The GCC has expressed regret that the Centre has not included Arabic in the list of foreign languages taught at the secondary level in schools. Its statement said that educational Institutions had remained open for just 9 of the past 390 days, first because of the government clampdown and then because of the pandemic. “The closure of educational institutions… has resulted (in) a serious learning crisis. Now with the closure of schools till (the end of) September 2020, the situation is bound to worsen further,” it said. The GCC has called for the restoration of 4G services so that the setback in learning can be made up through online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
