06-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India sets global record with 90,000 new cases in a day||India's Covid-19 tally of cases mounted to 41,13,811 with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day, while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, data updated at 8 am showed. With a record 73,642 patients having recuperated in a day, India's Covid-19 recoveries have surged to nearly 32 lakh, pushing the recovery rate to 77.32 per cent while the case fatality rate, one of the lowest globally, has further dropped to 1.72 per cent as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. There are 8,62,320 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country accounting for only 20.96 per cent of the total caseload, it highlighted. "The spike in the daily recovered Covid-19 patients continues in the country. For the second successive day, India has clocked a record recovery of more than 70,000 patients in a single day," the ministry said. A total of 73,642 patients have recovered and been discharged from either home or facility isolation or hospitals in a day, according to health ministry data updated at 8 am. "With this surge in numbers of patients getting recovered on a daily basis, India's recovery rate has been further pushed upwards to 77.32 per cent," the ministry said. Sustained efforts by the Centre, state and union territory governments have substantially resulted in higher number of people getting identified at an early stage for the infection through very high levels of testing, it underlined. This has enabled their timely treatment, guided by the Standard Treatment Protocol for both home or facility isolation and hospitalisation. The Centre, in collaboration with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi has led the process of continuous upgradation of clinical management skills of the ICU doctors in the dedicated Covid hospitals across the country. "These measures have resulted in saving more lives. India's Covid-19 case fatality rate, one of the lowest globally, continues to further compress. It is pegged at 1.72 per cent as on date," the ministry said. The recoveries exceeded active cases of the infection by 23,18,545.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
06-09-2020||India||Arjun Kapoor tests positive for Covid-19||Arjun Kapoor has tested positive for Covid-19, the actor announced in an Instagram post on Sunday, according to a report by the NDTV. Sharing an update about his health, Arjun Kapoor wrote that he is "feeling okay" and is "asymptomatic." The actor also revealed that he has "isolated" himself at his home and will be "under home quarantine" till his recovery. In a note, Arjun wrote: "It is my duty to inform all of you that I have tested positive for coronavirus. I am feeling ok and I'm asymptomatic. I have isolated myself at home under the advice of doctors and authorities and will be under home quarantine. I thank you all in advance for your support and I will keep you all updated about my health in the days to come." "These are extraordinary and unprecedented times and I have faith that all of humanity will overcome this virus. Much love, Arjun," he added. Arjun Kapoor is the son of film producer Boney Kapoor and Mona Shourie. Earlier in May, a member of Boney Kapoor's domestic staff tested positive for Covid-19. The filmmaker issued a statement, an excerpt of which read: "My children, our other staff at home and I, all are fine and none of us are showing any symptoms. In fact, we haven't left our home since the lockdown started."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in India crosses 41 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 41 lakh with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day, while 31,80,865 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 77.32 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The total coronavirus cases mounted to 41,13,811, while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.72 per cent.  There are 8,62,320 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 20.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5.  According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,88,31,145 samples have been tested up to September 5 with 10,92,654 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Trump offers to act as an intermediary to help resolve India-China conflict||US President Donald Trump on Friday repeated his offer to help over the “very nasty” India-China border situation, adding that Washington had been talking to both countries. Responding to questions at the White House, he described the situation as “very nasty” and said: “We stand ready to help with respect to China and India. If we can do anything, we would love to get involved and help.” Asked if China was bullying India, Trump said: “I hope not... but they are certainly going at it... much more strongly than a lot of people even understand.’’ A US government source told Reuters the US assessment is that neither China nor India are interested in pushing the dispute to the point of war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Covid patient denied cashless treatment as he had 'mild symptoms'||A Covid-19 patient who had been admitted to the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Calcutta has said his claim for cashless treatment was rejected by the insurance company because it felt he had only mild symptoms. A resident of Baguiati, Mukesh Singh, who consented to being identified in this report, said he had gone to the hospital with breathlessness and was sent to the intensive care unit. However, during the admission process, when the hospital forwarded the documents for cashless facility, the insurance company rejected the request. “We have scrutinised your request for approval for cashless treatment of the above insured patient for the diagnosed disease of Covid+ positive. Kindly note since patient has only mild symptoms, afebrile (not feverish) and well oriented and hemodynamically stable, as per AIIMS, central government guidelines, such patient can be well managed under home quarantine itself. Hence we deny the approval for cashless treatment of the above diagnosed disease,” Star Health and Allied Insurance Co wrote to Charnock Hospital. Singh said he had got admitted to the hospital on July 28 and was discharged on August 7. “I had had fever and headache from July 24. On the night of July 27, I started having respiratory distress. The doctor asked me to get a pulse oximeter and measure the oxygen level in my blood,” Singh said. “The level was fluctuating between 89 and 92. The doctor said I should not take any chances — I should get admitted to hospital and get a Covid-19 test done.” Doctors connected neither with Singh’s treatment nor Charnock Hospital said that although the central government guidelines recommended home quarantine for patients without symptoms or with mild symptoms, if a patient’s oxygen saturation level ranged between 89 and 92, he did qualify for hospital care. Under the health ministry’s standard clinical management guidelines, a level below 94 would qualify a patient for classification as a “moderate” case and transfer to a dedicated Covid-19 care facility to receive oxygen therapy. A Bengal health department official, too, said that if a Covid patient suffered from respiratory distress or their oxygen saturation level was low, they should get admitted to a hospital or a satellite unit. The doctor treating Singh at Charnock wrote to the insurance company explaining why he needed admission: “The patient was admitted with fever and mild SOB (shortness of breath) which warranted O2 support. He was advised IV (intravenous) steroid as per protocol which required institutional case, hence needed admission.” Officials at Charnock said Singh’s condition was serious enough to not only admit him but shift him to the ICU. “If his oxygen saturation level were not lower than normal, we would not have admitted the patient to the ICU. The patient needed special monitoring,” said Ipshita Kundu, CEO of Charnock Hospital. The insurance company felt that many patients were getting admitted to hospital out of panic. Prabir Mukherjee, regional head of medical officers, east, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co, said: “I am unable to comment on a particular case. If the patient is asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, then, as per government guidelines, that person need not be admitted to hospital. Nowadays many people who have tested positive for Covid-19 are getting admitted out of panic.” In the letter denying the cashless facility, the insurance company had added that “the insured may however submit the documents to us seeking reimbursement of the expenses incurred relating to the treatment of the above disease”. But the reimbursement offer defeats the objective of the cashless facility, which is to avoid the hassle of coughing up a substantial sum during a medical emergency. Singh, the cured patient, said that almost a month after his discharge from the hospital, he had still not been informed by the insurance company whether his claim for reimbursement would be accepted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Private hospitals overcharging Covid patients, alleges General Insurance Council||The coronavirus pandemic has prompted India’s health insurance industry to flag, for the first time in a court, concerns about arbitrary overcharging of patients by private hospitals and to caution that such practices could increase annual premiums. The General Insurance Council, a body of public and private insurance companies, has sought the Centre’s intervention to regulate treatment costs for Covid-19 patients at private and corporate hospitals across India. The council, in an application to the Supreme Court, has said health insurance companies had by mid-August received more than 100,000 claims for Covid-19 treatment and noted that patients with insurance cover are charged considerably higher than uninsured patients. Private hospitals are “charging exorbitant amounts of money from insured patients”, the council said. It cited instances from different cities where hospitals had initially sought payments two to five times the amounts they accepted after objections by insurance companies. One private hospital had billed a patient Rs 282,782 for a 10-day stay of which Rs 200,000 was charged under the head “PPE (personal protection equipment) kit ward”. The insurance company objected and asked the patient to ask for a revised bill as an uninsured patient and then seek reimbursement. The hospital reduced the bill to Rs 49,973 after “considerable haggling”, the council said in its submission. Another private hospital had submitted a bill of Rs 14 lakh but reduced it to Rs 449,849 after objections from the insurance company. In another instance, a hospital revised a bill for Rs 211,812 to Rs 112,782 after “serious objections” from the insurance company. In many instances, though, when the insurance company refuses to cover the entire hospital bill and pays only a part of it, the patient has to pay the balance out of their own pocket. Overcharging of insured patients is making it increasingly difficult for insurance companies to settle claims, the council said in its application. It pleaded to be allowed to join a petition filed earlier this year by an independent lawyer seeking government regulation of private hospital charges. Insurance industry executives say that health insurance companies have always taken up specific cases with hospitals whenever there has been suspicion of overcharging. However, the pandemic and the arbitrarily higher charges on insured patients have amplified these concerns. Amid India’s rising Covid-19 counts, insurance analysts expect the number of claims to continue to rise. India on Saturday recorded 86,432 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number to over 4.02 million of whom 3.1 million have recovered, over 846,000 are under medical supervision and 69,561 have died. The vast majority of patients have no symptoms or only mild symptoms and do not require hospital care. The Union health ministry said on Friday that less than 7 per cent of the active patients need oxygen, intensive care or ventilator support. “It’s interesting that the insurance industry itself has highlighted this longstanding and unresolved issue,” said Anant Bhan, a bioethics researcher and adjunct professor at the Centre for Ethics at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore. “Covid-19 has likely accentuated these concerns. Covid-19 is a new infection and given the uncertainties over what works and what does not and how exactly to treat the illness, it is possible that some healthcare providers might find ways to inflate bills.” Several states have fixed standard rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals, but there are “variations and inconsistencies” across the states, the council has said. Some states such as Karnataka and Telangana have specified that the fixed rates do not apply to insured patients. Such discrimination is “unreasonable” and could be abused by some private hospitals, the council said. The insurance policy should not become “a tool for profiteering” by private hospitals, which would only increase the claims outgo and result in higher premiums, it said. Another intervention application filed in the Supreme Court by a New Delhi-based lawyer, Manisha Karia, underlines that the price caps imposed by some states do not adequately safeguard patients from overcharging on medicines or diagnostic tests. Healthcare industry representatives have long asserted that private hospitals cannot be expected to operate under losses. A senior executive with the Association of Healthcare Providers of India, a body representing private hospitals, had earlier this year said the price caps imposed by the states need to take into account the operating costs of private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Drug companies against political rush to release vaccine||A group of drug companies competing with one another to be among the first to develop coronavirus vaccines are planning to pledge early next week that they will not release any vaccines that do not follow rigorous efficacy and safety standards, according to representatives of three of the companies. The statement, which has not yet been finalised, is meant to reassure the public that the companies will not seek a premature approval of vaccines under political pressure from the Trump administration. President Donald Trump has pushed for a vaccine to be available by October — just before the presidential election. (In India, the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency, had suggested in July that clinical trials on home-grown candidate vaccines should be fast-tracked for a possible launch by August 15. The council clarified within a day that the directive was merely intended to cut red tape and not to bypass necessary scientific processes, adds our Delhi bureau.) The manufacturers that are said to have signed the letter include Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi. Regulators at the US Food and Drug Administration have been discussing making their own joint public statement about the need to rely on proven science, a move that would breach their usual reticence as civil servants. Three companies — Moderna, Pfizer and AstraZeneca — are testing their candidates in late-stage clinical trials. Pfizer’s chief executive said this week that the company could see results as early as October, but the others have said only that they plan to release a vaccine by the end of the year. If the competing companies are among the first to bring a successful vaccine to market, they could earn major profits and help rehabilitate the image of an industry battered by rising drug prices. But if a vaccine turns out to have dangerous side-effects for some people, the fallout could be catastrophic. It could also broadly undermine trust in vaccines, one of the great public health advances in human history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||China finger at India over border unrest in Ladakh||The no-intrusion declaration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 19 appears to have remained as the elephant in the room where India and China met for talks on Friday. “The cause and truth of the current tension on the border are very clear, with the responsibility lying entirely with India,” the Chinese state-run Xinhua agency quoted defence minister General Wei Fenghe as telling his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh on Friday in Moscow during the first face-to-face bilateral contact at the political level since the bloodshed in the Galwan Valley on June 15. Less than 24 hours after the talks, India and China blamed each other for the border standoff and escalating tensions, appearing to indicate their defence ministers had failed to achieve a breakthrough. Either side confirmed that the other had expressed a desire to resolve the issues peacefully. Without mentioning the Indian Prime Minister, China is still echoing what Modi told an all-party meeting on June 19, four days after the border clash in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops were killed. At the all-party meeting, the Prime Minister had asserted that no one had entered Indian territory or captured any Indian post. The government later claimed he was referring to the post-June 15 situation, which would suggest that Indian soldiers had thrown out any possible intruders. Since then, satellite imagery and unofficial accounts of ground-level assessments have suggested the Chinese had ensconced themselves and built structures inside India-claimed lines at multiple locations in Ladakh. The foreign ministry as well as the Indian Army have publicly acknowledged that the situation is grave along the Ladakh frontier. Foreign minister S. Jaishankar has said this is the most serious border situation with China since 1962. It is against this backdrop that Rajnath and Wei had met for over two hours on Friday on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation defence ministers’ meeting. Shortly afterwards, Xinhua put out the statement that laid the entire blame at India’s door. “China cannot lose one inch of its territory,” Xinhua quoted Wei as telling Rajnath. “The Chinese military is fully determined, capable, and confident of safeguarding national sovereignty and territorial integrity.” Wei was quoted as saying: “The two sides should earnestly implement the important consensus reached by President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Modi and stay committed to resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation.” The statement by Xinhua, quoted in Chinese media, appears to have been primarily aimed at the domestic audience there although the authoritarian regime does not usually bother too much about public opinion. Later, a statement issued by China’s state-controlled broadcaster CGTN and put up on the Chinese defence ministry website asked India “not (to) make provocations or deliberately hype and spread negative information”. India’s defence ministry said China’s actions, including its “amassing of large number of troops... aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo”, violated bilateral agreements. It stressed New Delhi’s determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity and asked Beijing to respect the Line of Actual Control. A veteran said Wei’s comments, as reported by the Chinese media, implied that China was not in a hurry to pull back from the friction points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — where it had altered the status quo since May. “India has been demanding full restoration of status quo ante. The Chinese comments suggest they are sticking to their line and that the talks have failed to resolve the impasse,” the veteran said. The broadcaster CGTN’s statement on the Chinese defence ministry site said: “Wei said both India and China should abide by the consensus reached by their leaders and solve problems via dialogue and consultation.” The statement added: “India should strengthen management and control of its frontline troops and not make provocations or deliberately hype and spread negative information. Wei also reaffirmed to Singh China’s commitment and ability to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity in the meeting.” It added: “Singh stressed the importance of a peaceful border relation with China, saying both sides should keep the channels of military and diplomatic dialogue open. He told his Chinese counterpart that India agrees to work toward full disengagement of frontline forces as soon as possible and push the relations between the two countries and armies back on track.” An Indian statement said Singh had met Wei at the Chinese general’s request and had “frank and in-depth discussions” about the border standoff as well as bilateral relations. Singh had “categorically conveyed” India’s position on the developments at the border friction points, including the Galwan Valley. Rajnath had “emphasised that the actions of the Chinese troops, including amassing of large number of troops, their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements and not in keeping with the understandings reached between the Special Representatives of two sides”, the statement said. The Indian minister had “stated clearly that while the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity”. “The Chinese defence minister conveyed that (the) Chinese side too desired to resolve the issues peacefully,” the Indian statement said. It said Rajnath had advised Wei that it was important that the Chinese work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including the Pangong Lake, as well as de-escalation in border areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||DU teachers’ association observes ‘Black Teachers’ Day’ to protest delay in grants||Shalu Mahajan, an assistant professor of Acharya Narendra Dev College, began Teachers’ Day with a protest at the institution and later joined a dharna at Delhi University before being detained by police. “Today we have no basic human rights. Our right to survival has been denied. When we have not got salary for the past four months, what respect do we have in society?” she said. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Saturday observed “Black Teachers’ Day” to protest the delay in grants to 12 DU colleges fully funded by the state government, which has held up the payment of salaries to over 1,000 teachers and more than 500 non-teaching staff since April-May. Their plight has been aggravated by the pandemic and its crippling economic fallout. The AAP dispensation and the university are locked in a tussle over the formation of governing bodies at 28 colleges, including the 12 institutions. All important decisions are ratified by the governing bodies, in the absence of which the college principals are running the show. The state government has also begun an audit of the accounts of these colleges following allegations of financial irregularities, intensifying the standoff. “I pay EMI on a home loan and also have to pay school fees every month. We are managing with huge difficulty. We are being penalised for no fault of ours,” said Mahajan, whose husband teaches at the same college. On Saturday, the teachers held a protest at the DU arts faculty. Over 100 teachers were detained and taken to Maurice Nagar police station. The police said the teachers did not have permission to protest. They were later released. The DUTA has threatened a boycott of classes if the salaries are not released soon.“Whatever may be the issue of the university or the managements of the colleges, the teachers’ salaries should not be stopped. The teachers are feeling discouraged to carry out their work. If the stalemate continues, the teachers will be forced to boycott classes,” said DUTA president Rajib Ray. The protests came amid suggestions from the Union education ministry and the University Grants Commission to celebrate Teachers’ Day by organising programmes to honour current and retired teachers. The UGC had written to all universities to celebrate Teachers’ Day online and make social media comments with the hashtag “Our Teachers Our Heroes”. DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said it was ironic that the central and state governments were conducting programmes on Teachers’ Day but were not allowing teachers to protest against non-payment of salary. Retired DU teachers, who have not been receiving the revised pension although it was cleared two years ago, joined Saturday’s protest. “The government has notified (the increased pension). But the university is not processing our cases. Many retired teachers will die without getting what they deserve,” a retired teacher said. Also, more than 500 teachers have not been able to migrate from Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) to General Provident Fund (GPF) despite Delhi High Court ruling in their favour in 2016. GPF is free from market considerations, hence the amount received by an employee is more. These teachers had not been able to migrate when the facility was made available intermittently from 1987. DU has challenged the high court’s decision before a bigger bench. An email and a text message to DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi for comment on the non-payment of salaries did not elicit a response. An email to Delhi education secretary H. Rajesh Prasad asking about the delay in releasing government grants also went unanswered. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia did not respond to a text message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Donald Trump flaunts Narendra Modi rallies as support ||US President Donald Trump on Friday appeared hopeful that Indian-Americans would vote for him during his second run for the White House, referring to the two rallies hosted for him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, first in Houston and then in Ahmedabad. Asked if he thought Indian-Americans are voting for him, Trump said at a press conference in the White House: “I do’’. Immediately he went on to say: “We had an event in Houston... It was a fantastic event. I was invited by Prime Minister Modi... It was incredible. It was actually incredible. The Prime Minister could not have been more generous. “We have great support from India. We have great support from Prime Minister Modi and I would think that Indian people would be voting for Trump. I also went to India just prior to the pandemic setting in because India has been hit very hard, left reeling. About a week before that. We had an incredible time...’’ The question was in relation to the Trump campaign using clips from both rallies for an official campaign video released a fortnight ago. Prior to this, after the HowdyModi event, members of the Trump campaign had billed the rally as an endorsement for the President. But India had ignored this and rolled out the red carpet for Trump — with a Make America Great Again style rally — in Ahmedabad with an over 1 lakh gathering that is bigger than the biggest gathering he will address in the US. The external affairs ministry has maintained a studied silence on the Trump campaign using the two rallies as an endorsement for the President’s re-run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Chinese soldiers accused of kidnapping five Arunachal Pradesh villagers||The Arunachal Pradesh government has begun an investigation into the allegation that Chinese soldiers have “kidnapped” five villagers who might have gone near the disputed border on a hunting expedition. The state government has dispatched a police team to the remote area in Upper Subansiri district after media reports on Saturday about the alleged kidnapping on the Sera 7 border route, which is patrolled by both Indian and Chinese troops. The Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China is a 10 to 12 days’ trek from the Nacho subdivision under which the village, which the administration is trying to identify, is located. Army sources, however, said people sometimes lose their way on the mountainous and forest terrain while on hunting trips. The media reports have claimed that the villagers could have bumped into Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldiers. China claims Arunachal Pradesh to be a part of South Tibet. The alleged kidnappings have come at a time when tension is rife along the India-China border in eastern Ladakh. However, army sources said the “situation is normal” along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh home minister Bamang Felix, director-general of police R. Upadhaya and Upper Subansiri deputy commissioner Kanto Danggen told The Telegraph that the government had launched a probe. They said nobody had filed a missing persons diary. State BJP president Tapir Gao and senior Congress MLA Ninong Ering have tweeted about the “reported kidnappings”, urging the Centre to take a tough stand against such activities by the PLA in the frontier state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||BHU student missing for six months after being picked up by cops||A Banaras Hindu University student has been missing for over six months since Varanasi police picked him up from the campus gates, his father has told Allahabad High Court. Pradeep Trivedi, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, told reporters in Varanasi on Saturday that the high court had slammed the police for making misleading comments and threatened a CBI probe if they failed to produce his son, but not set a deadline. Second-year BSc student Shiv Kumar, 24, was picked up by a team from Lanka police station from the BHU gates on February 12 night, Pradeep said. He never returned to his hostel, BHU has confirmed in writing to the police. “After my son failed to answer calls for two days, I arrived in Varanasi on February 16. But the Lanka police rebuffed me – they filed a missing-person complaint only after BHU authorities intervened the next day,” Pradeep said. Pradeep has since then been shuttling between the Prime Minister’s constituency and his home 360km away at Brajpur village in Panna district, fighting an uncooperative police to find out what happened to his son. He has pledged to move barefoot and eat only once a day until he finds Shiv. He has sold a part of his farmland to pay for his long periods of stay in Varanasi, from where he has been travelling to Allahabad for the court hearings. “The police told me they had detained my son on February 12 night and let him off the next morning as he was unwell. Since then, they have been changing their statements every day – even in court,” Pradeep said. While the police have after a couple of flip-flops accepted in high court that they had detained Shiv in February, they have failed to explain why or say what happened to him. “The high court, which began hearing the case on August 25, said there was something fishy in the police report and that the case could be transferred to the CBI if my son was not produced soon,” Pradeep said. Saurabh Tiwari, a Varanasi-based advocate who has been fighting the case free of charge, said some BHU research scholars had brought Pradeep to him on August 17. “On August 25, the bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh suggested a possible CBI probe and asked the Varanasi senior superintendent of police (SSP) whether the force was trying to turn Uttar Pradesh into a police state,” Tiwari told The Telegraph over the phone. “Initially, the police admitted picking up Shiv but claimed he was released the next day. They also admitted Lanka police had committed an offence by failing to register Shiv’s detention in the form of a general diary. At the next hearing, they said they had actually detained a 45-year-old man called Shiv and not the 24-year-old Shiv.” Grilled by Tiwari, the police later agreed that the 45-year-old was not Shiv but a mentally unsound man whom they had admitted to a mental hospital, the lawyer said. The police again accepted that they had detained the student Shiv. “Varanasi SSP Amit Pathak submitted a sealed envelope to the court on September 3 stating the police had ordered an inquiry and that one or two cops involved in detaining the BHU student had been shifted to the police lines (taken off duty) as punishment. The court observed there was nothing relevant about the case in the SSP’s affidavit,” Tiwari said. On September 3, the matter was heard by the bench of Justices Shashikant Gupta and Shamim Ahmad, to whom the case had been transferred. The next hearing is on September 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Centre robbing youth to help friends, says Congress||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was using the pandemic as an excuse to push for privatisation to rid central government offices of permanent staff and help “friends”. The Congress leader tweeted in Hindi with a smattering of English: “Modi government’s thinking: Minimum Govt, Maximum Privatisation. Covid is just an excuse. The intention is to free government offices of permanent staff, steal the future of youths and help ‘friends (mitron)’ progress.” The Congress MP was responding to the finance ministry’s circular on Friday night elaborating on measures to curtail expenditure in the wake of the unprecedented economic slide post-lockdown. Rahul, who has been relentless in keeping up pressure on the Prime Minister by accusing him of working for crony capitalists, also shared a news report on the decision. The Congress has formally demanded the withdrawal of the circular, which freezes the creation of new posts and even filling of vacancies. The circular addressed to all ministries and departments says: “There will be a ban on the creation of new posts, except with the approval of the Department of Expenditure, in Ministries/Departments, Attached Offices, Subordinate Offices, Statutory Bodies and Autonomous Bodies. This ban will cover all creation of posts under powers which have been delegated to any organisation regardless of the source of such authority or power. “If any posts have been created after 01.07.2020 under delegated powers or authority, without approval of the Department of Expenditure and have not yet been filled, then such posts shall not be filled.” The Congress expressed shock at the circular. Party spokesperson Rajeev Shukla said at a news conference that the government was stopping recruitment instead of creating more jobs. On Friday, the Opposition party had accused the government of collecting crores in recruitment exam fees although it has either not held any test or not given out appointment letters in years. Rahul has now offered another perspective to the finance ministry’s decision by linking it to a purported plan to maximise privatisation. There has been a storm of protests against the plans for privatisation, particularly in the railways and the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). The management of many key airports and railway platforms are also being handed over to private entities. While the Congress has expressed anger at the proposal to sell profit-making public sector units such as Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd, LIC, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India and the Container Corporation of India, party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Saturday tweeted: “A new list of what Modi wants to sell is ready: national highways, main lines of Power Grid, pipe network of Gas Authority of India and Indian Oil Corporation, Delhi Metro, Calcutta Metro, Freight Corridor, BSNL-MTNL towers, tourism, railways… All the assets built over the last 70 years will be sold.” The disinvestment targets have not been met in the past few years but the massive dip in GDP growth may compel the government to push this agenda with greater force. While the mismanagement of the pandemic, massive dislocation of migrant workers, rising employment and the Chinese intrusions have indisputably generated much unease across the country, even the states are unhappy with the Centre over its inability to offer financial assistance.  The Prime Minister’s resilience could be tested in the days to come as he intends to push for privatisation. The hail of “dislikes” and hostile comments to the Prime Minister’s videos over the past few days is a measure of the simmering anger across the country. Many had alleged that the “like-dislike” buttons on certain BJP and government-linked social media platforms had been disabled for some time, with people viewing this as an indication that the party was on the back foot for the first time in six years. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh told The Telegraph: “Modi’s arrogance is a mask to cloak deep insecurities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Sangh seeks ban on book Modi released ||Social media forwards of excerpts from a central government-published book eulogising a rebel against British rule who the Right wing describes as “anti-Hindu” has caused embarrassment to the Sangh parivar, more so because the compilation had been released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle (1857-1947), jointly published by the ministry of culture and the Indian Council of Historical Research, portrays Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji, the most prominent leader of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion or Malabar Rebellion in north Kerala against the British colonial forces, in a positive light. The book, chronicling the freedom movement from the Sepoy Mutiny to Independence, was released in 2019 by Modi, who had then spoken about the need to “honour” and “remember” those who had shaped the nation’s history. The Malabar Rebellion essentially began as an uprising against the British and the feudal system, but the history of this important event in India’s freedom struggle is complex as many oppressive Hindu landlords, who had been aided by the colonial forces, were killed by the peasantry. Variyamkunnath Haji is generally celebrated as a patriot who fought the British till he was shot and killed. However, it is also believed that he had killed Hindu landlords who committed untold miseries on the so-called lower caste peasantry of Malabar, or north Kerala. The controversy surrounding the Malabar Rebellion got a new lease of life this June when two film projects were announced on Variyamkunnath Haji, one hailing him and the other seeking to portray him in a negative light. Over the past few days, excerpts from Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle that have glorious references to Variyamkunnath Haji have been doing the rounds on social media along with news reports from 2019 on the Prime Minister releasing the five-volume compilation. Caught off guard, Hindutva groups have written to the Centre demanding a ban on the sale of the book. However, what has ironically stopped these outfits from going the whole hog is the fact that Modi had himself released the book. The outfits are now trying to make the point that the book had been commissioned during the UPA era. “We were aghast at the contents but then realised it was a UPA project,” Hindu Aikyavedi president K.P. Sasikala told The Telegraph. The Sangh parivar views the Malabar Rebellion as an anti-Hindu pogrom. “We have asked the government to stop the sale of the book as it contains positive references (to Variyamkunnath Haji), because it was the UPA government that started the project with an aim of including Hindu haters like him,” she said. “This book has not weakened our argument since the people understand what we have been saying on this issue,” she said. A page from the book circulating on social media states gives a brief description of Variyamkunnath Haji, who was born at Ernad in south Malabar to Moideen Haji and Aminakutty Hajjumma. The book describes him as a “close associate and relative of Ali Musaliar”, another Malabar Rebellion hero. It states that Variyamkunnath Haji and his father had been exiled for a short period to Mecca for anti-government activities. “Thereafter, they came back and continued with their anti-British demeanour. He became a significant leader in Manjeri and Nilambur and led the attack on the British army at Kallamala, as well as on the Gudalur Police Training Camp,” the excerpts from the book say. Variyamkunnath Haji was captured in January 1922 and shot dead days later on January 20 after a summary trial. Modi’s official website, narendramodi.in, mentions in a report on the release of the book in New Delhi: “The Prime Minister asserted that a nation that does not honour and remember those who created, or are an important part of its history, often does not have a secure future. In that sense, he added that this effort, is not just a way to cherish the past, but is also a way to secure the future. He said that youth should especially be made aware of this effort.” “The Prime Minister said that the effort of the Union Government is to nurture and recall the brave deeds of the heroes of our freedom struggle. He said this has a positive influence on the future generations, and inspires them to think of ‘India First’,” the website added. Kerala lawmaker K.V. Abdul Khader of the CPM said on Saturday that the demand to withdraw the book needed to be seen in the light of the government’s decision to remove chapters on secularism from school textbooks. “This is the exact agenda of the BJP. They want all references to secularism and pluralism to be removed,” Khader said. Former MP and veteran Congress leader C. Haridas, who is a native of Ponnani in the heart of Malappuram where the rebellion played out, rubbished the Hindu Right wing “propaganda” against the historical event. “I live in Ponnani, which I often term as ‘Little Mecca’ in my speeches. It’s saddening that the Sangh parivar is portraying such a rebellion against the British as a massacre of Hindus,” he told this newspaper. “Today’s generation goes by WhatsApp forwards to judge everything, including history. My advice to all those who spread lies against Variyamkunnath Haji is to read history books,” he added. Filmmaker Ali Akbar, a BJP fellow traveller, had earlier this year launched a rival project to “expose” Variyamkunnath Haji and the “real intent” of the Mappila Rebellion. Before him, noted filmmaker Ashiq Abu announced a film on Variyamkunnath Haji, starring superstar Prithviraj in the title role, reigniting the debate on the controversial figure and the movement he played a key role in. Speaking to this newspaper, Ali suggested that it was not a rebellion because the participants had largely gone unchallenged while executing their agenda before the British army arrived. “This ICHR book has not weakened my argument. Mine is a film of antagonists,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Nitish Kumar offers job to the kin of SC/ST murder victims||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Friday that if any person belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes was murdered, then a member of the deceased’s family would be provided a job. The announcement, which came at a review meeting of the state level vigilance and monitoring committee constituted under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, is being widely considered as a masterstroke to woo the Dalits (SCs), who comprise around 16 to 17 per cent of the electorate, in the run-up to the Assembly elections. Nitish, who is also the national president of Janata Dal United (JDU), asked the officials to immediately formulate the appointment rules in this regard. He also directed them to dispose of all pending cases under the Act by September 20 by expediting investigation. Nitish’s populist move rang sharply across the horizon of the poll-bound state and came as a jolt to the Opposition, which hurried to give their reactions and announce steps to counter its ramifications on the elections. In fact, it attracted a sharp response from Bahujan Samaj Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati. Her party has contested a large number of seats in every Assembly poll in Bihar over the last two decades, and is expected to do so again this time. “The present government in Bihar is once again trying to lure the people belonging to the SC and ST categories by giving various assurances ahead of the Assembly elections despite ignoring or neglecting them throughout its entire reign. The time has come to bring them to book,” Mayawati tweeted on Saturday. Mayawati also exhorted the people belonging to SC and ST communities not to be swayed by the false promises made by the Nitish government. As the day progressed, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad convened a press conference at the state party headquarters to take on Nitish over his announcement. “Since the election is near, Nitish has announced jobs for the family members of those Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes people who are killed. But why jobs are not being given to the family members of people belonging to other backward castes (OBC) and general category? Nitish’s move is like encouraging the murder of SC and ST people,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi, who is the leader of the Opposition in the legislative Assembly, hurried to announce that he would fill 4.5 lakh vacancies in various government departments if his party comes to power. He also promised to create vacancies according to the population of the state. The Congress also attacked Nitish over his latest announcement. The party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil termed it a false promise at a time when the present government is poised to lose power. “Everybody knows that polls will be announced in Bihar in a few days and no work will happen, but Nitish is showing his love for the Dalits. He stayed in power for 15 years but did not do anything, but is now trying to win the elections using this issue,” Gohil said. Poll experts said that Nitish’s latest pro-Dalit move is also intended to counter ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which takes pride in showcasing itself as a party of the SCs, and is currently flexing its muscles under the leadership of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s son and Lok Sabha member Chirag Paswan. The LJP has even threatened to field contestants against JDU candidates if the situation arises. Nitish could proudly flaunt his latest move if this happens. Nitish has already brought former Dalit chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular leader Jitan Ram Manjhi under the NDA fold to counter Chirag’s barbs on him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Eight Odisha migrants killed in a bus accident in Chhattisgarh||Eight migrant labourers from Odisha’s Ganjam district were killed when the bus carrying them to Surat in Gujarat met with an accident near Raipur in Chhattisgarh on Saturday. The labourers, who had returned to Ganjam during the lockdown, were going back after failing to find work at home. They were earlier employed in the spinning mills of Surat. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased labourers. Officials said the bus which came from Surat to take back the migrant labourers had started its journey from Ganjam around noon on Friday with 64 labourers from different parts of Ganjam district. “The bus met with an accident while overtaking a truck at Cheri Khedi near Raipur,” said Gagan, a labourer who was travelling in the bus but was lucky to survive. The accident took place around 3.30am. Odisha labour minister Sushant Singh who rushed to the spot on the direction of the chief minister, told The Telegraph: “ It seems the driver of the bus hit the truck while trying to overtake it. The driver might have dozed off. The bus had two drivers and both of them fled after the accident. The exact cause of the accident would be known only after an inquiry. Such was the impact that the part of the bus on the opposite side of the driver’s cabin was completely damaged.” “As per the direction of the chief minister, the injured are being given free medical treatment. While eight died in the accident, two are undergoing treatment. Two buses have been arranged to take the remaining 54 passengers back to Odisha. These buses will leave for Odisha in the evening,” he said. Nearly 4 lakh labourers from Gujarat had returned to Odisha during the lockdown. After the lockdown was withdrawn, the migrant labourers who failed to land jobs started returning back to the states where they had earlier worked. Their employers in various parts of the country have been sending buses to ferry them back as factories have now reopened. Workers from Ganjam are considered to be the backbone of the spinning and textile mills in Surat. The bus which met with the accident was sent by the owners of one of the spinning mills, sources said. Family members of Biswanth Nath Gouda, one of the labourers who lost his life in the accident, are shattered. Gouda’s son said, “I had asked my father not to go back to Surat but he was adamant as we had no income. Since he was unable to go by train, he took the bus. Around 4am this morning, we received a phone call from one of his co-passengers Basant Bhai about the accident. Though he initially did not reveal about my father’s condition, around 9am, we were informed that he was no more.” Similar is the story of Sushant Swain, another labourer who died in the mishap. His 74-year-old mother was inconsolable. “Sushant promised to come back after 4 months. All his savings had been exhausted during the lockdown. He told us that the factory in Surat had started production again and those who go back to work will get good money. Since our economic condition is not good I agreed to his proposal but I had never thought that it was the last time I would be seeing him,” said mother Keshari Swain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Odisha to set up bulk drug park||The Odisha government plans to set up a bulk drug park in the shape of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) with an investment of Rs 1,500 crore. The park is likely to generate employment opportunities for around 5,000 people. “The details of the park will be finalised within a fortnight. It will come up in Tata SEZ (Special Economic Zone) at Gopalpur. It received the government’s approval in principle,” a press release issued by the government said. According to the decision, a SPV will be formed involving IDCO (Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation) as lead promoter and TSSZEL (Tata Steel Special Economic Zone limited) co-promoter to carry forward the project proposal. Principal secretary, Iindustries, Hemant Sharma said, “The park would have all the advanced infrastructure facilities including central effluent treatment plant (ETP), solid waste management, warehousing, dedicated power distribution system, steam generation and distribution system, common cooling system, advanced testing laboratories, center of excellence, technology business incubator, intellectual property right services and the like. The land parcel of around 1000 acer required for the park is available in this SEZ. The land is well connected with NH-16 which is considered as the spine for proposed Odisha Economic Corridor.” The project would be implemented through financial support both from the centre and state government. The spot is well connected with port and railway. It is less than two hours from Biju Pattnaik International Airport, Bhubaneswar.  “There is also an air strip at Gopalpur which can be utilized for required communication,” said the press release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
