07-09-2020||India||ED arrests former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar's husband on money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar, in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case probe, officials said.

They said Deepak Kochhar was arrested in Mumbai under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the agency is expected to produce him before a local court on Tuesday to seek his custody.

Officials said Deepak Kochhar was placed under arrest as the agency wants to put him under custodial interrogation to obtain more details about some fresh evidence gathered in this case, that was filed under the criminal sections of the anti-money laundering law in January last year.

The ED had filed its case after studying an FIR registered by the CBI against the couple, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others.

It slapped money laundering charges against the Kochhars and their business entities for "illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of companies".

The ED had earlier said an amount of Rs 64 crore, out of the loan amount of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) by Videocon Industries Limited on September 8, 2009, just a day after disbursement of the loan by ICICI Bank. NRPL was earlier known as NuPower Renewables Limited (NRL) and is a company of Deepak Kochhar.

The agency had alleged that the "net revenue of Rs 10.65 crore was generated by NRL from these tainted funds".

"Therefore, proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 74.65 crore were transferred to or to say generated in NRPL," the ED had claimed.

The ED, early this year, also attached assets -- including a Mumbai flat where the couple lived, land, and plant and machinery of a wind farm project based in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra -- valued at Rs 78 crore "in possession of" Chanda Kochhar, Deepak Kochhar and the companies owned and controlled by him.

It had said Chanda Kochhar and her family "acquired" the Mumbai apartment, owned by one of the Videocon Group companies, by way of "acquiring that company through her family trust at a nominal price and by creating book entries".

The couple has been questioned by the central probe agency multiple times in the past at its offices in Mumbai and Delhi.

The CBI, in its FIR, had named Chanda Kochhar, Deepak Kochhar, Dhoot and his companies -- Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) and Videocon Industries Limited (VIL).

It also named Supreme Energy, a company founded by Dhoot, and Nupower Renewables, a company controlled by Deepak Kochhar, in its FIR.

The CBI slapped sections of the Indian Penal Code related to criminal conspiracy, cheating and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act on all the accused.

The CBI alleged that Dhoot had invested in Deepak Kochhar's company Nupower through his firm Supreme Energy, a quid pro quo to loans cleared by ICICI Bank after Chanda Kochhar took over as the CEO of the bank on May 1, 2009.

The ownership of Nupower and Supreme Energy changed hands through a complex web of shared transactions between Deepak Kochhar and Dhoot, the CBI had alleged.

During its preliminary enquiry, the CBI found that six loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were sanctioned to the Videocon Group and companies associated with it between June, 2009 and October, 2011 in alleged violation of laid-down policies of ICICI Bank.

"Existing outstanding in the accounts of these private group companies were adjusted in Rupee Term Loan of Rs 1,730 crore sanctioned by ICICI Bank under refinance of domestic debt under consortium arrangement on April 26, 2012," a CBI spokesperson had said.

The loans were declared non-performing assets in 2012, causing a loss of Rs 1,730 crore to the bank, it had alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
07-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut to be given Y-plus category security||Kangana Ranaut has been given Y-plus category security and will be protected by about 10 armed commandos, the Union Home Ministry said on Monday, prompting the Bollywood actor to thank Home Minister Amit Shah and declare that no one could crush a patriot. The decision to provide 24X7 security comes two days before Ranaut, who is in her home state Himachal Pradesh and had likened Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir, plans to visit Mumbai on September 9. Ranaut, whose comments led to a spat with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, had said she felt unsafe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and also spoke of drug use in a section of the film industry. Describing the Queen star as a daughter of Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur issued a video statement on Monday welcoming the decision to provide her with CRPF security. He said the Central and the state governments are providing security to the actor and would do whatever necessary for her security. "I have got information that an 11-member commando team of the CRPF has been provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs for her security yesterday. I welcome this decision and also express my gratitude to union home minister... her security is important for us", he said. A Union Home ministry official explained that Y-plus category central cover entails the deployment of about 10 armed commandos who will work in shifts around the clock, he explained. Ranaut, often in the eye of the storm for her provocative comments, went on Twitter to express gratitude for the security being provided to her. "This shows that no one can crush a patriot in the country. I am thankful to Home Minister Amit Shah," she said. "Had he (Amit Shah) wanted, he would have told me to visit Mumbai later but he respected India's daughter and acknowledged my self-respect. Jai Hind," Ranaut added. In his statement, the Himachal Pradesh chief minister said state police would provide security at the actor's Manali residence and he had directed the director general of police to assess the security threat. If it is necessary, Himachal Pradesh is ready to provide her security during her tours, he said. On Sunday, he said his government decided to provide the actor security after her father and sister sought protection for her. BJP leader Ram Kadam recently asked the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government to provide police protection to Ranaut since "she wanted to expose the Bollywood drug nexus". Responding to Kadam's tweet, the actor said she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. Reacting strongly to her comment, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut purportedly said, "We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police." Hitting back, Ranaut tweeted, "Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?" The actor also tagged a September 1 news report on Raut asking her not to return to Mumbai if she was afraid of the city police. In a tweet stating that she would be returning to Mumbai on September 9, Ranaut had dared anyone to stop her. Sena MLA Pratap Saranik hit back with a slap threat and said she should be arrested for sedition. Ranaut also asked Raut to apologise for his remarks against her. Raut on Sunday said he would consider doing so only if she apologises for her "insulting" remarks against Mumbai and Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||India-made hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle successfully tested||India on Monday successfully flight-tested the indigenously-developed hypersonic technology demonstration vehicle (HSTDV), joining a select group of countries having the capability to develop the next-generation hypersonic cruise missiles, officials said. The HSTDV, based on hypersonic propulsion technologies and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), will help India develop futuristic space assets like long-range missile systems and aerial platforms, they said. The HSTDV is capable of powering missiles to attain a speed of around Mach 6 or six times the speed of sound, the officials said, adding only a very few countries like the US, Russia and China have such a capability. "The DRDO has successfully demonstrated the hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of hypersonic technology demonstration vehicle at 1103 hours from APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex at Wheeler Island, off the coast of Odisha today," the defence ministry said in a statement. The HSTDV operates on a scramjet engine, as against the ramjet engine which is used on most missiles. The ramjet engines operate at supersonic speeds of up to Mach 3. The ministry said all the performance parameters have indicated a resounding success of the mission. The successful test comes over a year after a similar attempt did not provide expected results. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO over the successful test-flight of the HSTDV, calling it a "landmark achievement". "I congratulate DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM's vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them," he tweeted. A DRDO official said that with the successful test flight of the HSTDV, India has demonstrated capabilities for highly complex technology that will serve as the building block for next-generation hypersonic vehicles in partnership with the domestic defence industry. The defence ministry said the parameters of launch and cruise vehicle, including the scramjet engine, were monitored by multiple tracking radars, electro-optical systems and telemetry stations. "The scramjet engine worked at high dynamic pressure and very high temperature. A ship was also deployed in the Bay of Bengal to monitor the performance during the cruise phase of hypersonic vehicle," the ministry said. With the successful test, it said many critical technologies such as aerodynamic configuration for hypersonic manoeuvres, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and sustained combustion at hypersonic were proven and validated. It said the hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven rocket motor, which took it to an altitude of 30 kilometres where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated. "The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound," the ministry said. It said the critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity and that the scramjet engine performed in a "textbook manner".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Collective responsibility to implement NEP in letter and spirit, says PM||The new National Education Policy (NEP) policy focuses on learning instead of studying and goes beyond curriculum to focus on critical thinking, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday asserting that it is a collective responsibility of all stakeholders to implement the policy in letter and spirit. In the NEP, first since 1986, the pressure on students for taking specific streams have been removed, he said. "Our youth will now be able to learn according to their interests," he said while addressing the inaugural session at the 'Governors' conference on the Role of NEP in Transforming Higher Education'. Earlier, students used to pick a stream beyond their aptitude and they would realise it much later, and these problems have been addresses in the NEP, the prime minister said. With vocational exposure right from early age, our youth will get better prepared for life, he said, adding that their participation in the global job market and employability in India will increase with practical learning. The prime minister said that the education policy like defence and foreign policies is not of the government but of the country. India has been ancient centre of learning, and the government is working to make it hub of knowledge economy in the 21st century, he said. "It is our collective responsibility that the policy is implemented in letter and spirit. The more teachers, parents, students are associated with education policy, the more relevant and broadbased it will be," the PM added. The prime minister said that new policy has paved way for international institutions to set up their campuses in India. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet in July replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||New Delhi Metro service resumes||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Seer, whose loss was India’s win, is no more||Kesavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala (Case citation: AIR 1973 SC 1461). Kesavananda Bharati, whose name generations of Indians would have come across while reading legal news reports, passed away in Kerala on Sunday. He was 79. The seer was the principal force that unwittingly set the stage for the landmark Supreme Court judgment that laid down that Parliament cannot alter the basic structure of the Constitution. Hailed as the case that saved Indian democracy, it was heard by a record 13-member bench for 68 days and the 7-6 verdict was delivered on April 24, 1973. Ironically, Bharati, the pontiff of Edneer Mutt in Kasaragod in north Kerala, did not win the case. The judgment had shocked many then because it assumed that elected representatives cannot be trusted with sweeping powers. But the tide turned in two years when Indira Gandhi declared the Emergency and passed the infamous Clause 4 of the 39th amendment that sought to keep the offices of the President, Vice-President, Prime Minister and the Speaker outside the purview of the courts. The provision was eventually struck down and “the doctrine of basic structure” restored. Many credit Nani Palkhivala, the legendary jurist who represented Bharati, with extending the ambit of the case that led to the landmark judgment. The verdict has gained added relevance in contemporary India, arming the apex court with a powerful weapon should it choose to fight against majoritarianism. The 1973 judgment is “an ideological and theoretical weapon against majoritarianism and electoral populism. It is a safeguard against the majoritarian onslaught that tries to destroy the very base of Indian democracy,” senior advocate Kaleeswaram Raj told The Telegraph on Sunday. “I would call the judgment the first predominant instance of judicial activism in India,” Raj, who practises in the Supreme Court, said while speaking on the passing of Bharati. “It added something very important to the text of the Constitution — the basic structure. Neither in the Constituent Assembly debates nor in the draft of the fundamental law would one find such a phrase. The Constitution of India lacked such a phrase, or omitted it wilfully, as many believe.” Bharati had challenged Kerala’s land reform laws after his ashram lost land. Senior advocate Arvind P. Datar recalled that Bharati had moved Kerala High Court. However, Parliament adopted the 29th constitutional amendment, giving protection to the Kerala laws. The seer then moved the Supreme Court. The apex court ruled that the 29th amendment was valid and held that the two Kerala land acts included in the Ninth Schedule were entitled to the protection of Article 31B (validation of certain acts and regulations) of the Constitution. The verdict held that although Parliament had the power of amendment under Article 368 of the Constitution, it lacked the power to emasculate the Constitution’s basic features. While the seer did not get the relief he wanted, the case became a milestone as it led to the clipping of Parliament’s wide powers to amend the Constitution and simultaneously gave the judiciary the authority to review any amendment. “By way of a judicial synthesis, the verdict in (the) Kesavananda Bharati (case) said that the Constitution has a basic structure that takes in the fundamental rights, republicanism, independent judiciary, etc, within its umbrella,” said Raj, the Supreme Court lawyer. “It said that even if Parliament has the power to amend the Constitution under Article 368, it cannot destroy the basic features.” Sounding a word of caution, Raj said: “Even after the verdict, the Indira Gandhi regime altered the Constitution by way of structural amendments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Contradictory stands that riot book author took||At least one of the authors of a book on the Delhi riots who are protesting against its withdrawal by the publisher had earlier helped fight a lawsuit against another book that led to its recall. The riot book’s three authors met police commissioner S.N. Srivastava on Thursday and lodged a complaint against British publisher Bloomsbury for shelving their book, and against several authors, publications and activists who had urged a boycott of the volume. Bloomsbury withdrew the book — Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story by lawyer Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar — last month following allegations that it falsely portrayed the riot victims as the perpetrators. This has led to a public debate over the freedom of expression. But one of its authors, Arora, had argued differently when the question of pulling another book had come up. Arora had earlier represented Hindutva activist Dinanath Batra who had waged a legal battle from 2010 to get Penguin Books India to withdraw American scholar Wendy Doniger’s The Hindus: An Alternative History. In 2014, the publisher agreed to withdraw the Indian edition and pulp all its remaining copies rather than risk punishment under Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code that criminalises insults to religion. Since Bloomsbury’s pullout of the riot book last month, supporters of the authors have been invoking the freedom of expression to attack the book’s critics. Little prevents Arora from representing any client, and the arguments put forth on behalf of the client need not reflect the personal views of the lawyer. However, the tone of a statement Arora had issued as the advocate for Batra after the settlement of the Penguin India case in 2004 stands out now. “This lynch mob and intolerant pseudo-secularists in the name of freedom of expression are crying from rooftops and demanding freedom of defamation.... This intolerant section has one motto, damn everyone who does not agree with them in the name of freedom of expression,” the statement had said. Arora, who contested as a BJP candidate in the 2003 Assembly polls, had not respond till Sunday evening to a query from The Telegraph on the contrast between her arguments on book withdrawals in 2014 and 2020. The book on the Delhi riots is based on a fact-finding report Arora, Malhotra and Chitalkar had authored at the initiative of the Group of Intellectuals and Academicians (GIA), which was submitted to the home ministry in March. The report blamed the riots, which claimed 53 lives, on the protests against the new citizenship regime that began last December. The GIA had previously prepared a controversial report on the gang rape and murder in 2018 of an eight-year-old girl in Kathua, Jammu, where the accused were Hindus and the victim a Muslim. Its authors, who included Arora and Chitalkar, had claimed that it was not a gang rape and that the suspects had been tortured and local people harassed by police. The police had rebutted the charges and cited the girl’s post-mortem report that confirmed gang rape. In 2019, three of the accused were convicted of gang rape and murder and three others of destruction of evidence. News of the launch of the riot book last month had led to several authors previously published by Bloomsbury dissociating themselves from the publisher. Bloomsbury then withdrew the book on the ground that the authors had organised its online launch without informing it, “with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved”. At the virtual launch, BJP national general secretary and Rajya Sabha member Bhupendra Yadav had “released” the book along with party leader Kapil Mishra, accused by the Delhi Minorities Commission as the main provocateur of the riots. The authors have disputed Bloomsbury’s claim of ignorance of the launch event. In their police complaint, which Srivastava received in person in an unusual move, the authors have said: “A venomous campaign emerged on social media especially Twitter when this group of individuals/ propagandists widely known as the ‘Urban Naxal Gang’ conspired and went all out to kill the book by pressurising, intimidating, bullying and blackmailing the publisher.” They accused Delhi University sociology professor Nandini Sundar of “illegal receipt and retention of stolen property” —a reference to the text Nandini had read and found fault with. Nandini had earlier sent the authors a notice for allegedly defaming her in the book after unknown sources freely circulated the manuscript within the academic community. In her notice, Nandini had cited the following sentence as an example of the alleged falsehood the book propagates: “Professor Nandini Sundar, a well-known protagonist of break India, had told Karan Thapar in an interview on now-defunct Tiranga TV channel that she stood for the breaking of India into smaller independent states premised on ethnicity and religion.” Nandini had written on Facebook: “I have never given an interview to Karan Thapar on Tiranga and nowhere said that I support the breaking of India into smaller independent states based on ethnicity and religion.” On Thursday, quoting the charge levelled against her in the authors’ police complaint, Nandini wrote on Facebook: “There have been tweets and news reports about the contents of the book since August 22, when the chief guest of the launch function himself tweeted: ‘The book is public now’. Monika Arora, who was best situated to judge whether these reports were based on ‘stolen property’, has chosen to keep quiet about it till now.” Nandini added: “If Arora or Bloomsbury have not complained about any ‘stolen property’ (till Thursday), what business is it of mine ‘to take any appropriate legal measures to bring it to the notice of authorities’?” The police complaint, tweeted by the authors, says Nandini should have brought her receipt of the “stolen property” to the notice of the authorities. In Thursday’s Facebook post, Nandini had underlined that Arora had till then not responded to the notice or denied its contention. “Significantly, Ms Arora does not deny that the ‘stolen’ book contains inaccurate statements about myself that infringe the law. Yet, as a restrained measure, I just brought it to their notice. This reaction (police complaint) is laughable,” Nandini wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||China sends more troops, tanks to Ladakh ||An “aggressive” China has deployed additional troops and tanks at multiple friction points in Ladakh since the latest confrontation on the Pangong Lake’s south bank in late August, sources in the security establishment said. With both countries sticking to their positions during Friday night’s one-to-one meeting between their defence ministers, disengagement appears “difficult” for now, defence ministry officials and military veterans suggested. “High-resolution satellite images suggest that the People’s Liberation Army has further strengthened its position at the standoff points. They are building more military structures, besides deploying more soldiers and tanks,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. A veteran said: “What we are noticing is heightened territorial aggression by China although it has been talking about carrying forward the dialogue for a complete disengagement from the standoff points. Their actions do not match their words.” The Chinese have dug in 8km inside India-claimed lines on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake, besides grabbing land at the Hot Springs and on the Depsang Plains. On August 29 and 31, the Chinese had made provocative moves and tried to alter the status quo unilaterally on the Pangong Lake’s south bank but were foiled by Indian soldiers, army sources have said. Later, Indian soldiers occupied key ridges on the lake’s south bank, an area claimed by both sides. “Tensions are soaring near the latest flashpoint as the Chinese have continued to deploy more men and machines,” a defence ministry official said. “Amid the heightened aggressive posture from the Chinese, India’s army too has increased its strength to counter any threat.” The official said any disengagement seemed “difficult” at this time. “Right now we are holding on to our ground and the focus is on ensuring they do not ingress further,” he said. Another veteran said the result of the ongoing talks seemed to be “zero”. “So far, there are no visible actions on the ground. (Defence minister) Rajnath Singh did send a strong message to his Chinese counterpart saying India is determined to protect its territorial integrity,” he said. “His problem is that our Prime Minister said (on June 19) that there was no intrusion.” Rajnath has asked China to respect the Line of Actual Control, not try to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India towards complete disengagement from all the friction areas in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Covid surge prod to 35 districts||The Union health ministry on Sunday pointed to surges in new coronavirus disease cases and high mortality in 35 districts, including four in Bengal, and has deployed central health teams to Chandigarh and Punjab that are also displaying worrying trends. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a videoconference with state and district officials, underscored the need for local authorities to scale up testing, containment measures and door-to-door surveillance to achieve early diagnosis, effective case monitoring and hospitalisation if required. Calcutta, Howrah, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas are among the 35 districts that also include Mumbai, Pune and Thane among 17 districts in Maharashtra, 11 districts in Delhi, Surat in Gujarat, Puducherry, and East Singbhum in Jharkhand. The health ministry had on Friday named 15 districts in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh with similar troubling trends of surges in daily new cases and high mortality. Sections of public health specialists believe the emergence of the surges or the spikes in mortality more than six months into the epidemic suggests health systems’ responses are not what they should ideally be in many places across the country. The health ministry has since March circulated multiple guidelines and standard operating protocols for the public as well as health systems’ responses required. “But states haven’t been learning from each other as efficiently as they could have,” said Jugal Kishore, a professor of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. Districts across the country should take lessons from what large cities have experienced. The health ministry has asked state authorities to improve monitoring of patients placed under home isolation so that they can be quickly transferred to hospitals if their oxygen levels fall. The central health teams heading to Chandigarh and Punjab will assist local authorities in managing the surge and high mortality there. Similar teams have earlier visited other states such as Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. “Sometimes states request teams, sometimes we send teams on our own if we see certain parameters changing,” a senior health official told The Telegraph. The daily number of new cases, the absolute numbers of deaths, and early mortality within 24 to 72 hours of admission to a hospital are key parameters that the health ministry uses to mark trouble spots. Early death within 72 hours of diagnosis is possibly the result of delayed diagnosis or delayed recognition of deteriorating disease, the health official said. In such circumstances, the health teams provide guidance to local authorities for early detection and effective case monitoring. The central teams typically include epidemiologists from the National Centre for Disease Control and doctors who have managed Covid-19 patients from central hospitals such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College, and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi. India on Sunday recorded 90,632 new Covid-19 cases, its highest yet single-day rise, raising the cumulative number of cases to over 4.11 million, of whom more than 3.18 million patients have recovered, over 862,000 are under medical supervision and 70,626 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Another Banaras Hindu University student missing||A second Banaras Hindu University student has been reported missing from the campus, with his father fearing “this could be something more serious” while urging police to be more proactive in their search. Shiblu Ali, 20, a first-year BA student who had come to BHU from his home in Kaimur district in Bihar to submit some documents on August 27, has been missing since then, his father Sirtaj Ali said on Sunday. A day earlier it had emerged that another BHU student, Shiv Kumar Trivedi of BSc second year, has been missing for the past six months after being picked up by the police outside the campus gates on the night of February 12. Sirtaj, a grocer, told reporters that he lodged a missing persons diary with the local police with the help of the BHU authorities after arriving at Varanasi with his elder son on August 29. “He had arrived in Varanasi from our village at Karamnasa in Kaimur district on August 27 to submit some documents to the university. The university had asked every hostel inmate to submit their health certificates and some other documents. Shiblu could have sent it by post but he preferred to visit the university personally,” Sirtaj said. “Shiblu had called his elder brother Naushad Ali at 4pm on August 27 from a friend’s cellphone and informed him that he would be back home after two days. After that, we didn’t receive any information from him. His mobile was initially unreachable and later it was switched off,” the father added. Naushad is also a student of BHU, enrolled in a master’s programme in Hindi literature. The brothers had returned home after the pandemic-induced lockdown shut physical classes. “The friend has told me that Shiblu asked for his phone as Shiblu’s cellphone had no network. The friend has told me that he had not seen Shiblu since then,” Sirtaj said. Shailesh Kumar Mishra, the sub-inspector of Lanka police station just outside the BHU main gate, said posters bearing a picture of Shiblu have been put up across Varanasi along with police contact details seeking information on the missing student. “We have already put up posters of Shiblu across the city with our phone numbers, seeking the help of people to look for him,” Mishra said. Sirtaj alleged that the police were not taking the cases of the missing students seriously. “The police should take my son’s and Shiv Kumar’s cases seriously as this could be something more serious. I think the police have shrugged off their responsibility by putting up posters of Shiblu in the city. I fail to understand why they are not tracking my son’s mobile phone and looking for him more proactively,” he said. This newspaper could not contact any senior BHU official for comment on the missing student. Shiv Kumar, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, never returned to his hostel after the police picked him up on February 12, BHU had told Allahabad High Court. His father, Pradeep, has informed the court that the police had told him that his son had been released the next day as he was unwell, and that cops have made various claims since then. Pradeep, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, told reporters in Varanasi on Saturday that the high court had slammed the police for making misleading comments and threatened a CBI probe if they failed to produce his son, but not set a deadline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Ex-MLA killed in Uttar Pradesh||Nivendra Kumar Mishra, 75, three-time MLA from Nighasan in the past, was allegedly beaten to death by  “armed” men on Sunday. The former MLA was attacked near his house in Lakhimpur Kheri, 130km north of Lucknow, when he had gone to see a plot with his son. Mishra’s son Sanjeev was  attacked when he tried to save his father and is in hospital. Satyendra Kumar, superintendent of police of Lakhimpur Kheri, said: “The former MLA fell on the ground and suffered a heart attack during a minor scuffle ....It is wrong that there were armed people who assaulted him.” However, he didn’t reply when asked how Sanjeev suffered injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||BJP dons Sushant mask in Bihar ||The BJP’s culture wing in election-bound Bihar has released stickers and masks bearing Sushant Singh Rajput’s photographs, drawing allegations that the party is trying to milk the actor’s death for political gain. The stickers bear the slogan “Na bhoole hain, na bhoolne denge” (have neither forgotten, nor will allow to be forgotten) with a smiling picture of the actor, the hashtag ‘Justice for Sushant’ and the lotus, BJP’s electoral symbol. The masks bear photographs of the actor. The stickers and masks have been spotted in Patna in large numbers since Saturday. Many BJP workers were seen pasting the stickers on shops, auto-rickshaws, vehicles, and kiosks just as political parties do during election campaigns. The BJP art and culture cell’s state convener, Barun Kumar Singh, told The Telegraph that 25,000 stickers and 30,000 masks were made, but denied that it had anything to do with politics. Barun said: “This has been an emotional campaign for us. It has nothing to do with politics. We had started it on June 16, two days after Sushant’s death to ensure that justice is done in the case. We were the first to demand a CBI inquiry and our senior leaders had met the actor’s father.” Sushant was found dead in his flat in Mumbai on June 14 in what was suspected to be a suicide. His father later filed an FIR with the Bihar police accusing the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others of abetment of suicide. Then he levelled murder allegations. The CBI, Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau are now probing the case. The Patna-born actor hails from the influential Rajput caste, which makes up 5 to 6 per cent of Bihar’s electorate. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand denied the party had any hand in the Sushant masks and stickers. “It has not been done by the BJP. It is a work of the art and culture forum of the party,” he said. But the Opposition accused the BJP of using the dead for politics. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said: “We had been saying since the very beginning that the BJP was least bothered about justice for Sushant or his family, and was trying to politicise the actor’s death. The stickers and masks have proved this now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||Domestic strife hits MP and actress||Odia actor-turned-politician Anubhav Mohanty, who had proved to be an asset for the ruling Biju Janata Dal in the last elections, and his actress wife Varsha Priyadarshini have filed cases against each other. Varsha has filed a domestic violence case against her husband in the sub-divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM) court, Cuttack. On the other hand, the Kendrapara BJD MP has approached the principal judge family court in Delhi, seeking divorce and alleged that Varsha had failed both as a wife and daughter-in-law. He said that she denied him his conjugal rights. The court at Cuttack will hear Varsha’s case on Monday. Anubhav’s case in Delhi is scheduled for October 7. Varsha’s case was filed under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act against the MP for allegedly assaulting and harassing her. Varsha also asked for a compensation of Rs 13 crore besides Rs 2 crore towards medical expenses and monthly maintenance of Rs 50,000. Anubhav and Varsha were the most popular couple and they had a large following in Odisha. “Both Varsha and Anubhav acted in several of films. We pray that the issue is amicably settled and their followers are not heartbroken,” said eminent film critic Surya Deo. The couple tied the knot in February, 2014. The issue has come in handy for the Opposition to target Naveen Patnaik for whom Anubhav had served as one of the star campaigners in 2014 and 2019 elections. Immediately after the 2014 general elections Naveen had sent Anubhav to the Rajya Sabha. Naveen had fielded Anubhav as the candidate against two-time MP from Kendrapara, Baijayant Jay Panda in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Anubhav defeated Jay Panda by more than 1 lakh votes. However, Anubhav’s marital life has been in doldrums for the last one year. Varsha in her petition alleged that Anubhav is a drunkard who tortures her mentally and physically. She also accused him of beating her under the influence of alcohol. The actress alleged that Anubhav had extra martial affairs. She said during lockdown she remained alone in Cuttack while Anubhav was in Delhi. On the other hand in his petition, Anubhav denied these allegations and accused her of denying him a conjugal life. “Whenever tried to have physical touch or make relation with the respondent (Varsha), she never allowed for the same,” the petition said, adding that she failed as a daughter-in-law and always “tried to give him mental and physical agony”. In a press statement, Anubhav said, “My marriage has been in a bad shape since long. I have tried my level best to reason, to explain, to understand, and to make amends; unfortunately, things did not shape up as expected. Hence, it seemed the best way to part ways amicably. I and my family sincerely tried our best for a mutual separation just because we were concerned about each other’s social image and dignity.” He also said how he wanted that his petition did not leak as it was a case of marital discord. He appealed to all not to resort to rumour mongering. “It’s always said that marriages are made in heaven but they fail quite several times. And my marriage is not the first one or the last one to fail,” he said, adding that he deeply respects Varsha for the successful woman she is. As Anubhav is a high profile leader, the issue has acquired political colour. “Naveen Babu used to say that we must respect women and he wants everyone to respect Maa (Mother) and Mati (Soil). But here his party MP is torturing a woman and he is silent,” said senior Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. Former minister and senior BJD MLA Aurobinda Dhali said: “The issue is personal. It should be settled amicably. The issue is in the court. The party has nothing to do with it. Our leader enjoys a clean image.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||East Sikkim officials help defence aspirants||Pandemic protocol coupled with a landslide could have barred scores of candidates from north Bengal from appearing in the entrance tests of National Defence Academy and Indian Naval Academy in Gangtok on Sunday, but for the proactive efforts of the East Sikkim administration. As many as 217 candidates from north Bengal had reached Rangpo, an entry point to Sikkim en route to Gangtok, to write their papers at three different centres. However, because of the landslide at Singtam, 12km from Rangpo and 28km short of Gangtok, on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, candidates had to be transshipped with help from the administration. The Telegraph received a frantic call from a guardian of an examinee at 7am Sunday. “My brother is stuck in Rangpo, the bus is yet to come and we are told there has been a landslide somewhere between Rangpo and Gangtok because of which traffic is held up. The exams will begin at 10am,” he said. The 40km drive from Rangpo to Gangtok normally takes an hour. Alive to the plight of candidates, East Sikkim administration was busy clearing the debris of foliage, mud and stones on the highway. “There is a massive pile of debris, including bamboo plants. We are hoping to clear it by 9am to ensure examinees reach centres on time,” said Rangpo subdivisional magistrate Himmat Rai a little after 7am while personally supervising the work. Raj Yadav, the district collector of East Sikkim, told The Telegraph that eventually the candidates had to be transshipped because of the time taken to clear the slide. “In all, 217 candidates reached the check post (at Rangpo) and we arranged for buses. All the candidates reached their exam centres. Where candidates were late by a few minutes, extra time will be allotted to them as this was a natural calamity,” Yadav said. In all, 1,025 candidates from Sikkim and north Bengal had registered to sit for the exams, but students from outside Sikkim were not allowed to cross Rangpo in advance because of the strict Covid protocol. They were asked to reach the Rangpo check post by Sunday 6am and Sikkim National Transport buses were supposed to have ferried them to exam centres in Gangtok. “We are indebted to the Sikkim government for the wonderful arrangement for candidates from outside. Despite the landslide, my son could reach his centre in time,” said Subha Tamang, father of candidate Gyalbo Tshering, from Badamtam tea estate in Darjeeling. Kanak Nandi, elder brother of candidate Bhaskar Das from Bhatibari in Alipurduar, echoed Tamang. “We are really grateful, especially to Himmat sir,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
