08-09-2020||India||Kangana to face 'drug link' probe; Mumbai home under BMC lens||Already under fire over her remarks on Mumbai, trouble mounted for actress Kangana Ranaut as the Maharashtra government on Tuesday said the police will probe allegations that she took drugs, while alterations made at her bungalow here came under the civic scanner. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the Mumbai police will probe allegations by actor Adhyayan Suman that Ranaut took drugs. Talking to reporters here, Deshmukh said Adhyayan, the son of veteran actor Shekhar Suman, was once in a relationship with Ranaut and he had alleged that she used to take drugs. "The Mumbai police will investigate this matter," the home minister added. Deshmukh said Shiv Sena MLAs Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu raised the issue in the Assembly on Tuesday. "I replied that she had relations with Adhyayan Suman who has said in an interview that she took drugs and also forced him to take drugs. The Mumbai police will look into all this in detail," he said. Speaking to reporters, Sarnaik denied that this was a political vendetta. Ranaut had crossed swords with Sena MP Sanjay Raut last week when he said that she should not return to Mumbai if she felt unsafe in the city. The 33-year-old, Himachal Pradesh born Queen star came under all-round fire after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and made critical remarks against the city police. "The law is same for everyone. There is no political vendetta. Security is given to people who are looked upon as idols. If there are allegations of drug consumption against her and if they are false, the people leveling them should be thrown into jail," Sarnaik said. The development comes in the backdrop of actress Rhea Chakraborty's arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged drug use. The NCB is probing the alleged drugs angle in the death of filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput. Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials on Tuesday posted a notice at Ranaut's bungalow here, pointing out many alterations undertaken in the building without the civic body's approval, a claim rejected by her. A BMC team went to the bungalow of the actor in the Pali Hill area of suburban Bandra and posted the notice there as nobody was present to receive it, a civic official told PTI. The notice pointed out over a dozen alterations in the bungalow, like a "toilet being converted into office cabin" and "new toilets being constructed along side the staircase", the official said. The BMC has asked Ranaut, who has been provided round-the-clock security by the Centre, to tell it within 24 hours if she had taken approvals for changes in her residence, he said. Ranaut had on Monday taken to Twitter to share videos of her office premises here and expressed apprehension that the BMC may demolish the property. The BMC Tuesday filed a `caveat' in a local court, saying it should be heard first if Ranaut challenges a stop- work notice issued to her. A caveat is a request to a court that no order should be passed without hearing the person/party which files it. Ranaut, through her lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui, responded to the BMC's notice, accusing its officials of trespassing on her property and making false claims. Meanwhile, the actress continued to face criticism for her remarks on Mumbai and its police. Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis condemned the remarks made by Ranaut and said they amounted to "insult" of the police force. Ranaut had recently said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. The Leader of the Opposition said he knew the capacity of the Mumbai police since had had served as chief minister of the state for five years. "But, the police can come under political pressure," Fadnavis said. Union minister Ramdas Athawale, an ally of the BJP, said workers of his party RPI (A) will provide protection to Ranaut when she comes back to Mumbai. "RPI (A) workers have geared up to protect Ranaut who is scheduled to reach Mumbai on Wednesday. Our party workers will offer protection to her at the airport as well as at her residence," Athawale said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Missing Arunachal youths found in China, confirms PLA||China's People's Liberation Army has confirmed that five youths missing from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by them and their handing over process to Indian authorities is being worked out, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said on Tuesday. The five youths had gone missing on Friday from the Sino-Indian border in the Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. "China's PLA has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side. Further modalities to handover the persons to our authority is being worked out," Rijiju tweeted. Rijiju, the Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports, hails from Arunachal Pradesh and is an MP from the state. The incident of five missing youths came to light when two members from their group, who had gone for hunting in the jungle together, returned home and informed the families of the five that they had been whisked away by the Chinese troops from Sera-7, an Army patrol zone located about 12 km further north of Nacho. Nacho is the last administrative circle along the McMahon Line and is around 120 km from the district headquarters Daporijo. Those who were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese army have been identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri. On Monday, China brushed off questions over the whereabouts of the five youths and needled India, saying it has never recognised Arunachal Pradesh which it claims is part of south Tibet. "China's position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China's Xizang (Tibet) ), is consistent and clear," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a media briefing in Beijing, adding the Chinese government has never recognized the so-called Arunachal Pradesh". "I'm not aware of the situation you mentioned," the spokesperson said when asked about any updates about the missing Indian nationals. The development comes at a time when the Indian army has enhanced its deployment along the 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in view of the tense border situation with China in eastern Ladakh. In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon Line. While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said. He was released by the Chinese army after 19 days in captivity. The Indian Army had on September 2 provided food, warm clothes and medical assistance to three Chinese citizens who had lost their way in sub-zero temperatures at an altitude of 17,500 feet in a border area in North Sikkim. The Indian Army personnel deployed in the area also guided the Chinese citizens, including a woman, to return to the Chinese side and reach their destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty arrested by narcotics bureau||Rhea Chakraborty has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after three days of questioning in connection with drugs-related allegations in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, newsagencies and television channels have reported. Sources say she admitted to organizing drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput and also consuming them at times, during her questioning, reported NDTV.com on Tuesday. The 28-year-old actor, named as an accused in the CBI investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14, had denied consuming drugs. Her brother Showik was arrested last week. NCB's inquiries were based on WhatsApp chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty's phone, which revealed conversations around procuring drugs, allegedly for Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea Chakraborty was questioned along with her brother on Monday. The questioning started around 9.30 AM and lasted for several hours. NCB sources said the actor had denied consuming drugs but had been evasive on certain questions. Earlier onTuesday, Mumbai police announced they had registered an FIR against actor Sushant Singh Rajput's sisters and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy by prescribing him medicines banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The case was registered after the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty claimed they prescribed drugs to him without consultation, the official said. An offence has been registered against Sushant's sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, Delhi-based doctor Tarun Kumar and others, the official said. Unhappy with Mumbai police probe in the actor's death, his father K K Singh had registered a case with the Bihar police against Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy. The case was transferred to the CBI by the Supreme Court. Rhea was interrogated by the CBI probe team, camping at the DRDO guest house in Mumbai's western suburb Santacruz. She was also questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case and by Narcotics Control Bureau in a drug supply case in which her brother Showik Chakraborty and Sushant's manager Samuel Miranda have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Main accused of Kerala gold smuggling case admitted to hospital||The prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh has been admitted to a medical college hospital in Thrissur after she complained of uneasiness and chest pain. Suresh, who is currently lodged at the Viyur jail near here was shifted to the Thrissur Medical College hospital on Monday evening, prison authorities said. "She complained of uneasiness.. after consulting with the prison doctors, we shifted her to the medical college hospital here. Adequate police protection has been provided to her," a senior prison official said on Tuesday. Swapna, who is a former employee of the UAE consulate in the state capital, is among the four accused booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold through diplomatic baggage which arrived at the Thiruvanathapuram International airport on July 5. The gold valued at around Rs 15 crore was seized by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Indian Army rejects PLA claim of military provocation in Ladakh||The Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired shots in the air and attempted to close in on an Indian position in eastern Ladakh a day earlier as it rejected charges by China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) that it transgressed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The remarks by the Army came after the PLA late on Monday night alleged that the Indian troops crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots near the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh. The use of firearms along the LAC marks a serious escalation in border tensions as the previous instance of shots being fired at the de-facto border was in 1975. India and China exchanged accusations just four days after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe held talks in Moscow on ways to ease tensions at the border. They met last Friday on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. In a statement, the Indian Army said that at no stage the Indian troops crossed the LAC or resorted to use of any "aggressive means", including firing, as alleged by the Chinese PLA. "At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing. It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manuveres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress," the Army said. "In the instant case on September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own (Indian) troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops," the statement added. It further said that despite the "grave provocation", Indian troops exercised "great restraint" and behaved in a mature and responsible manner. The Army termed the statement issued by the Western Theater Command of the PLA as an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience. "The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility, however is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs," the Army said. "India, while is committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, China continues to undertake provocative activities to escalate." Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson of PLA's Western Theater Command, in a statement on Monday night alleged that Indian troops again illegally crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots on Chinese border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate. Chinese troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilize the situation, he said without elaborating. The Indian troops crossed the LAC at the west section of the China-India border into the Shenpao mountain region near the south bank of Pangong lake, he alleged. Separately, the Ministry of External Affairs termed as false reports in Chinese media attributing some comments to National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. "We have seen reports in Chinese state media, including in China Daily and Huanqiu Shibao (Global Times), which had attributed some comments to NSA Shri Ajit Doval. These reports are completely false and are not based in facts. We urge the media to refrain from such speculative reporting," it said in a release. Tensions escalated manifold along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The border situation deteriorated again after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China's transgression attempts. Following China's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||FIR against Sushant's sisters for 'abetment of suicide'||Mumbai police have registered an FIR against actor Sushant Singh Rajput's sisters and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy by prescribing him medicines banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, an official said on Tuesday. The case was registered after the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty claimed they prescribed drugs to him without consultation, the official said. An offence has been registered against Sushant's sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, Delhi-based doctor Tarun Kumar and others, the official said. Rhea in her complaint claimed these persons hatched a conspiracy and obtained false prescription on the letterhead of a government hospital for banned medicines and administered the same to the actor without supervising doses and quantity. The case has been registered at Bandra police station under sections 420, 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120(B) and 34 of IPC and sections 8(c), 21, 22(A) and 29 of NDPS Act, a Mumbai police spokesperson said. In her police complaint, Rhea had sought that an FIR be registered under IPC, NDPS Act and Telemedicine Practice Guidelines. She had also accused Priyanka of molesting her. Rhea had accused Priyanka Singh, Dr Tarun Kumar of Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and others of forgery and preparing a "fake" prescription of medicines for anxiety for the 34-year-old actor, who was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. In accordance with orders of the Supreme Court, this case has been transferred to CBI for further investigation, the spokesperson said. Unhappy with Mumbai police probe in the actor's death, his father K K Singh had registered a case with the Bihar police against Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy. The case was transferred to the CBI by the Supreme Court. Rhea was interrogated by the CBI probe team, camping at the DRDO guest house in Mumbai's western suburb Santacruz. She was also questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case and by Narcotics Control Bureau in a drug supply case in which her brother Showik Chakraborty and Sushant's manager Samuel Miranda have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Covid: Karnataka minister asks officials to conduct clinical study on reinfection||Karnataka medical education minister K. Sudhakar on Monday instructed officials to conduct a clinical study after a 27-year-old woman from the city probably became the “first” victim of Covid-19 reinfection nearly a month after recovering. The minister expressed concern over the reinfection of the patient who was discharged from a hospital in July after recovery. He said the issue should be dealt with carefully and efforts taken to dispel fears among the people. “Minister Dr K. Sudhakar has instructed the officials to conduct a clinical study about the coronavirus reinfection cases,” his office said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Ram Madhav attends SFF soldier's funeral, tweets, later deletes||Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan soldier from a secretive force raised by India, was on Monday given a funeral with full military honours, wrapped in the Tibetan flag and the Tricolour, in Ladakh. In attendance was BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, who tweeted a message with four pictures before deleting it within hours and without explanation. Company Leader Tenzin, 51, was part of the Special Frontier Force (SFF). He was killed on the night of August 29-30 in eastern Ladakh when he stepped on a 1962-vintage landmine near the southern bank of the Pangong Tso. The public nature of the event and the presence of Madhav, not to mention the tweet and its deletion, suggested that the Narendra Modi government was trying to play the Tibet card to create some leverage in talks with China at a time tensions had escalated on the frontier. The government has virtually “outed” the SFF, hitherto kept under wraps, by allowing a lot of visibility to the funeral without taking ownership of what is being seen as “deliberate stagecraft”. The SFF was raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines. This was the first time a soldier of the special force was given such a public funeral although there was no official word. Earlier, SFF men killed in operations were given a quiet funeral away from the public eye. On Monday, as soldiers in SFF uniform gave the last salute, chants of “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Tibet Desh ki jai” rent the air along with slogans of the Vikas Regiment, as the six battalions of the 5,000-strong force is known. Video clips of the funeral — including the movement of the cortege through Leh — were widely circulated, revealing the official sanction. Madhav’s tweet included four photographs of the crowds that had gathered for the funeral. It said: “Attended d (the) funeral of SFF Coy Ldr Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan who laid down his life protecting our borders in Ladakh, and laid a wreath as a tribute. Let d sacrifices of such valiant soldiers bring peace along d Indo-Tibetan border. That will be d real tribute to all martyrs.” No explanation for the tweet’s deletion had been offered till Monday night. Madhav was in Ladakh on a two-day visit ahead of elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council. Residents saw in his presence at the funeral a gesture aimed at pleasing the 20,000-strong Tibetan population in Leh district. Neither was there any response from the external affairs ministry on whether the publicity for the funeral was a signal to the Chinese. The defence ministry and the army, too, remained silent. The SFF is part of the RAW (the external intelligence agency) set-up but when it is deployed with the army, it is under the military’s operational control. However, the army prefers to keep the relationship under wraps. Swaran Singh, a professor with JNU’s Centre for International Politics, Organisation and Disarmament, said: “Our increasing willingness to advertise their (SFF) contributions seems part of giving greater visibility to Tibetans in India, (it) being our leverage vis-a-vis the Chinese.” Singh said neither side could afford a military solution and that the diplomatic channels would have to painstakingly find a new equilibrium. “The limited focus on maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border regions that began in 1988 evolved methods and mannerisms that have lost their efficacy and new ones need to be evolved,” he said. Christopher Clary, non-resident fellow at the Washington-based Stimson Centre’s South Asia programme, posted a tweet in reaction to some of the visuals of the funeral: “There is an element of deliberate stagecraft when you produce a very elaborate production for a soldier that reportedly died in a landmine accident. This is not to minimise the risks Indian soldiers face, but such risks are everyday occurrences. This is not.” In Beijing, asked for an update on five missing Indian youths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian reiterated Beijing’s position. “China’s position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Xizang), is consistent and clear. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’. I am not aware of the situation you mentioned.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Deepak Kochhar arrested on money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case. The arrest was executed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The case traces its roots to loans of Rs 1,875 crore the bank had sanctioned to the Videocon group between June 2009 and October 2011 in alleged violation of laid-down policies. The allegation was that Venugopal Dhoot, MD of the Videocon group, had invested in Deepak’s company Nupower through the firm Supreme Energy as a quid pro quo for the loans cleared by ICICI Bank after Chanda took over as the CEO of the bank on May 1, 2009. The couple had previously denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Indira Gandhi Prize for 2019 conferred on Sir David Attenborough||The Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2019 was on Monday conferred on Sir David Attenborough, British broadcaster and author whom former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh described as “human voice of nature”. Speaking at the award ceremony held through videoconference, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said, “Sir David has been the most sensible voice warning us that we, more than anything else, are responsible for the accelerating threat to the environment on our planet. In essence, for well over half a century, Sir David has been one of Nature’s most staunch conscience keepers. Indira Gandhi too was one throughout her life. As Prime Minister, she became an unwavering champion of environmental protection long before that cause had become popular both in India and abroad.” Manmohan Singh, who presented the award, said, “There can be no more deserving recipient of the award at this time when the world is gripped by growing anxiety over the state of our environment and our planet. If anyone who can be described as a living legend in the context of the natural world, it is Sir David. He has delighted us, entertained us, informed us and united us with nature in all its glories.” In his acceptance speech, Attenborough, warning against reckless exploitation of nature, said that the world was heading towards a major crisis and all the nations will have to come together to save whatever was left of nature. Lamenting that humanity had overrun nature, felling half of the tropical forests in the world, he advised the countries to evolve a common currency to pay back the ecological debt and dedicate to the maintenance of remaining biodiversity and biological health of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||NIA summons Varavara’s sons-in-law to Mumbai||The National Investigation Agency has summoned both sons-in-law of jailed Telugu poet Varavara Rao from Hyderabad to Mumbai on Wednesday for questioning in the Elgaar Parishad case. English and Foreign Languages University professor K. Satyanarayana, husband of Rao’s daughter Pavana, said that during a search of his campus flat two years ago, Pune police had asked humiliating questions such as why he possessed Dalit literature and why his students wore skimpy clothes and smoked. K.V. Kurmanath, senior journalist with The Hindu Business Line, is the husband of Rao’s daughter Anala. In an email to several academics, Satyanarayana said: “As you know, my flat was raided by Pune police in August 2018 under the pretext of collecting evidence against my father-in-law and revolutionary poet Varavara Rao. I stated then that I was in no way connected to the Bhima Koregaon case. The fact of Varavara Rao being my father-in-law was used to raid my house and cause mental agony.” The teacher of cultural studies added: “I remember how all of you had strongly condemned the raid on my flat and extended support. I thought it was all over…. NIA notice adds to our family distress at a time when Varavara Rao’s health condition is not very good and the pandemic is fast spreading in Mumbai. I am travelling to Mumbai in these terrible times. I need your support and best wishes.” The NIA has summoned Partho Sarothi Ray, who teaches molecular biology at Calcutta’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, on Thursday. Ray is also convener of the Bengal unit of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee. The World Health Organisation has been consulting him over its Covid-19 studies. Rao, 79, tested Covid-positive in Mumbai’s Taloja prison in July and was sent to several hospitals for treatment. He returned to jail last week, and family members say he seems to be losing his memory. Lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, another accused in the case, has developed ischaemic heart disease in jail, where she has spent almost two years now, her daughter Mayshaa has said. Several other academics, including Nagpur University’s Shoma Sen, former Mumbai University lecturer Vernon Gonsalves, Goa Institute of Management’s Anand Teltumbde and Delhi University’s Hany Babu M.T. are in jail in connection with the case. Altogether, 12 activists are in jail custody for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgaar Parishad meeting held by Ambedkarites in Pune on December 31, 2017. The event was meant to commemorate the second centenary of the victory of the predominantly Mahar Dalit troops of the East Indian Company against the Peshwa’s army in the Battle of Koregaon. Hindutva mobs attacked a largely Dalit pilgrimage to the Bhima Koregaon victory pillar the next day, the clash claiming the life of a Maratha youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Modi to blame for ‘corona capital’, says Congress ||The Congress on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the coronavirus crisis is the biggest example of “leadership failure” in India’s history as it not only destroyed the economy but also subjected the people to unprecedented hardships. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “In times of crisis, the nation looks up to the Prime Minister for guidance. But the Prime Minister initially delayed India’s preparations for the struggle against the pandemic for political reasons and then took a series of wrong decisions. Now the battle against corona rages on, but the general is missing in action. India has become the corona capital of the world. This is indeed the biggest example of leadership failure in India’s history.” The Congress listed the government’s failure to anticipate the gravity of the crisis initially despite repeated warnings, its hosting the Namaste Trump event in February and keeping Parliament open till March 23 to ensure the government in Madhya Pradesh was pulled down. On March 24, the government declared a nationwide lockdown on a four-hour notice. The Congress accused the Prime Minister of acting on his whims, rather than taking collective decisions or paying heed to constructive suggestions, and using the lockdown to attack constitutional rights and the federal structure. “While the economy was destroyed, leading to millions of job losses, states were pushed into deep financial stress as the Centre refused to pay GST compensation,” Surjewala alleged. On Monday morning, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Modi Government drags the country into crisis and starts acting like Ostrich instead of finding solutions to the problems. The country is leading every wrong race — be it Coronavirus infection or fall in GDP growth rate.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “So now it is official. India has crossed Brazil and is the second worst Covid-19 infected country next to the US. This is the price nations pay for having divisive, self-obsessed leaders who think they are Sarvagyaani (omniscient).” While the Congress, which has the experience of governance for decades, submitted proposals and complete action plan on every aspect of the challenges posed by the pandemic — from healthcare and economy to humanitarian crisis — several economists and domain experts of international repute offered suggestions to the government. However, the government chose to ignore them. The first major crisis of Modi’s tenure as Prime Minister was demonetisation in 2016. While the lack of preparations created huge problems for people, including over 150 deaths, the impact on economy is now clearly visible. Modi stoutly refuted the assessments by economists and seasoned administrators such as Manmohan Singh, sarcastically declaring that “hard work” was better than “Harvard.” The goods and services tax (GST), which was launched with great fanfare at a midnight function in Parliament, almost equating it with India’s Independence, again created chaos in the business community, forcing the government to change rules and procedures multiple times. Surjewala said: “Modi’s behaviour hasn’t been prime ministerial; he is playing with peacocks and changing clothes for photoshoot when the country is in deep crisis. He has abdicated his responsibility. There are no answers from him on all the vital questions about the plight of the nation.” Modi is the only head of the state in the world who hasn’t addressed any press conference during this global pandemic. A Prime Minister who publicly announced that the battle against corona would be won in 21 days is silent when the rampaging virus has taken India to the second spot in the world after 165 days. Surjewala said: “India is number one in the world in terms of daily rise in cases (over 90,000), in terms of deaths (1,016 deaths daily). While we reached 0 to 1 lakh case in 110 days and the next one lakh in 59 days, we jumped from 30 lakh to 40 lakh in 13 days. Experts believe we will reach 1 crore by November 30. It has now spread in rural areas where the healthcare infrastructure is very poor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Oxford Covid vaccine to roll out next year||The Oxford University vaccine for Covid-19 is “likely” to be ready early next year and in the best-case scenario later this year, UK health secretary Matt Hancock told the London radio station LBC on Monday. In an interview with The Telegraph, Cipla head Yusuf Hamied confirmed this is the same vaccine that the Serum Institute of India is making under an agreement with AstraZeneca, the British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company. Serum Institute has already put aside several million doses. If this vaccine — codename ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 — is approved by the UK authorities, it is “99 per cent” certain that it will also apply to India without further testing, Hamied said. “But tests are already being done in India,” he added. He said Cipla was doing clinical tests on behalf of the Russian vaccine. Nowhere was a vaccine more needed than in India: “India is in bad shape.” The Mail highlighted an unenviable statistic on Monday: “India now has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases behind the US as number of infections surges.” Hancock was interviewed by presenter Nick Ferrari on LBC’s “Call the Cabinet”, a programme on which ordinary listeners can question senior members of the government. It was Ferrari who asked Matt whether the UK was behind Australia: “Maybe where Australia expects to receive AstraZeneca vaccine within months, possibly January, February next year — around 3.3-4 million doses — are we in line behind them?” A spirited Hancock cut in: “No, no. We’re ahead of them — we’ve got 30 million doses already contracted for with AstraZeneca. In fact, they are starting to manufacture those doses already ahead of approval.” He went on: “So should that approval come through — and it’s still not certain, but it is looking up — should that approval come through them, we’re ready to roll out and in fact this year. “Well, the best-case scenario is if that happens this year (but) I think more likely is the early, earliest part of next year — in the first few months of next year is the most likely, but we’ve also bought a vaccine ahead of it getting approved from a whole different series of international vaccines as well.” There is real concern about a surge in the pandemic over winter. Government data last week showed a surge in 2,988 cases in a single day, the highest since May 22. According to BBC health editor Hugh Pym, “The more you test the more new cases you will find. But the jump of more than one thousand in a day is a significant new spike.” The Guardian reported: “More than 100 NHS trusts in England could be at or above full capacity this winter if they faced a second wave of coronavirus admissions on top of the usual seasonal workload, with figures suggesting that dozens would have 10 per cent fewer beds than needed.” The government is currently urging people to return to their offices having advised them for months to stay away. Schools have reopened. Hancock said younger people could still have serious illness and pass on the disease to more vulnerable people, including their grandparents. The death toll among Asians in the UK, where people tend to live in inter-generational families and attend temples, mosques and gurdwaras in large numbers, has been disproportionately high. Hancock said: “The rise in the number of cases we have seen over the last few days is largely among younger people — under 25s, especially between 17 and 21 — and the message to all your younger listeners is that even though you are at lower risk of dying from Covid if you’re under 25, you can still have really serious symptoms and consequences. “Long Covid — where people six months on are still ill — is prevalent among younger people. Also, that you can infect other people — this argument that we have seen that some people come out with saying, ‘You don’t need to worry about a rise in cases because it is younger people and they don’t die’ — firstly, they can get very, very ill. And secondly, it inevitably leads to older people catching it from them — don’t infect your grandparents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||DRDO successfully tests hypersonic cruise vehicle ||India’s defence research agency on Monday tested a flying vehicle that zipped at 2km per second, or six times the speed of sound, demonstrating an air-breathing engine envisioned for future civilian and military applications. The hypersonic cruise vehicle launched on a proven rocket at 11.03am from Wheeler Island off the Odisha coast flew along an intended flight path over the Bay of Bengal at 2km per second for 20 seconds, the Defence Research and Development Organisation said. “The engine performed in a textbook manner,” the DRDO said in a media release. The successful flight of the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle involved multiple critical technologies such as hypersonic manoeuvers, air-breathing propulsion and high temperature materials, among others. Scientists not involved in the DRDO project but familiar with the technologies said hypersonic flying vehicles have potential applications in weapons-delivery systems such as missiles with extended range and in futuristic spaceplanes for low-cost satellite launches. “With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh posted on Twitter after the test flight. The DRDO had attempted a technology demonstrator flight in June last year but the test had failed as the launch rocket itself did not reach the desired altitude. Scientists and engineers at the DRDO’s APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex on Wheeler Island launched the hypersonic cruise vehicle on a proven solid-fuelled rocket which ferried it to an altitude of 30km. There, the cruise vehicle separated from the rocket, began to “breathe” air, activated onboard ignition and achieved sustained combustion — driven by oxygen from air and a reservoir of hydrocarbon fuel — to fly at six times the speed of sound for 20 seconds. Hypersonic flying vehicles are delivery platforms capable of both manoeuvering and flying faster than five times the speed of sound, V. Siddhartha, a senior strategic technology analyst and former DRDO official had pointed out in a review of hypersonic platforms. These two features — manoeuverability and speed — enable hypersonic missiles to penetrate most missile defences, compressing the timelines for a response by a nation under attack, Siddhartha had said in the review presented at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore. A key advantage of air-breathing engines is that they do not need to carry fuel and an oxidiser as do all conventional rockets. “The engine uses oxygen from the air inflight,” said Thangadurai Murugan, an aerospace engineer at the Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Durgapur. “This means a lower launch weight — a feature that can also be used to extend the range of missiles,” said Murugan, who is familiar with technologies required for hypersonic vehicles but is not involved in the DRDO project. Scientists believe hypersonic vehicles could also find use in spaceplanes for which, Siddhartha said, conceptual studies have been under way in India for more than two decades. In 2005, the DRDO had requested a senior engineer Raghavan Gopalaswami to explore designs for a spaceplane. The long-term goal would be a reusable spaceplane — a vehicle that can return for repeated launches — that would help lower the cost of launching satellites. Those efforts had led to a proposal for the so-called “Avatar flight technology demonstrator”. In the review paper, Siddhartha points out: “The Russians improved on the concept and made it relevant for their hypersonic anti-shipping missile Zircon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut to be given Y-plus security  ||Actress Kangana Ranaut, who said Mumbai feels like “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and compared the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in Maharashtra to Taliban, has been granted Y-plus security by the Union home ministry. “I am grateful to Amit Shahji. Had he wanted, he could have advised me to go to Mumbai after a few days,” Kangana tweeted in Hindi. The actress has been a vocal supporter of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and had on Twitter described the Hindi film industry as “Islam-dominated”. After actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment in June, Kangana accused the film fraternity of nepotism and bullying. As a face of the “Justice for Sushant Singh Rajput” campaign, she has been relentless in her attacks on Mumbai police, who she has said she fears, and the state government. Former diplomat K.C. Singh said in a tweet: “Heard of Y/Z Security being given when non-state actors/terrorists threaten lives of public figures. It seems now it would be given even to BJP-friendly film personalities who fear duly elected Govs running an Indian state. What does BJP want, civil war?” The decision of the Centre to grant her Y-plus security — 10-12 armed CRPF men personnel will guard her round-the-clock — is being seen as an attempt by the BJP, in power at the Centre, to settle scores with former ally Shiv Sena which had handed the party its rudest shock yet when it formed the government in Maharashtra with the NCP and the Congress. The home ministry has refused to divulge when the security assessment for the actor was conducted before granting her the cover. Nor has it specified the threat perception to Kangana, whose security bill will be picked up by the taxpayer. A war of words had erupted between Kangana and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, with the actress likening Mumbai to PoK and Raut invoking Maharashtra’s pride and telling her she need not return if that is how she feels. Kangana, who is now in Manali, has said she will return to Mumbai on September 9. A retired IPS officer said on Monday: “It is very clear now that BJP wants to teach Shiv Sena a lesson for not forming government with BJP and now it has become a direct clash between the central government and Maharashtra…. Why has central security cover been given to a rich actor at the cost of exchequer? If she wants security, she should pay for it.” The CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau are all investigating Sushant’s death, in evidence of the Centre’s keen interest in the probe. Opposition parties have alleged that the BJP is trying to use Sushant’s death as an election issue in Bihar, the state he came from.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Narendra Modi's ‘flexibility’ sermon to NEP critics||Faced with objections that the National Education Policy is too restrictive of the states’ autonomy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday sought “maximum flexibility” — from the critics. Modi said the NEP gives students “flexibility” in choosing subjects and therefore all stakeholders should show the “maximum flexibility” in implementing it. He seemed to be suggesting that state governments critical of the policy should drop their objections and implement the policy in toto. Modi termed the NEP a policy of the country and not of “those in power” as he addressed a conference of governors — the chancellors of state universities — on the policy’s implementation. “We have to together solve all concerns and apprehensions. We will have to show maximum flexibility in implementing the policy,” Modi said. “This education policy is not the government’s education policy; this is the country’s education policy. Just as foreign policy does not belong to any government but to the country, defence policy does not belong to any government but to the country, this education policy has no connection with those in power.” As examples of the “flexibility” accorded to students, Modi referred to the options for vocational education from Class VI and for cross-stream selection of subjects in the upper classes and in higher education. Further, undergraduates can exit their four-year research degree courses after the first year (with a certificate), second year (diploma) or third year (ordinary bachelor’s degree). Among the policy’s other highlights are the integration of pre-school with formal schooling at government schools (it’s already there in many private schools), syllabus reduction for schoolchildren, a single regulator for higher education, and funding for private institutions. Many states — among them Tamil Nadu, ruled by BJP ally AIADMK — and NGOs have expressed fear that the NEP would curb the states’ and institutions’ autonomy, promote privatisation, reduce education to skills training and hit the state governments’ pockets. At the conference, President Ram Nath Kovind too appealed for cooperation between the states and the Centre on the implementation of the NEP, which the government says has become effective. “Education is on the concurrent list. The NEP’s success will depend on effective coordination between the states and the Centre,” he said. Kovind advised the governors to have virtual conferences on NEP implementation with universities in their states. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had last week expressed funding worries over the proposed integration of pre-school with formal schooling. Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan have highlighted the same issue. Currently, government-run pre-schooling is done at the anganwadi centres, which is cheaper because their employees are paid far less than schoolteachers. Besides, these centres will continue functioning even after pre-school moves to the schools because they have a role in the nutrition of newborns and their mothers. Tamil Nadu chief minister K. Palaniswamy last month declared his government would not follow the NEP-prescribed three-language formula: English, mother tongue and another Indian language. Tamil Nadu’s government schools now teach only two languages, Tamil and English. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee complained last month that neither the states nor Parliament had been consulted before the policy was approved on July 29. Some two dozen civil society organisations too have underlined the lack of discussions with stakeholders. The All India Forum for Right to Education (AIFRTE), Andhra Pradesh teachers’ federation, the Joint Forum for Movement on Education and others have issued a joint statement saying the NEP would reduce learning to skill training in the name of vocational education. “It’s wrong to introduce skill training (as early as) Class VI. This is a violation of the child labour law, which prohibits the employment of children below 14 in any profession,” said Madhu Prasad, a professor and member of the AIFRTE. She feared the provision of funding for private institutions was intended at promoting privatisation of education. Prasad also had apprehensions about the proposal for an overarching Higher Education Commission of India, whose various arms will include a single higher education regulator (the National Higher Education Regulatory Council), an accrediting body and a funding body. She said this would pave the way for the centralisation of higher education, allowing the Union government to curb the academic autonomy of universities and the states and push the ruling party’s political agendas through the education apparatus. Current general-stream regulator University Grants Council is largely an advisory body whose recommendations are not binding on the institutions and the states, but the proposed HECI’s powers remain opaque.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro resumes operations||Commuters travel in a Metro train as Delhi Metro resumed operations in a graded manner on Monday. The largest Metro rail system in the country reopened more than five months after it shut its doors to commuters because of the Covid-19 lockdown. A little over 15,550 people used the Metro service on Monday. Those who returned to the lifeline had their temperature checked and bags sprinkled with disinfectant as they entered stations, and guards scanned them with metal detectors attached to poles. The cold blast from the air conditioning vents has given way to a warmer flow of air, a little colder than the atmospheric temperature. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has lost more than Rs 1,500 crore in revenue because of the lockdown and has cut perks of employees by half since last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Crushed  to death under elevator ||A 46-year-old director of a retail chain was crushed to death under an elevator after he stepped into its shaft in Worli here, police said on Monday. Vishal Mewani, who was the director of Kohinoor Electronics, went to meet his friend in the two-storey Buena Vista building in Worli on Sunday evening, an officer said. Mewani called for the lift, but stepped into its shaft after opening the lift channel. On realising that he was in the shaft, Mewani tried to move out but failed and got crushed under the lift that was coming down, the officer said. Fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and Mewani was pulled out. He was taken to Breach Candy Hospital where he was declared brought dead. “He spoke to his wife 30 minutes before the incident and told her that he was going to meet his friend...,” Worli police station’s senior inspector Sukhlal Varpe said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Kerala protest plan on book pullout||Kerala’s MPs have joined hands across parties and decided to oppose in Parliament a purported move to withdraw a government book on martyrs of the freedom struggle that mentions two personalities whom the Right wing considers “anti-Hindu”. The decision came at a routine meeting on Monday of members of both Houses of Parliament from Kerala on the subjects to be taken up during the monsoon session, scheduled from September 14 to October 2. At the heart of the controversy lie Variyamkunnath Haji and Ali Musaliar, heroes of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion or Malabar Rebellion against the British in Kerala. Both were executed by the British and are featured in the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle, jointly published by the Union ministry of culture and the Indian Council of Historical Research and released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year. Sangh parivar members have written to the central government seeking withdrawal of the book since they view Haji and Musaliar, whose supporters killed tyrannical Hindu landlords during the rebellion, as “anti-Hindu”. CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam had broached the subject at Monday’s meeting of Kerala’s 28 MPs, held through videoconferencing and chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. All the state’s MPs are from the CPM-led and Congress-led fronts, with none from the BJP. “I said we need an official stand on this matter as it’s not a good precedent to withdraw books of such historical importance,” Viswam told The Telegraph. “So I moved an oral resolution to stand up for our freedom fighters. Our chief minister immediately extended support and said it was an important issue that must be taken up in Parliament,” Viswam said. All the MPs supported the oral resolution. Among them were Lok Sabha members Benny Behanan — convener of the Congress-led United Democratic Front — and his colleague from the Indian Union Muslim League, E.T. Mohammed Basheer. “I’m glad that Kerala’s MPs took a united stand on this, since the BJP is out to destroy everything that is against their communal and divisive agenda,” Viswam said. Basheer told this newspaper: “Usually there would be a lot of differences of opinion at such meetings. But everyone agreed with Viswam on this point. This has to be read with the BJP’s larger agenda of saffronising history books.” He claimed he had information that the BJP had “bulldozed” the ICHR into agreeing to reprint the book after omitting the references to Haji and Musaliar. “The BJP is not going to change its stand just because we are going to raise this issue. But at least we can put our objections on record in both Houses,” Basheer said. CPM Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kareem said: “It’s heartening that the parliamentarians from Kerala transcended political barriers to stand up for our freedom fighters and against the BJP’s agenda.” A controversy had broken out in June when noted filmmaker Ashiq Abu announced a film on Haji. While the BJP and its allies objected to Haji’s “glorification”, a pro-Sangh filmmaker, Ali Akbar, announced a rival film to project a different side of Haji and his men. Both films are expected to release next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India||Many school textbooks in Andhra being printed with first page on left side||Many school textbooks in Andhra Pradesh are now being printed with their first page on the left side, breaking with publishing tradition. These books will have one page in Telugu and the facing page in English with the same content. The idea behind these “mirror image” bilingual textbooks is to help pupils at the state’s government schools transition smoothly to English-medium schooling. Andhra Pradesh has become the first state in the country to offer the option of English-medium education to all its children from Class I. For starters, the option will be available from Class I to Class VI at government schools from the current academic session, originally scheduled from July but delayed by the pandemic. The state school education department is now printing bilingual textbooks for mathematics, social studies and the sciences. Each of these books will be split into two volumes to reduce weight. All the students will also compulsorily study a Telugu language paper and an English language paper in each class. Yagnamurthy Sreekanth, principal of the Regional Institute of Education in Mysore — an NCERT teacher training institute — said the bilingual books would bring advantages as well as challenges. “The books will help the students and the teachers carry out effective academic transaction by referring to the Telugu text. Splitting the books into two volumes each will reduce the weight, which is good,” he said. “But the main challenge is to equip the teachers to teach in English. All these schoolteachers are used to teaching in Telugu. Since there will be no monitoring, it’s possible they may continue to teach in the language they are comfortable in.” Two senior state government officials said the bilingual textbooks would be offered as part of a free kit to every child when the schools reopen. The kit will include a schoolbag, textbooks, work books, a belt, shoes, socks and three pairs of cut pieces of cloth towards uniforms. The government will provide the stitching charges too. Currently, government schools in Andhra Pradesh offer the English-medium option only from Class XI. The state government had last year decided to make English-medium schooling compulsory in all classes, prompting several people to challenge the decision in Andhra Pradesh High Court. The high court declared the move illegal on the ground that it violated the National Education Policy (NEP) — which suggested schooling in the mother tongue or the regional language till Class V — and imposed a foreign language on children without their parents’ permission. Following this, the state appealed in the Supreme Court, where the case is pending. But it also dropped the idea of making English-medium education compulsory and offered it as an option, and began collecting parental consent. Officials said nearly 96 per cent of the parents had chosen English-medium education for their children. Kancha Ilaiah, author and researcher on issues of social justice, said the bilingual books had removed any grounds for anyone arguing that the English-medium option violated the NEP. “The NEP suggests that early education should be imparted preferably in the mother tongue. This is addressed by the bilingual textbooks,” he said. A state government official said the teachers had been trained to teach in English. The official said several research studies had found that young children have a greater capability than their older peers to learn multiple languages. This is why the state had decided to introduce English medium from the lower grades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India||Spraying, fumigation at public places harmful: Government||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that fumigating or spraying disinfectants at public places is harmful to human health and that streets and pavements need not be disinfected since they are not reservoirs of the coronavirus. It added that it had never issued any advisory, guidelines or standard operating procedures for people being sprayed with disinfectants — something media reports have said was perpetrated on returning migrants at some places in the early days of the lockdown. The Union health and family welfare ministry, however, argued in its affidavit that since health is a state subject, it’s for the states and Union Territories to enforce a ban on public spraying or fumigation. It was not discussed whether spraying or fogging for mosquito control is harmful too and should come under the ban. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah had asked the government why it had not issued a notification cautioning people about the harmful effects of fumigation. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ministry, said the notification would be issued in a day or two but the responsibility to enforce it should lie with the states and Union Territories. The court was dealing with a public interest plea moved by a law student, Gursimran Singh Narula, seeking a directive to the Centre to ban the “usage, installation, production, advertisement of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of chemical disinfectants for the purpose of disinfecting human beings”. Narula had argued that such disinfection measures exposed people to severe health hazards including skin diseases, gastrointestinal ailments and even the loss of sight. Agreeing with the petitioner, the Centre said: “Spraying or fumigation on outdoor spaces such as streets or marketplaces is also not recommended to kill the Covid-19 virus or other pathogens because disinfectants (are) inactivated by dirt and debris and it is not feasible to manually clean and remove all organic matter from such spaces.” It added: “Moreover, spraying porous surfaces such as sidewalks and unpaved walkways would be even less effective. Furthermore, streets and sidewalks are not considered to be reservoirs of infection for Covid-19.... In addition, spraying disinfectants even outdoors can be harmful for human health.” The ministry said that following media reports about the widespread use of spraying and fumigation across the country, it had held meetings with experts on April 8 and June 9. The meetings had resolved that: “It was also observed that in indoor spaces routine application of disinfectants to environmental surfaces by spraying or fogging is not recommended for Covid-19 as the disinfectants may not be effective in removing organic material and may miss surfaces shielded by object, folded fabrics or surfaces with intricate designs,” the ministry said. “If disinfectants are to be applied this should be done with a cloth or wipe that has been soaked in disinfectants.” The ministry added that it had not issued any letter or advisory on the use of ultraviolet rays to disinfect people as part of Covid-19 management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India||Nitish takes on Lalu and family at virtual rally||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday launched his campaign for the Assembly election with a personal attack on rival Lalu Prasad, bringing up on a public stage an ugly dispute within the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader’s family. Addressing a virtual rally, Nishchay Samvad, at which he spoke for three hours non-stop, Nitish also invoked dead actor Sushant Singh Rajput besides speaking of the work done by his government in the past 15 years. The chief minister referred to Lalu’s daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai and said: “What behaviour was meted out to her? She is so educated, but this was done to her. I don’t want to say anything because it is a family matter, but it is such a sad thing. Imagine what has been done to the granddaughter of late Daroga Prasad Rai.” Nitish further alleged that the RJD chief had mistreated family members of all those who had helped him in politics. “You indulge in nepotism. Family is everything for you. But what about the families of those people who helped you? Their families do not matter anything for you,” the Janata Dal United leader said. Daroga Prasad Rai was a chief minister of undivided Bihar, a stalwart who was considered the undisputed leader of Yadavs during his time. His son and Aishwarya’s father Chandrika Rai, an MLA, joined the JDU last month after quitting the RJD. Aishwarya got married to Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav, a legislator from Mahua, in May 2018. The match was seen as the coming together of the two best-known Yadav families in the state. However, just five months into the marriage, Tej Pratap filed a divorce petition in the Patna civil court. The case is pending and the couple are living separately. Aishwarya has alleged that she was tortured, assaulted and thrown out of her in-laws’ house by former chief minister and Tej Pratap’s mother Rabri Devi. She registered an FIR against Rabri Devi, Tej Pratap and his sister Misa Bharti in December 2019, accusing them of physical assault, mental torture, domestic violence and demanding dowry. Nitish also lambasted Lalu, now serving time in Ranchi after being convicted in fodder scam cases, for tweeting that he (Nitish) was a burden on Bihar. “I work so I am a burden on the state, but you are in jail so people are free from you. When people gave you an opportunity to work you didn’t. I got an opportunity and I worked. I will work till people give me a chance to work. Service is my religion,” the chief minister said. In a bitter attack on the RJD, Nitish termed the 15-year rule of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi as “pati-patni raj (husband-wife rule)” and compared the condition of roads, crime, electricity, disaster relief, corruption and communalism during their time with his own tenure. “That was a time when it was difficult to understand whether the road had potholes and ditches or vice-versa. Massacres would happen and the condition of law and order is not hidden from the public. People used to roam freely with firearms jutting out of their vehicles,” Nitish said. The chief minister joined ally BJP in invoking Patna-born actor Sushant, who was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai on June 14. Paying tribute to the deceased actor, Nitish said the incident had not only affected his family and Bihar, but also crores of people across the country while “the probe that should have happened there (in Mumbai) was not happening”. “Investigations were started immediately after Sushant’s father lodged a case here (Patna). We referred it to the CBI with his consent on August 4, which is now probing it. We have faith that the truth related to his death will come out and justice will be delivered,” Nitish said. Nitish also detailed the steps taken to fight the coronavirus pandemic and floods. He said that 15 lakh workers who arrived from other states were quarantined for 14 days and Rs 1,640 crore was spent on them. He also said 16.62 lakh flood affected families in the state have been given gratuitous relief of Rs 6,000 each and a total of Rs 998 crore sent to their bank accounts. He also contested the claims of deteriorating law and order in the state and said that Bihar ranked 23rd among all the states in crime. JDU officials said that Nitish’s virtual rally attracted 16.8k visitors in the digital realm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India|| Domestic violence case against BJD MP deferred||A local court in Cuttack on Monday deferred to October 12 the hearing on the domestic violence case filed by leading Odia actress Varsha Priyadarshini against her actor-turned-politician husband Anubhav Mohanty, the sitting BJD MP from Kendrapara. Varsha’s case was filed under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, accusing the MP of assaulting and harassing her. Varsha has asked for a compensation of Rs 13 crore besides Rs 2 crore towards medical expenses and a monthly maintenance of Rs 50,000. Varsha’s lawyer Rama Krushna Rath told reporters: “The case will be taken up by the court after the district protection officer (DPO) submits the domestic incident report to the court. After receiving the report, the court will serve a notice to MP Anubhav Mohanty. Once all the legal procedures are completed, the hearing will commence. As per the schedule, the court will take up the case on October 12.” Earlier, Mohanty had told the media he was yet to get a legal notice in the matter. The DPO has contacted Mohanty, but is yet to record his statement on the allegations made by Varsha. However, the DPO has recorded Varsha’s statement. Varsha has decided to approach the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of the divorce case filed by Mohanty in the Patiala House court to Odisha to make it easier for her to appear before the court. “She cannot afford to travel to Delhi to attend the case regularly. It would be easier for her if the case is taken up at the family court in Cuttack,” Rath said. Anubhav had filed a case at the family court in Patiala, Delhi, seeking divorce and alleging that Varsha had failed both as a wife and daughter-in-law. Anubhav’s case is scheduled to be taken up on October 7. As Anubhav has been a star campaigner for the BJD, the issue has given Opposition an opportunity to train its guns on the ruling party and its president, chief minister Naveen Patnaik. While the Congress targeted Naveen on the issue, the BJP Mahila Morcha burnt Mohanty’s effigy and demanded his resignation. “We want to know why the chief minister is maintaining a stoic silence on the issue? The BJD talks of respect for women but the party’s MP has been torturing a woman. BJD should sack Anubhav from the party,” BJP women wing president Smruti Patnaik said. Speaking to the media for the first time on the issue, Anubhav said, “Varsha still lives in our house and at this point if someone speaks of domestic violence, I have nothing to say. I will leave it to the court. I respect her as a woman. It’s a personal matter. Since the matter could not be resolved, we moved the court. I have full faith in the court and will respect the decision of the judiciary.” On her part, Varsha spoke about truth prevailing finally in a post on her social media account. “Truth can never remain hidden. One should fear God before blaming someone with fake and false allegations. I have complete faith in my almighty. Nothing above law. I need blessing of each and everyone in this toughest time which I am going through. Trying to break the silence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
