09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty claims she was forced to confess by NCB||Actress Rhea Chakraborty, arrested by the NCB in a drugs case linked to her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, on Wednesday moved a bail plea before a sessions court in Mumbai. This is her second attempt to seek release after a magistrate court on Tuesday refused to grant her bail. In the fresh plea, filed by her lawyer Satish Maneshinde, the 28-year-old actress claimed to be "innocent". "She has not committed any crime whatsoever and has been falsely implicated in the case," said the plea. Further, it is claimed that Rhea “was coerced into making self-incriminatory confessions and by her application on September 8 the applicant has formally retracted all such incriminatory confessions”. “There was not a single lady officer who interrogated the present applicant as mandated by law. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Sheela Barse VS State Maharashtra, has held that the interrogation of females should be carried out only in the presence of a female police officer/constable,” reads the bail application, highlighting that the agency failed to comply with the guidelines of the apex court. The court will hear the bail application on Thursday. Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday after three days of questioning by the agency. Shortly after her arrest, she was sent in judicial custody till September 22 by a local court. On Wednesday, she was shifted from the anti-drug agency's office in south Mumbai to the Byculla jail here. Meanwhile the other accused arrested by the NCB, including the actress's brother Showik Chakraborty, Rajput's house manager Samuel Miranda, his personal staff member Dipesh Sawant, and suspected drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, were sent in 14-day judicial custody by the sessions court, special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said. Showik Chakraborty and Sawant have applied for bail and their pleas will also be heard on Thursday, he said. The NCB on Tuesday said it did not want Rhea Chakraborty's custody as it had already questioned her for three days. After producing her before the additional chief judicial magistrate through video link on Tuesday, the NCB told the court that she was confronted with all other accused, including Showik Chakraborty, during her interrogation and facts in their statements were verified. The agency claimed that the actress disclosed her involvement in procurement of drugs for Rajput and related financial transactions and also her instructions to co-accused Miranda, Sawant and Showik Chakraborty. "Therefore, it is clear from her statement that Rhea is an active member of the drug syndicate connected with drug supplies," the agency said. The sections of the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act invoked against her include 8(c) (sale, possession or manufacture of banned drugs) and 20 (b)(ii) (possession or use of small quantity of banned drugs), as per her lawyers. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14. Various angles surrounding his death are being probed by the NCB, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The NCB is probing the drug angle in the case under criminal sections of the NDPS Act, after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea Chakraborty. The actress was recently interrogated by a CBI probe team her as she is the main accused in the abetment of suicide case filed by Rajput's father, and also questioned by the ED in a money laundering case. She has denied all the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
09-09-2020||India||6 members of a vulnerable Andaman tribal group recover from Covid||Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda on Wednesday expressed happiness after six members of the dwindling Great Andamanese tribe, who tested positive for coronavirus, recovered and returned to their island in the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago. "It is indeed my pleasure to inform you that six members of a vulnerable tribal group from Andaman and Nicobar Islands who tested positive and were undergoing treatment, have recovered and returned to their Island. God bless them with many more years of healthy life," he posted on Twitter. There are only 59 surviving members of the Great Andamanese tribe, all of them on Strait Island in the archipelago. After six members of the tribe, who had travelled to Port Blair, the regions' capital, for work, tested positive for the virus, a health team travelled to Strait Island last month to carry out tests of the remaining members. Out of 37 samples tested, four more from the tribe were found to be positive, Health Department Deputy Director and Nodal Officer Avijit Roy had said. Three Covid-19 positive members of the tribe had recovered earlier. There are six notified Scheduled Tribes in the archipelago -- Nicobarese, Great Andamanese, Jarawa, Sentinelese, Onge and Shompen. Barring Nicobarese, all are recognised as particularly vulnerable tribal groups, characterised by declining or stagnant population, low level of literacy, pre-agricultural level of technology and economic backwardness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
09-09-2020||India||Delhi government says no to any further lockdowns ||The Delhi government has ruled out the possibility of another lockdown even though the national capital has seen a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight with health minister Satyendar Jain asserting that the economy "cannot be kept shut for eternity as livelihoods of millions depend on it”. The minister also asserted that "extreme caution and not panic" should be the response of the city, and people should exhibit greater alertness and responsibility in public places to deal with the health crisis.  In the first eight days of the month, Delhi registered 22,378 fresh coronavirus cases, including 3,609 fresh cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike in 76 days, as the city moved towards the two lakh-mark with over 4,618 deaths due to Covid-19 so far.  Amidst an atmosphere of anxiety due to the massive surge in Delhi, especially after coronavirus cases were steadily declining in August, Jain said, "This is a once in a century pandemic after the Spanish Flu of 1918. And people will have to learn to live with Covid-19 as it is not going away so soon".  "Also, one can't keep everything (economy) shut for eternity, as livelihoods of millions depend on it," the Delhi health minister told PTI in an interview when asked if there could be another phase of lockdown in the city.  His remarks came a day after Delhi Metro resumed services in a calibrated manner on Monday. Many feel that resumption of metro services may lead to a further spike in coronavirus infections. Asked if it was a right decision to open the metro amid spurt in cases, he said, "People will have to be more alert and exhibit greater responsibility in public. If you don't wear a mask, not just metro, you can contract the infection anywhere". Asserting that "there is no need to panic", Jain said, "like I have said, we have to learn to live with Covid. Earlier, it was believed that the virus will die out in summer or it will taper off in the monsoon. It is still there. It seems it will continue for a fairly long time." While the Delhi Metro was closed since March 22, a nationwide lockdown was imposed by the Centre from March 25, pushing people to stay indoors and halting commercial activities. The unlocking of economic activities in a phased manner has begun from June onwards. "If lockdown was the solution, then no new cases would have emerged. New cases in the country have touched the 90,000-mark in a day, and the unlock process is still on. The lockdown has not ended yet," Jain said. Many states have extended or reinforced lockdowns after cases increased drastically. The Punjab government recently said that all existing restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19, including weekend lockdown, will be in place in most of the municipal towns of the state till the end of September. Bengal has enforced a three days of strict lockdown this month. Medical experts have already flagged multiple reasons that could have contributed to increasing caseload in the national capital in the past one week or so, including, reopening of economic activities and complacency among people in adhering to norms such as wearing masks and practicing social distancing. Jain agreed with the experts. “However, authorities have penalised such violators and a good quantum of fine has been imposed on them in the last several days, which should serve as a deterrence to others, who are displaying a laidback attitude towards the pandemic situation," he said. "I want to repeat again. The number of new cases has been rising, also because we have increased the testing exponentially. People should not panic but be cautious," he asserted. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently announced to double the scale of testing to 40,000 per day. Over 11.54 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours taking India's cumulative tests to over 5.18 crore so far, while during the same period nearly 75,000 people have recuperated from the disease taking the total number of recoveries to 33,98,844 in the country, the Centre said on Wednesday, reported NDTV.com. Timely diagnosis through higher levels of countrywide testing has furnished valuable opportunities to isolate or hospitalize the positive cases adequately in advance for appropriate treatment. This in turn has facilitated lower mortality rates (1.69 per cent as on date) and speedy recovery, the Union Health Ministry underlined. "India is one of the few countries that have reported very high numbers of daily testing. The daily testing capacity has already crossed 11 lakh," it highlighted. With 11,54,549 tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours on Tuesday, India's cumulative tests have reached 5,18,04,677.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Professor in Bhima Koregaon case asks NIA to hold virtual meet||IISER- Calcutta professor Partho Sarathi Ray, who had been summoned by the NIA for interrogating in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2018, said on Wednesday that he has requested the agency to arrange a video conference for the questioning session in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has issued a notice to Ray, who is also the convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee's (PPSC) West Bengal unit, asking him to appear for questioning in its Mumbai office on September 10 in connection with the incident. "I have written to the NIA requesting it if I can attend the questioning session by videoconferencing. My duties in this pandemic situation are preventing me from travelling. Waiting for the response," the young scientist, involved in Covid-19 research activities, said. The professor of Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research's (IISER) Kolkata unit said he had nothing to do with the incident and the probe agency was trying to "harass" him. The scientist and social activist also said that there was no charge against him, and he had never visited the Bhima Koregaon memorial in Pune. "The agency (NIA) has summoned me as a witness in the case, under section 160 CrPC. Therefore, there are no charges against me. I have no connection with this case as I have never been to Bhima Koregaon. I wasn't even aware of the incident till I read about it in the newspapers," he had said on Sunday. The case pertains to an incident of caste violence that took place near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier. Several vehicles were torched and one person was killed in the incident, triggering large scale Dalit agitation in Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Sena-ruled BMC demolishes alterations at Kangana's bungalow||The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished "illegal alterations" at the Bandra bungalow of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, a civic official said. The 33-year-old actor, who is scheduled to reach here later in the day, has alleged that the Maharashtra government is targeting her because of her fight with the Shiv Sena. The demolition work began shortly after 11 am, the official said. Earlier in the day, the BMC posted a second notice outside her bungalow, informing her of the action being taken by the civic body, he said. A BMC team reached the bungalow at Pali Hill in Bandra with bulldozer and excavators and demolished alterations made sans the civic body's approval. "I am never wrong and my enemies prove again and again this is why my Mumbai is POK now," Kangana tweeted, soon after the demolition work began. She also posted photos of BMC staff engaged in the demolition work. Trouble has mounted for Kangana as the Maharashtra government on Tuesday said the police will probe allegations that she took drugs, while alterations made at her bungalow came under the civic body's scanner. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the Mumbai police will probe allegations by actor Adhyayan Suman that Ranaut took drugs. The BMC Tuesday filed a `caveat' in a local court, saying it should be heard first if Ranaut challenges a stop- work notice issued to her. Ranaut had recently said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. Union minister Ramdas Athawale, an ally of the BJP, said workers of his party RPI (A) will provide protection to Ranaut when she returns to Mumbai. "RPI (A) workers have geared up to protect Ranaut who is scheduled to reach Mumbai on Wednesday. Our party workers will offer protection to her at the airport as well as at her residence," Athawale said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty shifted to Byculla jail||A day after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested her, Rhea Chakraborty was on Wednesday shifted from the anti-drug agency's office in south Mumbai to the Byculla jail. Shortly after her arrest on Tuesday in a drugs case linked to her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, she was sent in judicial custody till September 22 by a local court. On Wednesday, she stepped out of the NCB office at 10.15 am after spending the night there and was taken to the Byculla jail by the agency officials. The court had rejected her bail application. The NCB had told the court that she was an "active member" of a drugs syndicate and procured drugs for Rajput, her boyfriend. The NCB, however, said it did not want her custody as it had already questioned her for three days. Immediately after her arrest, the 28-year-old Rhea was taken for medical tests including Covid-19 test to the civic-run Sion hospital in Central Mumbai. At the hospital, her antigen test for Covid-19 came out negative, officials said. She was then taken to the NCB office in south Mumbai around 7.15 pm, and produced before the court through video-conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||National Investigation Agency arrests three folk artistes in Elgaar Parishad case||The National Investigation Agency has arrested three folk artistes from an organisation officially listed as a front of the banned CPI Maoist, raising the number of prisoners in the Elgaar Parishad case to 15. Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor were arrested after the NIA questioned them in Mumbai on Monday. Jyoti Jagtap, a Marathi folk singer of national repute, was arrested in Pune on Tuesday. All three are Pune residents and stage performers for the Kabir Kala Manch, a cultural group that the Union home ministry labelled a Maoist front in 2011. The trio are also members of the Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan, which organised the Elgaar Parishad meeting held by Ambedkarites in Pune on December 31, 2017, which was followed by caste violence. The NIA is probing several people including authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists for alleged Maoist links and their purported role in the Elgaar Parishad meeting. In a video shared on the Abhiyaan’s Facebook page on Monday, Gorkhe said he and Gaichor were heading to the NIA office, expecting to be arrested. “Yes, we sang on the Elgaar stage.… We were called last month, and yesterday (Sunday) we were called again and they told us, ‘Accept you are connected to Maoists and we will let you go. Write a maafinama (clemency petition), we will leave you’,” Gorkhe said. “But we are not the children of Savarkar who will apologise. We are the children of Ambedkar. We have done nothing but work according to the Constitution. That’s why we are not apologising.” Hindutva ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar had written several clemency pleas to the colonial British government after he was imprisoned in 1911 for revolutionary activity. Gorkhe added: “They are saying that we went to Gadchiroli, and they want to call the Elgaar Parishad a Maoist programme. We won’t allow this. It was a programme of human rights activists.” An NIA statement said a Mumbai court had granted the agency the custody of all the three till Friday. “During further investigation, it was revealed that accused Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe, Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor and Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused,” the agency said. “It has also come on record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also it is established that during their visits (of Kabir Kala Munch members) in jungle, they underwent weapon & explosive training and awareness programme on various topics related to Maoist movement. “It is also established that as per the evidence on record that in June 2018 absconding accused Milind Teltumbde discussed about the Elgar Parishad programme which was organised at Pune and the subsequent inroads made by the CPI (Maoist) in the organisation and execution through the members of Kabir Kala Munch and other frontal organisations.” Teltumbde is suspected to be the leader of a Maoist zone covering the tri-junction of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. His brother Anand Teltumbde is a management professor and Dalit intellectual who has been arrested in the case. The Elgaar Parishad meeting was meant to commemorate the second centenary of the victory of the predominantly Mahar Dalit troops of the East Indian Company against the Peshwa’s army in the Battle of Koregaon. Hindutva mobs attacked a largely Dalit pilgrimage to the Bhima Koregaon victory pillar the next day, the clash claiming the life of a Maratha youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Call to resume Shramik train from Odisha ||Union minister Dharmendra  Pradhan has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention to relaunch the now-suspended services of Shramik Special trains from Odisha to other states to facilitate return of migrant workers to their places of work. In a letter to Goyal, the petroleum and steel minister said he has received many representations from migrant labourers in the state, seeking resumption of such special train services to Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states. “As you would be aware, there was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of nationwide lockdown. With the efforts of the railway ministry, thousands of workers across the country could reach their home towns by Shramik Special trains and the same was appreciated widely,” Pradhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: The saddest show on Earth||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested actress Rhea Chakraborty after questioning her for three days in connection with drugs-related allegations in her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, PTI reported. She has been sent to judicial custody till September 22. Chakraborty, 28, was arrested under multiple sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act that deal with sale, possession or manufacture of banned drugs and possession or use of small quantities of banned drugs. In recent TV interviews, Chakraborty had denied that she consumed drugs. ⦿ So far used to target mostly groups and political or ideological dissidents, central agencies are now being deployed to hound individual citizens. ⦿ The transformation of the so-called television “news” media industry into an instrument of oppression of the State is complete. Rarely have private enterprises  become such an indistinguishable organ of the government. ⦿ What the television lynch mob is doing is not journalism. Director Anubhav Sinha told employees of such TV networks in a tweet: “If you still feel like a journalist, RESIGN. You won’t die of hunger. You will discover new friends, opportunities and avenues.” ⦿ The audience must share the blame, too. The most sordid chapter in Indian opinion-tampering history has brought out the worst of the medieval bloodlust that lurks in our modern drawing rooms. ⦿ No one has any doubt that the charade is being staged to distract them from crises the country has rarely seen before. No one has any doubt that the immediate trigger is the election in Bihar, the home state of Sushant. Yet, many have volunteered to be part of the largest collection of suckers on the planet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||The levels to which the fake news factory is stooping||Even a well-meaning law aimed at protecting children is being used in attempts to silence voices that expose falsehoods, but this time a pushback has taken place. At least one FIR, if not more, for alleged child abuse has been filed against Mohammed Zubair, co-founder of the fact-checking website AltNews, for taking on a Twitter troll. Zubair had asked a Twitter user, Jagdish Singh, in reply to an offensive comment whether his granddaughter — a reference to a young girl seen in Singh’s profile picture — knew he abused people. The FIR against Zubair has triggered outrage on social media and an #IStandWithZubair hashtag has come up. Journalists and other social media users have accused the authorities of harassing Zubair because his fact-checking website has consistently busted fake news. Although Alt-News does not confine itself to scrutinising news disseminated by any particular section, many of the falsehoods it has exposed happened to have been spread by Right-wing sympathisers. Zubair had responded to the video of a potholed road tweeted on August 6 by an inspector-general of police from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Dipanshu Kabra, who asked people to guess the city. Zubair had tweeted an AltNews report that said the video was from China in 2017. To this, Singh, who appears to be a Raipur resident, replied with an abusive comment. Singh, whose profile picture showed an adult man and a young girl, had earlier too repeatedly used communal and abusive slurs against Zubair on Twitter. Zubair replied with an image of Singh’s profile picture but with the girl’s photo blurred. “Hello Jagdish Singh, does your cute granddaughter know about your part-time job of abusing people on social media? I suggest you to change your profile pic,” he wrote. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights sent complaints to Delhi and Raipur police and both filed FIRs, The Indian Express newspaper has reported. Scroll, a digital news publication, reported that the commission had taken cognisance of an August 8 complaint from an NGO, the Forum for Indigenous Rights — North-East India. Two Twitter accounts from where Zubair received supportive replies have also been named in the complaint. Zubair has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Information Technology Act. He could not be contacted for comment. Alt-News editor Pratik Sinha told The Telegraph: “We have only received a copy of the Raipur FIR so far. Under the criminal procedure code, a person can be booked for a single offence in only one FIR. We don’t know what jurisdiction Delhi police have as neither the complainant nor the defendant stays there, nor has the alleged offence been committed there.” Sinha added: “We will challenge the validity of the FIR as the charges are absolutely trumped-up. The child’s image was blurred. The remarks were directed towards the guardian and not the child.... No private information of anyone was revealed by Zubair.” Sinha has shared several past tweets by Singh that shared images and morphed images of women Opposition leaders and activists and carried sexually coloured remarks. Many journalists and others have tweeted in support of Zubair over the past three days. Some of them have also tweeted receipts of their financial contributions to AltNews. Senior journalist Seema Chishti tweeted: “As headlines over the last few weeks have made clear, the authorities in India are simply unwilling to take on abusive users on social media if they favour the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. Instead, the lens is turned on those who highlight these abuses.” Faye D’ Souza, former executive editor of Mirror Now, tweeted: “#IStandWithZubair and @AltNews The harassment will only stop when we speak up for each other.” Actor Swara Bhaskar tweeted: “Stand with @zoo_bear (Zubair’s handle)! Stay strong buddy.” Ashok Swain, a professor at Sweden’s Uppsala University, wrote: “Hindutva Gang doing what they do always! Harass the people who expose their lies.” Another tweeter, M. Asif Khan, said: “Few weeks ago, a RW (Right Wing) guy abused @zoo_bear’s mother on TL (timeline), no action was taken against that abuser. But now Md Zubair is facing legal case, why?? Just because he busted RW Fake News Factory and he is a vocal Muslim? Unapologetically standing with him! #IStandWithZubair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||No benefit from plasma: ICMR study||Convalescent plasma was unable to reduce mortality or severe illness among coronavirus disease patients, India’s health research agency said on Tuesday, reporting the outcome of a nationwide clinical trial of the experimental therapy prescribed for Covid-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research said the trial did not find any difference in the mortality or severe disease between Covid-19 patients who had received the best standard care and those who had received convalescent plasma along with best standard care. The use of convalescent plasma did not translate into any meaningful clinical benefits, Aparna Mukherjee, a senior ICMR researcher, and her collaborators from across the country said in a paper posted on medRXiv, an archive for research papers, but not peer-reviewed yet. The trial involved 464 Covid-19 patients in 39 public and private hospitals across India. Convalescent plasma is a substance that is extracted from the blood of people who have recovered from the infection and that contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The clinical trial found that 34 (13.6 per cent) of 235 patients who received convalescent plasma along with best standard care died while 31 (14.6 per cent) of 229 patients who received only the best standard care died. The difference is not statistically significant. In both groups, 17 patients had severe illness. Researchers say India’s no-benefit findings mirror the results from other countries, particularly a clinical trial in the Netherlands that was prematurely terminated after enrolling 86 patients and not finding any effect on mortality or disease severity. An independent review of 20 studies worldwide had found no clear benefit of plasma therapy on Covid-19 mortality. Doctors say the ICMR findings are important and have direct implications for clinical practice in India. Although the Union health ministry had asserted that convalescent plasma is experimental and needs to be used with caution, many doctors have been concerned about unwarranted enthusiasm and sale of plasma in the black market at exorbitant prices across India. “Plasma therapy consumes a lot of time, effort, money and resources — the collection and storage of plasma and the process of measuring antibodies are all resource-intensive,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. “This trial shows the intervention is not worth the resources it consumes,” said Kalantri who was not associated with the clinical trial but which he has described as a “well-designed trial” that enrolled a representative sample of patients from across the country. Kalantri, who has earlier questioned the ICMR’s decision to prescribe hydroxychloroquine as a medication to prevent Covid-19, said the ICMR and its researchers deserved “unfettered praise” for designing and executing a clinical trial that addressed an experimental therapy for Covid-19. “Negative results are as important in medicine as positive results,” he said. “The results are discouraging,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, a clinician-researcher at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta, who is involved in an independent smaller plasma trial in Calcutta. Doctors say the findings also point to the need for caution before rushing into a therapy even during a pandemic. “Plasma banks have come up across the country, but we now know plasma is not a magic bullet the way some had tried to portray it,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Global Health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Shots fired on India-China border shatter 45-year silence||Shots were fired for the first time in 45 years on the India-China border on Monday evening, escalating tensions in a Ladakh sector where 10,000 troops from either side are face to face amid arrays of tanks, artillery guns and missile systems. The tit-for-tat disclosures — both sides accused the other of opening fire — came on the eve of a meeting in Moscow where the foreign ministers of India and China are scheduled to be present. Although the Indian Army officially denied that its soldiers used firearms, sources in the security establishment said shots were fired from both sides. “Our soldiers fired as a counter-measure to defend our territory as the Chinese troops attempted grab land. The firing took place near the Mukhpari peak near Rezang La,” a security official said. Rezang La is the place where a company of 13 Kumaon Regiment, led by Major Shaitan Singh, had held back the Chinese PLA during the 1962 war. On Tuesday afternoon, unnamed “Indian government sources” circulated photographs showing Chinese soldiers carrying guandaos (a blade-tipped pole weapon used in some forms of Chinese martial arts) near the Mukhpari peak in Chushul, eastern Ladakh, on Monday evening. The Indian sources said that besides the guandaos, the around 50-60 Chinese soldiers carried rods, spears and clubs and tried to close in on an Indian position on Mukhpari. The Chinese troops approached the Indian post around 6pm but the Indian Army confronted them and forced their retreat, the sources said. Forced to return, the Chinese troops fired 10-15 rounds in the air to intimidate the Indian soldiers, the sources added. The Indian Army had issued an official statement earlier on Tuesday denying its troops had used firearms and alleging the Chinese had tried to “close in” on a forward position and “fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate” Indian troops. Late on Monday night, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China had accused Indian troops of crossing the LAC near the Pangong Lake’s south bank and firing warning shots when Chinese troops arrived to negotiate with them. On the 3,488km Line of Actual Control, neither side had fired shots since 1975. No firearms had been used by either side during the violent clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15 that killed 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops. “Monday’s firing violates protocols observed for more than 40 years by either side. It suggests the situation is extremely fragile and dangerous,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. A longstanding protocol forbids the use of firearms on the un-demarcated LAC, which witnesses several face-offs and skirmishes every year, and advocates dialogue to resolve issues. Military veteran Pravin Sawhney tweeted: “Absurd to state that shots were fired in air for warning in war zone as if the task was law & order to disperse civilian crowd. Something else is going on?” Indian army sources said the standoff was continuing on Tuesday at Rezang La near the Mukhpari peak. “The distance between the Indian and Chinese troops is approximately 150 to 200 metres. Local commanders are holding talks to defuse the tension,” an official said. Harsh winter: China For the first time since the standoff began, China on Tuesday referred to the approaching winter and expressed hope that disengagement can be achieved as soon as possible through mutual consultations. Asked about the restoration of the status quo by disengaging the troops, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a media briefing in Beijing: “You have a good wish. We all hope our troops get back to their camping area and there won’t be any more confrontation in the border areas.” He added: “You know that place has a very bad natural condition and it is above a height of 4,000 metres. In winter this is not good for humans to live. So we hope, through diplomatic and military channels and through consultations on the ground, we can achieve disengagement as soon as possible and reach consensus.” In mountainous Ladakh, temperatures can plummet to minus 30 degrees Celsius in winter. Zhao’s reference to the harsh winter came amid suggestions that both sides were making arrangements for a long-drawn face-off, especially in the Pangong Lake area. On Monday’s firing, the Indian Army said: “In the instant case on September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own (Indian) troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops. However, despite the grave provocation, own troops exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner.” The statement accused China of committing grave provocations on the ground while talking of peace at bilateral meetings. “(While) India is committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, China continues to undertake provocative activities to escalate. At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress.” The Chinese army statement referred to the area of confrontation as “Shenpao mountain” near the lake’s south bank. India’s army termed the Chinese statement misleading but did not specify the site of the incident except for saying it was on the Indian side of the LAC. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity; however, (it) is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the (Chinese) Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” the army said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh met the three service chiefs and reviewed security at the LAC, a ministry official said. The two armies have been locked in a standoff since early May at multiple friction points --- the north bank of the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains – where the Chinese have ensconced themselves well inside India-claimed lines and altered the status quo. A degree of disengagement has happened in the Galwan Valley, but the Chinese are understood to be still inside India-claimed territory there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Cabbie killed, family levels  ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant charge||A cab driver from Delhi was murdered in his taxi on a Greater Noida highway on Sunday night, his family alleging his passengers had asked him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” but the police had kept this out of the FIR. Mohammed Shabir, son of victim Aftab Alam, 42, said he had recorded the conversation between his father and the passengers when Aftab called him briefly but did not disconnect the phone. “We didn’t mention this (the religious angle) in the FIR because the (Greater Noida) police said we could add this during further investigations,” Shabir told reporters. “We wrote only what the police asked us to — that some people had killed him and taken his money and mobile.” Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, central Noida zone, said the police had heard the audio recording. He claimed the passengers had quarrelled with Aftab over the taxi fare and asked a roadside vendor, not the cabbie, to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. Aftab was thrashed and stabbed with a sharp object, the police said, but the exact time of the attack is unclear. His body was found in the stationary cab near Badalpur village in Greater Noida around midnight, while the 41-minute audio was recorded sometime between 8pm and 9pm till Aftab’s mobile battery ran out. Deepak Kumar, a sub-inspector with Badalpur police station, said the police had recovered images of Aftab’s three passengers from CCTV footage from the nearby Luharli toll booth. Deepak said the footage showed the three male passengers refusing to pay the toll and shouting they were residents of the locality. Shabir said: “Father had called me to recharge his FASTag account (from which toll can be paid electronically) and then put the phone in his pocket without disconnecting the call. I recorded the conversation, which shows the killers asking him to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’.” He added: “They had initiated a discussion on religion with him and offered him liquor.” Mohammad Tabrez, a relative of Aftab, said: “Aftab would never stop the cab on the highway at night for strangers. This means these people had forced him to stop. He must have sensed trouble and that’s why didn’t disconnect the phone — he wanted us to hear the conversation.” A woman had rented Aftab’s cab from Gurgaon in Haryana at 3pm on Sunday. He dropped her at Bulandshahr, 125km away, around 7pm and was returning to Delhi, where he lived in the Trilokpuri area, when the three suspects boarded his cab. The cab reached the Luharli toll booth at 7.57pm, just about 5km from Badalpur, implying it was mostly stationary while the recorded conversation between the passengers and Aftab was taking place. The cab was found about 150 metres from a Badalpur hospital, where Aftab was declared dead on arrival. “Aftab’s body was on the front passenger’s seat, suggesting he was beaten up elsewhere and placed there while one of the passengers drove the cab. Aftab had injury marks on his head, mouth and neck,” sub-inspector Kumar said. The police have registered a case of robbery and murder. Ankur Agrawal, additional deputy commissioner of police, said: “Aftab’s mobile is missing but we have some leads and hope to arrest the killers soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Appeal: Do not let Covid guard down||The head of India’s coronavirus task force on Tuesday asserted the need for people with symptoms to seek tests without fear and for everybody to wear masks in public spaces, adopt physical distancing and avoid crowds. The need for early diagnosis and such precautions are even more relevant now amid the daily increase in cases than earlier, said Vinod Paul, a member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, and chair of the national coronavirus task force. “We have to create an environment where people do not fear tests,” Paul said, citing concerns about anecdotal accounts of people with symptoms such as cough or fever avoiding the diagnostic tests. The tests are now available “on demand” without the need for a doctor’s prescription, Paul said. The Indian Council of Medical Research had last week tweaked the testing strategy to allow any person to seek tests on demand. Paul also expressed concern that some people have become “lax” under relaxations from the lockdown, cautioning that there is no space for negligence and underlining the need for precautions such as masks in public spaces, physical distancing and avoiding crowds. While health authorities would respond through containment efforts, surveillance and contact tracing, Paul said, personal precautionary measures expected to be adopted by the members of the public would remain “the key to slowing down the pandemic”. Under the relaxations from the lockdown and opening up of the economy, he said, there are now more opportunities for the virus to continue to spread among even more people. “We want to repeat this plea over and over again — use masks 100 per cent in public spaces, maintain physical distancing, avoid crowds, do not spit, and adopt hand hygiene,” Paul said. The appeal for public discipline comes amid an average daily increase of over 84,000 new coronavirus disease cases over the past week. India on Tuesday recorded 75,809 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number to over 4.28 million, of whom 3.32 million have recovered, more than 880,000 patients are under medical supervision and 72,775 have died. Five states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — account for 62 per cent of the active patients and 70 per cent of the deaths. However, amid the rising infection and death counts, the case fatality rate — the mortality among all lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases — has fallen from 2.15 per cent in early August to 1.70 per cent on Tuesday. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the fall in the case fatality rate could be attributed to efforts by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff as well as the dissemination of the standard treatment protocols to Covid-19 hospitals across India. Bhushan said 28 states had case fatality rates lower than the national average of 1.7 per cent. The case fatality rates in Assam, Kerala, Odisha, Bihar, Manipur, Meghalaya, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Tripura are below 1 per cent, a target the health ministry had set last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Relapse fears over halt in adult literacy drive||India’s literacy-cum-continuous-learning programme has been put on pause for over two years, raising fears that a sizable segment of the neo-literates might relapse into illiteracy in addition to the country’s over 16 crore illiterate people. On Tuesday, International Literacy Day, the Centre promised a new literacy scheme, Padhna Likhna Abhiyan (PLA), sometime soon but did not reveal the size of the target population. The government had in 2009 launched the Saakshar Bharat Mission (SBM) literacy programme. It engaged nearly 1.65 lakh preraks or village-level workers to encourage illiterate people from their neighbourhoods to visit informal centres to be taught basic reading, writing and arithmetic skills by volunteer teachers. Each participant was to undergo 300 days of training and take a test. If they passed, the scheme enabled them to continue their education up to Class XII under an open schooling system. Resource centres were established in every state to prepare textbooks for the participants. The scheme, whose tenure was to end in March 2017, was extended by one year after which the cabinet proposed that it be recast. Since then, the education ministry has been working on designing and launching the PLA. The 2011 census counted 24 crore illiterate people over the age of 15. By March 2018, some 7.6 crore people had received literacy training under the SBM. With the SBM in limbo and no new scheme in place, researchers said India now faced a tougher challenge to achieve 100 per cent literacy by 2030, a commitment under the Sustainable Development Goals. “After gaining basic literacy, the new literates need to be engaged in further reading and writing under a continuous learning programme,” said Rajesh Kumar, professor at the department of adult and continuing education in Delhi University. “The SBM had a basic literacy and continuous learning programme. With the scheme discontinued, a sizable segment of the neo-literates would have relapsed into illiteracy. All of them will have to be identified now in addition to those not covered by the previous scheme.” Kumar said the adult learners needed to be trained in digital literacy too. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Tuesday spoke about building a volunteer-based mass movement around literacy. He said the country’s 33 crore students and over 1 crore teachers could involve themselves in the movement. ‘“Each one, teach one and reach one’ should be the motto. We should do it on a mission mode. If we involve teachers and students, the programme will go a long way,” he said. An education ministry official said the National Council for Educational Research and Training would prepare the curriculum and textbooks for the PLA and that there would be a survey to identify illiterate people in every block. Kumar, however, said that any programme based entirely on volunteers was unlikely to yield significant results. “When there is no incentive, motivation will be low. If not monetary incentive, the government and the education regulators can award academic credits to students who volunteer for literacy programmes,” Kumar, a member of the community development cell of DU, said. A former government official who was involved in the SBM said the Centre had in 1977 begun an adult education programme by involving college students, paying them Rs 100 a month. But the scheme produced little benefit. “Illiterate people come largely from socially disadvantaged families. The children in these families need support for their own studies; they are unlikely to invest time in the literacy mission,” the former official said. An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the SBM’s discontinuation without an alternative programme has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Congress lines up House questions for PM ||The Congress leadership believes Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pushed India into a deep crisis with Rahul Gandhi likening him to the captain of the Titanic, the ship that broke into pieces after hitting an iceberg. At a meeting called by Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday to discuss parliamentary strategy for the session beginning on September 14, there was a consensus among senior leaders that the government’s mismanagement and the constant denial of the gravity of the situation on multiple fronts — from the economy to Chinese intrusions — had created a frightening scenario at a time when people were grappling with the pandemic. It was decided that the Congress would forcefully raise these issues in both Houses of Parliament. Although the government hasn’t yet engaged with the Opposition on the question of the Chinese incursions, and most parties have avoided confronting the Prime Minister on the issue, the Congress has placed it on top priority, deciding to seek answers on every aspect of the disturbing development. The Congress does not intend to settle for anything less than a full-fledged discussion on the Chinese incursions where the Prime Minister himself must reply to questions. The other issues identified by the Opposition party are the economy, unemployment, Covid-19 and the lockdown. Rahul, like most other leaders present at the meeting, feels these have together created a frightening scenario, and drew a parallel with the Titanic. He is believed to have said that these issues will explode suddenly one day, no matter how forcefully the government and the media tries to divert the nation’s attention, just like the Titanic had crumbled after hitting the iceberg. Rahul, who has been attacking the government relentlessly over the past few months, again tweeted on Tuesday on the planned “sale” of public sector units and the mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Due to Modi government’s gross mismanagement of Covid: 1. India’s total cases world’s 2nd highest. 2. India’s weekend tally higher than US & Brazil put together. 3. On Sunday, India’s share was 40% of total cases worldwide. 4. No flattening of curve. Stay safe everyone,” the Congress MP tweeted. In another tweet, Rahul said: “Modi is running a campaign to sell government companies. The country’s assets are being sold bit by bit to make up for the economic crisis manufactured by his wrong policies. By ignoring the people’s trust and future, the plan to sell Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is yet another shameful attempt.” Rahul argued at Tuesday’s meeting that Modi can’t only be told what he wants to hear and that it is the duty of the Congress to force the government to address the real concerns hurting the people. The senior leaders concurred with him on the seriousness of the crisis and resolved to raise every issue with vigour. Apart from the members of the parliamentary strategy committee, Mallikarjun Kharge, A.K. Antony and Manish Tewari also participated. The so-called dissenters who had written to Sonia on the drift in the party — Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, apart from Tewari — also spoke at the meeting. Sources said the atmosphere was normal. The Congress also decided to field a joint Opposition candidate for the post of deputy chairman in the Rajya Sabha and oppose four ordinances on farm produce and banking regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Missing Arunachal youths found in China||The five youths missing since Friday from Upper Subansiri district in Arunachal Pradesh have been found on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control, China’s army has informed its Indian counterpart. Union minister of state Kiren Rijiju revealed the development through a tweet on Tuesday evening. Tezpur-based defence PRO Harsh Wardhan Pande said the youths had inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2, and confirmed that the process for their release had begun. Arunachal Pradesh shares a porous and disputed 1,080km border with China. Media reports had claimed the Chinese army had kidnapped the five villagers who may have got close to a disputed border point, Sera 7, on a hunting expedition. Since the incident came amid tensions on the India-China border in Ladakh, there was widespread concern over the fate of the youths. Local organisations had demanded the state and central governments take immediate steps to ensure their safety and release. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry had said it had no details to share on the missing youths. It had also reaffirmed the Chinese stand that Arunachal was part of South Tibet, adding to the tensions. “China’s PLA (People’s Liberation Army) has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side,” Rijiju tweeted. “Further modalities to hand over the persons to our authority (are) being worked out.” Rijiju, MP from Arunachal West which includes Upper Subansiri district, had on Sunday tweeted that India’s army had contacted the Chinese army through a “hotline message” to seek the youths’ whereabouts. Pande tweeted: “Chinese Army on 08 Sept responded on hotline and confirmed that the missing Indians have been found on their side. Formalities for their early transfer (are) being coordinated with the Chinese Army.” Sources said the Chinese had earlier captured a young man from the Nacho circle in March and released him after nearly a month’s negotiations. The five missing youths are also from a village in the Nacho circle. Tagin Cultural Society secretary-general Lardik Kare said the missing youths being located was a welcome development. “Now all efforts should be made to secure their early and safe release. Our team will go to Nacho tomorrow to get ground-level reports,” Kare said. Till Tuesday, the missing youths’ families and the organisations demanding their release had not lodged a formal missing persons complaint with the police or the civil administration. But the local police had confirmed that the five were missing. The village where the five youths live is about 3km from the Nacho township and 120km from district headquarters Daporijo. From Nacho township, it takes two to three days to reach some of the 20-25 villages in the Nacho circle, which has a population of around 5,000. The Sera 7 border point is a 10-to-12-day walk from Nacho township. The local people earn a living through hunting, fishing, medicinal plants and jhum cultivation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||China cries ‘provocation’ on border, India silent ||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar is set to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Wednesday in a multilateral setting during a conference of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers in the thick of another escalation of tensions along the border that China has called a “serious military provocation”. A separate bilateral meeting was being talked about in diplomatic circles even prior to Monday’s developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) when Chinese troops fired a few rounds in the air during an attempt to close in on one of India’s forward positions but there has been no official announcement on this yet. This will be the first time the two foreign ministers will come face-to-face after the Chinese incursions began early this summer. They engaged virtually once during the ongoing face-off in June at the Russia-India-China trilateral meeting hosted by Moscow, and spoke to each other after the Galwan clash in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese personnel died. If the meeting between Jaishankar and Wang materialises, it will be the second such engagement between the political leaderships of the two countries in less than a week. Earlier on Friday, defence minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe had met on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting in Moscow. Nothing much came out of that session, as is evident from Monday’s developments. India and China have accused each other of once again disrupting the fragile peace that has held along the LAC since the June 15 Galwan clash. While India on record said “it is the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress”, China accused Indian troops of crossing the LAC and firing warning shots. “Indian troops illegally trespassed via the southern bank of Pangong Tso on the western section of the China-India border on September 7,” said Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson for the Western Theater Command of the Chinese PLA. “The Indian troops brazenly made gunshot threat to the patrolling Chinese border guards who came forward for negotiations, and the Chinese border guards were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation on the ground,” a translation of Zhang’s statement issued by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi said. The embassy further quoted Zhang as saying India’s move was a grave military provocation. “The flagrant act grossly violated the agreements previously reached between the two sides, and further escalated regional tensions, which can easily lead to misunderstandings and misjudgments,” it said. “We demand the Indian side to immediately stop dangerous actions, withdraw cross-line troops right away, strictly restrain its frontline troops, earnestly investigate and punish the personnel who fired shots, and guarantee against the occurrence of similar incidents,” Zhang said. Later, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said the Indian troops had “illegally crossed the line into the Shenpao Mountain region on the southern bank of the Pangong Lake in the western sector of the China-India border”, adding that their behaviour had heightened tensions and made the situation highly susceptible to misunderstanding and miscalculation. “This is a serious military provocation of an egregious nature.” The Indian external affairs ministry did not comment on the latest developments and only shared a statement issued earlier by the army on the situation in eastern Ladakh. Even at the meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on external affairs, foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla is understood to have not said much on the China situation although members, including from the BJP, had several questions. He reiterated India’s resolve to protect its territorial sovereignty but did not go into the specifics as China was in any case not on the agenda of Tuesday’s meeting. Also, given the sensitive nature of the situation along the LAC, officials cannot be compelled to reveal details, Shringla is believed to have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||SOPs for schools offering guidance||The Union health ministry has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for “partial reopening” of schools outside Covid containment zones to offer guidance to students of Classes XI to XII who voluntarily turn up with the written consent of parents/guardians from September 21. The SOPs said seating arrangement should ensure a gap of six feet between chairs and desks on the school premises. It also prescribed staggered guidance activities with separate time slots. Students, teachers and staff should use face covers and alcohol-based hand sanitisers (for at least 20 seconds), frequently wash hands with soap (at least 40 to 60 seconds) and desist from spitting in public places. Schools should sanitise the common utility areas. If weather permits, the interaction between students and teachers should be held outdoor. The guidelines prohibit assemblies, sports and events that can lead to overcrowding. Sanitiser dispensers and thermal screening provisions should be made available in the schools. The schools should use multiple separate gates, if feasible, for entry and exit, the SOPs said. Cafeteria and swimming pool shall remain closed. If anyone develops symptoms, the person should be placed in a room in isolation  and the family should be informed. Teaching and non-teaching staff up to 50 per cent of their total strength may be called to schools. Instead of biometric attendance, alternative arrangements for contactless attendance should be made by the school administration, the SOPs said. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued earlier by the Union home ministry had already said regular classes would be closed till September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Congress leader in Kerala rape comment soup||Veteran Kerala Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala has courted controversy by making an insensitive comment when asked about a rape case involving a health official. Queried on claims that the official owned allegiance to an employees’ union of the Congress, Chennithala, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, replied with a smirk during a media conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday: “Is it written anywhere that only DYFI people can sexually abuse?” An ambulance driver supposedly belonging to the DYFI, the youth wing of the CPM, has been accused of raping a Covid patient. Junior health inspector Pradeep Kumar has been arrested on the charge of raping a 44-year-old home nurse who had approached him for a coronavirus negative certificate. Kumar had allegedly asked her to come to his house at Pangode in Thiruvananthapuram to collect the certificate but tied her to a bed and raped her there. The nurse had been in quarantine after returning from duty at Malappuram in north Kerala, and needed a negative certificate to resume work. At the news conference, Chennithala accused the Left government of failing to protect the nurse and the Covid-19 patient who was allegedly raped by the ambulance driver at Pandalam in Pathanamthitta district. The driver, V. Naufal, has been arrested. Health minister K.K. Shailaja slammed Chennithala for his remarks and demanded an apology. “The leader of the Opposition who insulted women should apologise,” she wrote on Facebook. “Criminals who insult women won’t have a place in the health department,” she added, referring to Kumar and Naufal, also a government employee. Chennithala claimed he had been quoted out of context. “It has come to my attention that some sections have been mocking me by taking just one word. It is being circulated as if I told reporters that if it was written anywhere that only DYFI people can sexually abuse,” the Congress leader said in a statement. “What I said was that not only DYFI, but even NGO union (government employees’ union) are sexually abusing,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||‘BJP bribe’ scribe held for another’s post||A Leh journalist who had last year alleged a BJP attempt to bribe reporters was briefly arrested on Saturday over another person’s abusive remarks against Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. Tsewang Rigzin, a journalist with the Jammu-based State Times who also runs a prominent Facebook page, Ladakh in the Media, was arrested following a complaint from Namgyal. The abusive comment against the MP had appeared on Rigzin’s Facebook page. Rigzin, who was granted bail on Saturday evening, has received widespread support. The journalist released a video and a statement on Monday night detailing the “real” reasons for his arrest. He told The Telegraph he had been arrested because of his role in “exposing” how BJP politicians allegedly tried to bribe journalists in Leh for favourable coverage ahead of last year’s parliamentary polls. He said he had been targeted also for taking a stand against last week’s resolution by the BJP-led Leh autonomous council seeking constitutional safeguards for Ladakh. “My Facebook page has 34,000 members, which is quite a big number in a place like Ladakh (with a population of 2.5 lakh). I was summoned twice by the police, first on September 1 and then on September 5, in relation to a comment made by somebody,” he said. “I told them it’s not possible to monitor all the comments and offered to delete it but they told me not to, saying it would destroy evidence. On September 5, they told me they could not trace the person who had made the remarks. I don’t know whether he is a real person or a fake. But they told me they have to arrest me. I fully cooperated.… It was all planned.” Rigzin said he was not detained in the lockup and had called an acquaintance to deposit bail for his release. He said the arrest was made under IPC Section 188 (disobeying a public servant). He also faces charges under Sections 294 (public obscenity) and 500 (defamation). Namgyal did not respond to calls from this newspaper. The MP, however, defended his decision to lodge a complaint in a Facebook post on Tuesday, asking how he could be expected to “tolerate such unacceptable acts towards my family”. He did not mention Rigzin by name but named the person who had abused him. The comment, he wrote, was related neither “to my political profession, nor to my party affiliation (or) to my stand on current issues”. “It was (a) purely personal attack on my family members which is (a) very emotional issue for me. So I request all to please let police work independently rather (than) standing (with) anyone without knowing facts and supporting one who is trying to gain public sympathy by mixing the matter with other issues.” Namgyal said he had lodged the FIR as a “husband of my beloved wife and as a father (of) our son”. Rigzin said that had the MP called him, he would have clarified the matter. The arrest came two days after the BJP-run Leh council sought job and land safeguards for Ladakhis under Article 371, the Sixth Schedule or a domicile law. Rigzin said nobody supported a domicile law in Ladakh as it would encroach on the rights of Ladakhis. The Centre’s new domicile law for Jammu and Kashmir has partially thrown open jobs for “outsiders”. “I feel that the action against me was just an excuse to harass me, and to silence the voices of thousands of people who are coming out so strongly in support of Sixth Schedule. For several months LiTM (Rigzin’s Facebook page) has been a platform where thousands can listen and express their views,” he said in a statement. “Secondly, the BJP has been somehow trying to intimidate me for more than a year now, ever since we exposed the bribery case during (the) Lok Sabha election. I was one of the journalists instrumental in making the case public. Whenever I felt I should speak up on an issue as an activist or as a citizen, I never hesitated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Don’t rewrite history: CPI Rajya Sabha MP's plea to PM on book||CPI Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam has urged the Prime Minister to scrap a committee set up by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) to review the entries in a book on freedom fighters that some Sangh outfits have sought a ban on. The five-volume Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle 1857-1947 has references to Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji and Ali Musaliar, heroes of the 1921 Mapilla Rebellion or the Malabar Rebellion whom the Sangh parivar considers as anti-Hindu. Many fear that the decision to form the committee to review the contents of the book, whose soft copy Prime Minister Narendra Modi released last year, is aimed at banning the compilation. In a letter to Modi, CPI MP Viswam has described the formation of the committee as “another brazen attempt to rewrite the history of the Indian freedom struggle and discredit the contributions of freedom fighters who did not subscribe to the ideologies of the current ruling party”. According to Viswam, the review committee has been set up on the basis of a report submitted to the ICHR, which has commissioned the book along with the Union culture ministry, in 2016 by politically motivated individuals calling for the exclusion of communist and Muslim martyrs from it. “The 2016 report incorrectly argues for the exclusion of Communist martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar-Karivelloor and Kavumbayi agitations as well as of Muslim freedom fighters who lost their lives in the Wagon Tragedy and the Malabar Rebellion,” the MP from Kerala has pointed out. Viswam said the contributions of these martyrs were widely recognised by the people of Kerala and were a source of inspiration for youths, adding that their death anniversaries were passionately commemorated across the state every year. “These young men and women who laid down their lives to resist colonial rule were integral to India’s struggle for Independence, and attempts to rewrite the history of India for petty political gains are condemned and will be resisted. “I urge you to immediately intervene in this matter and suspend the review committee established by the ICHR. As the Prime Minister of India and a constitutional representative it is incumbent on you to prevent any attempts that seek to communalise our history and disturb the social fabric of the nation,” Viswam wrote. Viswam and the other Kerala MPs across party lines, barring the BJP, have decided to oppose the purported move to withdraw the book. The Malabar Rebellion essentially began as an uprising against the British and the feudal system, but the history of this important event in India’s freedom struggle is complex as many oppressive Hindu landlords, who had been aided by the colonial forces, were killed by the peasantry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects petition against oil price hike||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre to immediately withdraw the steep increase in the prices of petrol and diesel at a time when international crude prices were at their lowest. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee warned the petitioner of a “heavy cost” if the counsel choose to argue the matter on merit. “Do you want to argue this case? Because if you do, we might impose heavy costs,” Justice Nariman, heading the bench, told advocate Gaurav Agarwal, appearing for petitioner Shaji Kodankandath, a Kerala-based lawyer. Agarwal replied: “If Your Lordship puts it that way I will withdraw the plea.” The diesel price in Delhi had at one point reached an all-time high of over Rs 80 a litre, costlier than petrol, after 19 hikes imposed by oil companies since June jacked up the rate by a cumulative Rs 10.63 a litre, the petition pointed out. The petrol price in the national capital had also shot up to over Rs 79.9 a litre, the petition said. According to the petitioner, petrol and diesel are being sold by the government companies at more than 150 per cent of the actual manufacturing costs as international crude prices have come down drastically since April in the aftermath of the pandemic and the economic slowdown it has caused. Opposition parties had earlier flayed the government for saddling the common man with frequent crude price hikes at a time when massive unemployment, retrenchments and salary cuts were taking place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
09-09-2020||India||Second Kannada actress in drugs net ||A second Kannada actress was arrested on Tuesday in connection with a drugs scandal that has straddled the worlds of showbiz and politics. Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has acted across the southern film industry, was arrested after Karnataka police’s central crime branch searched her house in Bangalore early in the morning. Last Friday, leading Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi had been arrested in the same drugs case. Police sources said an arrested drug peddler had named both Ragini and Sanjjanaa during interrogation as regular customers of party drugs. Sanjjanaa — who debuted in 2006 and landed in a controversy the same year by starring in Ganda Hendathi, the Kannada remake of the Hindi film Murder, for excessive erotic content — was a regular at Bangalore’s high-profile party circuits where drugs were allegedly consumed. While the central crime branch was searching Sanjjanaa’s house, another team conducted a simultaneous raid at the Bangalore home of Delhi-based party organiser Viren Khanna, who was arrested along with Ragini on Friday. Joint commissioner of police Sandeep Patil, who heads the central crime branch, told reporters after recording the arrest of Sanjjanaa that it was part of the drugs case in which five others have already been arrested. Apart from Ragini, the other four are her alleged contact for drugs Ravishankar, Khanna, and suspected drug peddlers Niyaz and Nigerian Loum Pepper Samba. “We have seized some items from the two premises that were searched today. We also found a uniform of Karnataka police at Viren Khanna’s house. We are investigating how he got that,” Patil said. The officer made it clear there was “a lot to be done” in the case although the central crime branch was making good progress. “There is a lot to be done and many more people need to be questioned,” Patil said. “The investigation is proceeding in the right direction and we will complete this as soon as possible.” While the use of drugs in the Kannada film industry was being debated for a long time, this is the first time in recent memory that a drug bust has led to actors. The Narcotics Control Bureau had on August 21 raided two premises of well-known drug peddlers and arrested three persons, including a woman. The NCB had seized large quantities of party drugs from Anikha D, Anoop Mohammed and Rijesh Ravindran. Among the names of customers purportedly revealed by Anikha were Aditya Alva, son of late politician Jeevaraj Alva, and realtor Prashant Ranka. The two are yet to be arrested. Veteran actress and BJP-backed Independent Lok Sabha member Sumalatha Ambareesh told reporters that it was not proper to target only the film industry since the use of drugs was rampant “in all areas”. “It is a bitter truth that drug abuse is there in all areas. We cannot deny that. But please don’t target the cinema industry alone,” she said. The six arrested before Sanjjanaa have been booked under IPC Section 120B for criminal conspiracy and relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. If convicted, they faced 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment. The arrest of Ragini had triggered a war of words between political parties since she had campaigned for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The leader of the Opposition, P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress, and JDS leader H.D. Kumaraswamy have accused the BJP government of laxity in handling the case of Ragini since she had campaigned for the ruling party. Kumaraswamy had also accused the BJP of using drug money to topple the Congress-JDS government. The BJP has said Ragini is not a member of the party. “There is video evidence (of Ragini campaigning for the BJP). So BJP leaders cannot wash their hands of this,” Siddaramaiah said. Denying the allegations, chief minister and BJP veteran B.S. Yediyurappa had on Monday clarified that the government was not protecting anyone. “This kind of a crackdown is unprecedented and the government is taking all steps against the drug menace,” the chief minister had said. Municipal administration minister K.C. Narayana Gowda, with whom Ragini had campaigned in the Lok Sabha polls last year, pleaded ignorance about the actress’s alleged links with the drugs mafia. “I had not invited her as our star campaigner. But I didn’t object when she decided to campaign,” Gowda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
