10-09-2020||India||Paresh Rawal appointed as chairperson of the National School of Drama ||Veteran actor Paresh Rawal was Thursday appointed chairperson of the National School of Drama (NSD), India's premier theatre institute. The post had been vacant since 2017. "Renowned artiste Paresh Rawal has been appointed as Chairman of National School of Drama by Rashtrapati Bhavan. I am glad that students and artistes will be able to take advantage of his talent. I congratulate him," Union Culture Minister Prahlad Patel said on Twitter. Rawal, 65, who comes with years of experience in both cinema and theatre, told news agency PTI he is looking forward to the assignment. "It will be challenging but fun. I will do my best because this is a field I know very well," he said. Rawal, a former BJP MP, has been appointed for a period of four years, said Nitin Tripathi, advisor, media, Ministry of Culture. The actor is known for his role in films such as Hera Pheri , Atithi Tum Kab Jaoge and OMG-Oh My God .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
10-09-2020||India||Five Rafale jets formally inducted into IAF||Five Rafale fighter jets were formally inducted into the Indian Air Force on Thursday at a glittering ceremony in the Ambala air base, in a major boost to India's air power capability at a time the country is engaged in a tense border row with China in eastern Ladakh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria were among the dignitaries who attended the ceremony. A traditional sarva dharma puja', a ceremonial 'water cannon salute' to the Rafale jets and an aerial display featuring various breathtaking manoeuvres by the aircraft marked their induction into the 17 Squadron of the IAF. In a tweet, the IAF welcomed the "new bird" into its arsenal. The multi-role Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air-superiority and precision strikes. A fleet of indigenously-developed combat jet Tejas and Sarang helicopter aerobatic team of the IAF too displayed a range of aerial manoeuvres demonstrating their agility at the ceremony which was attended by India's top military brass and executives of several French defence firms involved in the Rafale programme. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday used the ceremony to send a strong message to China over its belligerence in eastern Ladakh, saying national security is a major priority for India and it is determined to protect its territory. Singh said induction of Rafale jets into the IAF is crucial considering the kind of atmosphere being created along India's border. "It is a strong message for the entire world, especially those eyeing India's sovereignty," he said in an address at a ceremony in Ambala, marking formal induction of the Rafale fleet. The defence minister said India's responsibility is not limited to its territorial boundary and that it is committed to peace and security in Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean, the two regions where China has been increasing its military assertiveness. "This kind of induction is very important for the kind of atmosphere that has been created on our borders in recent times," the defence minister said in a clear reference to the escalating tensions in eastern Ladakh. The defence minister also complimented the IAF for its "swift action" near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during a "recent unfortunate incident" but did not elaborate on it. "The speed at which IAF deployed assets on forward bases creates confidence," he said. Singh's stern message to the neighbouring country came hours ahead of an expected meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave in Moscow. World Cup-winning former National captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni on Thursday hailed the induction of Rafale jets into the Indian Air Force, saying the "potent bird's lethality will only increase" in the hands of IAF pilots. Dhoni, who also serves as the lieutenant colonel in the Territorial Army, holds dear anything that is related to the military. An excited Dhoni promptly expressed his delight at five Rafale fighter jets being formally inducted into the 17 Squadron of the IAF at a glittering ceremony at the Ambala air base. "With the Final Induction Ceremony the world's best combat proven 4.5Gen fighter plane gets the world's best fighter pilots. In the hands of our pilots and the mix of different aircrafts with the IAF the potent bird's lethality will only increase," Dhoni tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||95,000 Covid cases in a day takes India's tally to 44 lakh||The country saw a record single-day spike of 95,735 infections and 1,172 fatalities taking India's Covid-19 caseload past 44 lakh and death toll to 75,062, while recoveries surged to 34,71,783 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total cases mounted to 44,65,863, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The fatality rate has dropped to 1.68 per cent while the recovery rate was at 77.74 per cent. There are 9,19,018 active cases in the country which comprise 20.58 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, it went past 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. According to ICMR, a total of 5,29,34,433 samples have been tested up to September 9 with 11,29,756 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 1,172 new deaths included 380 from Maharashtra, 128 from Karnataka, 74 from Andhra Pradesh, 71 from Punjab, 70 from Chhattisgarh, 65 each from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, 53 from West Bengal and 31 from Madhya Pradesh. The total 75,062 deaths included 27,787 from Maharashtra, 8,090 from Tamil Nadu, 6,808 from Karnataka, 4,638 in Delhi, 4,634 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,112 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,730 in West Bengal, 3,149 in Gujarat and 2,061 in Punjab, 1,640 from Madhya Pradesh, 1,178 from Rajasthan and 927 from Telangana. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||PM's advice to broom seller from MP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday advised a broom seller from Madhya Pradesh on how he could increase his income. Chhagan Lal and his wife, who make and sell brooms at Sanwer in Indore district, were among beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) in the state with whom Modi had a virtual interaction. The husband and wife said they would make about 50-60 brooms in a day using date palm leaves and go out to sell them the next day. To a question from the Prime Minister on the cost of making a broom, Chhagan Lal said they had to buy the “leaves, the piping, the wire and the nylon”. Modi interrupted him to ask if Chhagan Lal had ever thought of asking buyers to return their old brooms if the “pipe” was intact and offered a discount of 25 or 50 paise on that, then use the same “pipe” to make a new broom. Would this save him money? “Sir, the piping also gets spoilt with the broom,” Chhagan Lal ventured. “It gets spoilt so fast?” Modi responded. “Yes Sir, the piping gets spoilt,” the broom seller repeated. “For instance, if someone leaves the broom outside after using it, and another person treads on it….” Modi cut in: “No, if you tell the customers beforehand to keep the old brooms, they will bring them back and buy new brooms. Using the pipe from the old broom will save you a lot of expense. Think about it.” Chhagan Lal responded: “Theek hai.” Modi, with a wide grin, asked: “You never thought of this?” Chhagan Lal confessed that such a thought had never crossed his mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Modi-Xi ‘chemistry’ exam ||Thursday’s scheduled engagement between foreign minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) ministerial session in Moscow could prove a watershed in finding a peaceable way out of the border belligerence in eastern Ladakh or an ominous washout for India. The meeting comes after close to a dozen fruitless attempts to settle differences at the military level and failure to secure a breakthrough might leave New Delhi with just one real shot at unlocking the impasse: a Narendra Modi-Xi Jinping summit. But despite the Modi establishment’s widely touted claims of “chemistry” between the two leaders, the possibility of such a summit may be snagged by two factors. First, Modi has famously let the Chinese off any blame and not brought the faintest mention of China to his lips since trouble began to rumble along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in late April. It will be tricky for him to suddenly claim a solution to a problem he has never admitted to. Second, Xi may be plainly uninterested in discussing border troubles at a time when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is busy consolidating to gain strategic advantage in eastern Ladakh. On their part, the Chinese have also admitted to no wrongdoing and put the blame for border transgressions squarely on India. The Chinese have claimed sovereignty over the Galwan Valley, where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes in mid-June. India has countered the Chinese claim, but let its objections rest there. Contrary to fairly standard norm, the Chinese ambassador has not once been summoned by the foreign office. Not when he put out a press release asserting claim over Galwan as Chinese territory, not when the PLA killed Indian soldiers and took several captive. That said, experts believe that it has become incumbent upon New Delhi to demonstrate political leadership and take ownership of a crisis that has flamed for more than four months now. “Military and diplomatic efforts have failed to achieve a breakthrough,” army veteran and defence analyst Sushant Singh told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “The top political leadership has been mostly invisible through the crisis. The Prime Minister did not even mention China by name in the all-party meeting on June 19 or in his Independence Day speech. Modi has met Xi 18 times so far, including at two informal summits, and it was expected that he would take ownership of the crisis and deal with China at the highest level. Unfortunately that has not happened.” Asked why repeated rounds of talks at the military level may have failed, Singh said: “The Indian armed forces do not form policy, and unlike the PLA, they do not have a political commissar in the (power) hierarchy. They are thus constrained in talks with the PLA, the Indian armed forces can only implement what the political leadership decides.” Several expert voices, including eminent military veterans and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, have likened the current crisis to 1962 whose military and psychological wounds still weigh heavy on Indian consciousness. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat has asserted that India can exercise a “military option” and the army brass have spoken anonymously of being prepared to “deal with any military contingency”, but strategic analysts maintain New Delhi’s best option is to find a political or diplomatic solution given China’s patent military and economic advantages over India. The blow-hot-blow-cold standoff shows few signs of abating. Earlier this week, shots were fired on the India-China frontier for the first time since 1975; the previous occasion firearms were employed by border troops was at Tulung La in the Arunachal sector. Massing of troops and military hardware has continued apace on both sides of the invisible LAC these past four months. The last three major border standoffs with China — at Depsang in 2013, Chumar in 2014 and Doklam in 2017 — were resolved through diplomatic effort. The agreements arrived by both the sides were implemented by local military commanders through mutual talks on the ground, a diplomat involved in the 2014 Chumar negotiations explained. During the 73-day-long Doklam standoff in 2017, “13 rounds of diplomatic discussions were held”, led by then Indian ambassador to Beijing Vijay Gokhale and augmented “from time to time” by officials from Delhi. This was stated by foreign minister Jaishankar, who was then the foreign secretary, to the parliamentary standing committee on foreign affairs. Through the current standoff, Jaishankar has had one telephone conversation with his Chinese counterpart, while national security adviser Ajit Doval has also had a virtual meeting at the level of the Special Representatives. Three WMCC meetings have also taken place, but they have only acted as a prelude to the meetings at the level of the Corps Commanders. It isn’t yet clear what brief Jaishankar has carried along for his talks with Wang. “What exactly I am going to tell them, I am not going to tell you…. But the solution lies in diplomacy,” Jaishankar said during a recent media interaction. The least he might expect is to get an answer to a question he himself rhetorically posed recently when he said: “We have a very large number of Chinese forces (along the tension-ridden LAC) and frankly we are at a loss to know why.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Can your dog sue you? SC to ponder ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre on the plea of an NGO for granting “legal entity” status to the entire animal kingdom on a par with human beings to prevent cruelty to animals. “What exactly do you want? You want animals to have the right to sue and be sued? Do you want them to be given legal personality?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked the counsel appearing for Peoples Charioteer Organisation. (A legal entity has a right to sue or be sued for legal rights). “It’s very unlikely that we can give legal entity to animals,” the bench that includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian observed. At one point, the CJI said: “But animals are not equal to human beings. Is your dog equal to you?” “We understand humans should be punished for hurting animals but we are on the legal entity argument…,” the  CJI added while issuing the notice to the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Provident Fund interest payment in driblets||The Narendra Modi government will defer a part of the interest payment on the employees provident fund corpus till December — the first time that the Centre has opted to pay out the obligated sum in driblets since the statutory fund was established 68 years ago. The Central Board of Trustees of the EPFO had committed to pay an interest rate of 8.5 per cent on PF accounts for 2019-20. The EPFO board, which met here on Wednesday, decided to fork out 8.15 per cent now. The trustees will meet again in December and take a call on crediting the remaining 0.35 per cent interest into the subscribers’ accounts. The retirement fund has 6 crore subscribers and it falls under the administrative control of the Union labour ministry. The EPFO had earlier planned to liquidate some of its investments in exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to make up for the deficit that has arisen because the returns on its investment have not matched expectations in a pandemic-wracked economy, falling far short of the sum required to pay out 8.5 per cent interest for the previous fiscal. “In view of exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19, the agenda regarding interest rate was reviewed by the Central Board and it recommended the same rate of 8.50 per cent to the Central Government. It would comprise of 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs, subject to their redemption by December 31, 2020. It further recommended to account such capital gains in the income of the financial year 2019-20 as being an exceptional case,” the EPFO said in a media release. The announcement that the second payout of 0.35 per cent is “subject to redemption” of the ETFs introduces an element of uncertainty. If the stock markets dive, the redemptions may prove to be troublesome. Reports suggest that the EPFO’s ETF investments worth Rs 1 lakh crore have generated negative returns. Out of its annual deposits, the EPFO invests 85 per cent in debt instruments and 15 per cent in ETFs. K.E. Raghunathan, a board member representing employers, told The Telegraph that the EPFO was supposed to earn at least Rs 2,700 crore in capital gains from the equity investments made in 2016. This was factored into the March calculation before announcing the rate of interest. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it could not be realised. “The EPFO said the payout of 8.5 per cent and the redemption of equity portion as planned in March will not change. However, as a matter of rule, this will be notified once the finance ministry approves it,” Raghunathan added. “The debt investment returns of almost Rs 58,000 crore are in our hands. But the equity gains are yet to be realised because of the choppy markets,” he said, adding that interest would be credited to the fund holders’ account after it is cleared by the finance ministry and then notified by the labour ministry. In March, the EPFO had cut the interest rate on PF deposits to a seven-year low of 8.5 per cent — and had rubbished the notion that it might struggle to pay the sum this year. The interest rate for 2018-19 was 8.65 per cent. The interest rate for 2019-20 is the lowest since 2012-13 when it was also pegged at 8.5 per cent. The finance ministry has been nudging the labour ministry for quite some time to align the EPF interest rate with the small savings schemes where rates were cut in April by 1 to 1.6 percentage points. The highest rate on the small savings schemes is 7.6 per cent, which is offered on the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, a scheme meant for the girl child. The interest rate on PF deposits has increasingly been out of sync with the interest rates on other investment avenues like fixed deposits and even small savings instruments. The Reserve Bank of India’s policy interest rate — the repo — has been cut by 2.5 percentage points since February 2019 to 4 per cent, sending interest rates on all investment options skidding to historical lows. Despite Covid-related restrictions, the retirement fund body has settled 94.41 lakh claims totalling Rs 35,445 crore during the April-August period. During this period, it has settled around 32 per cent more claims as compared with the corresponding period last year. The amount disbursed increased by around 13 per cent. Back in March, officials had warned that the EPFO would tumble into a deficit if the interest rate was kept above 8.55 per cent. They had forecast at that time that the PF corpus would generate a surplus of over Rs 700 crore if the rate was pegged at 8.5 per cent — which now seems clearly overblown. Divya Baweja, partner, Deloitte India, said: “The rate of interest of 8.5 per cent announced by the Central Board of Trustees will surely provide cheer to the common man and is a welcome move from the perspective of individual members. However, meeting such a rate could pose a challenge for companies having Private PF Trusts which may not be able to generate adequate returns to meet this rate of interest during this pandemic.” Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar of XLRI said: “The fund has enough money to pay the 8.5 per cent interest rate and it is a social security measure and cannot, and should not, be driven by market forces. It is the only social security measure covering 10 per cent of the workforce, which have otherwise been battered due to the Covid pandemic.” The EPFO’s board of trustees also extended the tenure of the ETF fund managers — SBI Mutual Fund and UTI Mutual Fund — till December. The board has been scouting for new fund managers for some time but the process of selection has been halted during the lockdown. The two fund managers were given a three-month extension in March, which has been extended periodically during the pandemic. The EPFO board approved to increase the upper limit of payout under its deposit-linked insurance scheme to Rs 7 lakh from Rs 6 lakh if a subscriber dies while in service. “CBT was also informed that the actuarial valuation of EDLI Fund has allowed for continuation of minimum assurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh beyond February 14, 2020, and extension of minimum assurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh to the family of those deceased members who were employed in multiple establishments during the 12 months preceding the month in which they died,” the labour ministry release said. However, a proposal to increase the pension contribution and pension payout to subscribers earning above the Rs 15,000 salary threshold was deferred and will now be taken up at the December meeting. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday advised a broom seller from Madhya Pradesh on how he could increase his income. Chhagan Lal and his wife, who make and sell brooms at Sanwer in Indore district, were among beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) in the state with whom Modi had a virtual interaction. The husband and wife said they would make about 50-60 brooms in a day using date palm leaves and go out to sell them the next day. To a question from the Prime Minister on the cost of making a broom, Chhagan Lal said they had to buy the “leaves, the piping, the wire and the nylon”. Modi interrupted him to ask if Chhagan Lal had ever thought of asking buyers to return their old brooms if the “pipe” was intact and offered a discount of 25 or 50 paise on that, then use the same “pipe” to make a new broom. Would this save him money? “Sir, the piping also gets spoilt with the broom,” Chhagan Lal ventured. “It gets spoilt so fast?” Modi responded. “Yes Sir, the piping gets spoilt,” the broom seller repeated. “For instance, if someone leaves the broom outside after using it, and another person treads on it….” Modi cut in: “No, if you tell the customers beforehand to keep the old brooms, they will bring them back and buy new brooms. Using the pipe from the old broom will save you a lot of expense. Think about it.” Chhagan Lal responded: “Theek hai.” Modi, with a wide grin, asked: “You never thought of this?” Chhagan Lal confessed that such a thought had never crossed his mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Amid talks, China ‘sets up camp’||The armies of India and China on Wednesday held brigade commander talks at Chushul in Ladakh. While the talks were underway, the Chinese side erected a makeshift camp near the latest friction point, sources in the security establishment said. A security official described the situation as “precarious and fragile” at Mukhpari on the Rezang La ridgeline where Chinese troops took positions close to the Indian forward post on Tuesday. Sources said the brigade commander talks were “positive” but “inconclusive”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Global pause on vaccine; Serum says will continue||The late-stage global trials of the Oxford vaccine for the coronavirus have been paused because of a serious suspected adverse reaction in a volunteer, pharma giant AstraZeneca has said. It is not yet known whether the reaction was directly caused by the company’s vaccine or was coincidental. The Oxford vaccine is in the third and final stage of its trials, with some 100,000 volunteers, many of them elderly, in the UK, and 30,000 others in Brazil, South Africa and the US. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India said on Wednesday it would continue with clinical trials (second stage) of the Oxford candidate vaccine in India although AstraZeneca has paused global trials. Serum Institute posted on Twitter: “We (Serum Institute of India) can’t comment on reports of AstraZeneca pausing the trials in the UK other than that they have been paused for review and shall restart soon. The Indian trials are continuing and we have faced no issues at all.” Serum Institute officials were not immediately available to explain how the Indian clinical trial would continue when AstraZeneca had paused global trials of the same vaccine. A company spokesperson said it had no additional information to provide other than that the trial in India will continue. Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and a member of the national task force on Covid-19, told The Telegraph that Serum would need to elaborate what it meant when it said the trial would continue in India even after AstraZeneca’s announcement. “But there is nothing surprising about the pause — when a vaccine is testedon thousands of patients, it is possible that some of the recipients might develop illness. But it may have nothing to do with the vaccine,” Panda added. Serum Institute is now conducting the second-stage trials, which are limited to 1,600 volunteers and monitoring antibodies. The third-stage trials will cover a significantly higher number of people and assess whether the vaccine actually offers protection from contracting the virus. The third-stage trials in the UK, Brazil, South Africa and the US are on hold. AstraZeneca, which is developing the vaccine, described the halt as a “routine action which has to happen whenever there is a potentially unexplained illness in one of the trials, while it is investigated, ensuring we maintain the integrity of the trials”. Officials in the US and Europe said that the pause was a sign that the process was working as designed, serving as reassurance that a vaccine that made it through the all the phases of the clinical trials would be safe. A person familiar with the situation told The New York Times that the participant who experienced the suspected adverse reaction had been enrolled in a Phase 2/3 trial based in the UK. The individual also said that a volunteer in the UK trial had received a diagnosis of transverse myelitis, an inflammatory syndrome that affects the spinal cord and is often sparked by viral infections. However, the timing of this diagnosis, and whether it was directly linked to AstraZeneca’s vaccine, is still unknown. Transverse myelitis can result from a number of causes that set off the body’s inflammatory responses, including viral infections, said Gabriella Garcia, a neurologist at Yale New Haven Hospital. But, she added, the condition is often treatable with steroids. AstraZeneca declined to comment on the location of the participant and did not confirm the diagnosis of transverse myelitis. The head of Cipla, Yusuf Hamied, who is keeping himself informed of vaccine trials because his firm will probably market the successful candidate in India, told this newspaper on Wednesday: “One should not rush into a vaccine until it is proven to be safe. One has to be very cautious. Instead of rushing it in October, it is better to wait until next year.” Commenting on the halt, the BBC’s medical editor, Fergus Walsh, was not unduly pessimistic: “At first glance this may seem alarming. A vaccine trial — and not just any vaccine, but one receiving massive global attention — is put on hold due to a suspected serious adverse reaction. But such events are not unheard of. “Indeed the Oxford team describe it as ‘routine’. Any time a volunteer is admitted to hospital and the cause of their illness is not immediately apparent, it triggers a study to be put on hold.” Additional reporting from New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Handy scores to predict Covid mortality risk ||A new easy-to-calculate score can predict the mortality risk and guide clinical decisions for coronavirus disease patients with greater reliability and ease than existing scoring systems, doctors said on Wednesday after the world’s largest study of Covid-19 patients. The team of UK doctors has proposed a scoring system that relies on eight key health parameters that could be used to assign Covid-19 patients scores from 0 up to 21 with the probability of death increasing with rising scores. The doctors said their 4C (Coronavirus Clinical Characterisation Consortium) Mortality score uses readily available data to accurately categorise patients as being at low, intermediate, high or very high risk of death but would need to be validated in more populations. “We believe this scoring system is ready for use now — but we’d be happy to work with colleagues in other countries such as India to validate it,” Calum Semple, professor of outbreak medicine and child health physician at the University of Liverpool, told The Telegraph over phone. Semple and his colleagues designed the risk assessment tool using data from over 35,400 Covid-19 patients admitted to hospitals across the UK between February and May who met the criteria for one of the four categories of risks. The researchers — also based in universities in Edinburgh and Glasgow and the Imperial College, London — then tested and confirmed the utility of the tool on an additional 22,000 patients admitted in hospital during May and June. They have published their findings in the British Medical Journal. The tool uses a Covid-19 patient’s age, sex, number of underlying health disorders, breathing rate, oxygen saturation level, Glasgow coma scale score — a measure of impaired consciousness, if any, based on eye, motor and verbal responses — urea, and C reactive protein, a marker of inflammation, to assign scores. Patients with scores of 3 or lower have only 1 per cent probability of death, but the probability increases with rising scores — 22 per cent for score 10, 50 per cent for score 15, and 80 per cent for score 20. “We expect this tool might help doctors to look at these scores and decide how to manage patients,” Semple said. A low score would provide reassurance to a doctor but a high score might alert a doctor to the need for rigorous observation and preparations for aggressive treatment, he said. “This looks good and interesting,” said Anjan Trikha, a professor of anaesthesiology and critical care medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who was not associated with the UK study but is chairperson of the AIIMS Covid-19 clinical management team. Although doctors worldwide are already using several health and biochemical parameters to assess the mortality risk of Covid-19 patients, the UK researchers believe their tool outperforms most others. Critical care specialists in India said the tool could help in triage — the process of separating patients into those who can be treated at home, in a ward, or in an intensive care unit. “The advantage of this tool is that it is based on a very large number of patients — both in its design and validation,” said Sumit Ray, a critical care medicine specialist at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi, another doctor on India’s Covid-19 frontlines. The study emerged from a network of clinicians and researchers who have been preparing for outbreaks since 2012 involving 260 hospitals across England, Wales and Scotland. “These results highlight the benefit of being prepared in advance for the emergence of new pandemics such as Covid-19,” Fiona Watts, executive chair of the UK’s Medical Research Council, said in a statement released by the University of Edinburgh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Ageing nation and more job seekers by 2036||India is set to become an ageing nation by 2036 and the number of people seeking jobs will grow incrementally in the intervening period, a government report has said. The “Population Projections For India and States”, a report prepared by a technical group set up by the Union health ministry, shows that the median, or average, age of the country’s population will increase to 34.7 in the year 2036 from 24.9 in 2011, when the last census was conducted. Worldwide, an average population age of 30 or below is considered a young nation. According to the website of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the US, the average age of the American population is 38.5, that of China is 38.4, that of the UK is 40.6 and that of Germany 47.8. The report says the population of India is expected to increase from 121.1 crore in 2011 to 151.8 crore in 2036, going by the current pattern. The proportion of population aged below 15 years is projected to decline from 30.8 per cent in 2011 to 19.8 per cent in 2036. The proportion of the working age population — those between 15 and 59 years — is expected to increase from 60.7 per cent in 2011 to 65.1 per cent in 2036. The share of people aged above 60, or senior citizens, is to go up from 8.4 per cent to 15 per cent. The report, released last month, has found that India had a Total Fertility Rate (TFR) of 2.1 in 2019. TFR, according to the World Health Organisation website, refers to the total number of children born or likely to be born to a woman in her life time if she were subject to the prevailing rate of age-specific fertility in the population. A TFR of about 2.1 children per woman is called replacement-level fertility. This value represents the average number of children a woman would need to have to reproduce herself by bearing a daughter who survives to childbearing age. If replacement level fertility is sustained over a sufficiently long period, each generation will exactly replace itself without any need for the country to balance the population by international migration. The report says that India’s TFR will come down to 1.7 by 2036, which means the rate of population grown will decrease. According to the Registrar General of India, the agency that conducts the decadal national population census, the TFR was 2.2 in 2017. The health ministry technical group report has projected, on the basis of assumptions using data of past trends of fertility and mortality rates, that Gujarat and Assam will reach a TFR of 2.1 in 2020, while Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar will achieve it in 2024, 2025, 2028 and 2039, respectively. Bengal reached a TFR of 2.1 in 2003. In 2017, Bihar had the country’s highest TFR, at 3.2, followed by Uttar Pradesh (3), Madhya Pradesh (2.7) and Rajasthan (2.6). A labour economist and a population growth researcher said the states with high TFR needed to reduce it fast to be able to provide jobs and development to their populations. Prof. Suresh Sharma, the head of the Population Research Centre at the Institute of Economic Growth in New Delhi, said achievement of the TFR replacement level of 2.1 should not be a reason for complacency. “If the median age is around 30, a country is considered a young nation. As the median age increases, the country marches towards becoming an aging country. Hence states where the TFR is projected to be high must try to bring down current levels of fertility,” he said. “These are essentially the states that were the late entrants into the demographic transition and while it is assured that their TFR levels will decline in the coming decades, there will certainly be some lags here. These laggard states can bring down their fertility rates through better education and employment opportunities for women, improved awareness, better health care and uninterrupted access to family planning measures,” Sharma added. The report said changes to the proportion of the elderly population would be uneven in the states. For example, Kerala, where lower fertility and mortality rates have been achieved earlier than the other states, the proportion of people above 60 is expected to increase from 13 per cent in 2011 to 23 per cent in 2036. On the contrary, Uttar Pradesh can expect an increase from 7 per cent to 12 per cent during the same period. Prof. Santosh Mehrotra of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said the immediate concern, considering the figures mentioned in the report, would be the phenomenal increase in demand for jobs. “The people joining the workforce will grow at a swift pace. Every year, their numbers will increase. The problem will be severe in the northern and eastern states, including Bengal, which have poor health and education standards and have a very low presence of industry,” Mehrotra said. He pointed out that three groups of people — university and college pass-outs, those seeking to switch from agriculture to more remunerative profession and those already unemployed — will look for jobs. “The northern and eastern states must invest more in education and health. Once people get educated and are assured of better health care, their reproduction behaviour will change. That will help manage the workforce,” Mehrotra said. He said 90 per cent of India’s workers were in the unorganised sector, which does not have any social security. Since the report underlines the fact that India will become an aging nation, the government needs to ensure universal social security coverage through old-age pension and medical insurance, Mehrotra suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Lalu sons to play  safe in elections||Unsure of their footing in the constituencies they now represent, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav are looking to contest from safe seats in the forthcoming Assembly elections in Bihar. Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap is an MLA from Mahua constituency in Vaishali district, but plans to contest from Hasanpur constituency in Samastipur district. His younger brother and leader of Opposition Tejashwi represents Raghopur seat in Vaishali, but may contest from an additional seat to ensure that he returns to the Assembly. The brothers understand well that with their father serving time after being convicted in fodder scam cases and attrition rate in the party at an all-time high, it is imperative for them to win in the upcoming polls to remain relevant in state politics. However, both are facing different problems in their constituencies. Mahua has been a stronghold of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) for the past decade. Tej Pratap was launched into politics from there in the 2015 elections because RJD and JDU were contesting as allies. He won by around 28,000 votes. There is a strong wave against Tej Pratap in Mahua constituency as voters say he has not done anything for the constituency. “Just show me one worthwhile development scheme or infrastructure work that Tej Pratap initiated here and I will vote for him. In fact, he was the health minister for over one-and-a-half years, but did nothing even for the primary health centre here,” said Ramesh Kumar, a voter in Mahua. Sources said Tej Pratap’s estranged wife Aishwarya Rai might also contest from Mahua, which would queer the pitch for him. Tej Pratap has zeroed in on Hasanpur constituency where around 20 per cent voters are Yadavs, who can become a winning combination when joined by Muslims. He has been camping there and also conducted a roadshow on Monday to gauge the mood of the electorate. However, incumbent Hasanpur MLA Rajkumar Rai is also a Yadav, and this could lead to a division in the caste votes and make the going tough for Tej Pratap. Tejashwi is also not feeling comfortable in Raghopur, considered a pocket borough of Lalu and his family since 1995. Lalu had won from there twice and his wife Rabri Devi once in 2005. But she lost in 2010 to JDU. The caste combination is such that it becomes a close fight between the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Grand Alliance. RJD’s Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, a former Union minister, has a considerable influence in the seat, but he is unhappy with the party and has quit as its national vice-president over the entry of former MP Rama Singh, a man with alleged criminal antecedents, into the party. Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai’s nephew Arvind Rai is also eyeing the Raghopur seat. Talking to The Telegraph about Lalu’s sons, a senior RJD leader said on the condition of anonymity that it was almost “certain that Tej Pratap would contest from Hasanpur constituency. The seat is being seen as safe for him given the caste equations of the Grand Alliance. But Lalu has not given Tejashwi the consent to leave Raghopur. There is a possibility that he (Tejashwi) may contest from an additional safe seat from anywhere else in the state”. Asked about their plans to contest from seats other than their current one, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said: “Tejashwi and Tej Pratap are Bihar’s leaders and they are capable of contesting and winning from any seat in the state, but I have not been told about any change in their plans or constituencies. Our party will make proper announcements about who will contest from where.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Scientists rise against Elgaar crackdown ||More than 1,000 scientists and scholars have expressed concern over the National Investigation Agency’s actions on the Bhima-Koregaon violence in 2018, saying the agency appears to be using the probe to crack down on citizens critical of the government. In a statement released on Wednesday, the scientists and scholars have also drawn attention to the NIA’s decision to summon Partha Sarathi Ray, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta, who, they said, has never visited the site of the violence. They said the NIA, instead of investigating those responsible for the actual violent clashes in Bhima-Koregaon, had focused on the Elgaar Parishad event, a large cultural and political gathering where the main organisers were two eminent retired judges. “In this process, investigating agencies have arrested several illustrious citizens — including academics, lawyers and prominent activists,” the statement said. “Most of the individuals taken into custody were not even present at the Elgaar Parishad event. So it is unlikely the government will secure a conviction in this case.” However, by using the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), the government has prevented those who have been arrested from obtaining bail, the researchers said. “It appears to us that the NIA’s claims of investigating the ‘conspiracy’ in the Elgaar-Parishad case are actually a flimsy cover for cracking down on ‘urban naxals’ — who, in reality, are only dissident intellectuals — and keeping them in prison indefinitely.” Within 48 hours of its release, the statement drew 1,039 signatories from the Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, and the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, among other institutions. “The fact that we were able to collect so many signatures indicates a deep disquiet in the scientific and academic community about the shrinking democratic space in the country,” said Suvrat Raju, a senior physicist at the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, Bangalore, a unit of the TIFR. The statement has pointed out that the NIA has summoned Ray, a scientist at IISER Calcutta, who has been involved in social cases and has helped in coordinating efforts to battle the coronavirus epidemic in Bengal’s Nadia district. While Ray has said he has never visited the Bhima-Koregaon area, the statement said: “It is well known that Ray has been critical of the central government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic and we suspect that this may not be unrelated to the summons that have been issued to him.” “We call on the government to immediately end the crackdown on dissidents, release those whom it has arrested in the Elgaar-Parishad case, and instead focus on identifying and prosecuting the true perpetrators of the Bhima-Koregaon violence,” it said. A day after the Elgaar Parishad’s December 31, 2017, meeting, caste violence had broken out when Dalits gathered at Bhima Koregaon to celebrate the bicentennial of a battle in which Dalit-dominated colonial troops had defeated the Brahmin Peshwa’s army. The Parishad event has been accused of having Maoist links and involvement in a plot to target the rallies of the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Teen stabbed to death at Bharatpur||A class IX student, who was allegedly stabbed to death by four youths at Bharatpur under Khandagiri police station limits here, succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night. The attack on Ashwini Padhi aka Badal, 14, took place on September 2. Padhi was attacked while he was going to fetch grocery for his family. Eyewitnesses said Padhi was attacked by the miscreants, who were allegedly drug addicts, after he refused to part with his money. However, Khandagiri police inspector Padmanabha Pradhan told The Telegraph, “It is a case of rivalry between two club members. He became its unwitting victim. We have started an inquiry and have arrested four persons.” “More persons are likely to be arrested soon.” Sources said that the Khandagiri area has become notorious for drug smuggling and other shady activities. Most parks in the area are frequented by drug addicts and peddlers at night. Police are likely to step up patrolling in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Full salary, pension for kin on cop Covid death||The state government has decided to give full salary to the family members of police personnel at the forefront of the Covid-19 fight till their retirement if they die of the disease. “The family members of the employees who fall victim to the disease are entitled to their full salary. Besides, compensation will be provided to the family members of the deceased cops as per the government’s announcement,” director-general of police (DGP) Abhay said. The family members will also be entitled to pension. The government’s announcement comes at a time a constable of Satasankha police outpost under Pipili police station in Puri district succumbed to Covid-19. The police station has been closed after eight cops tested positive. Police have urged people not to visit the police station for the next seven days. The constable, who passed away, was undergoing treatment at a Covid hospital. “His body was cremated with full state honours,” said police inspector in-charge Gauranga Charan Prusty. So far, 21 police personnel in the state have succumbed to the deadly virus. Most of them contracted the virus while educating people on following the Covid-19 guidelines or doing their duty at various market squares where crowd management was necessary. Meanwhile, the Covid death toll in Odisha reached 580 with the death of 11 patients on Wednesday. The state’s recovery tally has crossed the one-lakh mark. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik congratulated health workers for achieving the feat. So far, 1,02,185 people have recovered from this disease. Lauding the efforts of health workers, Naveen tweeted, “In a momentous occasion in our fight against #COVID19, #Odisha has crossed one lakh recoveries. Salute to thousands of health workers and #CovidWarriors who have sacrificed hugely and worked with unflinching dedication to save precious lives.” Officials said the state achieved this target by opening up a number of Covid hospitals, constantly motivating the health workers to visit villages regularly and by introducing plasma therapy in the state. So far, Odisha has reported 1,35,130 Covid cases with 3,748 fresh cases reported during the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Swamy’s IT cell head sack ultimatum to BJP||BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy on Wednesday warned the leadership of a Mahabharata-like situation if party social media head Amit Malviya was not sacked by Thursday. “By tomorrow if Malviya is not removed from BJP IT cell (which is my five villages compromise proposal to Nadda) it means the party doesn’t want to defend me,” Swamy tweeted. “Since there is no forum in the party where I can ask for cadre opinion… I will have to defend myself,” he added. In the epic Mahabharata, Krishna had proposed that Duryodhana give five villages to the Pandavas as a compromise to avert a disastrous war. The ultimatum, addressed to BJP president J.P. Nadda, came after Swamy on Monday accused Malviya of running a campaign against him through tweets from fake IDs. Swamy, however, did not specify the issue. “The BJP IT cell has gone rogue. Some of its members are putting out fake ID tweets to make personal attacks on me,” Swamy had tweeted, threatening “counter attacks” by his followers. Swamy has a formidable base of 9.9 million followers on Twitter. Malviya did not respond to calls and messages from this newspaper for comment on Swamy’s outburst. Swamy, too, did not respond to calls. Malviya, who heads the BJP’s social media activities as the chief of the party’s information technology wing, has frequently been accused of peddling fake news and leading an army of trolls who viciously target any opposition to the government. Recently, several Twitter users displaying the national flag in their IDs had called Swamy a “Chinese agent”. Some videos of Swamy making comments against the Narendra Modi government had also been widely shared on social media platforms. On Tuesday, Swamy had objected to foreign minister S. Jaishankar’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow over the border standoff. “Why does the Foreign Minister Jaishankar have to meet his Chinese counterpart in Moscow? Especially after the Defence Ministers have met? India has no foreign policy issues to settle since May 5, 2020. Therefore PM must ask the EAM to cancel his trip. It dilutes our resolve,” Swamy had tweeted. Swamy, known to be a maverick and a hardline Hindutva campaigner, has been strongly opposing the government’s move to hold the JEE and NEET exams amid the pandemic. He has supported the agitation by students against holding the exams and written to Modi on the issue. The Rajya Sabha MP has been trolled on social media for this too. Some BJP leaders suspect that Swamy had aided the recent social media campaign against Modi over the exams, during which uploads relating to the Prime Minister were widely “disliked” and received negative comments. In the past, Swamy had been critical of the government’s handling of the economy and openly expressed his desire to fix things if he was made finance minister. The BJP leadership has chosen not to comment in public on Swamy’s threat. BJP insiders, however, declined the possibility of any action against Malviya, pointing out that Swamy has on several occasions gone against the government and the party line.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||BJP ‘plot’ in Kangana Ranaut rant||The ruling coalition in Maharashtra views Kangana Ranaut’s attack on the state government as a political plot of the BJP, pointing out that the grant of “Y-plus” security to the actress by the Narendra Modi government was a giveaway. The actress, who returned to Mumbai on Wednesday from hometown Manali, again described the country’s financial capital as “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” – the second time she has done so. She also hit out at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a video message in which she addressed him as “tu” — which is disrespectful except when speaking to someone close. By the time Kangana landed in the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials had demolished “illegal alterations” at a Bandra bungalow that serves as her office. The actress lashed out at Uddhav for this, called the BMC team “Babur’s army” and likened her office to “Ram Mandir” in a storm of tweets. NCP veteran Sharad Pawar said the demolition had given unnecessary publicity to the actress. The allies believe she is being used by the BJP to destabilise the government. A minister in the government said: “They first used a TV anchor and now an actress. The BJP has lost its mind. Who doesn’t know Kangana is close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi?” The minister continued: “How many people in this country will be given Y-category security so promptly, without any real threat? Rape and murder are happening daily across the country, top activists who dedicated their lives to serve the poor are in jail and this actor is defended by a central agency without consultation with the state. That’s how she gets the courage to threaten the chief minister who hasn’t spoken a word about her.” Another leader said over phone from Mumbai: “Kangana revealed her agenda by using the phrases like Babur’s army and talking about Kashmiri Pandits, Ayodhya, Babri demolition, Jhansi Ki Rani….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||SC stays Maratha quota||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the Maharashtra government’s policy of providing 16 per cent reservation to Marathas in jobs and education but made it clear it would not disturb those who have already received the benefits. The court also decided to refer to a nine or 11-judge constitution bench the larger question of whether states can provide quotas in excess of the 50 per cent ceiling set by a nine-judge constitution bench in 1992. A three-judge bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao was on Wednesday hearing a batch of petitions challenging the Bombay High Court judgment of July 27, 2019, upholding the Maharashtra State Reservation of Seats (for admission in educational institutions in the state and for appointments to the posts in the public services under the state) for Socially and Educationally Backward Category Act, 2018, passed by the Assembly on November 29 that year granting reservation for Marathas. The high court had, however, held that the reservation for the Maratha community should not exceed 12 per cent in jobs and 13 per cent in education, as had been recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. The state government had fixed a 16 per cent quota in both jobs and education. The petitioners had contented that the total reservation in Maharashtra was nearly 70 per cent now. The 50 per cent threshold had been set by a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in the Indra Sawhney case in 1992 in the wake of the anti-Mandal Commission report protests during the then V.P. Singh regime. However, despite the apex court ruling, several states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana have overshot the quota ceiling. On July 27 this year, the Maharashtra government had given an undertaking to the Supreme Court that the state would not make any job appointments under the Maratha reservation policy till September 15 as the court had indicated that it might refer to an 11-judge constitution bench the question whether states can exceed the 50 per cent ceiling. The BJP in Maharashtra alleged after Wednesday’s ruling that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government had not been “serious” about ensuring that the quota held its ground before the apex court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||ED ties Kerala gold case to Bangalore drugs bust||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday told a court in Kochi that some of those arrested in connection with the Bangalore drugs bust were suspected to have assisted those accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. “Further investigation revealed that the accused in the Bengaluru drug trafficking case registered by the Narcotics Control Bureau, Bengaluru, are suspected to have assisted the accused in the gold smuggling case,” the ED submitted in the special court. The central agency said the NCB had requested it to share the details of the gold case. The ED also told the court that a high-profile person was being interrogated. Although the central agency did not name the person, Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s businessman son Bineesh Kodiyeri was being interrogated by the ED in Kochi through the day. The NCB, probing the drugs case in Bangalore, had earlier found from the call records of one of those arrested, Anoop Mohammed, that he had been in touch with Bineesh. Bineesh has denied knowing that Anoop could be involved in drug peddling but had acknowledged their friendship. Sources said the ED was probing whether drugs money-linked hawala channels had been used to fund the smuggling of 30kg gold from the UAE. The ED also suspects that K.T. Rameez, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, had contacted the drugs mafia to raise money for his gold smuggling activities. The gold, found in a baggage meant for the UAE embassy in the Kerala capital, had been seized at Thiruvananthapuram international airport in July and has since haunted the Left government in Kerala as an influential bureaucrat who used to run the chief minister’s office had been linked to one of the key accused. Recently, the BJP also got embroiled in the case when it emerged that the editor of a pro-BJP news channel had sought the UAE consulate’s help in 2018 to support the party. Anil Nambiar, the then coordinating editor of Janam TV, had also allegedly advised key accused Swapna Suresh to get the gold controversy defused through the consulate. The ED’s submission in the Kochi court came while it was seeking the extension of the custody of Swapna and two other accused, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair, by another 14 days. Anoop, in whose call records Bineesh’s name has been found, was arrested along with two other suspected drug peddlers, Anikha D and Rijesh Ravindran, in Bangalore on August 21. Eventually, two leading Kannada actresses, Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanna Galrani, were also arrested in the case. Anoop and Rijesh are natives of Kerala who have been living in Bangalore for several years. Bineesh had earlier said that he had helped Anoop financially when Anoop wanted to open a restaurant in Bangalore a few years ago. In court on Wednesday, the ED, one of the three central agencies probing the gold case, said: “One of the high-profile persons who is alleged to be connected to the case is being interrogated. In addition to this, more than 20 persons who are involved in the gold smuggling are to be interrogated.” While it did not name anyone, the ED summoned and questioned Bineesh at its Kochi office on Wednesday. Although Bineesh had sought time to appear, the ED insisted he should make himself available at 11am on Wednesday. M. Sivasankar, the IAS officer who had been linked to Swapna, has also been questioned in the gold case. The Kerala government has suspended the officer, who had been the secretary in the chief minister’s office and the principal secretary in the IT department. The sources said the ED also wanted to know more about Bineesh’s links with UAFX, a visa service agency that allegedly paid Rs 70 lakh as commission to Swapna for securing a visa services contract from the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Bineesh is suspected to have links with one of the directors of UAFX. Swapna and Sarith are former employees of the consulate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
