11-09-2020||India||Azad and others dropped as AICC general secretaries||In a major reshuffle of the party, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday removed Ghulam Nabi Azad, Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni, Mallikarjun Kharge as AICC general secretaries, and reconstituted CWC and appointed P Chidambaram, Randeep Surjewala, Tariq Anwar and Jitendra Singh as its regular members. Gandhi also removed Luizinho Faleiro from AICC general secretaries, and formed a special committee to assist her in party matters. The new members in the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest decision making body, will replace Faleiro, Vora, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Tamradhwaj Sahu. The six-member special committee, formed to assist her in organisational and operational matters, will have AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Surjewala as its members. Surjewala has also been made the general secretary in-charge for Congress affairs in Karnataka. From the 'group of 23' leaders, who had written letter to Gandhi seeking Congress' overhaul, Azad and Sharma continue to be regular members of the CWC, while Jitin Prasada has been made a permanent invitee to CWC from being a special invitee earlier. Prasada has also been made in-charge of party affairs in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
11-09-2020||India||DGCA asks IndiGo to take action on 'safety violation' by media on Kangana flight ||The DGCA has asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media in the airline's Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that had actor Kangana Ranaut as a passenger, senior officials said on Friday. ”We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other in the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said. There are multiple issues with this incident, and prominent among them are related to “photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, violation of Covid-19 protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board”, the official stated. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can put an “unruly passenger” on its “no-fly list” for a certain period of time after an internal enquiry. A viral video of the Wednesday's incident showed that reporters and camerapersons of various TV channels were jostling and bunching up near the front rows to get a comment from Ranaut after the plane landed at the Mumbai airport. The video showed that the actor was sitting in one of the front rows. In the video, one crew member can be heard telling the passengers to sit down in their seats and not “harass” anyone as the seat belt sign had not been turned off. According to the video, Ranaut disembarked from the plane without giving any comment to the media on board. On PTI's request for a statement, IndiGo said, “We have given our statement to the DGCA regarding the matter pertaining to flight 6E 264 from Chandigarh to Mumbai, on September 9, 2020.” ”We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety,” the airline stated. IndiGo said it also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in its post-flight report. ”We are committed to providing a safe, hassle-free experience to our passengers,” it added. On this incident, a DGCA official on Friday said, “We have asked the airline (IndiGo) to take appropriate action against those responsible.” Also, the regulator has asked the airline to submit a report on this incident, the official mentioned. Later during the day, IndiGo gave the following statement, “We are in receipt of certain directions from DGCA in relation to flight 6E 264. We will follow the prescribed guidelines.” As per the Civil Aviation Ministry's social distancing rules issued on May 25, “On arrival at the destination, passengers should be allowed to exit (the plane) in a sequence so as to avoid any bunching.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
11-09-2020||India||5 missing youths from Arunachal likely to be handed over by China on Saturday: Rijiju||China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) is likely to hand over five youths missing from Arunachal Pradesh to the Indian authorities on Saturday, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said. The PLA on Tuesday had conveyed that the five youths, who went missing on September 4 from the Sino-Indian border in Upper Subansiri district, were found by them across the border.

"The Chinese PLA has confirmed to the Indian Army to hand over the youths from Arunachal Pradesh to our side. The handing over is likely to take place anytime tomorrow i.e. 12th September 2020 at a designated location," Rijiju tweeted on Friday.

It was Rijiju who first broke the news about the PLA's confirmation that the youths were found on the Chinese side of the Sino-Indian border.

The incident came to light when two members from the group of youths, who went hunting in the jungle, returned home and informed the families of the five that they were whisked away by the Chinese troops from Sera-7, an Army patrol zone located about 12 km further north of Nacho.

Nacho is the last administrative circle along the McMahon line and is around 120 km from the district headquarters Daporijo.

Those who were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese Army were identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri.

On Monday, China brushed off concerns over the whereabouts of the five youths and needled India, saying it has never recognised Arunachal Pradesh which it claims is part of south Tibet.

"China's position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China's Xizang (Tibet) ), is consistent and clear," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a media briefing in Beijing, adding the Chinese government has never recognized the so-called "Arunachal Pradesh".

"I'm not aware of the situation you mentioned," the spokesperson said when asked about any updates about the missing Indian nationals.

The development comes at a time when the Indian Army has enhanced its deployment along the 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in view of the tense border row between India and China in eastern Ladakh.

In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon line.

While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said.

After 19 days in captivity, the youth was released by the Chinese Army.

On September 2, the Indian Army provided food, warm clothes and medical assistance to three Chinese citizens who had lost their way in sub-zero temperatures at an altitude of 17,500 feet in a border area in North Sikkim.

The Indian Army personnel deployed in the area also guided the Chinese citizens, including a woman, to return to the Chinese side and reach their destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
11-09-2020||India||Social activist Swami Agnivesh dies at Delhi hospital||Social activist Swami Agnivesh, who had for long been suffering from liver cirrhosis, died of multi-organ failure at a Delhi hospital on Friday, doctors said. He was 80. Agnivesh was critically ill and admitted to the ICU of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, the doctors said. He had been on ventilatory support since Tuesday. “He was suffering from liver cirrhosis and died today due to multi-organ failure as his condition deteriorated and he went into cardiac arrest at 6pm,” a spokesperson of the hospital said. Resuscitation was attempted but he passed away at 6.30pm, the spokesperson added. Leaders from across the political spectrum mourned Agnivesh’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
11-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty denied bail by special court||A special court here on Friday rejected the bail pleas of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, arrested by the NCB in connection with a drugs-related case pertaining to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The court also rejected the bail pleas of four other accused in the case. Special Judge G B Gurao, presiding over cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, rejected their bail applications. All the accused are currently in judicial custody. Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), welcomed the decision and said the court, while rejecting the bail pleas, has accepted the contentions of the prosecution that the investigation is at a crucial stage. Rhea's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said they would decide further course of action after perusing the court order. "Once we get a copy of the order passed by the special NDPS court, we will decide next week on further course of action and about approaching the Bombay High Court," he said. In her bail plea, Rhea had claimed that she was falsely implicated in the case. Rhea had also retracted the confessional statement recorded by the NCB when she was questioned for three days. She had claimed that the NCB officials had coerced her into making self-incriminating statements. The NCB had strongly opposed the bail pleas and said that Rhea was conscious of the fact that Rajput was consuming drugs, but despite that she continued procuring and making payments for drugs. The NCB had said that although the quantity of banned drugs seized in the case was small, it was still a commercial quantity and worth Rs 1,85,200. "Rhea Chakraborty and Showik Chakraborty financed and arranged drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput and at his instructions," the NCB had said in its affidavit responding to the bail pleas. It added that as per the statement given by co-accused and Rajput's domestic help Dipesh Sawant, he used to procure drugs from other accused in the case on the instructions of Rajput and Rhea. "The financial transactions were handled by Rhea and sometimes Rajput. Dipesh Sawant used to procure drugs along with co-accused Samuel Miranda (former house manager of Rajput) for Sushant Singh Rajput's consumption," the affidavit said. The NCB had further said that if the accused are released on bail, they may tamper with evidence and try to intimidate key witnesses in the case. The NCB began its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared the social media chats retrieved from Rhea's mobile phone, hinting at the use of banned drugs. Rajput was found hanging in his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is separately probing a case against Rhea and others for allegedly abetting the 34-year-old actor's suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||India, China agree on 5-point roadmap to resolve border stand-off ||India and China have agreed on a five-point roadmap, including quick disengagement of troops and avoiding any action that could escalate tensions for resolving the four-month-long face-off in eastern Ladakh, indicating a mutual understanding that the ongoing border isn’t in the interest of either side. As the two countries reached the agreement during the talks between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday evening, government sources said the Indian side strongly raised the deployment of large number of troops and military equipment by China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and conveyed its concern. The Chinese side could not provide a credible explanation for the troops build-up, the sources said on Friday. Jaishankar and Wang met in Moscow on the sidelines of the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). The talks _ the second highest political contact between the two countries in a week _ lasted two-and-a-half-hours. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe had also met in Moscow on Friday on the sidelines of a SCO meet. Government sources said the five-point agreement will guide the approach of the two countries to the current border situation. The Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air. Besides striving for quick disengagement of troops, the two countries agreed that their soldiers should maintain proper distance from each other and abide by all existing agreements and protocol on management of the de-facto border. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) issued a joint press statement early on Friday featuring five points which were agreed upon by both the sides at the "frank and constructive" discussions by the two ministers. "The two foreign ministers agreed that the current situation in the border areas is not in the interest of either side. They agreed, therefore, that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions," it said. The joint statement said Jaishankar and Wang agreed that both sides should take guidance from the series of consensus reached between leaders of the two countries on developing India-China relations, including not allowing differences to become disputes. This assessment was a clear reference to decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping at their two informal summits in 2018 and 2019. "The two ministers agreed that both sides shall abide by all the existing agreements and protocol on China-India boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas and avoid any action that could escalate matters," the joint statement said. At the talks, Jaishankar and Wang agreed that as the situation eases on the border, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquility in the border areas. The joint statement said the two sides also agreed to continue to have dialogue and communication through the special representative (SR) mechanism on the India-China boundary question. "They also agreed in this context that the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) should also continue at its meetings," it added. A press release issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing quoted Wang as having told Jaishankar it is normal for both the countries to have differences but it is important to put them in proper context and take the guidance of the leaders. Wang noted that it is normal for China and India to have differences as two neighbouring major countries. What is important is to put these differences in a proper context vis-a-vis bilateral relations , the release said. Wang stressed that as two large developing countries emerging rapidly, what China and India need right now is cooperation, not confrontation; and mutual trust, not suspicion, the release added. “Whenever the situation gets difficult, it is all the more important to ensure the stability of the overall relationship and preserve mutual trust,” Wang said. “China-India relations have once again come to a crossroads. But as long as the two sides keep moving the relationship in the right direction, there will be no difficulty or challenge that can't be overcome,” Wang added. At the talks, sources said the Indian side highlighted its strong concern over amassing of large number of troops by China along with military equipment along the LAC, and noted that the presence of such a large concentration of military personnel was not in accordance with the bilateral pacts of 1993 and 1996 on border affairs. They said the Indian delegation conveyed that the provocative behavior of Chinese frontline troops at the friction points along the LAC showed their disregard for bilateral agreements and protocols. "The Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally. "It was also emphasized that the Indian troops had scrupulously followed all agreements and protocols pertaining to the management of the border areas," said a source. Jaishankar told Wang that maintenance of peace and tranquility on the border areas was essential to the forward development of ties, the sources said. He conveyed to his Chinese counterpart that the recent incidents in eastern Ladakh, however, inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship. Therefore, he told Wang that an urgent resolution of the current situation was in the interest of both the nations, the sources said. The Indian side insisted that the immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas and that it is necessary to prevent any untoward incident in the future, the sources said, adding the final disposition of the deployment of troops to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process is to be worked out by the military commanders of the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Kerala: twin gold scandals hit Left & Congress-led fronts||Both the ruling and Opposition fronts in Kerala have been buffeted by allegations of corruption as each looks to upstage the other in the poll-bound state. The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front has landed in choppy waters in the aftermath of the gold smuggling case in which a powerful bureaucrat who ran the chief minister’s office was accused of having links with one of the key accused. Now, another angle has been injected into the case with the state CPM chief’s son getting embroiled in a drugs case in Bangalore that has been linked to the smuggling case. However, the Congress-led United Democratic Front is also on the back foot as an MLA of the combine and another influential leader have been booked for swindling depositors out of crores of rupees through a gold scheme. The CPM has pointed out that Bineesh Kodiyeri, the businessman son of Kerala unit secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan is not a member of the party. Balakrishnan has made it clear that there is no question of defending his son if he is found guilty. The IUML, a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, has decided to remove Manjeshwar MLA M.C. Kamaruddin from the post of Kasaragod district president of the UDF. Kamaruddin and the managing director of his Fashion Gold Jewellery, T.P. Pookaya Thangal, have been accused of cheating depositors in a gold scheme. Pookaya Thangal is also a Kasaragod district working committee member of the IUML “The party is with the depositors and we have asked Kamaruddin to produce details of his assets and liabilities by September 30 and return the depositors’ money within six months,” IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty told a media conference in Malappuram on Thursday. “Let law take its course. But Kamaruddin has agreed to return all the money,” he added. While there is no clear estimate of the total amount, the CPM claims that Kamaruddin owed more than Rs 150 crore to his depositors in Kasaragod and Kannur. As of Thursday, 35 complaints have been filed against the IUML duo. With complaints piling up, the IUML and the UDF had been increasingly under pressure to act against the two leaders. While Bineesh coming under the lens investigating agencies would have otherwise given a handle to the Opposition UDF, eyeing power in next year’s Kerala elections, it has held back from a full-fledged attack because of the cheating controversy its own leaders have got entangled in. Bineesh was on Wednesday questioned by the Enforcement Directorate for 12 hours in connection with the seizure of gold smuggled in from the UAE at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport in July. Sources said he was now likely to be summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau over the drugs bust in Bangalore that has led to the arrests of two top actresses, an event organiser and some suspected drug peddlers. The call records of one of the suspected drug peddlers suggest that he had been in touch with Bineesh. Bineesh has expressed shock at the alleged involvement of Anoop Mohammed in the drugs racket but conceded that he is a friend. The agencies are probing if the drug peddlers had helped the accused in the gold smuggling case. The CPM has pointed out that Bineesh is not a CPM member but Kamaruddin and Pookoya Thangal are highly respected leaders of the IUML. Balakrishnan has backed a full-fledged investigation on whether his son had any links with those arrested in the drugs case. “If he deserves to be hanged, so be it. Nobody is going to protect him if he has done anything unlawful,” the CPM state secretary said recently. While the IUML had been hesitant to even make a public statement on Kamaruddin’s cheating case until on Thursday, ally Congress has also been mute on the issue. Instead, state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran on Thursday demanded the resignation of the CPM state secretary since the ED had questioned his son. Kasaragod district CPM secretary M.V. Balakrishnan said there was no parallel between the two cases haunting the LDF and the UDF. “Bineesh is not even a member of the CPM and his father has made it clear that the law should take its course. But Kamaruddin and Pookoya Thangal are senior leaders of the IUML,” he told The Telegraph. “As of today there are 749 depositors who had deposited from a few thousands to Rs 2 crore and above (in the gold scheme). Many of them had deposited their life’s savings trusting the IUML leaders,” he added. With the local elections a month away and the Assembly elections next summer, both fronts are trying to ensure the controversies don’t affect their fortunes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Rare orchid found in Uttarakhand||Liparis Pygmaea, a rare variety of orchid, has been found for the first time in the western Himalayan region in Uttarakhand. A team of Uttarakhand forest department spotted the flower at an altitude of 3,800 metres during a trek to Saptakund in Chamoli district in June this year, chief conservator of forest (research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi told PTI. Samples sent by the forest department to Botanical Survey of India were confirmed as Liparis Pygmaea and the Pune-based body preserved them in its herbarium, Chaturvedi said. The discovery made by a two-member team consisting of range officer Harish Negi and JRF Manoj Singh has been recognised by French scientific research journal Richardiana, which published a paper on the discovery. Liparis Pygmaea is a small terrestrial orchid with beautiful flowers springing on it in the month of June-July. As it has been found for the first time in the western Himalayas, botanists consider it a significant discovery, the official said. Apart from one place in Uttarakhand the species has been found in the past at three locations in Sikkim and at one location in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Covid stress more on women||Nearly 50 per cent of India’s women employees are feeling increased stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic, showed a survey conducted by online professional network LinkedIn. The survey revealed that the pandemic is taking a toll on the emotional well being of India’s women employees as 47 per cent report they are experiencing more stress or anxiety because of the pandemic, LinkedIn said. For men, this number stood at 38 per cent, pointing at a disproportionate impact on women in these testing times, it said. LinkedIn on Thursday announced the findings of the tenth edition of the LinkedIn Workforce Confidence Index, a fortnightly pulse on the confidence of India’s workforce. Based on the survey responses of 2,254 professionals in India, findings from the weeks of July 27 to August 23 reveal the pandemic’s impact on India’s women employees, including mothers, and the cautious optimism of freelancers towards personal finances and career prospects, it said. The survey underscored the challenges of childcare during the pandemic, according to a LinkedIn statement. The survey showed that India’s overall confidence is growing steadily. Remote working has laid out a tougher road for India’s working mothers as the survey showed that around one in three (31 per cent) working mothers are currently providing childcare full-time, when compared to nearly one in five (17 per cent) working fathers, the statement said. “Worryingly, more than two in five (44 per cent) working moms are working outside their business hours to provide childcare, nearly twice as many men (25 per cent),” it said. The survey showed that only one in five (20 per cent) working mothers rely on a family member or friend to take care of their children, when compared to 32 per cent men. More than 46 per cent mothers reported working till late to make up for work, and 42 per cent are unable to focus on work with their children at home, it said. The findings show that about one in four freelancers anticipate an increase in their earned income (25 per cent) and personal savings (27 per cent), while close to one in three (31 per cent) expect their number of investments to increase in the next six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Why should TV not be regulated: Bombay HC||Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was surprised to know that the government had no control over the electronic media and asked why television news should not be regulated by the State. The observation was made by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni while hearing a bunch of petitions that sought various orders related to the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, including a directive to restrain the media in its coverage of the matter. “We are surprised that the State has no control over the electronic media. Why should it (TV news) not be regulated in case they may have serious ramifications,” the court said. The court impleaded the Union ministry of information and broadcasting as a party in the matter. It directed the ministry to file a reply in court indicating the extent of State control that is exercised in respect of telecasting news, particularly such news that “may have serious ramifications”. The bench  made the Narcotics Control Bureau and the Enforcement Directorate, the central agencies probing issues related to the death of the actor, as parties. One of the petitioners had alleged that the agencies were “leaking” probe-related information to the media and the public. The bench, however, refused to implead actress Rhea Chakraborty as a respondent in the case. “We do not see any reason to implead the proposed respondent number 12 (Chakraborty), an accused who is presently in judicial custody,” the court said. The petitions, filed by activists and eight retired senior police officers, have alleged, among other things, that several TV channels are running a parallel probe in the case, and that they are conducting a malicious campaign against Mumbai police through their reportage in the case. On September 3, another bench had heard the same pleas and passed an order urging the media to show restraint while covering the developments. On Thursday, senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for the former police officers, told the bench that despite the order, TV channels were continuing with their slander against Mumbai police. Sathe submitted transcripts from news broadcasts in which channels had insinuated that Mumbai police had been assisting or shielding the accused, and the “drug mafia”. Chief Justice Datta told advocate Sathe that he shouldn’t be bothered by what a news anchor was saying. He, however, added that the court hoped and trusted that “the spirit of the order dated September 3” would be kept in mind by TV news channels. The Union government pointed out that the petitioners should have approached the Press Council of India, a statutory body that regulates the print media, and the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) with its grievances against the TV news channels. The court noted that the NBSA wasn’t a statutory body. The court directed all parties to file their replies and rejoinders within two weeks, adding that while the pleas remained pending the NBSA was free to act upon any complaints received so far against such news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Delhi HC: Learn law before journalism||People must take a course in criminal trial and then get into journalism, was how an annoyed Delhi High Court remarked while expressing displeasure over the alleged parallel investigation being run by anchor Arnab Goswami on his TV channel in connection with Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s wife Sunanda Pushkar’s death case. The high court, which observed responsible journalism is the need of the time, said it was not saying that anyone would gag the media but at the same time, sanctity of investigation must be maintained. “Can the media sit in appeal against the chargesheet filed by an investigating agency? Justice Mukta Gupta asked. “It is not a reflection on the plaintiff (Tharoor) but the investigating agency. Can there be a parallel investigation or trial?.. Would you not like the courts to take their own course?” the judge asked. The high court was hearing an application by Congress MP Tharoor seeking an interim injunction against Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, from making defamatory remarks against the leader. Tharoor’s grievance relates to broadcast of the programmes naming him on the TV channel in July and August and the journalist claiming that they had investigated Sunanda Pushkar case better than the police and that he still had no doubt that Pushkar was murdered. The high court expressed its displeasure over the claims made by the journalist when the trial in the criminal case was still pending. “People must take a course in criminal trial and then get into journalism,” the judge remarked. “Please show restraint. Once the police investigation is going on in the criminal case, there cannot be a parallel investigation by the media,” the judge said. The high court referred to a December 1, 2017 order passed in the matter in which it was stated that “Press cannot ‘convict anyone’ or insinuate that he/she is guilty or make any other unsubstantiated claims. Press has to exercise care and caution while reporting about matters under investigation or pending trial.” Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a five-star hotel in south Delhi on the night of January 17, 2014 under mysterious circumstances. Tharoor has alleged that Goswami and his channel continued to engage in “defaming and maligning” him despite an assurance given by their counsel in the court on May 29, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Fraudsters steal Rs 6 lakh from Ayodhya temple trust||Fraudsters used forged cheques to withdraw Rs 6 lakh in two instalments from the bank account of the trust set up by the Centre to build a Ram temple in Ayodhya, police said on Thursday. Officers blamed the “negligence” of the State Bank of India, with which the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had the account. A case has been registered against unidentified people for cheating, impersonation and forgery. The fraud was discovered when the gang on Wednesday tried to transfer Rs 9.86 lakh from the account, held with the SBI’s Naya Ghat branch in Ayodhya, to a Bank of Baroda account in Lucknow, the police said. Trust general secretary Champat Rai was quoted as saying in his police complaint that he had received a verification call from an SBI branch in Lucknow on Wednesday afternoon about the cheque. While this cheque was blocked immediately, Rai checked the account and found that Rs 2.5 lakh had been withdrawn on September 1 and Rs 3.5 lakh on September 3 in favour of a Punjab National Bank account in Lucknow. The police did not reveal the names under which the Bank of Baroda and PNB accounts had been opened. No arrests had been made till Thursday evening. A police source blamed the fraud on the “lackadaisical approach” of the SBI. “The SBI branch in Lucknow, which cleared the previous two cheques without cross-checking with the account holder, has to pay back the money to the trust. It also had the responsibility to identify the cloned cheque and the forged signature,” he said. If a cheque forgery is proved through the bank’s own investigation or a police probe, the bank is required to reimburse the amount. An SBI official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the bank had started an internal inquiry. “The customer’s interest must be protected,” he said. Ayodhya deputy inspector-general of police Deepak Kumar said: “The involvement of bank employees cannot be ruled out.” Ayodhya circle officer Rajesh Rai suggested the involvement of a “big gang”. He added that trust general secretary Champat Rai and trustee Anil Mishra were the authorised signatories for the SBI account held with the Naya Ghat branch. “The trust did not receive any SMS alert during the previous two transactions. The bank only called them for verification during the fraudsters’ third attempt,” he said. Earlier, the trust had lodged an FIR saying fraudsters and fake organisations had been using its name to illegally collect money, ostensibly for the construction of the Ram temple. The Centre had formed the temple trust early this year on the direction of the Supreme Court, which had handed the disputed plot to the Hindu side last November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||AG aid sought on graft charge against judges||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked attorney-general K.K. Venugopal to assist it in determining whether citizens have a right to allege corruption among sitting and former judges and, if yes, under what circumstances this right can be exercised. The request came in the context of the 2009 contempt proceedings against lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan, who had told Tehelka magazine that year that half the 16 former Chief Justices of India (CJIs) were corrupt. Bhushan had qualified his allegation by saying he had no evidence to back it up. The apex court had last month convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt for two tweets posted in June this year about past and present CJIs, fining him Re 1 after he refused to apologise. The same bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari was hearing the 2009 case too, but had decided to expand its scope beyond Bhushan and examine the larger issue of citizens’ right to allege corruption by judges. However, with Justice Mishra retiring on September 2, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde has constituted a new bench to hear the matter. On Thursday, when the 2009 case came up before the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, they sought the attorney-general’s assistance and posted the next hearing to mid-October. “Registry is directed to furnish complete record of this proceeding(s) in the office of the Attorney General for India, who is requested to appear in the matter to assist the court. List the matter in the week commencing from 12.10.2020,” the bench said after briefly hearing senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, who appeared for Bhushan. On August 17, the bench headed by Justice Mishra had held that the matter had far-reaching ramifications and decided to frame certain broader questions for consideration by the apex court. “The question that has been framed by this court has certain far-reaching ramifications on which we would like to hear the learned counsel for the parties,” that bench had said. “We would also like the learned counsel to address this court on the following additional issues: (i) In case a public statement as to corruption by a particular judge(s) is permissible, under what circumstances and on what basis it can be made, and (what are the) safeguards, if any, to be observed in that regard? “(ii) What procedure is to be adopted to make (a) complaint in such cases when the allegation is about the conduct of a sitting judge? (iii) Whether against retired judge(s), any allegation as to corruption can be made publicly, thereby shaking the confidence of general public in the judiciary; and whether the same would be punishable under the Contempt of Courts Act.” In June, Bhushan had alleged in a tweet that democracy had been destroyed during the tenure of the last four CJIs. In another tweet he had questioned CJI Bobde’s act of posing for pictures on a Harley-Davidson without a mask at a time when he had suspended physical court hearings citing the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||RJD's Manoj Jha to be Opposition candidate for RS poll ||In Bihar poll season, Rashtriya Janata Dal member Manoj Jha has emerged as the Opposition’s consensus candidate for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chair, forcing an election for a post that the NDA is comfortably poised to win. Aware of the odds, Jha has agreed to be the Opposition candidate for Monday’s vote out of a conviction that democracy is not just about numbers but also about providing alternatives. After the DMK rejected an offer to field T. Siva, it fell on Jha to mount what should be a symbolic fight unless the three major non-NDA, non-UPA parties — the Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samiti — back his candidature. Efforts will be made to reach out to these parties, Opposition leaders said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday called his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and sought the BJD’s support for his party colleague and NDA candidate, Harivansh, who held the Deputy Chair’s post before his term expired in April. In the 2018 election that Harivansh had won, the BJD had supported him. Confirming he would be filing his nomination on Friday, Jha told The Telegraph that this was not just about winning an election but about claiming space for the Opposition in a parliamentary democracy. “Just because we are short of numbers does not mean that we quit fighting,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Nitish seeks Naveen help for RS deputy chairman ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday called up his Odisha counterpart, Naveen Patnaik and sought his party Biju Janata Dal’s support for JD(U) candidate in the election to the post of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. Sources said Nitish, who is also the JD(U) chief, informed Naveen that his party MP Harivansh Narayan Singh, who held the post till April 9, is seeking re-election. The election is scheduled for September 14 and the last date for filing of nomination is September 11. A former journalist, Harivansh had been elected to the Rajya Sabha on a JD(U) ticket from Bihar in 2014 for a period of six years. On August 8, 2018, he was elected the deputy chairperson of the Upper House of Parliament. In those elections, the Naveen Patnaik-led BJD had supported Harivansh drawing criticism from several quarters as JD(U) is running a coalition government with BJP in Bihar. The BJD follows an avowed policy of maintaining equidistance from BJP and Congress. The BJD had sought to clear the air over the issue, saying that it had supported the JD(U) because of “ideological similarities”. BJD Rajya Sabha member Amar Patnaik said the chief minister would take the appropriate decision on the issue after considering all angles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Call to hike NREGA days and wages||A research group on Thursday said the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) had emerged as the main source of income for the rural populace during the pandemic and demanded a hike in the wage rate and the number of permissible days for work per family. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG) told reporters that with the limited employment opportunities in rural India, the only viable livelihood option for the migrants who retuned home during the lockdown and the local people was the MGNREGA, which provides up to 100 days of employment per family per year. The notified wage rate under the scheme varies from state to state, ranging between Rs 194 and Rs 309 a day. Anuradha Talwar, an activist, demanded that the number of permissible days be doubled to 200 per family per year. The PAEG made a presentation on the scheme’s performance based on data sourced from the MGNREGA website. According to the presentation, 5.8 crore households have got work under the MGNREGA since April, already exceeding the scheme’s usual annual beneficiaries of 5 crore. Around 85 lakh job cards have been issued this year, 22 per cent more than the usual annual average. Rajendran Narayanan, a researcher, said the scheme, which was envisaged to be a demand-driven programme, had become a supply-fuelled scheme, limiting its scope because of disruptions in funding. The government had allocated Rs 61,500 crore in this year’s budget for the MGNREGA. Another Rs 40,000 crore was announced in May. Rajendran said the programme’s funding had already run into a deficit and urged the government to release the additional amount. During Thursday’s session, videos of several MGNREGA workers were shared in which they highlighted the importance of the scheme and demanded an increase in wage rates and the number of days for which work is provided. Economist Jayati Ghosh highlighted the need to spend more funds under the MGNREGA, which would help address the general drop in demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Slugfest over Delhi slum along railway lines||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha on Thursday tore an eviction notice to slum dwellers from the railways at a media conference, amidst criticism of inaction by his party that rules the national capital. On August 31, the Supreme Court had ordered the clearing of 48,000 hutments along railway tracks in the capital within three months. The court also prevented any stay orders on the eviction by any other court, notwithstanding a 2015 order from Delhi High Court that stalled such removals until a survey of those who live in the slums was completed. Civil society groups have demanded that the Delhi government file a review petition against the order, which could jeopardise the efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in the capital that is fast exhausting its capacity of critical-care facilities. Chadha said: “I want to tell the people of Delhi who stay in the slums that the Kejriwal government always cares for you. The Kejriwal government is the first government in the country that accepted the slum dwellers of the national capital as its family members. Arvind Kejriwal is not only the chief minister in the eyes of Delhi’s slum dwellers but also an elder brother. Kejriwal will never allow any suffering of these people till the time he is alive.” He added: “I have with me various notices served by the BJP-ruled central government. One such notice, which was put up at the houses of slum dwellers in the Tughlakabad area, ordered that they have to vacate their houses by September 11 (Friday). After this, their houses will be demolished. At the same time, in some other areas notices were issued noting that by September 14 (Monday) the slum dwellers will need to vacate their houses.” Chadha’s actions came after the BJP demanded that the AAP government move the slum dwellers to unoccupied homes constructed on the outskirts of the capital a decade ago. Several slum dwellers who were relocated there moved back to other slums due to the lack of civic amenities and jobs in those areas. In a news conference on Wednesday, leaders of the BJP — the main Opposition party in the city — said the AAP’s promises to resettle slum dwellers in proper homes has remained a non-starter since 2016. BJP’s Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta said that the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board was yet to reveal how it had utilised Rs 11.25 crore given by the railways for the resettlement in 2017 on orders of the National Green Tribunal. As the AAP’s strategy on the eviction order remains unclear, the CPIML-Liberation held demonstrations in all the slums along railway lines in the capital. The Congress has offered to go to court on behalf of the slum dwellers if the Kejriwal government does not. The issue has caught the AAP off guard at a time when the party has started preparations for municipal polls two years away and has been leading demonstrations by striking municipal workers — as has the Congress — against the BJP-ruled municipal corporations defaulting on their wages. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Chaudhary Anil Kumar told reporters: “The Congress government (under Sheila Dikshit) started the construction of over 64,000 flats under the Rajiv Awas Yojana. Of these, 90 per cent of houses are vacant in Dwarka, Tughlakabad, Bhalswa, Narela, Bawana and other areas. Due to the apathy of the Arvind Kejriwal government, these flats are still vacant while no new scheme has been planned or launched in the last seven years by the AAP government for slum clusters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Kashmir Editors Guild slam critics of silence||Kashmir’s top editors’ body has crawled out of its self-created shell, not to break its silence on the government’s crackdown on journalists or the sufferings of the Valley’s people but to chastise criticism of this silence as “vilification”. The Kashmir Editors Guild on Wednesday held its first meeting since the removal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year and the accompanying government clampdown on the then state’s entire population. Yet the only unambiguous words of censure in its statement, issued on Thursday, were reserved for the “vilification” by “vested interests” looking to “undermine the institution of media in Kashmir”. Guild sources suggested the targets included some leading Jammu and Kashmir journalists who have questioned their peers’ reportage, for instance, the way most of them have sidestepped the pellet injuries caused to Muharram mourners in security force firing this month. “KEG members regretted that the vilification campaigns launched by the vested interests from within the systems of governance, within and outside the wider social media and offshore are aimed at undoing the Himalaya of reportage on which Kashmir’s history rests,” the statement said. Guild sources said the editors had been particularly incensed by the writings of Anuradha Bhasin — executive editor of the Jammu-based The Kashmir Times, the region’s oldest English-language newspaper — in the news and opinion website, The Wire. “The Valley’s leading newspapers have chosen to keep their publications alive by killing news stories and burying all morals of journalism,” Bhasin has written. “For over a year, I have grappled with the question of ethics — whether as an editor of the newspaper Kashmir Times, I might be crossing the principled stand of commenting on the content and conduct of ‘rival’ newspapers, and thus held my peace.” Kashmir’s newspapers had in the past been sympathetic to the azadi cause and prioritised the coverage of rights violations by the forces. But after remaining shut in the initial days of the post-August 5 clampdown, most local newspapers had turned into voices of the government as they resumed publication. They provided wide publicity to official versions of events while reports of the people’s sufferings and outrage found little space. Their journalists, however, continued to face all kinds of hurdles, particularly because of a communication bl-ockade during which Internet and phone services were suspended for months. Many jo-urnalists were hounded, summoned, arrested or booked under the anti-terror law. But the guild’s statement mentioned none of this as the editors stuck to their year-old policy of not annoying the government lest there be a backlash or an advertisement squeeze. Bhasin had written that a race “driven by purely material considerations is not my line of work”. “More importantly, when the actions of some affect a trend impacting journalism as a whole — and perilously so — it is important to speak out.” Bhasin had filed a public interest plea in the Supreme Court last year to fight the government ban on the Internet, mobile and landline services. Her newspaper, which is part of the guild, has since borne the brunt of alleged government reprisal. Since November, guild sources said, the newspaper had received no government advertisements — a major source of revenue for the region’s dailies. “They have also received notices to vacate government-allotted space for their office in Srinagar and (residential) accommodation in Jammu,” a source said. Many other newspapers too enjoy such facilities. Financial problems have forced Bhasin’s newspaper to shut down its Valley edition. Thursday’s guild statement spoke vaguely about some of the issues confronting the media in the Valley. “The members said that the forum must meet frequently to respond to the evolving situations and to revisit the interventions that have taken place in the last more than a year,” it said. The statement was silent on the new media policy the government had framed in June, empowering the State to decide what is fake news and act on it, or on the crackdown on journalists. “The purpose of the meeting was also to revive the KEG. A three-member committee has been set up to decide about new elections to the body,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Serum Institute to suspend vaccine trial ||The Pune-based Serum Institute of India said on Thursday that it would suspend its clinical trials of the Oxford candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease, a day after the central drug regulatory authority charged the company of disregarding a global pause. The international firm AstraZeneca had on Wednesday announced a pause in global clinical trials of the candidate vaccine after an unexplained illness in a vaccine recipient, but Serum Institute had asserted it would continue with the Indian trial, surprising the scientific community. The Drug Controller General of India had on Wednesday issued a “showcause notice” to Serum Institute, citing AstraZeneca’s decision to suspend clinical trials in Brazil, South Africa, the UK and the US and questioning the world’s largest vaccine maker’s decision to continue the trial in India. In response to the DCGI’s notice, Serum Institute on Thursday said: “We are reviewing the situation and pausing the India trial till AstraZeneca restarts the trial. We are following the DCGI’s instructions. If the DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocols.” While Serum Institute’s stand on Wednesday had puzzled some scientists, a member of the national task force on Covid-19 had told The Telegraph that it is possible no one was to “immediately” receive the candidate vaccine in the coming days. In the India arm of the trial, around 100 healthy volunteers would have already received the candidate vaccine and the associated data would be currently under review by the data safety and monitoring board. It is only after an analysis of this data that more volunteers would receive the vaccine. “The right thing to be done is to pause trials to understand this,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and head of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. Around 1,600 healthy volunteers in India are expected to receive the Oxford candidate vaccine at 17 medical colleges across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Covid: At least 1 in 4 skipped JEE Main ||More than one in four candidates skipped the Joint Entrance Examination Main held this month amid the pandemic, which is more than four times the absenteeism figure usually witnessed, official data show. The JEE Main was held from September 1 to 6 amid criticism of the move from many students, parents, teachers and others who argued that it endangered the health of the candidates. According to figures tweeted by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, about 8.58 lakh candidates had applied for the exam but only 6.35 lakh — 74 per cent — turned up. Data with the National Testing Agency (NTA), which began conducting the JEE Main from 2019, show that 929,198 candidates had registered for the exam in January 2019 while 874,469, or 94.11 per cent, actually took it. In April 2019, there were 935,755 candidates of whom 881,096, or 94.15 per cent, appeared. The absenteeism in the January 2020 exam too was about 6 per cent, which means the 26 per cent absenteeism in September is more than fourfold the figure seen in the past three editions of the twice-a-year exam. Going by absolute numbers, 2.23 lakh students dropped out this time compared with figures between 50,000 and 55,000 in recent editions. After the JEE Main ended on Sunday, neither the NTA nor the education ministry had released the turnout figures. On Wednesday, BJP leader Subramanian Swamy — who had opposed the exams being held in the middle of the Covid-19 outbreak — tweeted that “out of 18 lakh (candidates) who downloaded passes, 8 lakh turned up to take the exam”. Pokhriyal then released the figures of 8.58 lakh and 6.35 lakh late on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, Swamy contested the figure of 8.58 lakh candidates, highlighting that the ministry had furnished a figure of 9.53 lakh registered candidates before the Supreme Court. Pokhriyal again clarified that 9.53 lakh was the number of total registrations but since 95,000 candidates had applied for both the BTech and architecture-and-planning papers, the actual number of candidates was 8.58 lakh. The JEE Main is held twice a year so that students who appeared in January can take the test in April again to improve their scores. A government official suggested that most of the absentees would be candidates from January. The April exam had been deferred because of the countrywide lockdown. He conceded that this was only a conjecture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Mascot Modi outshines Nitish ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a bunch of initiatives for the fisheries and animal husbandry sector, most of them for Bihar, and sought to strike a chord with the people of the poll-bound state by beginning his speech in Bhojpuri. The otherwise official event, coming ahead of the Assembly elections in Bihar that are scheduled to be held in November, was seen as an attempt by the BJP to woo the electorate and dominate the narrative in the state by tapping into Modi’s popularity. BJP ally, Bihar chief minister and JDU leader Nitish Kumar, also attended the virtual event but appeared overshadowed in Modi’s presence. After interacting with some of the beneficiaries of his government’s schemes, the Prime Minister delivered a speech on his pet theme of self-reliance, starting with a few sentences in Bhojpuri. Bhojpuri is one of the dominant dialects in Bihar, with many people who don’t speak it also having a connect with the language because of a popular film and music industry. Through the videoconference, Modi launched a Rs 20,050-crore PM Matsya Sampada Yojana and a mobile app to provide farmers a marketplace for livestock, and inaugurated a Rs 84.27-crore semen station at Purnia with state-of-the-art facilities. Some other schemes relating to animal husbandry and fisheries were also announced. The majority of the schemes are part of Modi’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat package that the BJP has now turned into a campaign plank, calling for an “Aatmanirbhar Bihar”. “All the schemes started today resonate our belief that our villages should become the strength of 21st-century India, a self-reliant India,” Modi said. The BJP, which is a junior partner in Bihar’s ruling alliance, is trying to emerge from Nitish’s shadow and play a dominant role. Although the party has endorsed Nitish as the chief ministerial face of the NDA, it is learnt to be working on a strategy to assert itself after the elections. The BJP has usually contested a lesser number of seats than the JDU but this time it has indirectly piled pressure for an equal share even before seat-sharing talks have begun. The BJP hopes to win more seats than the JDU and leverage that in the post-poll scenario. Nitish, too, spoke at Thursday’s virtual event, highlighting that his government has done a lot of work in the agriculture and animal husbandry sectors and seeking to take a swipe at his detractors. Nitish thanked Modi for the initiatives. Modi lauded Nitish, but briefly, for accelerating the scheme to provide clean drinking water in the villages. Mostly, the Prime Minister focussed on the central government’s vision to improve the livelihood of the poor and make the country self-reliant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||RJD loyalist quits, olive branch offered||Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal on Thursday, dealing a big blow to Lalu Prasad’s party ahead of the Bihar Assembly elections, but Lalu immediately offered the olive branch to the disgruntled leader by writing back saying “you are not going anywhere”. Speculation is rife that Raghuvansh, a Lalu loyalist from long, plans to join chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United. Raghuvansh, 74, a stalwart and the second most popular leader of the RJD after party chief Lalu, is undergoing treatment at AIIMS New Delhi after experiencing trouble in breathing and other post-Covid issues. In a brief handwritten letter addressed to Lalu in Hindi, he said: “I stood behind you for 32 years after the demise of Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur (a popular socialist leader and former Bihar chief minister), but no more now. The party, its leaders, workers and the common people gave me much affection. I am sorry.” Hours later, the RJD released a letter handwritten by Lalu placating Raghuvansh and hoping to bend his ear on the issues riling him. “A letter purportedly written by you is doing the rounds in the media. Right now, I, my family and the RJD family want you to get well and see you back among us. We have always sat down together and discussed all political, social, and even family matters over the past four decades. Get well soon and then we will again sit down to talk. You are not going anywhere. Understand this,” Lalu’s letter said. Raghuvansh, a former Vaishali MP, is credited with conceptualising and implementing the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the Centre’s hugely popular 100-day job scheme, as the rural development minister in the Manmohan Singh government in 2006. The Opposition Congress-RJD alliance has already suffered a setback with HAMS leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi breaking ranks and joining the ruling NDA. Also, eight RJD legislators have switched to the JDU over the past few months. Raghuvansh is believed to have been miffed with the party leadership, especially Lalu’s younger son and leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, for insisting on inducting former MP and muscleman Rama Singh, who faces several criminal charges, into the RJD. Raghuvansh and Rama do not see eye to eye since the latter defeated the veteran leader as an LJP candidate in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Raghuvansh, sources said, suspects that Rama engineered his defeat in the 2019 general election. Raghuvansh resigned from the RJD vice-president’s post in June this year while being treated for the coronavirus disease at AIIMS Patna. He had made his displeasure known about inducting people with criminal antecedents into the party and sending “businessmen” to the Rajya Sabha. Lalu had intervened then and the entry of Rama into the RJD was put on hold. However, it came to light recently that Rama’s wife could contest the Bihar elections, scheduled to be held in November, on an RJD ticket. Raghuvansh is also said to have been unhappy with the alleged autocratic style of functioning of RJD state unit chief Jagdanand Singh, as well as with Tej Pratap calling him dispensable. Sources said that the former Union minister and five-term Lok Sabha member is planning to join the JDU. Nitish had been in touch with Raghuvansh during his treatment for Covid-19. The exit of Raghuvansh, who has the image of an honest socialist leader loyal to the party, is expected to impact the RJD’s fortunes in the elections. He belongs to the influential Rajput caste and is considered one of its tallest leaders in the state. Raghuvansh’s resignation will also queer the pitch for Tejashwi’s re-election bid from the Raghopur constituency that has a sizeable number of Rajput voters. Lalu’s younger son is said to be looking to contest from an additional seat to offset a possible fallout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Congress raises relief bar for Centre||The Congress on Thursday asked the government to provide Rs 6,000 for the next 12 months to every poor family and unemployed youth, raising the bar way above anything the Narendra Modi government has doled out till now. The demand came amid reports that suggested the government was planning a second stimulus package as its much-hyped Rs 20-lakh-crore intervention earlier in the summer had failed to address the economic crisis, having contained little to boost demand. The Congress had emphatically rejected the package, saying it was just a “loan mela (fair)” and that the real stimulus it contained was less than 1 per cent of the GDP rather than the professed 10 per cent. Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the government of having ignored every good suggestion from the Congress and dragging the economy into a mess. “When I said in February before the corona(virus) struck that a tsunami is going to come, the government made fun of me,” he said in a video message. “When the crisis struck, I gave three suggestions. 1. Put money into the accounts of every poor person, on the lines of the Nyay (minimum income guarantee) scheme we had proposed (before the 2019 general election). 2. Help the MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) which are our backbone and the future of our youth. 3. Protect our strategic industries.” Rahul added: “Modi did nothing. Kuchh nahin kiya. Instead, he gave tax relief and loan waivers to 15-20 corporate friends. Today I want to tell the Prime Minister again, ‘You have destroyed India’s economy and our youth’s future. Even today, you can salvage the situation by doing three things: Put money directly into the accounts of the poor, help the MSMEs and stop handing over our public-sector companies to your friends. And why have you fallen silent? Why don’t you speak on economy and China? Please say something; the country is eager to listen to you’.” Rahul was participating in an online campaign on job losses a day after party workers had held candlelight marches in many cities to stress the issue. Congress leaders from across the country posted videos explaining the gravity of the situation. They accused Modi of fuelling the crisis through wrong policies — from the November 2016 demonetisation to the unplanned lockdown — and regretted that the government still preferred to divert the nation’s attention with irrelevant issues. They asked the jobless youth to speak out and alleged the government’s policies had destroyed existing jobs instead of fulfilling its promise of creating two crore jobs every year. While some alleged that 14 crore jobs had been destroyed in the past six years, others underlined that nearly 2 crore salaried employees had lost their jobs during the lockdown alone. They all repeated the demand for the Rs 6,000-a-year relief, with former finance minister P. Chidambaram underscoring that it would far outstrip anything the government had handed out so far. “How much did each beneficiary get under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana? Was it relief in any real sense or tokenism?”  Chidambaram tweeted. “Under NSAP (National Social Assistance Programme) 2.81 crore persons got Rs 2,814 crore or Rs 1,000 per person. Could that sum have kept body and soul together? Jan Dhan account holding women (20.6 crore) got Rs 30,925 crore or Rs 1,500 each over three months. Could a homemaker have run a family on Rs 500 a month? “Migrants (2.66 crore) got 2.67 lakh MT of food grains over 2 months. That is 5 kg per month. Could it have sustained a migrant and his family? The numbers prove that the money given was niggardly and totally insufficient. And certainly, the money could not have acted as a ‘stimulus’ to boost demand and revive the economy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Rafale message to ‘those who raised eye’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday called the formal induction of five Rafale fighters jets into the Indian Air Force a “game changer” and asserted that it was an important step in the light of the prevailing security situation that “has been created along India’s border”. “It sends a strong message to the world and specially to those who have dared to raise an eye at us. This induction is a game changer in the light of the prevailing situation that has been created at the border,” Rajnath said while referring to the ongoing border tensions with China but not naming the neighbour. The armies of the two countries have been locked in an intense standoff along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May. Several rounds of diplomatic and military discussions have failed to break the deadlock. Defence minister Rajnath himself had met his Chinese counterpart in Russia last week but not much emerged from the session. Rajnath, his French counterpart Florence Parly, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and IAF chief R.K.S. Bhadauria were among those who attended the formal induction ceremony for the Rafale jets at Haryana’s Ambala Air Force Station, the country’s oldest IAF base. The first set of five Rafale fighter aircraft arrived in India on July 27 and were formally inducted on Thursday to the IAF’s 17 Squadron “Golden Arrows”. Rajnath complimented the IAF for its quick deployment along the LAC during the border dispute with China. “I want to congratulate the IAF for the presence of mind they showed and the speed with which it deployed its assets at forward bases. It exudes confidence that our air force is fully prepared to fulfill its operational obligations,” the defence minister said. The IAF, he said, plays a “crucial role in military deterrence and their actions will be a key in case of any future war”. “The induction of jets is a game changer and it marks a historic moment for the country,” Rajnath added. In an apparent reference to Pakistan, he said that while the current border situation had “drawn our attention, we should also not ignore the threat posed by cross-border terrorism”. “We are very much aware of the security challenges along the northern borders and we have to stay alert for the protection of our nation,” Rajnath said. Referring to his meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow, the defence minister said: “Recently, I put forth India’s point of view in front of the world.… I also made everyone aware of our resolve to not compromise with our sovereignty and territorial integrity under any circumstances. We are strongly committed to doing everything possible towards this.” Rajnath said India’s strengthening of its defence capabilities had always been driven by the desire for world peace. “India will not take any such step that can disturb peace anywhere. We expect the same from our neighbours and the rest of the world,” he said while underlining that India’s responsibilities were not limited to its borders alone. “We play a responsible role in the entire Indo-Pacific and the Indian Ocean Region.” Of the 36 Rafale jets India has bought under an April 2015 deal inked during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to France, another 26 will be delivered on schedule by the end of 2021. The remaining five will be delivered later. During the induction ceremony, a traditional “Sarva Dharma Puja” was performed, followed by an air display by the Rafale and the indigenous Tejas aircraft. A traditional water cannon salute was also given to the Rafale aircraft before the formal induction of the jets. Welcoming the jets, the air force tweeted: “New bird in the arsenal of IAF.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese counterpart meet in Moscow||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi held talks in Moscow on Thursday amid a prolonged border standoff in eastern Ladakh, PTI reported. It is learnt that the two foreign ministers began their meeting a little after 8pm IST and the talks went on for at least two hours with the sole focus on bringing down tensions and ensuring disengagement of troops from the face-off sites. There was no official word on the outcome of the parleys that took place on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting amid hopes of a possible breakthrough in ending the four-month-long face-off. “The focus of the talks was to lower the temperature between the two armies and begin disengagement of troops,” said a source. It was the first face-to-face meeting between the two foreign ministers since the standoff erupted in May. Earlier in the day, while the Indian Air Force was inducting Rafale fighters in Ambala, defence minister Rajnath Singh had said without mentioning China: “It sends a strong message to the world and specially to those who have dared to raise an eye at us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||‘Anti-Hindu’: BJP’s weapon of choice for Bengal||The fig leaf has been dropped. “Anti-Hindu” has become the weapon of choice for the BJP in its quest to capture Bengal. BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Thursday told the Bengal party leadership to highlight chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “anti-Hindu approach”. “Mamatadi announced a lockdown on August 5 when the foundation stone for the Ram Mandir was laid (in Ayodhya).… However, she lifted the lockdown on the day of Bakrid. This proves her anti-Hindu approach,” Nadda told the BJP’s newly constituted Bengal state committee during an online meeting. “Our workers should make people understand that this is her politics of appeasement to stay in power,” Nadda added. The crux of the plank is in itself not new — the BJP had used a polarising campaign and reaped rich dividends in the Lok Sabha elections. But when a national president of a mainstream party openly describes an elected chief minister in such communal terms in the middle of national crises on multiple fronts, it does not betray a bankruptcy of ideas alone. The reckless label also takes it for granted that Bengal, once the battlefield of progressive discourse even though the communal card had been played by individuals occasionally in some seats, can easily be made to dance to such toxic tunes. Nadda was economical with the truth, too. Had Nadda not been playing mischief, he would have said the whole truth while handling a subject involving multiple religions: in the same announcement that exempted Bakrid, the Mamata government had exempted Independence Day, too, from the lockdown. The days had fallen on different Saturdays. Besides, several full-lockdown days in Bengal have been changed for reasons ranging from proximity to national exams to events important for multiple groups of people. Nadda singled out one day. Fifty state committee members, including Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Rahul Sinha, and national leaders such as Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arvind Menon were present at Maheshwari Bhavan in central Calcutta to attend the videoconference addressed by Nadda. Not all of them need any encouragement or lesson from Nadda to play the polarisation card. Yet, it was an unusual sight to see the ruling party at the Centre being reduced to mouthing a regressive label to profile a public figure. A senior state BJP leader said the tone set by Nadda was in consonance with the central leadership’s understanding that the party’s chances of coming to power in Bengal rested on the saffron ecosystem’s ability to polarise the electorate. “If we succeed in creating a narrative that Mamata Banerjee’s politics is anti-Hindu and depends entirely on minority appeasement, our chances will increase manifold,” the leader said, preferring anonymity. During Thursday’s address, Nadda did speak about some of the development initiatives of the Narendra Modi government and asked the state party to spread the information. A state BJP leader  who was present at the meeting  later said such outreach initiatives meant little when the country was being battered on multiple fronts. “Given the condition of the economy and the nature of politics in Bengal, a development narrative would not be enough,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||Covid tip-of-iceberg findings||India by early May already had over 6.4 million people infected with the new coronavirus, the national health research agency said on Thursday, estimating an epidemic size about 100-fold higher than counted through lab-confirmed cases. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), releasing detailed findings of the first nationwide household survey for the coronavirus, has estimated that for every lab-confirmed diagnosed case, India has 82 to 130 undocumented coronavirus infections, depending on the location. (During the day, the Union health ministry directed states to ensure that symptomatic patients who test negative on an “antigen” test for the coronavirus infection are retested with a confirmatory viral test amid concerns that the infection could spread without retests. The directive follows concerns that in some large states, symptomatic patients found negative through the relatively less reliable rapid antigen tests (RATs) are not being followed up by the more reliable confirmatory RT-PCR tests, the health ministry said.) The nationwide household survey that screened 28,000 persons from randomly selected households in 70 districts or cities across India found the infection prevalence ranged from 0.68 per cent to 1.03 per cent, with an overall nationwide prevalence rate of 0.73 per cent. The findings suggest a cumulative 6,468,388 adult infections by early May, Manoj Murhekar, director of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, and his collaborators said, describing their findings in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The survey from May 11 to June 4 looked for antibodies that indicate previous exposure to the infection. Health authorities across the country had by May 8 detected 59,662 lab-confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease. The estimate of over 6.4 million actual infections points to a silent and undetected spread of the infection long suspected by public health experts. The high infection-to-case ratio in India may be due to the “prioritisation of testing among symptomatics and variability of testing rates across states”, the researchers said. Public health specialists had in the early months of the epidemic expressed concern that narrow testing strategies would miss many people infected as 80 per cent of infected persons have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. The survey has estimated that the infection fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among the total number of infections — in India ranged from 0.18 (0.0018 per cent) in districts with least prevalence to 11 (0.11 per cent) per 10,000 infections in districts with the highest prevalence on May 24. The numbers changed to 0.27 (0.0027 per cent) to 15 (0.15 per cent) on June 1. In comparison, India’s case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases — is 1.7 per cent. The IFR in India, the researchers said, appears lower than documented in other countries — such as 0.12 per cent in the US or 1 per cent in Brazil and Spain. But the ICMR researchers cautioned that their IFR estimate is likely an “underestimate” because of incomplete death reporting and lack of access to testing facilities required to confirm Covid-19 deaths. The ICMR has since embarked on a second nationwide survey in the same districts whose results are expected to be analysed later this month. “A second survey in the same locations would allow us to assess how the infection prevalence has changed in three months,” a survey team member said. The IFR, the researchers have pointed out, represents the “societal cost” of achieving herd immunity to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, through infections. Herd immunity is a phenomenon under which a viral infection has spread to such a large proportion of people that the infected persons themselves pose a barrier to further spread of the virus. Some medical experts have estimated that herd immunity against SARS-CoV-2 would require roughly 60 per cent of a population to be infected, although there is still uncertainty about this number. The Union health ministry explained why it directed states to ensure that symptomatic patients who test negative on an “antigen” test for the coronavirus infection are retested with a confirmatory viral test. Retesting is necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases on antigen tests do not spread the infection among their contacts, the health ministry and the ICMR said in a joint letter to all states and Union Territories. The antigen tests, which look for tiny chunks of viral proteins, are less expensive and can yield results within 30 minutes, but also come with significant proportions of “false negative” results — a condition in which an infected patient is labelled as negative. The ICMR’s testing strategy, recognising this potential for false negative results, had asserted that all patients with symptoms of cough, fever or breathlessness who test negative on RAT (rapid antigen tests) should be tested again with RT-PCR, a more reliable test that looks for viral genetic material. It had also recommended that asymptomatic negative cases of RAT who develop symptoms within two or three days of testing should also be retested with RT-PCR. While the guidelines state the need for retesting, accounts from some states suggest not all symptomatic negative antigen cases are retested. Public health experts suspect the gaps in retesting might be the outcomes of either poor capacity or fatigue or a mix of both. “The numbers we’re seeing today makes testing all contacts and symptomatic people logistically cumbersome and challenging,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute of Global Health, New Delhi. India on Thursday recorded 95,903 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of infections to over 4.46 million of whom over 3.47 million have recovered, over 919,000 patients are under medical supervision and 75,062 have died. The average daily increase over the past seven days was 87,000 cases. Under health ministry guidelines, states are expected to trace and test all direct contacts of 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases within 72 hours of their diagnosis. Public health experts point out that even if each new Covid-19 patient had three contacts, health staff would need to test more than 250,000 contacts daily. The Indian Public Health Association had last month urged the government to tweak the testing strategy to focus on patients with symptoms, cautioning that the current policy could lead to fatigue among health staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
