12-09-2020||India||Over 15 lakh to appear for NEET on Sunday amid strict curbs||Over 15 lakh candidates are expected to appear in medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday which will be conducted amid strict precautions in view of the COVID1-9 pandemic, according to officials of the National Testing Agency (NTA).  In order to maintain social distancing, the NTA has increased the number of exam centres from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843, while the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12.  The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), which is a pen and paper based test unlike the engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13.  A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.  "For ensuring social distancing outside examination halls, a staggered entry and exit of candidates has been planned. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting," a senior NTA official said.  "Candidates have also been issued an advisory guiding them about the 'dos and don'ts' for proper social distancing. We have also written to state governments to extend support in local movement of candidates so that they are able to reach their examination centres in time," the official added.  The testing agency has also changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and COVID restrictions. However, the city of the exam centre hasn't been changed for any candidate.  Making hand sanitisers available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the NTA has taken.  "While all candidates will be asked to come to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they enter the centre, they will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority.  "Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry…He/she is  expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination," the official added.  While the governments of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have assured students that they will provide them transportation, a group of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) alumni and students have launched a portal to provide transport facilities to exam centres for candidates in need.  The Metro Railway in Calcutta is planning to run special services for NEET candidates on September 13 to help them reach their examination centres.  There has been a growing chorus for postponing the exams amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.  The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the exam amid a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases, saying a "precious year" of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.  Several opposition leaders, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK president M.K. Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had also demanded that this, as well as JEE, be postponed.  When the JEE exams were just a few days away, the issue had escalated into a full blown political battle with ministers from Rajasthan and Punjab (Congress), West Bengal (Trinamool Congress), Jharkhand (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha), Maharashtra (Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena) seeking postponement of the exams "in a manner that achieved the twin objectives of ensuring that the academic year of the students is not wasted and their health and safety is not compromised".  They filed a petition in the apex court to review its order of conducting JEE and NEET UG 2020 during the novel coronavirus crises. However, the plea was dismissed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||PLA hands over Himachal youths to Indian Army||Five youths who were allegedly abducted by the Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) of China near the McMahon line in Arunachal Pradeshs Upper Subansiri were released on Saturday in Anjaw district, around 1,000 km away. The youths were handed over to the Indian Army by the PLA after completing necessary formalities, Tezpur-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Harsh Warrdhan Pande said. "All five of them will now be placed under quarantine for 14 days as per Covid-19 protocols and thereafter be handed over to their family members," the spokesperson said. The development comes amid a prolonged border face-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh. The youths, who went hunting on September 2, were allegedly whisked away by the Chinese troops from Sera-7, an Army patrol zone located around 12 km further north of Nacho in Upper Subansiri district. "Arunachal Pradesh is known for its rich natural heritage and adventurous people fond of exploring the nature for medicinal herbs and possessing traditional flair for hunting which involves surviving off the land for weeks in jungles and far-flung remote areas. During such adventurous forays, at times youth have inadvertently strayed to the other side of the Line of Actual Control," Pande said. All such individuals were brought back home safely following consistent efforts and coordination by the Indian Army, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Daily cases nearing 1 lakh, more than 9 lakh active cases across country||India's Covid-19 caseload raced past 46 lakh with a record 97,570 infections being reported in a day, while 36,24,196 people have recuperated so far taking the national recovery rate to 77.77 per cent on Saturday, according to Union health ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases has mounted to 46,59,984, while the death toll climbed to 77,472 with 1,201 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.66 per cent. There are 9,58,316 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. The country has registered over 95,000 cases for the third consecutive day. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 5,51,89,226 samples have been tested up to September 11 with 10,91,251 samples being tested on Friday. Of the 1,201 new deaths, 442 were reported from Maharashtra, 130 from Karnataka, 77 each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 76 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Punjab, 57 from Bengal, 30 from Madhya Pradesh, 26 from Chhattisgarh, 25 from Haryana, 21 from Delhi, 16 each from Assam and Gujarat, 15 each from Jharkhand and Rajasthan and 14 each from Kerala and Odisha. Twelve fatalities each have been reported from Bihar and Puducherry, 11 from Uttarakhand, 10 from Telangana, nine each from Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura, eight from Goa, five from Himachal Pradesh, four from Meghalaya, three from Chandigarh, two from Ladakh while Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have registered one fatality each. Of the total 77,472 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the highest at 28,724 followed by 8,231 in Tamil Nadu, 7,067 in Karnataka, 4,779 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,687 in Delhi, 4,282 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,828 in West Bengal, 3,180 in Gujarat and 2,212 in Punjab. So far, 1,691 people have died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, 1,207 in Rajasthan, 950 in Telangana, 932 in Haryana, 854 in Jammu and Kashmir, 797 in Bihar, 605 in Odisha, 532 in Jharkhand, 519 in Chhattisgarh, 430 in Assam, 410 in Kerala and 388 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 365 fatalities, Goa 276, Tripura 182, Chandigarh 86, Himachal Pradesh 71, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 51, Manipur 44, Ladakh 38, Meghalaya 24, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh 10 each, Sikkim eight and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro starts trains on regular timings ||Delhi Metro resumed its full services on Saturday with the Airport Express Line reopening after a hiatus of over 170 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All corridors of the Metro network are now in operation and the timing of services will follow the pre-Covid-19 schedule of 6 AM to 11 PM. "With the resumption of service on the Airport Express Line, all lines of the Delhi Metro network are now open! Remember to follow the guidelines when travelling. #MetroBackOnTrack," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro. The Metro services were shut on March 22 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. On Friday, the Delhi Metro recorded a total ridership of 1,28,886 (till 7.30pm). The Magenta Line catered to 6,953 passengers and Grey Line to 514 passengers. The ridership on the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli) was 41,689, while it was 38,623 on the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector-21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic Centre). Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) got 8,678 passengers and Red line 15,485 passengers. On Sundays, (starting from September 20) the services will commence at 8am from all such sections which had this practice in vogue before the lockdown. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Stage two kicked in from Friday with extended service hours, and stage three came into effect from Saturday onwards with Metro services going back to pre-Covid-19 time schedule of 6 AM to 11 PM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Delhi High Court refuses to stay TV show||Delhi High Court on Friday declined to stay the evening telecast of Sudarshan TV’s Bindas Bol programme, whose promo had promised a “big expose on the conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service”. Justice Navin Chawla issued notices to the Centre, Sudarshan News and its editor-in-chief Suresh Chavhanke on a petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia University challenging the clearance given by the ministry of information and broadcasting for the telecast. The petition had sought an urgent hearing seeking a directive prohibiting the broadcast. It said the proposed show is full of hate speech and if the petition is not adjudicated before the broadcast, irreparable harm would be caused and the plea would become infructuous. But the high court granted time to the ministry to file an affidavit in response to the petition, which wanted a directive to the government to reassess the legality of the show and an order to the channel not to broadcast the show till the government takes a decision. The court fixed the next date of hearing on November 18. Advocate Bijender Singh, who was representing the TV channel, said: “There is no stay on the telecast of the programme. The court declined it.” The high court on August 28 had stayed the telecast scheduled the same evening of the programme on the entry of Muslims and Jamia alumni into the civil services. On August 29, the high court directed the ministry to take a decision on the show. The petition said the ministry did not exercise its powers under the Cable TV Act to prohibit the show. Instead it simply said: “…Sudarshan TV channel is hereby directed to ensure that the programme proposed to be telecast does not violate any of the programme codes. If any violation of the programme code is found, action as per law will be taken.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Covid: Maharashtra cases as high as Russia||India’s biggest and richest state, Maharashtra, is set to record its millionth infection of the new coronavirus on Friday, putting it on a par with Russia in the pandemic. The state is on pace to blow past the 1-million mark as infections have been rising some 20,000 a day recently. Maharashtra, if it were a country, would now rival Russia for the world’s fourth-highest caseload. India is likely to hit 5 million cases in coming days, behind only the US. “Maharashtra accounts for approximately 15 per cent of India’s GDP.  Unless Maharashtra gets back on its feet, India’s chances for an economic recovery are bleak,” said Reuben Abraham, head of IDFC Institute, a policy think-tank. Yet Maharashtra’s authorities are unable to ease many restrictions in the state. Public transport, malls and other businesses remain depressed. That is unlikely to change soon for a state that is home to several major industries, including its three most valuable companies — Tata Consultancy Services Ltd, Reliance Industries Ltd and HDFC Bank. While several cities around India have resumed commuter rail, Maharashtra has held off. In Mumbai — where packed trains define the workday — suburban train service has been halted since March for all but essential workers. Resuming public transport in the city this month would lead to a second wave, which would be “difficult to manage”, says a research paper submitted to Mumbai authorities this week. Indeed, Maharashtra’s partial reopening of factories in recent months, local festivals and lockdown fatigue help to explain the state’s Covid-19 surge, local health officials told Reuters. “People have tired after spending months at home and they’re stepping out despite knowing they could get infected,” said Subhash Chavhan, a surgeon in Satara district. “They’re no longer taking coronavirus seriously.” The state’s initial reopening, starting in July, accelerated the spread to previously less-hit rural areas, said Dr Pradip Awate, Maharashtra’s disease surveillance officer. Tiny Rajewadi village did not have a single confirmed coronavirus case until mid-August. Recently, one in every four was testing positive for the virus. Also, contributing to Maharashtra’s infections was the 11-day Ganesh Utsav last month, a festival that sees huge numbers of people travelling to and from their hometowns. “Before the Ganesh festival there were on an average 60 new cases daily in the district. Now we’re recording more than 150,” said an official in the coastal district of Ratnagiri. Covid-19 is also deadlier in Maharashtra, where it has killed 2.85 per cent of people with confirmed infections, well above the national mortality rate of 1.68 per cent. Maharashtra’s death toll, over 28,000, accounts for 37 per cent of India’s total. Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra’s health minister, defended the higher caseload saying the state has been doing more tests than others and is being more transparent, too. “We’ve never tried to hide cases just because they are rising,” said Tope, adding that Maharashtra has slashed the maximum private labs can charge for the more accurate RT-PCR testing to Rs 1,200, barely a quarter of the national cap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Odisha package for farmers hit by floods||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a special package of Rs 300 crore livelihood support for the farmers affected by recent floods. The incessant rainfall and consequent flood during the last week of August have caused extensive damage to the standing crops in the coastal belt of Odisha. According to the announcement, work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act  (MGNREGA) will be intensified once flood water subsides. Agriculture input subsidy will be provided to the small and marginal farmers who have sustained crop loss of 33% and above. In order to address the problem of farmers, the government announced to give Rs 6,800 per hectare of land in rain-fed/non irrigated areas,  Rs.13,500 per hectare of land in areas under assured irrigation, and Rs 18,000 per hectare for all types of perennial crops. Perennial crops will include mango, cashew, coconut, kewra, betel vine etc. The assistance will be provided to the actual cultivators. Agricultural input subsidy to any affected farmer will not be less than Rs 2000 for perennial crops and Rs 1000 for other crops. As many as 60,000 acres of demonstration programmes of different crops will be taken up in affected districts in the ensuing rabi season. One lakh farmers will be trained on seed treatment programme with free supply of seed treatment chemicals and bio-pesticides to cover one lakh acres for increasing production in rabi crops. One lakh farmers will be provided with vegetable kits involving seeds of palak, beans, cowpea, tomato, chilli and radish to meet their immediate needs through kitchen garden at the Rs 130 per kit. Similarly, assistance for replacement of animals shall be provided. Financial assistance will be provided to fish farmers and also in the handloom and handicraft sectors. Odisha’s women and child development and mission shakti minister Tukuni Sahu on Friday said that she has tested positive for Covid-19. Sahu became the fifth minister in the state to be infected by coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan ups ante in Bihar pre-poll battle||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday announced he had been hospitalised and that he would firmly stand by any decision taken by his son Chirag Paswan, who now heads the Lok Janshakti Party. The announcement through a series of tweets comes in the backdrop of the political hardball being played by LJP in the run-up to the Bihar polls. LJP, a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance, has been launching attacks against Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and has threatened to field candidates against JDU. Paswan said he had been feeling unwell for sometime now and had been hospitalised on the insistence of his son, not disclosing the nature of his illness. “I’m confident that with his youthful thinking, Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights,” Paswan said. “I firmly stand with any decision taken by Chirag,” he added without directly referring to the Bihar polls and the alliance troubles. Although the veteran Dalit leader has already passed on the baton to his son by making him the LJP president, the tweets were meant to project Chirag as the new leader of the party and also bargain in the process, party insiders said. The LJP recently authorised Chirag to take a decision over the number of seats the party would contest and take a call over quitting the NDA in Bihar and going it alone if its demands were not meant. The LJP has six MPs from Bihar and based on that the party wants to contest at least 36 seats but believes JDU boss Nitish Kumar is not ready to give them those many seats, party insiders said. “Nitish Kumar is trying to squeeze us. If we don’t get respectable seats to contest, then we will go it alone and teach a lesson on Nitishji,” one LJP leader said. The LJP currently has just two MLAs in Bihar and is not part of the Nitish-led NDA government. The tweets by the senior Paswan, party leaders said, were also meant to gain the sympathy of the Bihar voters to establish his son. Paswan’s tweets underlined what a good son Chirag was and how he was taking care of his ageing and ill father. Paswan said his health had started deteriorating during the corona crisis, but he continued to discharge his responsibilities as the food minister. “When Chirag sensed my deteriorating health, I went to the hospital on his insistence and started treatment,” he said. Paswan is said to be under treatment for cardiac-related issues. “I’m happy that my son Chirag is with me at this time and taking good care. Along with me, he is also ably discharging his responsibilities towards the party,” Paswan added. The LJP led by Chirag, many believe, enjoys the silent backing of the BJP. The BJP, so far, has not spoken anything over attacks by Chirag targeting CM Nitish. If the LJP indeed decides to go it alone and fields candidates in constituencies targeting the JD(U), it would benefit the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Odisha scheme for core sanitation workers||The Odisha government on Friday launched the Garima (dignity) scheme, which is meant to ensure safety and dignity of core sanitation workers. The scheme aims to eliminate inhuman and perilous sanitation practices and to improve socio-economic conditions of core sanitation workers. Nearly 20,000 core sanitation workers and their families, a population of around 1 lakh, will benefit from the scheme. Under the scheme, the government aims to introduce a special category of wages for core sanitation work, introduction of risk and hardship allowance, financial assistance to the families in the event of accident or injury, financial support in the form of house grant and purchase of two wheelers to the extent of 90 per cent of the cost. In addition to this, access to EPF, retirement benefits, post-service benefits and illness allowance will provide further financial security to the core sanitation workers and their families. The Odisha government will also provide welfare benefits like health and life insurance, disability support, periodic health check-ups, housing, educational support, mobility support and mobile support. Launching the scheme, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “In spite of the nation making several strides in various sectors competing with the best in the world, these underprivileged people were made to render this invaluable service to the society for generations, deprived of safety, dignity and a decent livelihood, apart from suffering social stigma and exclusion. Our conscience can never be calmed if we don’t take steps to correct this injustice. My government has therefore decided to launch a scheme called ‘Garima’, a scheme to ensure safety and dignity of core sanitation workers.” Minister for housing and urban development Pratap Jena said the scheme is the first of its kind by any state in India to provide a comprehensive package — institutionalising and regulating the core sanitation services, providing service level benefits, social security and financial benefits to core sanitation workers and their families. The scheme aims to identify and register core sanitation workers, mandates registration of sanitation service providers, ensures provision of necessary machines and appropriate PPE (personal protective equipment) to ensure safe working conditions. All core sanitation workers will receive skilling and training to improve their skills. A wild boar was hacked to death by residents of a village in Odisha’s Kendrapara district after it attacked two persons, an official said, reports  PTI. “The animal had entered into cropland and had attacked two persons. They were hospitalised and currently out of danger. The villagers later had beaten it to death,” said Mahakalpda forest range officer, Sahaji Charan Biswal. The villagers were about to take away the animal’s meat when the forest personnel arrived, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Rahul to Modi government: get land back from China||The Congress on Friday said India’s negotiations with China should focus on the restoration of the situation that prevailed before the intrusions in Ladakh, lamenting that the Narendra Modi government had so far failed to protect national interest. “The only ‘talk’ to have with China is about restoration of ‘Status Quo Ante’ as of March 2020. The Prime Minister and Government of India refuse to take responsibility for pushing China out of our land. All other ‘talk’ is worthless,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. The MP said in another tweet: “The Chinese have taken our land. When exactly is the Government of India planning to get it back? Or is that also going to be left to an ‘Act of God’? Rahul’s comments came in the aftermath of the discussions between the foreign ministers of India and China in Moscow on Thursday. The two countries have agreed that “the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. The joint statement issued by India and China, however, has no mention of restoring “status quo ante”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Clad in fire, not saffron, his last words to me: ‘They will resist’||The last time I heard from Swami Agnivesh was a week ago. He was in hospital, sinking. In the few moments of lucidity he had gained, he had his assistant connect him to me. “I had a great vision early this morning,” he said. I was eager to know. I had been in continual contact with him ever since he had been admitted to the ILBS Hospital in New Delhi two months ago. Deep inside me, the process of disconnecting from this great soul had begun by the time he had called me this time; a pattern I had experienced with every person I loved on the eve of his or her death. He was eager to tell me.... “I saw 140 million people standing together, united,” he struggled to say, his voice rising and falling in cadences of eagerness and breathlessness. “They were saying they would not take it any more. They will resist.” What it was that they would resist, he didn’t say. His voice failed him altogether. His assistant took the phone and informed me that Swamiji could talk no more. I did not feel emotionally overwhelmed that one of the liveliest of souls I had encountered in my lifetime was sinking. Instead, I felt grateful that on the very day he had been hospitalised for a prospective liver transplant, he had called me and said: “Valsonji, can we publish a book capturing the essence of our discussions on the meaning of spirituality and the futility of religion?” Before I could say “yes” or “no”, he had said emphatically: “Religion has become a pestilence. It needs to be eradicated for the sake of humanity.” I agreed to undertake the task to which he had been urging and orienting me for a while. It struck me as his last wish, though his state of health was not a cause for immediate concern then. I embarked on the task right away, being eager that the work be published in his lifetime. I sent each completed chapter to him. Swamiji read it and got back to me with his concerns and comments. The last chapter of the book was finished a week before Swamiji’s health took a turn decisively for the worse. Now, in retrospect, it strikes me as particularly significant that the last word I heard from him was “resist”. And the last request he made to me was to write a book — as his will and testament — that exhorts humanity to outgrow subhuman religiosity. He wanted the book to be titled, Children of the Eternal Spirit, Unite! Surely, it is not fortuitous that the word “unite” echoes in his final vision. Once, in the course of our discussions on religion, I alluded to the anomaly, given the radical nature of his views, of his being a saffron-sporting swami. “I am not in saffron,” he corrected me. “I am clad in fire. I am Agni.” I thought at once of Prometheus, the mythological hero of proto-European spirituality, who “stole” fire from the gods and imparted it to humankind. He inaugurated civilisation, incurring unspeakable agony. Prometheus’s rebellion was not so much against the idea of God, as against the idea of hierarchy in religion. Religious hierarchy of every kind thrives by alienating people from their inner fire. So, religion anchors humankind in existential darkness. Hierarchy is poison to spirituality; whereas it is the backbone of religion. Prometheus’s heroic “theft” addresses this seminal anomaly. Because Prometheus stole fire from the gods in prehistory, a Swami Agnivesh could wear it about him in history. Humankind shares the same destiny. What’s cooked varies; but fire is the same universally. Fire explains the essence of this great man, dying all alone, forgotten and unsung in a hospital ICU. He was murderously attacked a couple of years ago at Pakhur, Jharkhand; an outrage from which he never recovered. He was attacked, a month later, in New Delhi. The circumstances are irrelevant from a cosmic viewpoint. What is relevant is that Prometheus-like, Agnivesh too needed to be tormented, if only to authenticate the eternal pattern. Metaphoric vultures preyed on his liver for the rest of his life. It failed. He was to undergo a liver transplant; but destiny willed otherwise. His time had come. To me, Swamiji was a child. It is an aspect of his personality known to few. He came to his true, playful self when he was with children. The poor, for him, were children of sorts. They were God’s children. So, spirituality made sense to him only as social spirituality: the relentless struggle for securing a modicum of justice to the harijan — the children of God. Yes, he was brave, as very few are today, but his bravery was the bravery of children. He was brave because he knew no danger, as children too don’t. This made the first multi-religious pilgrimage in the history of India possible. When, in 1999, the Australian missionary Graham Staines and his two sons were burnt alive in Manoharpur, Odisha, and his bereaved wife, Gladys Staines, captured the conscience of India by forgiving the assassins, I suggested to Swamiji that we visit the site of the tragedy. He turned that tiny idea into a massive event. A group of 55 leaders from diverse religions visited, first, the leprosarium in Balasore and, thereafter, the church in Manoharpur where, in the two jeeps the missionary and his sons had slept, they were burnt alive at night. We held a meeting in the church. Swamiji spoke. By the time he had finished, there wasn’t an eye that was not wet with tears. He spoke like a child, and the children in us responded in the spontaneity of our sorrows. We wept together over what humanity had come to. By the time we emerged from the church, a crowd of Santhals had gathered outside. “Our father is no more,” they said. They sang for us the songs that Graham had composed in Santhali, set to music, and taught them. They sang zestfully, as if to assert their spirit over a tragedy that was too vast for them to understand. What is it that makes a man renounce all he has and become one with the poor and the downtrodden? Why bear the cross of calumny, personal loss and hardships when a contrary option is readily available? Swamiji had climbed the political ladder. He was the minister of education in Haryana, but lasted only six months in that capacity. He ceased to be a mantri and became a missionary. He was instrumental in releasing and rehabilitating over 200,000 bonded labourers. The quarries and brick kilns became his temples; wiping the tears of the oppressed, his worship; and speaking truth to power, his Gita-parayan. If the impact a man has on others is the yardstick of his greatness, I bear witness today: here was truly a great soul. I changed inside out under his influence. His greatness was mired in the grime of the world with which he did battle. You don’t take on systems and men of might and remain unsullied. Bearing witness to the truth, history tells us, is a lonely journey that winds its stony way up the hill. What awaits at the mountaintop is martyrdom. Swami Agnivesh is not less of a martyr for dying in a hospital bed. Like a true martyr, he held his spirit unbroken till the last. He died with a vision of people becoming one in resistance. Goethe’s last word was “light”. “A little more light!” he muttered feebly as he breathed his last. Swami Agnivesh was not a star of enlightenment. He was agni, fire. Appropriately, his last word was “resist”. That word captures the essence of a life lived in relentless struggles. There are times when the courage to resist expresses love for humankind best. Swami Agnivesh was destined to live in such a time. He had an abiding faith in people, because he loved them to the uttermost. They will, he said, resist. If conformity is the creed of religion, resistance is the essence of spirituality. A close associate of Swami Agnivesh, Valson Thampu is former principal, St. Stephen’s College, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Covid: states told not to halt medical oxygen supply flow||The Union health ministry on Friday asked states to ensure there are no restrictions on the inter-state movement of medical oxygen, amid rising demand and attempts by states to curb transport of oxygen, a critical component of coronavirus disease treatment. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter sent to all states and Union Territories, has iterated that adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important pre-requisite for the treatment of moderate and severe Covid-19 patients. “It has been strongly reinforced that it is every state’s responsibility to ensure that every hospitalised Covid-19 patient receives oxygen,” the health ministry said, expressing concern that a few states are trying to curb oxygen movement and mandating manufacturers to restrict supplies to only hospitals within those states. The ministry said medical oxygen was an essential public health commodity and curbs in transport might critically impact the management of patients elsewhere in the country. Major oxygen manufacturers already have supply pacts with hospitals in various states with legal obligations to fulfil them. India’s rising count of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision — more than 943,000 on Friday and approaching the 1-million mark — has meant a steady rise in demand for oxygen. The health ministry has said about 3.7 per cent of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision require oxygen support, but the absolute number of patients who need oxygen has grown week after week. Among the 943,480 patients under medical supervision on Friday, 34,909 were on oxygen support. Health authorities across the country had by early August established over 183,000 oxygen-supported beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals or Covid-19 health centres. But they would need steady oxygen supply to manage patients. Critical care medicine specialists have underscored the importance of early initiation of oxygen therapy to Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe disease, as prescribed under standard treatment protocols, as an intervention to prevent further deterioration of the illness. “Non-invasive oxygen therapy combined with inexpensive steroids and medications to reduce the risk of blood clots are in the majority of such patients sufficient for recovery,” said a critical care medicine specialist at a Covid-19 hospital. Public health experts say India could have managed the epidemic with greater efficiency had multiple agencies and organisations across the central and state governments worked together to use data to drive the responses to the epidemic. “What we need is for health authorities to anticipate a surge in new cases in specific locations based on local epidemic trends and plan delivery of critical supplies such as oxygen or corticosteroids there,” said Oommen John, a senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Such an approach at the state level or, ideally, at the district level, would help ensure efficient flow of supplies where they are needed the most at any given time,” said John, who has been a long-term advocate for the use of data in healthcare delivery. India on Friday recorded 96,551 new Covid-19 cases, another highest-yet single-day increase, raising the total number of infections to over 4.56 million, of whom 3.54 million have recovered, 943,480 patients are under medical supervision, and 76,271 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Congress shuffle without vengeance||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has demonstrated exceptional political maturity by refusing to punish the so-called dissenters and seeking to strike a perfect balance between the old and the young to steer the ship out of turbulence at a time unity of purpose overrides other concerns. On Friday, the Congress set in motion the substantial organisational shuffle awaited since the party suffered a humiliating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Sonia moved cautiously to avoid any serious eruption of discontent by forcing a generational shift. Although some younger faces have been accommodated, she has taken care not to send out any message of a purge based on age and the erroneous perceptions of disloyalty. This exercise may attract criticism for the failure to give the party a radical facelift but there is another opportunity to make amends when the Congress plenary is held within the next six months. Elections to key organisational posts may take place then. The new party president, who is expected to take over at that time, is bound to pick his or her own team although the Congress is not known for enforcing quick changes. While Ghulam Nabi Azad, who has been pleading with the party leadership to relieve him of organisational assignments after decades of service, ceases to be general secretary, he has been retained in the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party. Two other members of the “Group of 23” who wrote the letter about the drift in the party — Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik  — have also been retained in the CWC. Among the younger leaders who signed the letter, Jitin Prasada has been given charge of Bengal. Wasnik, one of the key figures among the dissenters, has been included in the special committee that will assist the Congress president in her day-to-day work. The appointment shows that Sonia and Rahul Gandhi acted sensibly, not in pique to take revenge. This important committee will include A.K. Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, Wasnik, K.C. Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala. Patel’s continuance in the top echelons of the party indicates Rahul agreed to play safe at this critical juncture instead of running the risk of ejecting the entrenched forces. Sachin Pilot has not been accommodated in any committee. Nor have Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari or Veerappa Moily, who had signed the letter, found place in the CWC or anywhere else. Another young leader ignored is Milind Deora. Randeep Surjewala is doubtless a big gainer from the shuffle, although he may not remain the communications chief any more. Surjewala does not only get accommodated in the top committee, he has also been appointed general secretary with charge of the important state of Karnataka. The other big gainer is former Union minister Pawan Bansal, who gets charge of party administration in place of the veteran Motilal Vora, in addition to permanent invitee status in the CWC. While the main CWC hasn’t been overhauled, several talented people have been accommodated as permanent invitee to pack the key committee with more experience and dynamism. The members include, among others, Digvijaya Singh, Salman Khurshid, Jairam Ramesh and Pramod Tewari. P. Chidambaram, who was a special invitee earlier, has now been made a regular member of the CWC. Tariq Anwar, who rejoined the Congress after quitting Sharad Pawar’s NCP, has been made general secretary in charge of Kerala. Former Karnataka minister H.K. Patil has been made general secretary with the charge of Maharashtra. All these appointments show there is no bias against the seniors although several younger leaders have been inducted into the high command structure. While Dinesh Gundu Rao, former working president of the Karnataka unit, has been given charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry, young Manickam Tagore gets Telangana and Delhi’s Devender Yadav, Uttarakhand. Although greenhorns have not been promoted, the organisation now has a fair representation of new leaders who have experience and are supposed to be close to Rahul. They are Ajay Maken, Surjewala, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Jitendra Singh, Shaktisinh Gohil, Tagore, Rajeev Satav and Venugopal. Rajeev Shukla will now look after Himachal Pradesh while Manish Chatrath gets Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. Mallikarjun Kharge, Luizinho Faleiro and Vora cease to be general secretaries. Gaurav Gogoi, Asha Kumari, Anugrah Narayan Singh and R.C. Khuntia have also been dropped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||India, China arrive at a 5-point consensus to address LAC situation||India and China on Thursday publicly scaled down the blame game for the crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), arrived at a five-point consensus on addressing the current situation and began looking at the need for new confidence-building measures once the tensest chapter in bilateral relations in 45 years is closed. These were the main takeaways from the first meeting between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, in Moscow on Thursday on the sidelines of the SCO meeting, but they do not paper over the differences. This was the second face-to-face engagement between the political leadership of the two countries in less than a week. The last was between the defence ministers in Moscow on September 4, which was followed by another escalatory development along the LAC on September 7. Given that similar interventions during the current crisis have come to naught in subsequent weeks — with two major escalations over the past fortnight — the consensus appears to be to wait and watch. This is also evident from the absence of any effort to talk up the meeting, either in anticipation or in the aftermath. The statements put out by both capitals after the meeting, which went on for two hours and a half, indicate persistent differences in perception. China continues to maintain that the boundary question should not hold up the entire relationship and attributes statements to India that do not bear scrutiny. Tweeting about the five-point consensus, the former Indian ambassador to Iran, K.C. Singh, observed that they are mostly old formulas for LAC management. “But context evolved after India occupied vantage points on Kailash range. Mutual withdrawal must be parity-based.” Retired diplomat Vishnu Prakash tweeted: “India China joint statement on border disengagement somehow doesn’t inspire. Chinese do not seem to have agreed to restore status quo ante. There are no timelines. The understanding on quick disengagement is vague at best. It will be a miracle if these commitments are honoured.” Although the Indian external affairs ministry headlined the official readout on the meeting as a “joint press statement”, it was different from what the Chinese government put out despite the points of convergence regarding the five measures to be adopted to address the crisis at hand. There was the hat-tip to the consensus at the leadership level to develop the bilateral relationship and not allow differences to become disputes. Both foreign ministers, according to the Indian readout, agreed that the current situation in the border areas was not in the interest of either side and, therefore, the border troops should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions. The dialogue will continue through the Special Representative mechanism and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs, thereby keeping the lines of communication open at the military, political and diplomatic levels. There is consensus on the need for new confidence-building measures, and the two ministers agreed that both sides would abide by all the existing agreements and protocols on China-India boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and avoid any action that could escalate matters. The Chinese statement also placed on record what Wang said. While he spoke of the need to “stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides”, the staple of previous statements holding India squarely responsible for the escalation was missing. The Indian side, according to sources, highlighted deep concern at the massing of Chinese troops with equipment along the LAC. The presence of such a large concentration of troops, it was pointed out, was not in accordance with the 1993 and 1996 agreements and created flash points along the LAC. Further, it was underlined that the Chinese side had not provided a credible explanation for this deployment. The provocative behaviour of Chinese frontline troops during numerous incidents of friction along the LAC also showed a disregard for bilateral agreements and protocols. “The Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally,” a source said, adding that Indian troops had followed all agreements and protocols. Jaishankar is said to have accepted that the solution to the boundary question needed time and effort while underlining that peace and tranquillity on the border areas was essential for the development of bilateral ties. The Chinese statement attributes some remarks to the Indian side that go completely against India’s stated position – that “India’s policy towards China has not changed” and that the India side does not consider the development of bilateral relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question. China’s official claim that India’s policy towards China has not changed does not bear scrutiny going by the slew of actions New Delhi has taken in recent months – some before the border escalation – regarding trade and investments. Apart from the much talked about ban on many Chinese apps and search engines like TikTok and Baidu, India has barred Chinese participation in road ventures including that through joint ventures, and amended public procurement rules and also the foreign investment regime to facilitate restrictions on bidders and investments from neighbouring countries in a move directed at China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Covid: Indian vaccine clears monkey hurdle ||A homegrown Indian vaccine candidate has successfully protected rhesus monkeys from the novel coronavirus disease, government and industry scientists have said, describing its immune response and protective efficacy as “remarkable”. The vaccine induced a strong immune response and protected monkeys from the coronavirus infection and associated lung disease, a 45-member research team from the Indian Council of Medical Research, Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and collaborating institutions has said. The vaccinated monkeys showed no evidence of pneumonia, the scientists said in the first research paper from India on the outcome of “animal challenge” studies designed to find out whether a vaccine candidate can protect animals from the disease after exposure to the infection. The paper is not peer-reviewed yet but is posted on Research Square, an academic preprint server. The vaccine candidate named BBV152, jointly developed by the ICMR and Bharat Biotech, is based on an inactivated or killed version of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It is currently under clinical trials on healthy volunteers at 12 sites in India for safety and early efficacy assessment. The clinical trials had started in mid-July after preliminary studies on animals had established BBV152 as safe and capable of generating an immune response. But the research community had been waiting for the results of the challenge studies that examine the capacity of the candidate to protect animals. Scientists at the Peking Union Medical College in Beijing, China, had in April this year shown through lab studies that rhesus macaques are “the most suitable” animal model for Covid-19 after assessing three species of monkeys. Since then, other vaccine candidates — the one developed by Oxford University scientists and another from the US-based biotechnology company Moderna — have been assessed on rhesus macaques to study their protective efficacy. In the ICMR-Bharat study, scientists divided 20 macaques into four groups — three males, two females in each group. Monkeys in one group received a placebo, or sham, injection, while monkeys in the other groups received three versions of BBV152 slightly differing in their dose or composition. All monkeys received either two doses of the placebo injection or the vaccine candidate. Two weeks after the second dose, the scientists exposed — challenged — the monkeys with SARS-CoV-2, depositing large amounts of the virus into the animals’ windpipes and both their nostrils. Seven days later, the scientists detected SARS-CoV-2 RNA, or genetic material, in the monkeys in the placebo group but the vaccinated monkeys had no detectable viral RNA. The scientists say this shows the ability of the vaccine to curb viral replication in the upper respiratory tract. Viral genetic material was also absent in fluid samples from the lungs of the vaccinated monkeys, suggesting that the vaccine candidate had hindered virus replication and enabled its clearance from the lower respiratory tract. Subsequent lung examinations revealed moderate to severe disease in three and mild disease in two monkeys in the placebo group. The vaccinated monkeys had “significantly lower” disease burden compared to the placebo group, the scientists said. The study has established that a two-dose vaccination regimen using a 3 microgram dose of the vaccine candidate induces a significant immune response and effective protection in animals challenged with SARS-Cov-2, the researchers said. “The results bolster our confidence in this candidate,” Samiran Panda, the chief of epidemiology division at the ICMR and member of a national task force on Covid-19, told The Telegraph. Bharat Biotech’s managing director and scientist-turned-entrepreneur Krishna Ella said the greater protective effect observed with the 3 microgram dose than with a 6 microgram dose was a surprise. “This tells us that the immune response has to be just right for most effective protection — neither too strong, nor too weak,” Ella said. But scientists caution that the vaccine’s potential to protect humans from the coronavirus will only be assessed through large-scale efficacy or so-called phase 3 studies that will follow the safety and early efficacy studies currently underway. In phase 3 studies, several thousands of healthy volunteers will receive the vaccine candidate. The candidate will be viewed as effective if significantly fewer vaccinated volunteers develop Covid-19 compared with unvaccinated volunteers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Modi backs mother tongue medium in schools||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the mother tongue should be the sole medium of instruction at schools at least till Class V, pushing his government’s efforts to sell the idea to the schools and school boards. In most schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (which conducts the ICSE and ISC exams), English is the medium of instruction right from pre-primary classes. Most of these schools are in urban areas and draw students from various linguistic communities who have different mother tongues. The Kendriya Vidyalayas, many of them situated away from cities, too teach in English from Class I because they cater to children of government employees hailing from different regions. Union education ministry officials said the Centre had asked the Central Institute for Indian Languages (CIIL) to suggest ways in which these schools can teach children in their mother tongue or the regional language. Some CBSE-affiliated schools like the Delhi-based Sardar Patel School do teach in the local language for the first five years. While state government schools largely teach in the dominant regional language, some states like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are likely to oppose the Centre’s policy. In these states, government schools are looking to shift to the English medium keeping in mind the views and aspirations of most parents. The National Education Policy (NEP), approved in July, favours the teaching of children in their mother tongue or the regional language till at least Class V. The same suggestion had come from the NEP of 1968 and the National Curriculum Framework, the document that guides textbook preparation, in 2005. But this is the first time the government is itself making such a strong pitch for this policy. This is the second time this week that Modi has advocated the teaching of children in the mother tongue, after doing so at a governors’ conference on Monday. “A lot of discussion is taking place on what the medium of instruction should be,” Modi told a conclave on “School Education in 21st Century” on Friday. “Language is a medium for teaching but language is not all that education stands for. People caught in bookish knowledge forget this difference.” Modi then said that the language the child is comfortable with should be the language of learning. “Otherwise, when children hear something in another language, they first translate it into their own language, then understand it. This creates great confusion in the child’s mind; it is very stressful,” he said. Modi said that Estonia, Ireland, Finland, Japan, South Korea and Poland tended to top the Programme for International Students Assessment, an internationally acclaimed competency test for 15-year-olds in mathematics, reading and science. Primary education is imparted through the mother tongue in these countries, he said. The Prime Minister clarified that there would be no restrictions on learning languages other than the mother tongue in the lower classes. He set 2022 as the target year for the NEP’s overall implementation. “In 2022, when India celebrates the 75th year of its Independence, children should study according to the new curriculum. It’s our collective responsibility,” he said. A government official said that under the plan, “textbooks for subjects like mathematics, environmental studies or social science should be in the mother tongue or the regional language”. He added: “The states may think of shifting to English as the medium of instruction from Class IX or VI.” Some experts questioned the policy. “What is the mother tongue of a child whose father is Telugu and mother a Bengali and the child is fluent in Telugu, Bengali, Hindi and English?” Panchanan Mohanty, who taught at the Centre of Applied Linguistics and Translation Studies at Hyderabad Central University for over three decades, said. Another linguist, who asked not to be quoted, supported the idea of teaching through the mother tongue. He said the CIIL had done a survey of 10 states on the quality of English teaching in schools. “It was seen that the teachers were teaching English through the local language. The situation was same in English-medium schools,” he said, adding that such teaching didn’t help the child. Sudhish Pachauri, a Hindi litterateur, said five years of learning of concepts in the mother tongue would place the child in a position where she can smoothly shift to another medium of instruction. “A child proficient in one language is better placed to learn another language. By learning in a language for five years, the child also gets connected with the language and the culture associated with the language throughout his life,” Pachauri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Patriot card backfires on Ladakh BJP MP||Ladakh BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal’s attempt to play the patriotic card amid rising tension on the border and growing fear of demographic changes within has elicited angry reactions, reflecting how Ladakhis dread intrusions from mainland India as much as the Chinese incursions. Namgyal touched a raw nerve when he changed the display of his Facebook account on Wednesday by uploading a picture of himself splashed in the colours of the national flag and silhouettes of soldiers wielding guns with the following writing in bold red: “I am a Ladakhi. I stand with Indian Army.” The leader was immediately accused by many of diverting attention from a resolution passed by the BJP-led Leh Autonomous Hill Development Council in Ladakh last week urging the Centre to grant the fledging “Union Territory of Ladakh… constitutional safeguards for land, environment, employment, business and cultural resources either under 6th schedule, or under Article 371 or domicile act under Constitution of India to protect the tribal rights of the indigenous people of Ladakh”. The MP had played a key role in drafting the resolution. Ladakhis feel the Sixth Schedule alone will protect their exclusive rights over land and jobs, and that implementation of domicile laws would lead to the influx of outsiders, as is happening in Jammu and Kashmir. They feel that attempts to highlight other issues, as Namgyal had done in the Facebook post, were aimed at paving the way for an inflow of outsiders. “Very proud of you sir.… You are the only desh bhakt neta, rest are only raising their genuine demands like 6th schedule all the time and all the Ladakhi people are also supporting them too,” mocked Stanzin Gonpa Saspol, a Netizen. Many other Facebook users raised the demand for the Sixth Schedule. Ladakh’s Buddhists had overwhelmingly supported the scrapping of Article 370, which granted similar privileges to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir, and the bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories last year. Muslim-majority Kargil, which is part of Ladakh, had opposed the changes. However, the mood changed after the Centre this year began issuing domicile certificates to certain categories of outsiders in Jammu and Kashmir, which locals believe is aimed at altering the Muslim-majority character of the region. Ladakhi Buddhists, supported by some Muslim and Christian groups in Leh, are now up in arms against the possible extension of the domicile law to Ladakh, fearing this would lead to the influx of outsiders. “We reject any suggestion of implementing the domicile law in Ladakh on the lines of the one introduced in the UT of J&K,” said a joint statement issued by influential political and religious parties in Leh on Thursday. “First we had an impression that we were being remote-controlled from Srinagar. Now we are increasingly being given a feeling that we continue to be remote-controlled, albeit from New Delhi”. The signatories to the resolution are the Ladakh Buddhist Association, the Ladakh Gompa Association and the local units of the Congress, BJP and the AAP, former MPs and ministers. LBA president P.T. Kunzang said Ladakhis were against the influx of outsiders into the Union Territory as the place had a sparse population of less than three lakh. “Ladakh is a tribal area. We have our own culture, ethnicity and language. We are different…. The main point is if we are not given this protection, there will be an influx of outsiders. They will take all the jobs and spoil the environment. There won’t be any protection for our culture,” Kunzang told The Telegraph. He said the people did not support the resolution passed by the Leh council. “The BJP’s (Leh unit) president and general secretary were at (Thursday’s) media conference. That is the latest development. They have supported sixth schedule,” Kunzang said. The joint statement was issued at the media conference. Namgyal did not respond to calls from this newspaper. The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir spokesman, Anil Gupta, said the Leh council’s resolution was political motivated. “The move is politically motivated, though it has become an all-party demand. The strengthening of the hill council (in Leh) is ultimate. If all the powers are given to them, it is better than Sixth Schedule,” he said. “They want to keep up pressure on the government. Earlier, they wanted a Union Territory, they got it. Now (since) they don’t have an issue, (they think) the Centre could neglect them,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||ED quizzes Kerala minister in gold case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday questioned a Kerala minister in connection with the gold smuggling case after it emerged that he had contacted one of the key accused over Ramazan gifts that the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram distributed among people through him this year. That the ED had questioned K.T. Jaleel, the higher education and minorities’ welfare, waqf and Haj minister, emerged only late in the evening as the leader had dodged media attention by travelling the last 13km to the agency’s Kochi office in a friend’s car after getting off his official vehicle at Aroor. The ED said Jaleel, a CPM-backed Independent, had been questioned in connection with the Ramazan gifts that the UAE consulate distributed among the poor through him. The consulate is at the centre of a controversy after 30kg of smuggled gold from the UAE and meant for an employee was seized at Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Although the ED did not reveal the specifics, sources said that Jaleel had contacted Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, over the distribution of the gifts — food packets and copies of the Quran. The sources also claimed that Jaleel had flouted rules by accepting the items directly — ministers have to route gifts worth over Rs 5,000 through the external affairs ministry and they cannot deal directly with a foreign diplomatic mission. The 1,000 food kits are estimated to cost Rs 5 lakh. Jaleel had earlier said he had distributed the food packets among the needy in the Edappal and Thriprangode panchayat areas of Malappuram. On contacting Swapna, the minister had claimed that the UAE consul-general had put him in touch with her to handle the Ramazan gifts. Swapna is a former employee of the consulate. The gifts, however, were eventually arranged through a government agency and the bill sent to the consulate. The customs department had also said that the air cargo in which the copies of the Quran came had appeared to weigh more than what the number of copies specified would. The Opposition Congress has demanded Jaleel’s resignation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
12-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh lists demands in letters to Nitish||Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh wrote three letters to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, listing three demands and signalling that he is likely to join his Janata Dal United. Raghuvansh’s letters to Nitish demand slight amendments in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) for better impact, flag hoisting at Vaishaligarh on August 15 and January 26 to mark its importance as the first republic of the world, and bringing back the alms bowl of Lord Buddha from Afghanistan. The socialist leader is undergoing treatment for breathing trouble and post-Covid problems at AIIMS New Delhi. He resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Thursday, but that is yet to be accepted by party chief Lalu Prasad. “The MGNREGA Act provides that work would be done on land belonging to the government and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Please bring an ordinance immediately to add that work could be done on the land of general farmers also under this Act to escape the model code of conduct for the forthcoming elections,” Raghuvansh wrote to Nitish. He said that the government could pay half the wages under this new provision while the farmer concerned will pay the rest. Such a provision would guarantee availability of workers to farmers, provide them labour subsidy, cut down on irregularities in the 100-day rural job guarantee scheme and reduce the burden of expenditure on the government. The number of workers for which a farmer would be eligible would be decided on the basis of his land holding. “I had requested Union minister Virendra Singh about this and he had sent a joint secretary to meet me and understand more about it. A proposal was sent to the Niti Aayog about this but is pending there. Please write a letter to the Prime Minister, get the issue raised by the MPs in Parliament and get an amendment (in MGNREGA) passed,” Raghuvansh said. It was Raghuvansh who as Union rural development minister in the then Manmohan Singh government had conceptualised and implemented the MGNREGA. In another letter, Raghuvansh suggested that the chief minister hoist the national flag in Patna while the governor do the same at Vaishaligarh in Vaishali district on August 15 and vice-versa on January 26, because it is the first known republic of the world. “The flag should be hoisted in the premises of Vaishaligarh (Vaishali fort). You (Nitish) should begin this from January 26, 2021. This will send a message to the world that Vaishali was the first republic. All formalities for this have been completed and a file in this regard is pending in the cabinet secretariat. The no-objection certificate from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has also arrived,” he wrote.The suggestion is significant because this means he believes the JDU, with its junior partner BJP, will win the Assembly polls and Nitish will continue as chief minister. Ancient texts and archaeological evidences have revealed that Vaishali was a confederation of clan states in the 7th and 6th century BC and practiced a republican form of government, which was elected through ballots. In his third letter to Nitish, Raghuvansh requested bringing back the alms bowl of Buddha from the Kabul museum. “I had raised this issue in the Lok Sabha and the then external affairs minister S.M. Krishna had said that the ASI would trace the origin of the alms bowl, and bring it back to Vaishali. It was a parting gift by Lord Buddha to the people of Vaishali after spending his last monsoon stay there. However, the red-tape and factionalism prevalent in the ASI made it say that there was not enough evidence about its origin and throw a spanner in the works,” he wrote. “You (Nitish) are getting a stupa worth Rs 300-400 crore constructed in Vaishali after acquiring land worth Rs 432 crore to house the relics of Lord Buddha. This (getting the alms bowl back) will be a very big thing,” Raghuvansh said in the letter. He also wrote a letter to state water resources minister Sanjay Jha requesting him to get three pending flood protection work done in Muzaffarpur. Meanwhile, Bhola Rai, another trusted colleague of Lalu, and two Congress MLAs — Poornima Yadav and Sudarshan — joined the JDU on Friday. Rai was a three-time MLA from 1980 to 1995 from Vaishali’s Raghopur constituency, considered a pocket borough of Lalu and his family members. He left the seat for Lalu in 1995, who went on to win and retain the seat in the 2000 elections as well. Later Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi won from the seat in the 2005 polls. Their son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is the present MLA from Raghopur. JDU leader and Lok Sabha member Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, welcoming Rai to the party, said his resignation from the RJD shows that leaders who “sacrifice for the party are being insulted there”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
