13-09-2020||India||Flyers can take photos, videos in flights but can't use recording gadgets that creates chaos: DGCA||Aviation regulator DGCA "clarified" on Sunday passengers can take photos and videos inside flights but can't use any recording equipment that creates chaos, disrupts flight operations, violates safety norms or is banned by the crew members. On Saturday, the regulator had said that a scheduled flight will be suspended for a period of two weeks if anyone is found taking photographs inside the plane. Two days back, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had asked IndiGo to take "appropriate action" after it found alleged violation of safety and social-distancing protocols by mediapersons in the airline's Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that had actor Kangana Ranaut as a passenger. According to a video of the incident that took place inside the flight on September 9, reporters and cameramen were jostling and bunching up to get a comment from Ranaut, who was sitting in one of the front rows of the plane. The DGCA order on Sunday "clarified that a bona fide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft while in flight; take off and landing" as per its circular dated December 9, 2004. "However, this permission does not include use of any recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew," the order noted. Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of above guidelines, the order added. The Sunday order is a clarification on top of the Saturday order that said, "It has been decided that from now on, incase any violation (photography) occurs on any scheduled passenger aircraft - the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day (of the incident)." The Saturday order stated that as per Rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person is allowed to take any photographs inside a flight except when permission is granted by the DGCA or the Civil Aviation Ministry. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can put an "unruly passenger" on its "no-fly list" for a certain period of time after an internal enquiry. About the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight incident, a DGCA official had said on Friday that the prominent issues with the incident were related to "photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, violation of COVID-19 protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board". The Shiv Sena, which heads the alliance government in the state, and Ranaut had engaged in a war of words after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared Mumbai police more than the alleged movie mafia. On September 9 morning, a team of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had demolished the alterations allegedly made without the civic body's approval at Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill in Mumbai. Ranaut arrived in Mumbai the same day after the demolition through the aforementioned IndiGo flight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
13-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha: Opposition wants discussion on LAC, economic slowdown||Opposition parties have sought a discussion in Lok Sabha on the issues of economic slowdown, unemployment and standoff between Indian and Chinese forces during a meeting of floor leaders of the House on Sunday to discuss the agenda for the Monsoon session, DMK leader TR Baalu said. A day before the session begins, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla chaired the meeting of the business advisory committee (BAC) of the lower house. 'Opposition leaders have sought discussions on the standoff between India and China at the LAC, unemployment and economic slowdown," Baalu said. The DMK leader said he has also sought a discussion on issues such as revising the creamy layer for OBC and non-payment of states' share of revenue collected under GST. Birla told reporters after the meeting that the leaders of all parties have assured their support for the smooth functioning of the House. He expressed the hope that Lok Sabha will transact good business. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi along with Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan, ministers of state in the same ministry, also attended the meeting. Joshi said the government is ready for discussion on all issues which will be decided in the BAC. He said floor leaders will again meet on Tuesday to deliberate upon the agenda for the parliament session. Asked whether the government is ready for a discussion on the standoff between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Joshi said it will be decided while keeping in mind national security and the country's strategic interests. According to sources, Lok Sabha will be adjourned briefly on Monday as a mark of respect to former president Pranab Mukherjee and a sitting MP who died recently. Following this, sources said, the House may discuss two bills which have already been passed by the Rajya Sabha. A discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic can start on Tuesday. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also said on Sunday that his party wants a discussion in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the situation at the border with China and the state of the economy. He also mentioned closure of businesses and the state of the MSME industry, the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and other issues like airport privatisation, and the draft EIA notification. "We hope the Opposition would get an opportunity to speak and serious national issues would be discussed. We expect the prime minister to be present in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and give a reply to the questions raised by us," he said at a virtual press conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
13-09-2020||India||On launch-spree, Modi woos Bihar with ‘powerhouse of talent’ speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated three petroleum sector projects, gave a big thumbs up to chief minister Nitish Kumar, and reached out to voters, calling Bihar a "powerhouse of talent" in the run up to Assembly elections in the state.  Modi's praise of alliance partner Kumar came weeks ahead of the elections that are likely in October-November, as he dedicated three petroleum projects worth nearly Rs 900 crore to the people. These included a gas pipeline that extended from Durgapur in West Bengal to Banka in Bihar.  Banka was also the beneficiary of an LPG bottling plant while another such unit is located at Harsiddhi in East Champaran district.  “I had the opportunity of flagging off the work on extension of the gas pipeline a year-and-half ago. I am delighted to see its completion. The country and Bihar have come out of an era when a project was announced and a generation had to wait for its completion. Nitish ji has played an important role in ushering in this change in the state,” Modi said.  The Prime Minister began his speech with a few sentences in Angika, the dialect spoken in Banka and adjoining districts.  He marvelled at the gas pipeline project which was “no mean feat" as it involved working across a stretch of nearly 200 km of difficult terrain dotted with many rivers, dense forests and hills.  “I would like to use the terms gas-based industry and petro-connectivity, which may sound very technical but actually impact the lives of the common people,” he said, addressing the function virtually from the national capital.  “Just imagine what would have been the situation if people were to keep venturing out in search of wood and other fuel for cooking their meals. The need is no longer there thanks to schemes like the Ujjwala Yojana which has ensured that LPG reaches households of the poorest of the poor," he said while talking about the coronavirus outbreak. The Prime Minister recalled how people would queue up in front of residences of MPs for a cooking gas connection from their quota. "There was a time when having an LPG connection was a luxury not many could afford," he said.  Launching a veiled attack on RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who he did not mention by name, Modi said Bihar has come out of an era when rail, road and internet connectivity were made light of and people used to say of what use roads are for those who walk on their feet.  He said Bihar, like the rest of eastern India, never lacked “samarthya (potential)” and “sansadhan (natural resources)” but suffered for want of political will and faulty priorities.  Being a land-locked state, Bihar was obviously at a disadvantage when it came to availing petroleum projects. All that is going to change. The gas pipeline and the bottling plants will not only make things easier for the consumers, but also open up lots of employment avenues in the state.  Showering praise on the state for its rich art, culture and cuisine, Modi said, “It would not be an exaggeration to call Bihar a powerhouse of talent. Its people can be found in all IITs and centres of excellence. Bright minds from here are serving in important capacities at the Centre.  “We all are indebted to Bihar. And it is our duty to ensure that Bihar gets a government that ensures that good governance it has seen in the last 15 years continues and realises its full potential,” he said.  Turning his attention to the education sector, the Prime Minister blamed the "indifference" of the past governments for the lack of quality institutions in Bihar which compelled the states youth to move out for pursuing higher learning.  "But now things are changing. The state has many new agriculture, engineering and medical colleges. Under Nitish ji, the state has seen a massive rise in the number of polytechnics besides having its own IITs, IIMs, two central universities and top-class institutions offering courses in law and fashion technology,” Modi added.  He also said central schemes like Start Up India and Mudra Yojana were empowering the states young men and women to set up their own businesses while Kaushal Kendras (skill development centres) were making them employable.  “There are more than 8,000 gas-based projects worth Rs six lakh crore. Many of these are new while others that were shelved have been re-started. These hold out a huge promise for the unemployed youth of Bihar," he noted.  The Prime Minister ended his speech with a reference to the COVID-19 pandemic, and repeated his slogan “jab tak dawaai nahin, tab tak dhilai nahin (no laxity until a cure is found)".  “I salute the people of the country, and Bihar in particular, who did not get bogged down on account of the hardships that the pandemic brought. I congratulate my mothers and sisters whose lives will become much easier because of these gas-based projects,” he added.  Among those who attended the function were chief minister Nitish Kumar, Governor Fagu Chauhan, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Ashwini Kumar Choubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Masks, sanitiser and staggered entry||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh Prasad dies of Covid complications in AIIMS ||Veteran Bihar politician and former RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who parted ways with Lalu Prasad died Sunday morning at AIIMS where he was being treated for post-Covid complications. He was 74. Singh tested positive for COVID-19 in June, after which he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the national capital. On Saturday a close aide of his told PTI that "Singh sahib's condition deteriorated considerably on Friday night. At 11.56 PM, he was put on ventilator. We are praying for his well-being", reported NDTV.com. Singh, a long-time associate of former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, represented the state's Vaishali constituency and was the Union Minister for Rural Development in the Congress-led UPA-I government. A politician of nearly four decades, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh was widely regarded as an expert in the rural and agricultural landscape of the country and is credited with the conceptualisation and implementation of the NREGA (National Rural Guarantee Employment) Act. On Friday, Singh rattled Lalu Prasad Yadav and the RJD by submitting a handwritten resignation letter. Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid a moving tribute to former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying his death has left a deep void in Bihar and national politics.  Modi described Singh, who died at AIIMS, New Delhi, after prolonged illness, as a grassroots leader with deep understanding of poverty and problems of the poor. He also obliquely referred to "churning" that the departed leader faced in his last days, hinting at his disenchantment with his party the RJD and its leader Lalu Prasad.  "An inner 'manthan' (churning) was going on in him during his last days. He remained true to the ideology he believed in..In the recent past, he had been in news.  "He was obviously in a state of inner turmoil since it had no longer remained possible for him to be by the side of his old associates. Finally, he gave expression to his feelings through the letters he wrote from the hospital bed, the prime minister said.  Modi made the remarks before dedicating to the nation three petroleum projects via video conferencing in Bihar. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday paid rich tributes to former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying with his demise a strong voice of the village and farmers has been lost.  The Congress also termed him as the "beloved son of Bihar" who will be remembered for being the advocate of moral values in politics, and said his demise heralds the end of a chapter in the history of revolution. Vice president M Venkiah Naidu and Union home minister Amit Shah also condoled the RJD veteran's death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for complete medical check up||Union home minister Amit Shah was admitted to Delhi's AIIMS last night, nearly two weeks after he was discharged from the hospital, the NDTV reported. He was earlier admitted to the national capital's top hospital for post Covid-care. In an official statement, the AIIMS this morning said: "Shri Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister was discharged from AIIMS, New Delhi, after post Covid care on August 30. As per advise given at discharge, he has now been admitted for complete medical checkup before parliament session for 1-2 days." The 55-year-old BJP leader had tested positive for coronavirus, which has affected over 46 lakh people in India so far, on August 2 when he was taken to private hospital Medanta in Gurgaon. On August 14, he had tweeted that he would be in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of his doctors. He was admitted to the AIIMS on August 18 after he complained of "fatigue and body ache". He left the hospital after 13 days on August 31 after the doctors said the Home Minister had "recovered". "Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post-COVID care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time," the AIIMS had said in a statement on August 30. Last night, at around 11 PM, he was admitted to the hospital again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Covid ‘gain’: Houses built faster under govt scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tom-tommed what he described as a “record”. “Friends, amid corona, despite many hurdles, 18 lakh houses have been built across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Of them, Madhya Pradesh alone accounts for 1.75 lakh houses. The pace at which this work was done is in itself a record,” Modi said, addressing beneficiaries in Madhya Pradesh. “Under normal circumstances, its takes 125 days to build a house under the PM Awas Yojana. Now what I am going to share is an extremely positive development for the country as well as our media friends,” the Prime Minister said. “Amid corona, it took only between 45 and 60 days to build each house. This is a great example of turning adversity into opportunity.” Modi continued: “You will think, how was this possible? Friends, our labourer brothers and sisters who returned from the cities have contributed hugely in ensuring this speed. They had the skills as well as the will power and they joined the drive. This is how we got this result. “In this way our friends, extracting all benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, looked after their families and also built houses for their impoverished brothers and sisters.” Modi summed up: “In a way, the PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan emerged as a very big support for the village economy.” Modi’s announcement of the world’s harshest lockdown at just four hours’ notice on March 24 had perpetrated an unspeakable migrant crisis, with millions forced to walk hundreds of miles or hitch rides to return home. Many died on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||How 8 days equal 1 now||Omkar Rathod was thankful for the company of hundreds of fellow migrant workers as they trudged home to far-flung villages once the lockdown had shut Indian industry. But he didn’t realise he would soon be competing with them for jobs. Back in his village in northern India since March, Rathod is vying for work under the world’s largest job programme: the only option for the millions of migrant workers who face mass job losses in a struggling economy and a raging pandemic. “If there were 15 people for a job earlier, now there are 200. Work for eight days is getting done in one day,” Rathod, 45, said from Nawabganj in Uttar Pradesh. Rathod said over the phone: “This scheme is our only hope for work in our village. I got 15 days of work under the job scheme in May but nothing after that.” More than 82 million of the 98 million people who applied for jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) since April have secured work, a record that tops the number of new jobs created under the programme each year in India. But the scheme still falls far short of what is needed in a country with an estimated 100 million migrant workers. Analysts say the fund -- which has already been topped up -- is once more close to being spent. “This meets the demand up to September. But it is not enough. States should be asked to redraw labour budgets and be assured that adequate funding will be provided,” said Ravi Srivastava, director of the Centre for Employment Studies at the Institute for Human Development, a research organisation. The rural development ministry did not respond to repeated requests for comment, but officials of five states that recorded among the highest number of applicants said they had provided work to almost every job seeker. The scheme was created to provide steady wages and jobs for people, who were in turn creating assets for their villages, be it conserving water or improving roads. It was never envisioned as a bandage in a global pandemic. Vallabhacharya Pandey, a social activist who works with migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh, said the scheme had worked well in the initial weeks of the pandemic, when the only people seeking work were locals. “But the return of migrant workers has overburdened the programme,” he said. India’s estimated 100 million migrant workers were among the worst hit by the strict lockdown, which triggered a mass exodus from city jobs at garment factories, building sites and brick kilns. Migrant labourers took to the roads en masse and walked back to the countless villages that dot the map and offer few opportunities to earn. After months back home, they said some employers were now sending buses or buying air tickets to get workers back, but many were still sitting idle in their rural outposts awaiting any word on work. India’s economy shrank by almost 24 per cent in the second quarter, the worst of all major economies, even as the number of Indians with the virus topped 4.2 million, exceeded only by the US tally of 6.2 million. “The pandemic has come at a time sectors of construction and manufacturing were already ailing. So even if they want to migrate to cities again, where do they go?” asked Raghunath Singh, vice-president of the All India Centre of Indian Trade Unions. Besides, jobs in cities have lost their sheen for many as nearly half of urban workers went without work, pay or financial assistance in the first three months of the lockdown, studies show, with many reluctant to return. Launched more than 15 years ago to offer a secure livelihood to rural India, the scheme guarantees applicants at least 100 days of work for average daily wages of Rs 200. It has been credited with saving families from poverty, and empowering women and the socially marginalised. Around 800,000 households have completed 100 work days this financial year, according to official data. But those figures do not begin to tell the whole story, according to a group of activists, academics and researchers tracking the scheme. “Unmet demand is wider than it appears in the data as even a single day of work gets recorded as job provided,” said M.S. Raunaq, secretary of the collective, called People’s Action of Employment Guarantee (PAEG). Local officials said that “satiating the demand” was a challenge and attributed the shortfall to delays in feeding data, and jobs offered at a time workers were not available. Officials overseeing the programme in five states contacted by the Thomson Reuters Foundation said they were creating jobs that could absorb more workers despite a backdrop of strikes, floods and tight budgets. The jobs include planting trees, building roads and cleaning canals -- useful yet rarely tasks that tap into an applicant’s trade. “Migrant workers are mostly skilled and earned Rs 500 a day, so Rs 220 won’t keep them in rural areas,” said P.C. Kishan, the scheme’s commissioner in Rajasthan, referring to the overarching aim of the programme to slow emergency (distress) migration from India’s web of villages. Omkar Rathod, for one, wants to go back to the town where, pre-virus, he earned Rs 7,000 a month at a car factory. He even got himself tested for the coronavirus, hoping a certificate would help as the pandemic surges in rural India. But the job contractor told him there was no work yet — so he has no choice but to feed the family cows, stay put and nurse his worries. “Half a year is gone already and there is no work, neither outside nor in the village. What will we do?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||M. Nageswara Rao describes the death of Swami Agnivesh as 'good riddance' ||Former interim CBI chief and one-time Modi government favourite M. Nageswara Rao has described the death of social activist Swami Agnivesh as “good riddance” in a tweet. On Friday night, just hours after Agnivesh’s death, Rao tweeted: “GOOD RIDDANCE @swamiagnivesh You were an Anti-Hindu donning saffron clothes. You did enormous damage to Hinduism. I am ashamed that you were born as a Telugu Brahmin. Lion in sheep clothes. My grievance against Yamaraj is why did he wait this long!” Twitter removed the post on Saturday afternoon, by when the tweet had drawn condemnation from serving and retired IPS officers and several other social media users. Rao, who retired as director-general of fire services in July this year and hails from Andhra Pradesh, said in a second tweet: “Correction: Read ‘Wolf’ for ‘Lion’ in the above tweet.” In an article for this newspaper’s September 12 edition, the swami’s long-time associate Valson Thampu had quoted Agnivesh (whose name translates as “clothed in fire”), as saying: “I am not in saffron. I am clad in fire. I am Agni.” The Indian Police Foundation, an independent think-tank that serves as a forum for serving and retired police officers, accused Rao of having “desecrated the police uniform”. “Tweeting such hate messages by a retired officer posing as an IPS officer — he has desecrated the police uniform which he wore and embarrassed the government. He demoralises the entire police force in the country, especially the young officers,” a tweet from the organisation said. Historian S. Irfan Habib tweeted, referring to Rao: “You are a disgrace. Can imagine what all you must have done as a police officer? Abusing the dead may be Hindutva but is certainly not Hinduism. Better late than never. Get yourself treated.” The Modi government had chosen Rao, a 1986-batch IPS officer from the Odisha cadre, to head the CBI after the controversial midnight benching of then agency director Alok Verma and his No. 2, Rakesh Asthana, in October 2018. Rao stayed in the post till February 2019. Days before his July retirement, Rao had tweeted about an alleged “Project Abrahamisation of Hindu Civilisation”, accusing past governments of distorting history, whitewashing “bloody Islamic invasions/rule”, and naming roads and public spaces in Delhi after “invaders”. The tweet had triggered the charge that he was trying to please his political masters to gain a cushy post-retirement job. On Saturday, human rights activist and former IAS officer Harsh Mander said he was sad to see a former police officer “flaunting such uncivility and communal bias” towards Swami Agnivesh after his passing. “That he feels he can display his bigotry so brazenly reflects on those who lead the nation,” Mander tweeted. Rakesh Balwal, a serving IPS officer, tweeted: “Is this account hacked or what?? No sane person can ever celebrate death, even if it’s of his worst adversary.” “Insult to human life. Sad,” tweeted another IPS officer, R.K. Vij. Rao remained defiant. “Why do we celebrate as festivals the days savages were dead? Bcoz they’re pests destroying society &their death is a cause for celebration. It was also to warn people not to patronise the bad,” he tweeted in response to the criticism. Swami Agnivesh, a human rights campaigner, had been branded “anti-Hindu” by the Right wing and was assaulted in Jharkhand and Delhi a month apart about two years ago. Referring to Rao, Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of The Wire news portal, said in a tweet: “This disgusting man was made CBI head by @narendramodi in October 2018 and again in Jan 2019 and Justice Arun Mishra refused to interfere with his illegal appointment. “A casteist, communalist bigot, every case he ever looked (into) during his time at the CBI needs to be re-examined.” Lawyer Navdeep Singh said Rao’s post “goes against the very tenets of religion and basic humanity”. “To think that he was serving in the govt and dealing with public with such thoughts at the back of his mind just a few days ago...,” he tweeted. “Looks like Nageswara Rao is still waiting for the elusive Rajya Sabha seat/governor post,” posted Rakesh Verma, a Twitter user.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Debate over ‘border areas’||Some military veterans have questioned the absence of references to the Line of Actual Control or the restoration of status quo ante in Friday’s joint India-China statement, wondering how the promised “disengagement” can be achieved without a mutually accepted position on the alignment of the LAC. The vague phrase “border areas” has replaced the LAC in the “joint” media statement, issued after Thursday’s meeting between foreign ministers S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi in Moscow. The Chinese had issued a statement worded by them. But former foreign secretary Nirupama Menon Rao detailed the background and added that “I do not believe that India has ‘given up’ reference to the LAC and is now content with usage of the term ‘border areas’ as a substitute”. The “joint” statement said the two countries had reached a five-point consensus. The countries agreed that the situation in the “border areas” was not in the interest of either side and that their troops should “continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. General V.P. Malik, the former army chief, on Saturday tweeted: “After Drawing Room 5-Point Understanding with all its diplomatic rhetoric has been made, the ball is back in military field. Wonder how ‘disengagement’ & ‘proper distancing’ possible without common ref pt (reference point) or mutually known LAC alignment. India must insist on delineation of LAC.” Another veteran, Pravin Sawhney, asked why there was no mention in the statement of the LAC, the reference point for any restoration of status quo ante, which India has been demanding since May. “It will now be open-ended in ‘Border Areas’ in future - winner takes it all,” Sawhney tweeted. “Given (the) Chinese threat, India has agreed to call (the) LAC -- which external affairs ministry said in June was known to both sides -- Border Areas: an undefined zone with little left for Indian Military to defend. Our 1,000sqkm that PLA occupies can now be explained as within Border Areas!” He added: “As I had said: No war; quick disengagement; PLA will not give up occupied territories; all mutual agreements since 1993 now applicable on ‘border areas’ instead of LAC since both sides disagree on its definition; de-escalation remains far cry; who won territory without fighting?” After the debate over the absence of any mention of the LAC, the Centre put out a media release on the meeting that detailed references to the LAC. The contents of the release had been shared off the record earlier with some reporters. Former foreign secretary Rao, who had served as ambassador to China, said through a series of tweets during the day: “There is no ‘1993 LAC’. The full title of the 1993 Agreement is ‘Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas’. “The 1993 Agreement contains the proviso that ‘the experts shall advise the Joint Working Group on the resolution of differences between the two sides on the alignment of the line of actual control’. “It follows that there is no mutually defined LAC between India and China in the India-China border areas as in the years since 1993 the above exercise was not completed. “The so-called 1959 LAC of China is a self-defined Chinese ‘line’ in the Chinese imaginary and has never been accepted by India. It should not be confused with India’s definition/ perception of the LAC. “I do not believe that India has ‘given up’ reference to the LAC and is now content with usage of the term ‘border areas’ as a substitute. The LAC -- this is the fact -- exists in the border areas. Not in Delhi or Beijing!” Neither the “joint” statement nor the notes issued by the two foreign ministries specifically called on China to pull back from the multiple friction points -- the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains - where they have dug in inside India-claimed lines since May. But the Indian briefing note that has now been made official does state that the Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on the management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally. A retired lieutenant-general said: “What is missing in the five-point consensus is any commitment by the Chinese troops for restoration of the status quo prior to the standoff. This is a very important point as India has been insisting on it and maintaining that it is a prerequisite for bringing bilateral ties back on track.” Some veterans aired suspicion that India may have resorted to a give-and-take formula to wriggle out of the border dispute. “The dog didn’t bark.... What should concern us most in all the official statements and notes of Sino-Indian talks are the two missing phrases: ‘Line of Actual Control’ and ‘status quo ante’,” veteran Sushant Singh said. India and China have scaled down the blame game and said the dialogue would continue through the Special Representative mechanism and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs, thereby keeping the lines of communication open at the military, political and diplomatic levels. “It’s now over to the military commanders again to ensure disengagement and the easing of tensions. This is what was going on for the past four months but the five rounds of talks have failed to achieve any breakthrough,” a defence ministry official said. General Malik, who was the army chief during the 1999 Kargil conflict, said in another tweet: “Chinese use negotiations to gain time, strengthen positions on the ground & keep adversary guessing about their real intentions.... Troops need to remain fully alert, stand firm & not be lulled by diplomatic talks.” Sources in the security establishment said India should be profoundly suspicious of China’s strategic ambition and designs. “Why have they not made any commitment in the joint statement on restoring status quo ante along the LAC? We have witnessed what happened on June 15 after they had agreed to disengage from the Galwan Valley,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. A violent clash had broken out in the Galwan Valley on June 15, killing 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Bid to blame Delhi riots on Yechury, Jayati…||The names of CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav figure in a supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi police on the February riot cases, allegedly for “provoking and mobilising” anti-citizenship-act protesters. The charges were apparently based on the statements of three arrested students: women’s collective Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, and Gulfisha Fathima of the Jamia Millia Islamia university. All three students have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Police officers told this newspaper that if a person is named in a chargesheet on the basis of a disclosure by suspects, that need not necessarily make him or her an accused. Legal action is usually pursued only if corroborative evidence is found. Late at night, after controversy erupted over the supplementary chargesheet that was unofficially revealed to select media groups just two days before Parliament reopens, PTI quoted Delhi police sources as saying the police have not filed a chargesheet “against” Yechury and others. The police sources tried to lay stress on the difference between “naming” someone as an accused in a chargesheet and “mentioning” a name because of certain allegations. Yechury accused the Centre, to which the Delhi police report, of “misusing state power to target the Opposition” through the supplementary chargesheet. Yadav said: “I notice that the passing reference to me does not even contain one sentence from my speech. I find it surprising that the Delhi police have made no effort to see the recordings of my speeches, all of which are in the public domain.” The Congress offered support to those whose names have come up now, with senior leader Jairam Ramesh saying: “This is worse than atrocious…. They are greater desh bhakts than the fraudulent ones in power now.” The names of Yechury and the others have been mentioned in connection with the violence in Jafrabad, from where the riots spread to other parts of northeast Delhi, killing 53 people between February 23 and 26. Several eminent citizens and former civil servants have issued multiple statements accusing the police of falsely portraying the riot victims and citizenship protesters — including students and teachers — as the instigators and perpetrators of the violence. They have also questioned why the police have not booked BJP leaders like Kapil Mishra and Parvesh Verma for making incendiary speeches that allegedly provoked the violence. The supplementary chargesheet says Kalita and Narwal have not just admitted to complicity in the riots but also named Ghosh, Apoorvanand and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy as their mentors, who had allegedly asked them to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and go to “any extreme”. Their similarly worded disclosure statements — mentioned in the chargesheet — claim that the two JNU students organised the Daryaganj protest in December and the Jafrabad chakka jam (road block) of February 22 at the behest of Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy. Anil Mittal, the Delhi police’s additional PRO, said: “The names are part of the disclosure statement of one of the accused in connection with organising and addressing the anti-CAA protests. The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of a disclosure statement.” He added: “It is only on the existence of sufficient corroborative evidence (that) further legal action is taken. The matter is currently sub judice.” Yechury tweeted: “The Delhi Police is under the Centre and the Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition.” Yechury asked why the “hate speeches” made during the riots were not investigated. “There is a video of poisonous speeches, why are they not being processed? Because the government has ordered that the Opposition be wrapped up, either way. This is the real face, character, tricks and thinking of Modi and BJP. There will be opposition,” he said. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted: “This proves the malafide nature of Delhi police investigation into the Delhi riots. Nothing could be more absurd than to accuse Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Jayati Ghosh & Prof Apoorvanand for instigating riots. Their speeches are available on video. This while Kapil Mishra & Co are let off.” According to the chargesheet, Kalita and Narwal told the police that Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy had coordinated with the Islamist group Popular Front of India and the Jamia Coordination Committee to encourage the Pinjra Tod members to continue their campaign against the CAA. The chargesheet claims that Jamia student Fathima mentioned not just Yechury and Yadav but also Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad “Ravan”, United Against Hate activist Umar Khalid and a few leaders from the Muslim community including former MLA Mateen Ahmed and MLA Amanatullah Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Debendra Nath Roy death case: CID says suicide, kin and BJP keen on CBI||The CID filed its chargesheet in the death case of BJP MLA Debendra Nath Roy at a local court here on Friday, concluding it to be a case of suicide and accusing Niloy Singha and Mabud Ali, known to the legislator, of abetment and other charges. “We have filed the chargesheet in less than two months,” said a source in the state investigating agency. According to court sources, the CID charged the duo, both under arrest, with Sections 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC. On July 13, the MLA from Hemtabad Assembly segment in North Dinajpur was found hanging in front of a shop in the Baliamore area. The incident, which the police suspected to be suicide, took a political turn as BJP leaders in Raiganj and Calcutta alleged that Roy — who had crossed over from the Trinamul to join the BJP — was murdered and hanged with political intent. BJP leaders launched a series of protests demanding a CBI probe. The state, however, handed over the case to the CID. Soon, Singha and Ali were held from neighbouring Malda. During the probe, it was found that they had links with Roy and had taken money from him, and as the MLA was asking them to repay it, they were intimidating him. The chargesheet’s conclusion that the MLA had committed suicide — as was earlier claimed by senior officials of the state including the home secretary — drew protests from the MLA’s family and party. Chadima Roy, the deceased MLA’s wife, said she was not happy with CID’s probe. “I still suspect that my husband was murdered and had accordingly filed a complaint with the police. I am not satisfied with the investigation carried out by the CID as they have termed it as a suicide. We want the CBI to investigate the case,” she said. District BJP leaders echoed her demand and accused the state investigating agency of acting in haste without a proper investigation. “We all believe that the MLA was killed but the CID has put charges of abetment to suicide. We have demanded a CBI probe of the case and our central leaders are looking into the issue,” said Gopal Majumdar, a district BJP leader and lawyer. The state government also decided to hand over the case of the death of BJP worker in police custody to the CID. On Friday, district police officials here got the instruction. On September 2, Anup Roy, a BJP worker from Itahar block, died soon after he was arrested in connection with cash snatching case. His post mortem revealed he died of cerebral haemorrhage. His kin and the BJP alleged he died of police torture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Question for Delhi police: True to oath? ||A letter attributed to former DGP Julio Ribeiro has asked Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava to examine whether officers under his command “have been true to their oath”. A group of defence veterans, retired bureaucrats, civil society groups, academics, artistes and activists also issued a statement on Saturday in support of the peaceful anti-citizenship-act protesters whom Delhi police have charged with fanning the February riots. Ribeiro is shown as a signatory to this statement, too. The police have been accused of portraying the riot victims and citizenship protesters — including students and teachers — as the instigators and perpetrators of the communal violence, attracting similar statements from eminent citizens expressing support for those victimised. The letter attributed to Ribeiro, former director-general of the CRPF and Gujarat police as well as of Punjab police during the Khalistan insurgency of the 1980s, questioned the Delhi police’s actions. On Saturday night, Delhi police said in a statement: “An e-mail purportedly sent by Sri Julio Ribeiro has been received today in which he has raised concerns regarding the investigation of NE Riots. Sri Ribeiro is a respected police officer. Since the officer in whose name the email has been received has not been in touch with Delhi Police in the recent times and especially in the past 6 months, we are trying to ascertain the veracity and the genuineness of the mail.” The letter attributed to Ribeiro was circulated by Constitutional Conduct Group, the association of former civil servants that the retired police officer is part of. He has signed the group’s statements in the past. This newspaper could not contact Ribeiro, who is 91, because the Delhi police response came at night. Ribeiro’s letter to the Delhi police chief said: “The Delhi police has taken action against peaceful protesters but deliberately failed to register cognisable offences against those who made hate speeches which triggered the riots in N.E. Delhi. It troubles sane and apolitical persons, like me, why Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma have not been arraigned before the courts of law while deeply hurt Muslim women, peacefully protesting against discriminations based on religion, were lodged for months together in jail! “The not-so-subtle attempt by the Delhi police to entangle true patriots, like Harsh Mander (social activist and former IAS officer) and Prof. Apoorvanand, in criminal cases is another matter for concern. We, the police forces in the land, and its leadership drawn from the Indian Police Service, have a duty and obligation to respect the Constitution and the enacted laws impartially without regard to caste, creed and political affiliations. “Kindly revisit the actions of the police under your command in Delhi to determine if they have been true to their oaths taken at the time of their induction into service.” Several students and activists are in jail, awaiting trial on terrorism charges for allegedly inciting through their citizenship protests the riots that killed 53 people. The other statement on Saturday was issued by the Forum for Constitutional Rights and Democratic Freedoms, whose members and constituents include military veterans, Rajasthan’s Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan that represents organisations of the poor and disadvantaged, the Constitutional Conduct Group of former civil servants, the Indian Cultural Forum and other organisations. The statement voiced support for Harsh Mander, who has been named in a riot chargesheet. After a news conference on September 4, Mander had issued a statement titled “We will not be silenced” condemning the continuing saga of the police harassing activists and attributing criminal motives to WhatsApp chats conducted for the purpose of organising peaceful protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Among the 443 signatories to Saturday’s statement were Admirals L. Ramdas and Vishnu Bhagwat, Air Vice-Marshal Kapil Kak, Major General S.G. Vombatkere, Brigadier V.H.M. Prasad — all retired — and several other veterans. Several civil servants who had signed similar statements in the past endorsed this one too. “We agree with him (Mander) that the communal riots in Delhi in February 2020 have not been caused by any conspiracy as alleged by the Delhi police. On the contrary, they have been caused by hate speech and provocative statements made by a number of political leaders of the ruling party,” the statement said. “We stand with Harsh Mander... Professor Apoorvanand and their fellow activists. Neither their voices nor ours will be silenced as we speak for truth and freedom.... “We declare here — and hope those holding (the) highest office in the country hear us loud and clear — that the government will never succeed in silencing us, and will never succeed in taking away from us the dream we inherited from our freedom struggle, the dream of together building a country which is just, and equal, and kind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||China-wary India enters Afghan talks||India on Saturday showed greater involvement in the peace talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban, shedding its inhibitions because of the process’s links with the insurgent group and Pakistan at a time it is concerned about being elbowed out of Kabul by a growing Chinese footprint. While external affairs minister S. Jaishankar addressed the start of the dialogue virtually, joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) J.P. Singh flew to Doha, Qatar, to witness the beginning of the power-sharing talks announced on Thursday after the Afghanistan government released the last batch of six Taliban prisoners. Addressing the inaugural session to which he had been invited by Qatar, Jaishankar said the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved and the issue of violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood had to be effectively addressed. He reiterated India’s stated position that any peace process in the country — referred to as the graveyard of empires — has to be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled, has to respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan. India’s main concern is that with Taliban calling the shots, Afghanistan could slip back to the pre-2001 years when Pakistan’s deep state wielded considerable influence over Kabul. Add to this the need to protect India’s considerable investments in the reconstruction of Afghanistan over the past two decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Delhi panel summons Facebook India head||The Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony has summoned Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan in connection with its probe into the February riots in which 53 people were killed. Less than a fortnight ago, Mohan had been questioned  by the parliamentary standing committee for information technology in the light of reports  on how Facebook India had allegedly influenced elections and condoned hateful posts of BJP leaders. Mohan will have to appear before the Delhi Assembly committee on Tuesday. The summons sent to Mohan says: “Significantly, in the wake of serious allegations levelled against Facebook India unit which you have been spearheading since 2019, you, the addressee, as the Vice-President and Managing Director of Facebook India and as a representative of the same, are best suited to deliver insights to the committee with respect to Facebook India’s internal functioning and enforcement of policies, and thus, your special knowledge in this regard would be imperative for the committee while examining the current issue in hand.” After Mohan had faced the parliamentary committee last week, the committee had taken down several accounts on Facebook and Instagram in the name of Telangana BJP MLA T. Raja Singh and banned him from Facebook. The Wall Street Journal had reported last month that Singh had made communal posts that had been allowed to circulate on the social media network’s pages. Facebook India and Mohan did not respond to queries from The Telegraph on the summons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Congress wages farm fight against Modi govt ordinances||The Congress on Saturday threatened a mass movement against three ordinances the Narendra Modi government had introduced on June 5, vowing to defeat the “conspiracy to hand over the farm sector to crony capitalists”. While the Opposition parties will put up a joint resistance in Parliament from Monday, the Congress has decided to support the agitating farmers and follow it up with a nationwide movement led by Rahul Gandhi if the government doesn’t withdraw the ordinances. The party said the three ordinances would destroy farmers and the millions of others who depend on the agriculture sector. Farmers in Haryana and Punjab have already begun protests. “The reality of the Centre’s draconian move is beginning to sink in. This is not a partisan issue. This is about the livelihood of 60 per cent of India’s population,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “We appeal to every sensible Indian to rise against this sinister conspiracy,” he added. A committee Sonia Gandhi had formed to examine the ordinances has concluded that the sole intention behind them is to facilitate the capture of the farm sector by a handful of big corporate houses. The committee included P. Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh, Jairam Ramesh, Amar Singh and Gaurav Gogoi. The ordinances are: ⚫ The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, which promises barrier-free trade of farmers’ produce outside the markets by replacing the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. It allows electronic trading and prevents states from levying fees or cess. ⚫ The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020. This  provides for a farming agreement prior to the production or rearing of any farm produce, aimed at facilitating  sale of produce to sponsors. ⚫ The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which amends the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. This ordinance seeks to liberalise the regulatory system, primarily to remove the stock limit with conditions. Surjewala described all three as “black laws”. “Modi became Prime Minister promising to double the farmers’ income and has now hatched a conspiracy to force a corporate takeover of agriculture,” he said. “He tried this in his first term as well by bringing in an ordinance to kill the Land Acquisition Act. But the Congress, led by Rahul Gandhi, defeated that ploy. We will defeat his latest designs as well. We will not allow the poor farmers to get trapped by the lure of contract farming, which will ultimately lead to (their) destruction.” Surjewala explained: “Scrapping the APMC Act will destroy the procurement system. The farmers will neither be assured of the market price nor (of the) minimum support price (MSP).  Bihar is an example where the mandi system was abolished and now the middlemen exploit farmers to earn enormous profits. “Modiji says farmers will now sell (their) produce anywhere at a higher price. This is a lie. The farmer was free to sell his produce anywhere earlier as well. “The reality is that 86 per cent farmers own less than five acres of land. The average ownership is only two acres. They don’t have the wherewithal to bring their produce anywhere except the nearest mandi. The abolition of the mandi system will make them vulnerable. The millions who work in the mandis will be jobless.” Surjewala continued: “The states will also lose  revenue if they are not allowed to collect the market fee. In the last wheat season, Punjab earned Rs 736 crore from market fee and a similar amount through the rural development fund. Experts believe the government wants to stop procuring farm produce at MSP, which will save around Rs 1 lakh crore.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Prashant Bhusan pleads for right to appeal in SC contempt cases||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Saturday urged the Supreme Court to lay down a law that anyone convicted by it of criminal contempt has a mandatory right to appeal the verdict. He cited the “unavoidable conflict of interest involved” in criminal contempt proceedings and argued that such a right would go some way in reducing the “chances of arbitrary, vengeful and high-handed decisions”. Also, withholding such a right amounts to violation of the fundamental rights under Articles 14 (equality), 19 (free speech) and 21 (life and liberty), Bhushan argued in his writ petition, filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal. The petition is expected to come up for hearing next week. The apex court had last month convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt and fined him a token Re 1 over two tweets relating to Chief Justices of India past and present. The court is hearing another contempt case against Bhushan stemming from a 2009 interview. Since the Supreme Court is the highest court, a person it convicts of any offence has no right of appeal except for filing a review petition – an avenue that has historically had a less than 0.1 per cent success rate. Bhushan has sought an automatic right of appeal in criminal contempt cases. Alternatively, he has pleaded that the review petitions — which are decided inside closed judges’ chambers without the presence of counsel or litigant — be heard in open court in criminal contempt cases so that the advocates can advance their arguments freely. Bhushan’s plea for the right of appeal relates only to contempt cases where the apex court conducts the “original proceedings” rather than hearing appeals, as it does in all other criminal cases. “The petitioner is filing this writ petition in order to bring important procedural safeguards when this Hon’ble Court considers cases of criminal contempt in original proceedings, i.e. those proceedings where this Hon’ble Court does not act as an appellate court,” the petition says. “In such cases, considering the fact that there is inherent unavoidable conflict of interest involved, and the fact that liberty of the alleged contemnor is at stake, it is of utmost importance that certain basic safeguards are designed which would reduce (though not obviate) chances of arbitrary, vengeful and high-handed decisions. “It is extremely important to minimise such decisions since they not only cause great injustice to the alleged contemnor, but also bring disrepute to the court itself and are likely to be harshly judged by legal historians.” Some of the reasons Bhushan has offered in support of his plea: ⚫ The right to appeal against conviction in original criminal cases is a right under Article 21, as affirmed in multiple apex court judgments. ⚫ Under Article 14(5) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which India has ratified, the first appeal is a right even when the trial was held by the highest court and a review is not a substitute. ⚫  In contempt proceedings, the injured party (court) acts as prosecutor, witness and judge, raising fears of inherent bias and necessitating a provision for intra-court appeal. ⚫ Contempt proceedings are quasi-criminal, so procedural safeguards similar to those observed during criminal trials must apply. ⚫ The freedom of speech can only be restricted or regulated under Article 19(2) by a procedure that is reasonable and stands the test of Articles 14 and 21. ⚫  Original criminal contempt cases form a unique category. In a concession to extraordinary circumstances, the apex court has in the past framed special rules relating to the death penalty and devised the special remedy of a curative petition against a final judgment on certain limited grounds. ⚫ Section 13(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, provides for truth as a defence. It’s possible that a “truth” not accepted by one bench may be accepted by a different or larger bench or a different court when the entire matter is re-examined after a period of time. ⚫ It’s discriminatory that someone convicted of criminal contempt by a high court has the right of appeal but one convicted by the Supreme Court hasn’t. ⚫ Neither the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, nor the Rules to Regulate the Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court prohibit what the petitioner is seeking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Suicides spark NEET-ban call||At least three medical studies aspirants in Tamil Nadu have died by suicide on the eve of the NEET, prompting all political parties but the BJP in the state to intensify their demand to exempt the state from the entrance exam. A woman and two men, aged between 19 and 21, have been found hanging in their homes in Madurai, Dharmapuri and Namakkal districts. Tamil Nadu has witnessed a spate of pre-medical exam suicides in the past three years. The NEET is scheduled on Sunday. Opposition parties led by the DMK slammed the BJP-helmed Centre for pressing ahead with the NEET in Tamil Nadu. The ruling AIADMK has also opposed the exam, ruing the deaths of the youngsters. On Saturday, Jothisri Durga and M. Adithya allegedly ended their lives by hanging, police and district officials said in Madurai and Dharmapuri. Motilal, 21, of Tiruchengode in Namakkal district was also found hanging in his house, the police said, adding that he had earlier appeared for the NEET twice. Durga, the daughter of a sub-inspector, has said in a purported suicide note that she was “apprehensive” about the NEET although others had “high hopes” on her, the police said. Adithya had appeared for the NEET last year but could not clear it. He had been preparing since then. Dharmapuri collector S. Malarvizhi said Adithya’s parents had gone to Salem to see the NEET centre when the youth killed himself. Chief minister K. Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam of the AIADMK expressed shock over the suicides. DMK president M.K. Stalin said the NEET “is not an exam at all”. Palaniswami tweeted: “It is distressing to see students, the hope for the future, taking such steps.” Panneerselvam tweeted: “Students should learn to face any situation with guts and parents should aid them in this.” School education minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said the Tamil Nadu government was against the NEET and had been urging the Centre to exempt the state from the test. Stalin, the leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, tweeted: “We can realise from the deaths… that NEET is severely affecting students. I repeat, suicide is not a solution; NEET is not an exam at all. #BanNeet_SaveTNStudents.” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||‘Court’ of elders orders ‘divorce’ in Uttar Pradesh||A “court” of village elders in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadra district has allegedly made a man wash vermilion from the forehead of his wife and pronounced the couple “divorced”. Meena Devi has been living separately from her husband Santosh Giri for two years. The elders at Gotibandh held the “panchayat” on Thursday when Santosh came to the village and demanded that Meena return with their three children, aged 15, 13 and 5. They also made the couple sign a piece of paper saying they were willingly getting “divorced” when Meena insisted that she did not want to go with Santosh. Village sources said Santosh came to Gotibandh on Thursday and appealed to the village elders to organise a panchayat and ask Meena, his wife of 17 years, to return to his home in Dharmdaspur village, 12km away, with the children. “The panchayat was held on the Shiv temple premises for about four hours during which Meena kept insisting that Santosh was an alcoholic and didn’t care about his family. She said he did not deserve a family and so she would never return to his home. The elders ordered Santosh to wash the sindoor from Meena’s forehead,” said a villager. “According to the arrangement, the second child will be staying with the mother while the two others will go with their father. This was done in keeping with the wishes of the children, who will be free to stay wherever they wish to. It is binding on both parents that they will immediately send the children to the other if the little ones so wish,” the villager added. Both Meena and Santosh belong to families of farmers. Pramod Yadav, the local police inspector-in-charge, said: “We have come to know about an unofficial village panchayat where the elders have passed an order on divorce. Both parties have agreed to it and refused to approach the police. Still, we are probing the matter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Dombivili hospital loses permit over billing||The civic authorities on Saturday  suspended the licence of a hospital and stripped off its Covid-19 tag for alleged lapses and violations in treatment of patients in Dombivili town of Maharashtra’s Thane district, an official said. The Kalyan Dombivili Municipal Corporation had received several complaints about irregularities at Sri Swami Samartha Multi Speciality Hospital, which had allegedly overcharged patients, KDMC public relations office Madhuri Phopale said. The hospital had been given a show-cause notice for the excess billing of over Rs 6 lakh, but it failed to reply to the notice, she said. The KDMC stripped the hospital of the tag as a Covid- 19 treatment facility and suspended its licence till the time it complies with the civic body's orders, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||New Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) chairman||Devendra V. Darda, the managing director of the Lokmat Media Group, has been elected chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) for 2020-2021. Darda’s Lokmat Media Group is one of the largest regional media companies in India and has presence in print, digital, TV and events management. Darda has served on several media industry bodies such as INS and IFRA. He also presides over several educational institutions in Yavatmal, Maharashtra, and is on the managing committee of the Western India Football Association. Karunesh Bajaj of ITC Ltd, representing the advertiser category, was unanimously elected the ABC deputy chairman for 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||JDU-BJP seat talks begin||BJP president J.P. Nadda paid a visit to chief minister Nitish Kumar at his official residence here on Saturday to hold a discussion on seat-sharing among the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners for the Assembly elections. The BJP president is on a two-day visit to Bihar and was accompanied by deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, national general secretary and state party in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, and state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal to Nitish’s residence at 1, Aney Marg. The meeting between Nadda and Nitish lasted for around 40 minutes and assumes significance in the backdrop of the ongoing tussle between the chief minister’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Sources in the BJP said that the party was looking to contest an equal number of seats to the JDU, which will be in tandem with the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the two parties fought on 17 seats each, leaving six for the LJP. “Several of our party leaders have been demanding since last year that we must contest an equal number of seats to the JDU in the state elections. We allowed the JDU to do so in the last Lok Sabha po-lls and it should now return the favour. It is as simple as that,” a senior BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. “Of course our party president Nadda will take the final call on seat-sharing, but the negotiations have started. The two parties could contest on 100 seats each, leaving 43 seats to be shared between the LJP and Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS). This formula will be a win-win one, and will keep everybody happy,” the BJP leader added. However, JDU sources said that Nitish is not comfortable with the idea and wishes to replicate the ratio of seats contested by the two parties in the 2010 Assembly polls in which they fought together because the NDA had swept the polls by winning 206 out of the total 243 seats. Back then, the JDU had fielded candidates on 141 seats while the BJP contested on 102 seats. This pegs the ratio at 1.4 to 1, and Nitish wants the seat sharing to be done in the same manner, while leaving some seats for the LJP and the HAMS. A senior JDU leader said that Nitish is wary of contesting on an equal number of seats because the strike rate of the BJP was better in the 2010 polls. It had won 91 out of 102 seats, a success rate of around 90 per cent, while the JDU clinched 115 seats out of 141 — a strike rate of 82 per cent. “Suppose the two parties contest on an equal number of seats and the BJP wins more. It could cause problems regarding who would be the chief minister. Moreover, the top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Nadda have always asserted that the polls would be fought under the leadership of Nitish, but have refrained from saying even once that he will be the next chief minister,” the JDU leader told The Telegraph. In fact, Nadda, while launching his party’s Atamnirbhar Bihar campaign focusing on economic, social and cultural uplift of the rural people, iterated: “The alliance of BJP, JDU and LJP will contest the polls under the leadership of Nitish Kumar and emerge victorious.” Meanwhile, LJP chief Chirag Paswan told mediapersons on Saturday that his party would stand with “whatever decision the BJP takes”. “I have no differences with the JDU, and raised issues related to development because I am a public representative,” he said. Chirag’s words lend credibility to the thoughts of a section of JDU leaders that there could be a situation after the polls in which he may object to Nitish becoming the chief minister again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||IIT Bhubaneswar students get offers after internship||The first flush of pre-placement offers handed out to IIT Bhubaneswar students point to a very encouraging placement season this year, the institution has said. As many as 160 BTech students received offers, according to officials. Companies make pre-placement offers based on the performance of candidates who have interned with them. Many companies like Microsoft, DeShaw, Goldman Sachs, GEP Solutions, etc, use this route more as it helps them gauge candidates better over longer periods of time and in real work situations, IIT Bhubaneswar said in a release. IIT director Prof. R.V. Raja Kumar said, “The premier institute has seen a surge in PPOs this year with the offers received already equalling last year’s total offers and is sure to surpass. Offers as high as 43 LPA (lakh per annum) CTC have already been made. Majority of them are core industries and are wide ranging indicating a healthy trend.” “The average salary offered is Rs 15.8 lakh per annum, which is a sharp increase of 34 per cent over the last year,” an official said. Around 51 per cent students are getting jobs in core engineering fields. Students have also got offers from the analytics sector (8 per cent), IT sector (32 per cent) and consulting (9 per cent). IIT Bhubaneswar also claimed the placements are even better than some of the senior IITs, which is a testimony to the standards of education at the Odisha institute. “The final-year students are all gearing up for the upcoming placement season at IIT Bhubaneswar which is scheduled to start from October 31 via online mode owing to the Covid-19 restrictions,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
13-09-2020||India||Nudge to Naveen on health schemes||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to implement the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) and Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in the state. Earlier, the Odisha government was opposed to Ayushman Bharat and had claimed that the scheme would not serve the people of the state well. In fact, Odisha had introduced its own health scheme, Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana, prior to the 2019 general elections. In a letter to the chief minister, Pradhan said, “NDHM leverages the transformative power of e-governance by introducing the concept of a unique healthcare ID for every citizen in India. The UHID (Unique Healthcare ID) will be a repository of all health-related information of a person such as medical tests, previous prescriptions, diagnosis, all historical health records.” Pradhan, who is from Odisha, maintained that the UHID would liberate citizens from the challenges of finding doctors in different locations, seeking appointment, payment of consultation fee, making several visits for prescription, etc, and it will empower them to take informed decisions for availing the best possible healthcare services. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the nationwide portability of the UHID will greatly benefit migrant workers who will be able to digitally access all their health records anywhere in the country while seeking medical treatment. “NDHM will not only improve the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of health delivery service in the country but will also be a major stride towards the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3.8 of universal health coverage, including financial risk protection,” Pradhan said. Citing that the NDHM will be implemented by National Health Authority, the apex central government agency responsible for the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, Pradhan said it will offer maximum benefit to states when integrated with the Jan Arogya Yojana. “Ayushman Bharat Yojana is a game changer and an opportunity to serve the poor. The scheme seeks to cover 50 crore beneficiaries in the country, including 60 lakh beneficiaries from Odisha,” Pradhan said. He also urged Patnaik to “extend whole-hearted support” to the implementation of the NDHM, which will provide timely and efficient access to inclusive, affordable, and safe healthcare to the people of Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
13-09-2020||India||Odisha allows retail sale of Covid drugs||The Odisha government on Saturday allowed retail sale of drugs being used for the treatment of Covid-19. A detailed notification to this effect was issued by the Directorate of Drugs Control, Odisha. The notification said fevipiravir tablet and remdesivir injectable formulation will be sold under the prescription from medical specialists only. According to the notification, informed consent of the patient or his representative in the prescribed form is mandatory before initiating the treatment. “The drug will be made available to the patient/his representative only through in-house retail chemists attached to hospitals/nursing homes having valid drug licenses,” it said. It added that in no case remdesivir is to be sold directly to any patient or his representative. The retail chemist shop will retain a mandatory photocopy of the prescription, photocopy of the written consent of the patient or his/her representative, residential proof of the purchaser and his/her contact details before the supply of the medicines as a record for verification in addition to fulfilment of other conditions under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules. “Where there is no in-house retail chemist shop in the hospital/nursing home, the local drugs inspector will identify one or more retail chemist shops through whom the drugs will be made available,” the notification said. The retail chemist will have to furnish details of purchase or sale of the above drugs to the respective range drugs inspector on a weekly basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
